Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Lancaster University

 Unit of Assessment: 10 Mathematical Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    a. Overview
 The period since REF2014 has seen a transformation in the mathematical sciences at Lancaster
 University in terms of the size and quality of the research base, and its levels of user
 engagement. Building on its 5th placing in REF2014, and after substantial investment, Lancaster
 now hosts two of the UK’s largest groups within pure mathematics (24.7 FTE, up from 14.3 FTE)
 and statistics (25.3 FTE, up from 19.2 FTE). This growth (total increase in FTE of 50%) has
 been achieved whilst enhancing the vitality of the research environment, as evidenced by:

 Research Capture of £2.6M per annum, up from £1.1M per annum; with Lancaster currently
 having the fourth largest EPSRC Mathematical Sciences grant portfolio of any university, and
 the largest within Statistics and Applied Probability.

 Recognition of staff through the award of prizes of the Royal Statistical Society (Wadsworth,
 Eckley and Tawn) and the European Network for Business and Industrial Statistics (Killick);
 Eckley being elected a Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales; and the award of nine
 fellowships (including 3 EPSRC, 2 EU and 2 NIHR).

 Key features of the research environment include:

 Impactful, interdisciplinary and user-engaged research: Our long-held ethos is that
 fundamental research is often best performed in collaborations where applications motivate and
 benefit from new mathematical ideas. During the assessment period we have greatly expanded
 the range of academic and non-academic collaborators: we have had research projects involving
 70 non-academic partners, with direct funding of over £3.5M, and doubled the number of
 publications co-authored with non-academic partners.

 Leadership of large-scale, multi-institutional projects: We currently lead four multi-million
 pound UKRI grants that bring together large multi-institutional teams with a range of project
 partners to tackle important open research challenges – see Table 2 in Section 3. These
 projects address new statistical approaches for health, environment and telecommunications.

 Vibrant community of research students and PDRAs: We have greatly increased the
 numbers of PhD students (from 13 FTE students starting PhDs in 2013/14 compared to an
 average of 26 FTE per annum since 2018) and PDRAs (rising from 7 to 23 FTE). We have a
 leading role in PGR provision in the UK, with bespoke training that has been commended by
 EPSRC (see Section 2); and a proactive approach to developing future research leaders with a
 particular emphasis on researchers engaged in collaborating with end-users.

 Strong, collaborative research groupings: We have strengthened the research group
 structure of the department (see Table 1). Management of staff is now aligned to research
 groups, and we have increased support for activities to encourage interaction within and
 between groups. Collaboration between pure mathematics and statistics has been enhanced by
 establishing new research groups in Probability and Statistical Learning.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 1: Research Groups at census date. Each staff member is listed in their primary group.
 Due to the strong inter-disciplinary nature of his research, Francis has been submitted to UoA18.

  Group             Composition             Research Area and Highlights
  Bayesian &        Costain, Fearnhead,     Breakthroughs on non-reversible and continuous-
  Computational     Lee, Lunagomez,         time MCMC and scalable Bayesian methods,
  Statistics        Ridall, Sherlock, 3     including a paper read to the RSS in 2020 and two
                    PDRAs, 6 PhD            highly cited papers in the Annals of Statistics.
                    Students.               Leading the £3M EPSRC Bayes4Health grant.

  Changepoints      Eckley, Fokianos,       Novel changepoint and anomaly detection algorithms
  & Time Series     Gibberd, Killick,       developed and used widely by end-users. Leading
                    Mukherjee, Sykulski,    the £2.8M StatScale programme grant, and statistics
                    4 PDRAs, 18 PhD         lead on a Prosperity Partnership with BT.
                    Students
  Extreme Value     Eastoe, Jonathan,       Approaches to multivariate and spatial extremes.
  Statistics        Park, Tawn,             Strong collaborative projects have led to research
                    Wadsworth, 2            informing design of UK flood defence, and of
                    PDRAs, 16 PhD           offshore structures.
                    Students
  Medical &         Francis, Jaki, Mitra,   Methods for clinical and observational studies for
  Social            Mozgunov, Titman        health and society. Coordination of EU funded
  Statistics        and Wan, 4 PDRAs,       training network. Members awarded 4 fellowships.
                    11 PhD Students.        Contributing to international activities around COVID-
                                            19 therapeutics.
  Statistical       Battiston,              Advances in the theory and application of bandit
  Learning          Grunewalder,            algorithms and scalable inference, including 4
                    Khaleghi, Leslie,       publications in JMLR, 3 at NeurIPS and 2 at ICML.
                    Nemeth, 7 PDRAs,        Collaboration and impact through Heilbronn and with
                    13 PhD Students         a range of Tech firms. Leading £2.7M EPSRC Data
                                            Science for the Natural Environment, awarded an
                                            EPSRC innovation fellowship.
  Algebra &         Elek, Evans, J          Notable results in differential geometry, group theory
  Geometry          Grabowski, L            and representation theory. Publications in:
                    Grabowski, Lazarev,     Inventiones, Annals of Math, JAMS, AiM, Selecta,
                    Levy, MacDonald,        TAMS. Funding includes a Marie Curie Individual
                    Mazza, Pauksztello,     Fellowship, EPSRC standard grant, ERC starter
                    Towers, 3 PDRAs, 2      grant.
                    PhD students.
  Analysis          Belton, Blower,         Published around 80 papers covering theoretical
                    Choi, Dales, Elton,     analysis and substantial applications to mathematical
                    Hillier, Laustsen,      physics. Activities have been supported by grants
                    Lindsay, 6 PhD          from the Leverhulme Trust, EPSRC and the LMS.
                    Students.
  Probability       Blitvic, Korshunov,     Research in probability and applications in
                    Turner, Zeindler, 2     mathematical biology; grants awarded from EPSRC
                    PhD Students            and the LMS; hosted the UK Easter Probability
                                            Meeting in 2016, and annual Lancaster Probability
                                            Days workshops.
  Discrete Maths    Kitson, Nixon,          Advances in geometric and combinatorial rigidity,
  & Geometric       Prendiville, Power,     arithmetic combinatorics and number
  Rigidity          Schulze, 1 PDRA, 2      theory, including publications in JEMS, PLMS,
                    PhD students.           Crelle's Journal, JCTB, and IMRN. Awarded 3
                                            EPSRC grants, and knowledge exchange funding
                                            from Heilbronn. Organised workshops at AIM, BIRS,
                                            ESI, ICERM and ICMS.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    b. Achievement of REF2014 Research Objectives.

 The focus of the Department’s research strategy has been to further strengthen our position as a
 world class centre for Mathematics and Statistics. Below we detail how this has been achieved
 through meeting our objectives from REF2014 around the key themes of sustainability, vitality,
 interdisciplinarity and impact.

 Sustainability

 Establish strong research groups in Probability and Geometric Rigidity. We have established a
 new research group in Probability, with a core of 4 people, and this group has strong links with
 Analysis (with which it has recently merged), Statistical Learning and Extreme Value Statistics.
 Members of the group participate in many international collaborative projects: Korshunov was a
 Guest Professor at the University of Augsburg in 2017 and Turner is a Guest Professor at
 Geneva University. The leading UK conference on probability was brought to Lancaster in 2016,
 and a series of annual workshops that have a focus on intra-disciplinary research, organised
 jointly across Probability, Analysis and Statistical Learning, was inaugurated in and has run
 since 2017. Since 2014 we have built the UK’s leading group in Geometric Rigidity with
 extensive and expanding international activities. The success of the group is evidenced by: a
 Heilbronn fellowship to Nixon starting in 2020; EPSRC grants to Schulze, Power and Kitson; the
 organisation of major international conferences (see Table 1); and annual International
 workshops at Lancaster since 2015.

 Being at the forefront of research that tackles the challenges of fitting complex models to large
 data. Growth and activity in statistics has been driven by challenges associated with big data:
 We have established a Statistical Learning group at the interface of statistics and machine
 learning; helped establish Lancaster’s Data Science Institute (described in more detail below);
 and lead four collaborative EPSRC grants (total value approx. £11M; see Table 2 in Section 3)
 developing new statistical approaches to address challenges from health, environment and
 digital Infrastructure.

 Vitality

 Enhancing opportunities and support for visitors to Lancaster. Departmental and University
 funding for visitor activities has increased substantially since 2014, enhancing the vibrancy of the
 research environment. We now have a range of visitor schemes catering for short-term and
 long-term visits to or from Lancaster for staff, PDRAs and PhD students and support for
 specialist workshops, with, on average, funds of £50K available per year. These are
 supplemented by strategic partnerships with leading international institutions, with UC Dublin,
 MIT and U Washington added as partners since 2014. These offer opportunities for joint PhD
 supervision as well as supporting collaborative research visits (see Section 4).

 To consolidate our reputation for excellence in PGR provision. Evidence of the quality and
 reputation of our PGR provision include: EPSRC rating the STOR-i CDT as excellent, and
 STOR-i being the only CDT in the mathematical sciences to be funded at three consecutive
 funding rounds; successful renewal of an ESRC-funded CDT in which we contribute significantly
 to the Social Statistics theme; and EU-funding for the IDEAS PhD network (see Section 2).

 Interdisciplinarity

 The above objectives demonstrate our pro-active approach to support interdisciplinary research.
 Key exemplars include:

 An inter-disciplinary PGR programme. We have mechanisms that support research with
 industry, through the STOR-i CDT, with social sciences, through an ESRC-funded CDT, with

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pharmaceuticals, through the IDEAS PhD network, and with health and environment through
 studentships linked to some of our large-scale research projects – with over 80 starting PhD
 students supported through one of these schemes during the assessment period. We aim to
 train the next generation of researchers in the mathematical sciences to be motivated by
 research that can have an impact across other areas of science, industry and society, and have
 the skills to interact with a range of people from other disciplines.

 Data Science Institute. The Statistics group has played a leading role in the establishment of
 Lancaster's flagship Data Science Institute (founding co-director, Eckley; founding theme lead
 Leslie; and deputy theme-lead Nemeth). The Institute brings together over 300 members, drawn
 from 15 different academic departments, and has developed a range of mechanisms to support
 interdisciplinary research, from workshops to research retreats and business engagement. Our
 strong engagement with the Data Science Institute has led to a number of important new inter-
 disciplinary projects including strategic programmes at the interface of statistics and the
 environment and across statistics, computing and engineering (see Table 2 in Section 3).

 Geometric Rigidity: Establishing the Geometric Rigidity Group has led to collaborative projects
 both with cross-disciplinary and intra-disciplinary themes. Three recent Lancaster workshops on
 geometric rigidity included interdisciplinary themes in materials science (2017), chemistry (2018)
 and formation control (2019); and engagement with applied scientists has led to outputs in these
 areas. One example is Power’s work on classification of crystal nets by isotopy, published in
 Acta Crystallographica A, which was highlighted by an editor’s commentary: “[This] work
 features an attractive blend of mathematical techniques from geometry, topology and group
 theory, brought to bear on difficult questions in crystal chemistry.”

 Impact

 To see continued growth in collaborative research with industry. Our collaborative research
 programme with and funded by industry has flourished since 2014, with increases in the number
 and range of industrial partners we have. This enables us to work on statistical challenges
 closely linked to important economic, social and environmental challenges, and has led to
 substantial impact of our research on statistical methods: see Section 1d for full details.

 Broaden impact into new areas: Defence and Security, Big Data, Rigidity and Changepoints. We
 have seen strong end-user engagement across all these areas. Evidence includes a submitted
 case study on the impact of our Changepoint research, and substantive interaction with the
 Heilbronn Institute: Leslie sits on advisory boards and provides consultancy services, Nixon has
 a 50% secondment from 2020 and they provided support for Nemeth’s EPSRC fellowship.

 Fund Research Impact Fellowships. Over the period we have funded 7 impact fellows that allow
 the strongest PhD students time to progress research ideas from their PhD, investigate impact
 opportunities, and develop research independence. One example of the success of this scheme
 is Nemeth who used the impact fellowship as a springboard to establish himself as a leading
 data science researcher with the recent award of an EPSRC Innovation Fellowship.

    c. Open Access and Research Integrity

 Lancaster University’s research culture is driven by a full commitment to the Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity, and the University is a member of the UK Research Integrity Office.
 The Department adheres to University-wide research integrity and ethics procedures. This is
 facilitated by an Ethics officer that checks all dissertation topics, and representation on the
 Faculty Ethics committee to which empirical PhD proposals and staff research projects are
 submitted. We provide training to PhD students on ethics and responsible research and
 innovation.

 The Department encourages and supports researchers to ensure research is reproducible. This
 is particularly relevant within statistics, where access to software is needed to be able to

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reproduce statistical analyses. As mentioned below, we routinely make new statistical methods
 available as packages in suitable languages such as R or Python, and this is supported through
 a Research Software Engineer and training for PhD students.

 Almost all members of staff regularly publish preprints on repositories such as arXiv, and the
 publications of all staff are represented in the large and active institutional repository (gold and
 green access).

    d. Impact Overview




  Figure 1: Word cloud of non-academic partners who have supported research through direct
  funding, joint PhD projects or as project partners of research grants. Sector shown by colour:
 health (dark blue); environment (red); tech/analytics (light blue); energy (yellow); retail (orange);
                            financial services (green); and other (black).

 Our research is strongly linked to collaborations and knowledge exchange opportunities with a
 range of new and existing end-users over the assessment period (see Figure 1). The success of
 our strategy (detailed below) can be seen by indicators such as direct funding from industry of
 £3.5M, over 60 CASE-like PhD studentships, over 30 PhD student industrial internships, over
 100 industrially co-supervised MSc dissertations and 3 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.

 A culture of impact:
 We have enhanced the value given to impact, across both recruitment and promotion, and
 support all staff to engage in impact activity as appropriate for their research. Specific strategies
 include:
      Recruiting with impact in mind: We target recruitment in impactful areas and recruitment
        materials specify impactful activity as desirable. This has informed areas of growth, with
        new research groups in Statistical Learning and Geometric Rigidity.
      Rewarding Impact Activity. Impact features in promotion criteria, and has been a factor
        supporting the promotions of Eckley, Fearnhead, Killick, Nemeth and Tawn.
      Introducing an Impact Champion to educate, advise and support colleagues. The Impact
        Champion inducts new staff into the impact culture of the department, maintains an
        impact support fund (consisting of cash and, perhaps more importantly, considerable
        time resource), and carries out a regular audit of impactful activity in the department.




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Long term knowledge exchange partnerships:
 A key component of our impact strategy has been the close relationship we have with industry
 and other non-academic end-users. We continually develop links with new partners, and
 maintain these collaborations over many years. Our long-term partnerships support fundamental
 research by highlighting important open challenges, and have been particularly fruitful in
 providing large-scale impact. Furthermore, these partnerships are an integral part of our success
 in winning large-scale research funding (see Section 3).

 Strategic approaches in this area include:
      Support for Impact-focussed, externally-visible, research centres. We have enhanced our
        support for the Medical and Pharmaceutical Statistics group and the STOR-i CDT, both
        of which have a strong focus on end-user and impact related activity. We have also been
        at the forefront of establishing Lancaster’s Data Science Institute.
      Embedding industry in our PGR training. We have increased the number of PhD projects
        co-funded and co-supervised with an industrial partner and support other students to take
        a paid industrial placement during their PhD. Long term industrial partners take an active
        role in the training of our students. For example, Shell base staff within the department
        which enables regular interaction with students, and many of our industrial and non-
        academic contacts have led training events, e.g. around career and leadership.
      Knowledge Exchange Events: We run regular knowledge exchange events with existing
        and new partners, with over 30 one or two day events during the assessment period.
        End-users include a range of organisations from SMEs (e.g. Prowler.io and Vypr);
        multinational companies (e.g. AstraZeneca, BT, Shell, RollsRoyce) and public sector
        organisations (e.g. BBC, the Office for National Statistics, National Resource Wales).
      A wide range of entry points. We have expanded the range of opportunities for potential
        new partners to interact with our researchers and investigate the possibilities and
        benefits of collaborative research. These range from visits to Lancaster to discuss
        research areas of potential overlap; industrial problem solving days (four per year); and
        MSc Data Science projects with a 3 month industrial placement (increased from a
        handful in the last REF assessment period to over 100 in this). Staff are supported in
        establishing and nurturing new and existing collaborations through the Impact Champion,
        an Industrial Liaison Manager linked to the STOR-i centre, and the faculty Partnership
        and Business Engagement Team.

 This strategy reflects a belief that there are substantial benefits from involving non-academic
 collaborators at an early stage of the research. This leads to new mathematical developments
 motivated directly by contemporary and important challenges. An exemplar of this is how our
 long-standing research collaboration with BT led to involvement in a successful bid for an
 EPSRC Prosperity Partnership. To date this partnership has developed several novel inference
 approaches for the real-time detection of anomalies inspired by and applied to the monitoring
 and management of BT’s network infrastructure.

 Take-up of statistical methods through software:
 Widespread use of new statistical methods and algorithms also occurs if there is freely-available,
 easy-to-use software. We strongly support the development of such software, often as packages
 within R or python. We provide training for research students and staff for developing such
 software, and have established a culture where new statistics papers have associated packages
 published as the norm. We also have a Research Software Engineer whose role is to facilitate
 the development of software. During the assessment period our research has led to over 25
 packages and 10 papers on statistical software.

 Impact case studies
 The success of the above strategy can be seen by our impact case studies. Two case studies
 are around the impact of our research in extremes to on-shore flood risk and defences, and
 design of off-shore structures. These have arisen from long-term research partnerships with JBA
 and Shell. Our case study on the impact of methods for detecting changepoints exemplifies the
 importance of developing open source software in parallel with the research: with publicly

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 available R code enabling a breadth of impacts and has led to the implementation of our
 algorithms within commercial libraries (NAG and MATLAB). This case also details impacts that
 have arisen through knowledge exchange events and through a long-term research partnership
 with BT. Our final case study describes impact of our Medical and Pharmaceutical Statistics
 research centre through design of clinical trials for treatments for Covid-19.

    e. Future Research and Impact Strategy

 Our over-arching aim is to appoint the best staff and to provide an environment that nurtures and
 enables them to undertake high-quality theoretical and methodological research that pushes
 disciplinary boundaries. Equality, diversity and inclusion are central to this aim, ensuring the
 widest possible talent pool, supporting all researchers to maximise their potential, and benefitting
 from the advantages of a diverse and inclusive department. Mindful of the recent Covid-19
 pandemic we are confident of our approach and long-term planning. We will continue to place a
 strong emphasis on impact-focussed research where applications motivate new mathematical
 advances and inform core research. Specifically, we will:

 Enhance our research capacity, through retaining, developing and recruiting world-leading
 researchers; and through supporting and expanding our collaborations with leading researchers
 across the world. We believe growth will be achieved through embedding data science across
 the university, and we will look to expand into areas of applied mathematics where there are
 synergies with existing research strengths.

 Grow and diversify research income, increasing the proportion of staff with substantial grant
 funding (through grant mentoring, and maintaining our incentivisation of applications so awards
 lead to more time for research), leveraging support from our industrial collaborators, and
 continuing our leadership of large-scale, inter-disciplinary and cross-institutional research
 projects.

 Increase end-user interactions and see significant impact of our research, by building on our
 extensive network of industrial collaborations and leveraging our reputation in this area. We see
 new opportunities for impact on health, benefitting from Lancaster’s new Health Innovation
 Campus, Killick’s discipline hopping award and the Bayes4Health grant; and on environmental
 science, building on Lancaster University’s strategic investment in the Centre for Excellence in
 Environmental Data Science and the DSNE project (Table 2).

 Improve and develop our vibrant, supportive and externally acclaimed provision for PhD
 students, using increased EPSRC support for mathematics PhD students to develop a critical
 mass of students for mini-CDTs across strategically important research areas.

 Maintain a vibrant, supportive and inclusive environment, with a diverse body of staff and PhD
 students, by continuing the practices described below and implementing the action plan of our
 Athena Swan Bronze Award.

 2. People

 a. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 The sustainability and vitality of mathematics at Lancaster has been enhanced by an ambitious
 and targeted growth in independent research active academic staff (from 33.5FTE in 2013 to
 50FTE in 2020). New appointments have been targeted at specific areas, and have been made
 to ensure each research group have appropriate experience and leadership.

 As described in Section 1, we have specifically established new groups in Geometric Rigidity
 and Probability; and significantly strengthened our capacity in areas of statistics linked to data
 science. The latter has seen a new Statistical Learning research group at the interface of


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 statistics and machine learning, and appointments in statistics made as part of establishing
 Lancaster University’s Data Science Institute.

 The quality of our new appointments and early career staff can be seen by their record of being
 awarded competitive fellowships: an EPSRC postdoctoral fellowship to Wadsworth, an EPSRC
 Innovation fellowship to Nemeth, an EPSRC discipline hopping award to Killick, an ERC starting
 grant to L. Grabowski, an EU-Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowship to Coelho Simões, an NIHR
 advanced fellowship to Mozgunov, an AXA fellowship to Rohrbeck, and a Biometrika fellowship
 to Brueckner.

 Career development support.

 All staff: The department endeavours to support academic staff at all stages in their careers,
 regardless of gender, ethnicity or other protected characteristics, and whether they are on a
 permanent or fixed-term post or whether they work full- or part-time. To ensure appropriate
 attention is given both to an individual's research direction and to their general career
 development, the department is subdivided into small research groups. Every member of staff
 belongs to a group, with groups consisting of members of staff who have aligned research
 interests, and each led by an experienced member of staff. Many line management duties are
 devolved to research group leads to ensure both more personalized and detailed support, and
 that advice and mentoring is appropriate for the specifics of the research area of each staff. The
 group lead is responsible for undertaking an annual Performance and Development Review with
 each member of their group, and informal discussion of progress and development occurs
 throughout the year. Co-ordination between group leads and Head of Department ensures jobs
 are allocated to support career development and, where appropriate, for staff to have sustained
 blocks of time dedicated for research.

 As detailed in Section 1d, we are particularly active in promoting the importance of impact, and,
 where appropriate, supporting staff development in this area. Academics are encouraged to
 work with Business Development Managers to develop contacts with external partners and
 involve them in grant applications, and are mentored to work in and take advantage of the full
 range of Departmental engagement structures. Engagement outcomes are explicitly referenced
 in promotion material and have been a significant component of 5 promotion cases.

 The University’s Organisation and Educational Development department supports staff
 professional development and provides a range of development events specifically tailored for
 research staff. Workshops include Strategic Career Planning and Mentoring for Academics and
 Researchers, Developing Successful Proposals, Leading Meetings and Recruiting the Best.

 We ensure a fair balance across teaching, administration and research for all staff through a
 workload allocation model, that gives due credit for external research commitments (e.g. funding
 via research grants) and substantial contributions to the discipline (e.g. major editor roles,
 involvement in taught course centres such as organizing APTS workshops or giving MAGIC
 courses). All staff are eligible for, and encouraged to take, sabbatical leave. Sabbatical is
 accrued at a rate of 1 term of sabbatical for each 7 terms of service. Parental and Adoption
 leave, and paid sickness absence are counted within this period of service, meaning that staff
 who are absent for any of these reasons are not penalised in the length of real-time that elapses
 before they can request sabbatical leave.

 During the assessment period 33 academic staff have benefited from a total of just over 13
 years of sabbatical leave. One example is Turner whose sabbatical enabled a long-term visit to
 the University of Geneva to work with Fields Medallist Stanislav Smirnov on random growth. This
 was successful with the visit extended by a secondment to Geneva, and with it supporting a
 successful EPSRC grant application.

 We provide substantial support, of around £50K per year, for academic staff and PhD students
 to create new and develop existing research collaborations, to fund workshops at Lancaster in

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their research area, or for any activities linked to developing impact. This is on top of
 departmental QR funding for conference attendance and dissemination of research.

 Early career researchers: In addition to the support mechanisms mentioned above, all new
 academic staff undertake a probationary period of 3 years. During this period, they are assigned
 a mentor within the department, with whom they are encouraged to meet regularly to discuss
 progress in all areas, including research direction, grant applications, teaching and training. New
 early career academic staff are given a reduced teaching and administration load, with a
 reduction of 50%, 33% then 17% in the first three years. This frees up time for development of
 their research direction and contacts. New staff are encouraged and supported to apply for
 research grants, both from their research group lead and from research support officers
 embedded within the Department (see Section 3).

 We encourage and support all staff to take on supervision of PhD students, and establish their
 own research team as appropriate. The allocation of University studentships favours early-
 career staff, and such staff receive support to bid for additional students and PDRAs. To ensure
 quality of supervision, new supervisors attend a University-run training course and have, as co-
 supervisor, an experienced member of staff who provides scientific input into, and helps
 oversee, the project.

 PDRAs and research fellows: There have been 59 PDRAs and research fellows during the
 assessment period. To prepare research staff for future academic or professional careers, care
 is taken to ensure that they develop skills beyond the confines of their particular research
 project. They are given the opportunity to gain experience in a wide range of teaching and
 supervisory activities, in all cases with appropriate mentoring and support. There are many
 opportunities for RAs to engage in events run by industrial partners and to widen their
 knowledge of relevant career choices. We are committed to the Concordat to Support Career
 Development of Researchers, and Lancaster has achieved the European Commission’s HR
 Excellence in Research Award.

 Lancaster specifically supports the next generation of researchers in the mathematical sciences
 through its own Impact Fellowship scheme, which offers 1 to 2 years of support to newly
 completed PhD students. This has supported 7 high-quality fellows over the period; with all who
 have completed the scheme moving to permanent academic positions.

 b. Research Students

 Research students are seen as important to the vitality of the Department and consolidating our
 PGR provision has been one of the strategic aims of the Department. This encompasses
 providing funding for PhD studentships, recruiting and attracting the best students, and providing
 them with high-quality subject-relevant training and opportunities to develop transferable skills.
 We have graduated 110 PhD students during the census period (approx. 16 per year, compared
 to approx. 8 per year for REF2014), with 141 new PhD registrations.

 Studentships and recruitment
 We have been pro-active to increase the available funding for research students, and during the
 assessment period have had the following opportunities in addition to EPSRC DTP studentships:

 STOR-i centre for doctoral training in statistics and operational research: This is the only centre
 in the mathematical sciences to be funded for three successive periods, with two bids for
 renewed funding being successful within the assessment period. The current funding covers 5
 cohorts of students, with 12 PhD studentships per cohort (8 funded by EPSRC and the other 4
 funded by Industry and Lancaster University). Up to 80% of studentships are case-like, and all
 other studentships involve collaboration with leading international academic partners. The centre
 has been graded excellent in its two mid-term reviews to date.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ESRC funded North West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership: This is a collaboration
 across four Universities in the North West of England. Within the social statistics pathway, led by
 Lancaster, the Department has attracted between two and three studentships a year, funding
 PhDs that focus on the development of advanced quantitative methods for social science
 applications and providing specialist training for students at the interface of statistics and social
 science. Many students have taken the opportunity for internships in government departments or
 public sector bodies such as the Home Office, the Office for National Statistics and the Scottish
 Office.

 IDEAS European training network: This Lancaster-led network for early career researchers
 comprised of 8 partners (5 academic and 3 industry) and a number of associated partners from
 the pharmaceutical industry. It has trained 14 PhD students (3 hosted in Lancaster) using a pan-
 European, cross-sectorial approach in methods for early phase drug development. The
 researchers received dedicated training in statistical methodology as well as transferable skills
 training. Moreover, secondments to complementary partners (i.e. students at academic
 institutions were seconded to industry and vice versa) were mandatory.

 University-funded Studentship: During the census period Lancaster provided one studentship
 per 2 self-funded students, and routinely supported research grants with studentships. Over the
 period this has resulted in 26 fully-funded studentships, of which 8 are linked to research grants.

 A summary of our growth in PhD studentships over the assessment period is shown in Figure 2.
 Further substantial growth will occur due to the EPSRC Mathematical Sciences studentship
 scheme, which will fund 14 studentships for 2020 and 2021. These are being proactively
 managed, for example to support development of ECRs (six of nine studentships to date have
 an ECR as a lead supervisor) and to produce a strategic mini-cohort in noncommutative algebra
 and analysis (5 studentships starting October 2020).




                          Figure 2: PhD Studentships by source and year.

 As part of our active recruitment process we run a summer taster programme, in which 12
 undergraduates from a wide range of universities come to Lancaster to do 8-week research
 projects, with a view to giving them experience of PhD study. This has proven successful, with
 70% going on to a PhD within the mathematical sciences, including a number of students whose
 undergraduate background is not mathematics, and who would not naturally make such a
 choice.

 Monitoring and support
 The progress of all students is monitored by their Higher Degree Committee. The student is able
 to discuss any issues with the committee’s independent chair outside formal meetings, and the

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 meetings themselves help prepare students for defending their thesis at viva. Formal appraisal
 of performance is conducted each year, informed by staff and supervisor progress reports, draft
 thesis chapters and presentations. In later years students are required to have a written plan for
 completing, over an appropriate time-scale, against which progress can be assessed, with any
 problems being flagged early so that support can be given.

 Training and opportunities
 Lancaster is a major supporter of the taught courses centres, with all PhD students required to
 take courses put on by APTS, MAGIC or NATCOR. To supplement opportunities available both
 through these centres and from over 20 postgraduate courses run by the Department, we also
 run regular masterclass series in statistics and operational research and these are made
 available to non-Lancaster students, with support for attendance through our STOR-i national
 associates network.

 The scale of our postgraduate community enables us to offer PhD students a bespoke set of
 training relevant for researchers in the Mathematical Sciences. Examples of this include:

       Effective Communication: an annual programme of meetings and workshops (e.g. by
        BBC journalist Michael Blastland) that focus on the challenges to effective
        communication faced by researchers;
       Presentation and Interview skills: sessions delivered by VoX Coaching and other
        partners to incorporate personal confidence coaching for self-selecting students;
       Careers & Leadership Talks by academic and industrial researchers that give students a
        clear idea of career opportunities, and the skills required for success.
       Mental Health & Well-being: courses on building resilience run by MIND, tackling the
        inner critic, and mental health first aid.

 We believe that students benefit substantially from experiencing a variety of research
 environments, and ensure that they have opportunities to do so. We provide a research fund
 which allows students to make competitive applications for funding to support medium-term
 visits to leading international research groups. Students on projects co-funded by industry
 typically spend between 3-6 months with the industrial partner during their PhD.

 We support students in finding and taking paid internships: spending 2-6 months with an
 industrial partner working on a practical problem in an area quite different to that of their PhD.
 This allows students to gain a more diverse and rounded set of skills. The timing of internships
 within the study period is carefully managed to minimise disruption to thesis completion. In the
 period more than 30 students have taken an internship, with an average length of 4 months.

 The quality of our students is evidenced by the success at receiving awards. Examples include
 American Statistical Association best student paper prizes to Park (2014) and Haynes (2015);
 RSS prizes at RSC2017 to Welding and at RSC2018 to Tickle; an ISCB student award to Urbas
 (2020), an AISTATS best paper award to Grant (2020), and the OR Society’s PhD prize to
 Morgan (2020).

 c. Equality and Diversity

 The Department is proud of its promotion of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in all that it
 does. It has held an Athena Swan Bronze award since November 2016 and is a Registered
 Supporter of the London Mathematical Society's Good Practice Scheme. Staff and students are
 supported by the University’s EDI team who provide training, advice and support to ensure that
 EDI is successfully embedded throughout. All staff undertake mandatory Diversity Training at the
 start of employment, and this is repeated every 3 years. All staff with decision-making
 responsibilities for REF2021 attended mandatory tailored training on EDI and unconscious bias.

 Departmental oversight: The Department has a dedicated Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Committee (EDIC), which meets termly and whose membership includes HoD, Department

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Officer, academic and professional staff, PDRAs and students (PGR, PGT and UG). The
 Department is committed to a sustainable way of increasing diversity in staff and student
 recruitment, to support staff development, and to uphold the principles of the Athena Swan
 Charter. The Department’s Disability Officer oversees disability-related matters for students and
 liaises with student disability services. Together with the EDIC Chair, they engage with
 institutional ED&I, Athena Swan and Disabilities committees.

 Department profile, appointments and promotion: The Department has a headcount of 79
 indefinite and fixed term academic staff, with 23% female, 22% BAME and 5% with a declared
 disability. We are committed to increasing the diversity of staff, as per our Athena Swan action
 plan. The University is a member of the government’s Disability Confident Scheme, the
 Stonewall Global Diversity Champions programme for LGBT equality, and are committed to
 signing up to the Race Equality Charter in April 2021. All figure prominently on our job adverts.
 Every permanent academic post is advertised via mailing to the European women in Maths, and
 we pro-actively advertise positions via networks to ensure as strong and diverse a field of
 candidates as possible. All recruitment panels have gender diversity, and every member must
 have attended institutional training on recruitment.

 The Department’s Promotion committee ensures all staff are considered equally for promotion,
 encourage staff to apply, and give feedback on setting work priorities so as to strengthen future
 cases. This is supplemented by support from group leads, who, through yearly performance
 review exercises, advise each group member regarding academic progression. During the
 assessment period there have been 35 successful promotions, with 29% for female staff.

 Diversifying the academic landscape: Events such as our annual Florence Nightingale Day
 (run annually since 2013) and the 2019 LMS Perspectives in Mathematics bring general-
 audience talks by high-profile mathematicians of varied gender, race and age. The Florence
 Nightingale Days were cited as an example of good practice when we obtained our Athena
 Swan Bronze award in 2016, and their popularity has increased year-on-year (from 35 attendees
 in 2013 to 136 in 2020). Our Outreach Committee engages organised educational activities,
 showcasing role models of various backgrounds, for secondary schools in the North-West.
 Speakers at our seminar series and workshops are chosen so as to comply with our gender
 diversity rules, namely a minimum of 25% female speakers; and we have a fund for our PGR
 seminar series to support invited external female speakers. At the 2019 British Mathematical
 Colloquium, held in Lancaster, over 40% of invited speakers were women, including over 50% of
 the plenary talks.

 Research students: Our PGR programme has a track record for its inclusive approach,
 championing equality and the development of a vibrant, collaborative and people-centred
 working environment. This has been recognised by e.g. external reviews of our STOR-i CDT.
 Examples of good practice include (i) a summer taster programme which has been key to
 recruiting a diverse student community; (ii) a provision of bespoke support, including flexible
 working arrangements for students with caring responsibilities, disability and other personal
 circumstances to enable a doctoral training experience tailored for all; and (iii) a peer mentor for
 each new PhD student. The result is a multicultural community that has formed a highly
 supportive workplace, welcoming to all diversity groups. Of the PhD students who started during
 the assessment period, 35% are female, 19% are BAME, and 10% have a declared disability.

 Part-time staff: The Department strives to ensure that all members of staff are treated equally.
 Work-load allocations are made on a pro rata basis through discussions between the HoD, the
 relevant line manager and the member of staff. All staff are encouraged to take advantage of the
 University's flexible working policy and this is particularly useful for those with caring
 responsibilities. For instance, staff may request that their teaching hours do not start early or
 finish late to enable them to carry out the school run; similarly, we have changed the time of the
 Statistics colloquia series so that these no longer coincide with the end of the school day.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Parental leave, and supporting return to work: Staff returning from leave receive reduced
 administration and/or teaching load for a temporary period, to allow a higher proportion of time to
 be devoted to progressing research activity. Staff have access to the University Maternity and
 Adoption Research Fund, which is designed to minimise disruption to research during, and after,
 extended parental leave. In addition, staff returning from family-related leave are encouraged to
 make use of a £3,000 per year departmental fund to support re-engagement with research. In
 2019, the fund was extended to staff members returning from other types of compassionate
 leave.

 Staff well-being: Through the Institution’s Safety, Health & Wellbeing committee structure, Staff
 Wellbeing is firmly on the University’s agenda. The recently formed Staff Wellbeing Engagement
 group has developed the University’s new Staff Wellbeing website, providing a single source for
 staff to access a range of support options and wider well-being. The University pays for staff to
 be able to access a range of professional support through the Employee Assistance Programme
 and has selected the Five Ways to Wellbeing framework, used by the Government, charities like
 Mind, and the NHS, as a basis to provide information and activities to help improve the mental
 health and wellbeing of its staff.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    a. Research Income

 There has been a step change in grant capture since 2014. In the assessment period the
 research grant capture averaged £2.6M per annum, an approx. 120% increase compared to the
 previous period. Due to the lag between grant capture and expenditure this is seen in the HESA
 income data with it rising consistently to £2.3M in 2019/20, as shown in Figure 3.




   Figure 3: Research Spend and Capture by year. To aid visualisation, we show the best fitting
  linear trend for Research Capture. Capture and Spend averaged £1.1M and £0.9M per year in
                                the REF2014 assessment period.


 At the end of the assessment period, Lancaster was ranked fourth in terms of EPSRC funding in
 the Mathematical Sciences, and top for Statistics and Applied Probability, see Figure 4.

 This increase in funding has been the result of the following strategic changes to encourage and
 support appropriate grant submissions:

 Incentivising research grants. We have transparent mechanisms for reducing non-research
 workload to account for external grant funding and the time spent both managing and performing
 funded research projects. We also offer seed-corn funding specifically to develop ideas and
 create academic end-user collaborations linked to potential grant applications.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 4: (left) EPSRC Mathematical Sciences portfolio: area of circle proportional to size of
 portfolio, colour for framework (blue), strategic (green) and other (grey) universities; (right) Top
 institutions for size of EPSRC portfolio in Statistics and Applied Probability. Figures screen
 captured from EPSRC website July 2020.


 Increased support for grant writing. The Department has run grant-writing workshops to help
 all staff, and especially early career staff, to become more effective at securing research funding.
 Use of our research group structure means an experienced member of staff, working in the
 same research area is able to give advice from an early stage on grant proposal ideas,
 appropriate funding sources, and how best to present the research. We have also benefitted
 from a restructuring of and investment in Research Support at the University, with a dedicated
 member of Research Support based in the Department who is able to relieve much of the
 administrative burden of putting together a grant application. Staff have been able to take part in
 Faculty run courses that support fellowship applications – the latter helping Nemeth and
 Wadsworth with their successful applications; and we routinely provide support for interview
 practice and preparation.

 Leveraging University and Industrial support. We encourage all PIs to investigate
 opportunities for enhancing a research proposal through University support or by utilising our
 range of industrial contacts for financial or in-kind support. Where appropriate staff contact
 potential industrial collaborators at an early stage to ensure that foundational mathematics and
 statistics research is of relevance for contemporary and important challenges. The University
 routinely supports grant applications, often through the provision of PhD studentships, and we
 have a strong record of substantial financial and in-kind support from non-academic project
 partners (e.g. see Table 2).

 A focus on large-scale, inter-disciplinary and inter-institutional research programmes in
 statistics. Building on our world-leading research reputation and established collaborations with
 leading statistics, scientific and end-user groups we have encouraged and supported large-scale
 grants aimed at tackling key challenges that have arisen as part of the big data revolution. The
 success and benefits of this is described below.

 Diversifying funding sources. We proactively pursue non-standard funding sources, and
 encourage and support staff to apply to these where appropriate. Building on our involvement in
 Lancaster’s Data Science Institute and our new research group in Statistical Learning we have
 success with funding from tech firms such as Google, Amazon, Prowlier.io and Rock Services.
 This is part of a range of industrial partners who support our research (see Figure 1 above), and
 has enabled us to maintain a sector leading record in industrial funding (see Figure 5).




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 5: Research Income Spend per FTE for HESA cost centres UK, EU or Non-EU industry,
 commerce and public corporations (Lancaster in red; and various mission groups). Comparator
                              data only available to 2018/2019.

 As mentioned, an important component of our grant portfolio are long-term, inter-disciplinary,
 multi-institutional and impact-facing research programmes. We currently lead 4 large-scale
 collaborative research grants that were awarded during the assessment period:

 Table 2: Major EPSRC grants awarded and led by Lancaster Mathematics during the
 assessment period.

       Grant            Funding         Collaborating       Project Partners     Research Topic
                                         Institutions
  Statscale         £2.7M EPSRC        Cambridge          Astra Zeneca, BT,     Statistical
  (2016-2023)       £400K Project                         ONS, Shell            approaches for
  PI: Eckley        Partners                                                    large-scale
                                                                                streaming data.
  Bayes4Health      £3.0M EPSRC        Bristol,           Astra Zeneca,         Bayesian Data
  (2018-2023 )      £200K Project      Cambridge,         Health Protection     Science
  PI: Fearnhead     Partners           Oxford, Warwick    Scotland, Public      methods for the
                                                          Health England,       Health Sciences.
                                                          GSK, Wellcome
                                                          Trust
  DSNE              £2.7M EPSRC        CEH                Over 20 project       Data Science for
  (2018-2023)       £540K Project                         partners, including   the Natural
  PI: Leslie        Partners                              EDF, the Met          Environmental.
                                                          Office, DEFRA and
                                                          NCAR.
  NG-CDI            £2.6M EPSRC        Bristol,           A Prosperity          Next Generation
  (2017-2022)       £4.5M Project      Cambridge,         Partnership with      Converged
  Co-PI: Eckley     Partners           Surrey             BT.                   Digital
                                                                                Infrastructure.

 Each of these addresses generic research problems that are motivated by open applied
 challenges, and has a programme of research that was co-designed either with end-users or
 with scientists embedded in disciplines such as computing, the environment and health. They
 exemplify the success of our strategy for inter-disciplinary research/research with end-users (see
 Sections 1 and 4) and are one pathway for developing substantial impact from our research. In
 addition to these, we were major partners in EPSRC programme grants, i-like (2013-2018;
 £2.4M) and CoSInES (2018-2023; £3M), aimed at developing the next generation of
 computational statistical methods; and a £1.6M EPSRC grant (2020-2024), led by the School of
 Computing and Communications, aimed at reducing energy demand through digital innovation.


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These large-scale, collaborative grants add substantially to the vibrancy of the research
 environment, through regular research visits of world-leading researchers; organisation of
 workshops; interaction with end-users and funding for impact related activities; and a strong
 emphasis on inter-disciplinary research.

    b. Infrastructure and Facilities

 Physical infrastructure

 The Department, housed within one floor of Fylde College, and the adjoining Postgraduate
 Statistics Centre and Science & Technology Building, enables co-location of all staff, PDRAs
 and PhD students. It includes an AccessGrid room specifically for advanced courses delivered
 by the MAGIC consortium. Concurrent with Departmental growth there has been investment in
 new space:
      A dedicated space for the STOR-i Centre for Doctoral Training, that has allowed co-
          location of over 50 students, support staff and impact fellows. This incorporates high-
          quality facilities for networking and informal interactions supporting STOR-i’s
          engagement with academic and industrial partners. We believe that this provision has
          been essential for nurturing the STOR-i culture, developing a group identity, facilitating
          peer-to-peer learning and integrating students into larger research teams.
      A dedicated open plan office for the EPSRC-funded Data Science of the Natural
          Environment project, consisting of 16 desk spaces to host project staff and visitors and
          providing meeting, interaction and seminar space. This space catalyses inter-disciplinary
          research through bringing together researchers in statistics with those from
          environmental science.
      All departmental staff associated with Lancaster’s Data Science Institute, have access to,
          and regularly use, the Institute’s shared office space to facilitate interdisciplinary and
          collaborative working.

 Operational infrastructure

 The primary form of research infrastructure is high-end computing, and the Department invests
 heavily in this to provide a dedicated, well-used resource that supplements central University
 provision. Staff have access to the Department’s own computer support (2.4FTE computer
 technicians) and computer cluster (924 computer cores, 5TB of memory; plus 5 virtual machines
 with a further 288 cores). In addition, all staff and PhD students have access to Lancaster
 University’s High-End Computing cluster (8,800 computer cores, 40TB of memory, 70TB of high
 performance filestore). The Department invests approx. £50K annually to cover personal
 machines for PhD students and renewal of machines for staff.

 Our excellent support for IT helped us to seamlessly and successfully move to virtual working,
 and minimised disruptions due to COVID-19. This is evidenced by e.g. less than half our final
 year EPSRC-funded PhD students requesting any extension to their studentship – substantially
 below the 92% of students who requested extensions nationally.

 Infrastructure supporting impact

 Following a review in 2014, the University recruited 2 impact professionals to support impact in
 the Faculty of Science and Technology, which also has a 14-strong Partnerships, Business and
 Enterprise team. The Faculty allocates impact funding and distributes EPSRC’s Impact
 Acceleration Account: the Department has benefited from £64K to support 8 projects including
 collaborative research to develop joint extreme value statistical analyses for the Office for
 Nuclear Regulation, and a workshop on changepoints with partners including the Office for
 National Statistics, Tesco and BT which resulted in further developments in our changepoints
 impact case study. The MSc in Data Science has a dedicated Business Engagement Manager
 to ensure strong industry and government connections throughout the programme and a ready


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supply of externally-sponsored MSc projects, while STORi has a 50% FTE Industrial Liaison
 Manager to generate industry-sponsored PhD studentships.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

    a. Support for Research Collaborations

 We have formal research collaborations, which include co-supervision of PhD students and
 funding for regular visits, with leading international research centres based at MIT,
 NorthWestern, UC Dublin, U Oslo and U Washington. Example outputs from these include
 Rohrbeck’s work with Arnoldo Frigessi (Oslo) on spatial monotone regression methods
 motivated by the problem of predicting water-related insurance claims (papers in Biometrika and
 Annals of Applied Statistics); and Baker’s work with Emily Fox (Washington) on sampling
 algorithms (papers in Statistics and Computing and at NeurIPS).
 There are generous funds for supporting collaborations, with on average £50K per year available
 for visits of staff to other organisations, visits to Lancaster or to support specialist workshops at
 Lancaster or similar research activities. As examples of the benefits accruing from this funding
 from a single year: 2016-17 saw funding over 30 visits to/from Lancaster (including 9 that
 established new collaborations), 4 workshops and the establishment of a new seminar series in
 Algebra, Combinatorics and Measure (set-up at the request of then new staff member, L
 Grabowski and with 25 seminars including 4 with non-UK speakers). These activities led to a
 successful grant application funding a post-doc, more than 30 publications, and supported the
 writing of 2 research monographs.

 We have a track record of successful collaborations with some of the best statistics groups in the
 UK. The success of these can be seen by our involvement in and leadership of large-scale
 grants (see Section 3 and, in particular, Table 2) that include collaborations with nationally
 leading groups at Bristol, Cambridge, Oxford and Warwick. These research programmes each
 include funding for a range of cross-institutional interactions, as well as research events with
 project partners. Examples of their success include ground-breaking work on scalable Monte
 Carlo: the Zig-Zag algorithm (published in Annals of Statistics) and the ScaLE algorithm (an RSS
 research section read paper).

 Lancaster leads LMS-funded networks on Functor Categories for Groups, and Algebraic
 Quantum Field Theory. The first network involves Cambridge, RHUL and Lincoln, and has met
 three times a year since 2017. It brings together researchers representing the various subjects
 touched by functor categories for groups in order to incentivise future advances and stimulate
 new collaborations in the UK and abroad and provide a platform for young mathematicians from
 across the UK to meet, present and discuss their research. From this activity, Mazza is now
 collaborating with Castellano, Nucinkis and Vera on Mackey functors for profinite groups. The
 second network was established in 2020, involves Cardiff, Nottingham and York, and will
 connect researchers across the UK through regular workshops, enhancing scientific exchange
 and encouraging new collaborations. A particular focus is to give PhD students opportunities to
 get to know other researchers and to share their research in a relaxed environment.

    b. Collaboration with Key Research Users and Contributions to the Economy and
       Society.

 As will have been apparent from earlier sections, collaboration with research users underpins
 much of the research at Lancaster, and has been central to our strategy for expansion, the
 growth of our PGR programmes, our success in external grant funding and large research
 projects, and the breadth of our end-user interaction and impact from research. A long-held
 ethos at Lancaster has been that the best methodological and theoretical research is motivated
 by and applied to contemporary challenge.

 A small number of exemplars of mechanisms that facilitate impactful research and successful
 projects are:

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 STOR-i: Over 80 companies have contributed across three generations of STOR-i, with
 approximately three-quarters of students on CASE-like projects. Several companies support
 projects over multiple years and developments from such long-term relationships form the basis
 of three impact case studies, as detailed in Section 1d. Examples of impact from other STOR-i
 industrial projects include: Research by Urbas on modelling recruitment to multi-centre clinical
 trials with AstraZeneca, to analyse recruitment to ongoing trials and decide on interventions to
 ensure the required sample size is obtained on time. Stubington’s optimisation research is being
 employed in experiment design by Lubrizol, saving them £2-3M in the development of new oil-
 based products. Spatial and Temporal extremes work by Winter is influencing the Met Office’s
 methods for European heatwave risk assessment. O’Malley’s work with the US National Oceanic
 and Atmospheric Administration has led to improved methods for ocean movement tracking with
 his software being widely used globally.

 Statistics for the natural environment: The Department has a strong cross-disciplinary
 research focus on environmental data science, building on long-term work of Tawn in applying
 extreme value statistics to flooding and offshore conditions. Collaborating with the School of
 Computing and Communication and the Lancaster Environment Centre, we have instigated an
 environment research theme in Lancaster’s Data Science Institute and been key participants in a
 Memorandum of Understanding between LU and the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology to
 establish a Centre of Excellence in Environmental Data Science. Consequently, 6 members of
 the department are funded by the EPSRC project on Data Science of the Natural Environment,
 along with 10 researchers from other LU departments and 4 from the Centre for Ecology and
 Hydrology. An example of the collaborative research is recent work developing a spatially
 indexed extreme value theory method to analyse and predict melt from ice sheets.

 Medical and pharmaceutical statistics: Building on long term collaborations with companies
 including Roche, Janssen, Merck, Quanticate, Novartis and AstraZeneca, we led the EU-funded
 (€ 3.1M) IDEAS PhD training network. The industrial funding through these collaborations (total
 in-period contribution approx. £1M) has supported 11.5FTE years of PDRA time and 3 CASE-
 like PhD students. The reputation, skills and research developed has also resulted in substantial
 involvement in efforts to find treatments for COVID-19 through the development and deployment
 of adaptive multi-arm clinical trials. These include involvement in the flagship RECOVERY trial
 that identified the first COVID-19 treatment shown to reduce mortality.

 Consultancy and advisory work: In the assessment period Departmental researchers have
 provided consultancy and advisory services to entities including the Heilbronn Institute for
 Mathematical Research, Prowler.io, Hong Kong University, Eurostat, the Bond Review, and the
 National Flood Resilience Review. The latter review forms a pathway for our extremes research
 to impact the design of flood defences, while several confidential impacts are currently being
 achieved through engagement with the Heilbronn Institute.

 Public engagement: The Department is committed to engagement with the public and schools.
 Public engagement activities have included public lectures (recent examples by Sykulski and
 Tawn) and external speakers, either stand-alone or associated with academic conferences, as
 well as science fair-type events such as the national Fun Palaces, events held at libraries and
 community days run by the university or partners such as EDF. We are leading the University's
 establishment of a specialist maths school, the Lancaster University School of Mathematics, due
 to open in September 2022, with up to 250 students and significant wider engagement activity.
 As mentioned in Section 2c we are active with widening participation events, such as running
 our annual Florence Nightingale Day. The department has also been involved in the university’s
 Campus in the City project since that project began, taking mathematics activity into Lancaster
 city centre with engagement with over 500 people. Work with schools involves visits by schools
 and pupils to campus, for example to Royal Institution Masterclasses and Engineering
 Development Trust Summer Schools, and visits to schools, especially by postgraduate research
 students. The latter activity helps engage future research leaders into public engagement, and is
 funded as part of our re-investment of industrial funding (current funding of approx. £100K for

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this activity; with an average of 7 PhD students each year, visiting between 5 and 10 schools;
 and with approx. 800 school students involved to date).

    c. Contribution to the Discipline

 Awards: Killick is the first UK recipient of the Young Statistician Award of the European Network
 for Business and Industrial Statistics (2019); Wadsworth, Tawn and Eckley have received
 awards from the Royal Statistical Society (Inaugural Barnett Award to Tawn and Research Prize
 to Wadsworth in 2015; Greenfield Industrial Medal to Eckley in 2018). Eckley was elected a
 fellow of the Learned Society of Wales in 2017.

 Fellowships: As summarised previously, Killick, Wadsworth and Nemeth have been awarded
 EPSRC fellowships, L. Grabowski an ERC starter grant, Coelho Simões a Marie Sklodowska-
 Curie fellowship, Jaki and Mozgunov NIHR fellowships, Rohrbeck an AXA Fellowship, and
 Brueckner a Biometrika Fellowship.

 PGR Training: Lancaster is a founder member of APTS, MAGIC and NATCOR. We have
 hosted training courses for APTS and NATCOR and Lancaster staff have given courses across
 the training programmes. The STOR-I CDT funds and runs a National Associates scheme that
 opens up many training events to UK-based PhD students at other universities who are working
 with industrial collaborators, currently this scheme is benefitting 17 PhD students across 12
 institutions.

 Our leadership in PGR training is further exemplified by Eckley advising on U Newcastle’s CDT
 on Cloud Computing for Big Data, and the Imperial-Oxford CDT on Statistics and Machine
 Learning; and Tawn sitting on the advisory panel for the Science Foundation Ireland Centre for
 Research Training in Foundations of Data Science.

 Journal Editorships: Fearnhead is editor of Biometrika (2018-), Mukherjee was co-editor of
 Sankhya, Series A (2008-2015), Lazarev is a managing editor of the LMS Bulletin (2019-) and
 Fokianos, Grabowski and Towers, and Schulze have been guest editors for Statistics, the
 Glasgow Mathematical Journal, and Symmetry respectively. Over the period staff have held 25
 Associate Editor roles.

 Conference Organisation at Lancaster: We have hosted around 40 workshops and
 conferences at Lancaster during the period, including the 2019 British Mathematical Colloquium,
 the 2016 Easter Probability Meeting, an annual workshop linked to the STOR-i CDT, and regular
 workshop series on Geometric Rigidity, Probability, and Statistical Scalability. We are organising
 and hosting the 2021 International Workshop on Operator Theory and its Applications
 (postponed from 2020).

 External Programme and Conference Organisation: Staff have been organisers of three
 research programmes at the Isaac Newton Institute: Inference for Change-point and related
 processes (Jan-Feb 2014); Scalable inference, statistical algorithmic and computational aspects
 (July 2017); and Statistical Scalability (Jan-Jun 2018); and of the programme on Abstract
 harmonic analysis, Banach and operator algebras’ at the Fields Institute, Toronto, (Jan-Jun,
 2014). They have also helped organise over 40 workshops or conferences external to Lancaster.

 Learned Body, Research Council Roles and Advisory Board Membership: Involvement with
 the London Mathematical Society includes or has included membership of: the Publications
 Committee (Lazarev, Turner); Publishing Nominating Group (Lazarev); the Personnel Committee
 (Belton); the Development Committee (Dales); the Grants Committee (Lazarev, Turner); the
 Prizes Committee (Lazarev); the Programme Committee (Leslie, Turner) and the Good Practice
 Steering Group (Mazza). Dales was vice chair of the EMS ethics committee. Involvement with
 the Royal Statistical Society includes membership of the Research Section (Leslie, Tawn,
 Wadsworth), Honours Committee (Eckley, Fearnhead), Statistical Computing Committee


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Nemeth, Vice-Chair; and Killick), Chair of the Applied Probability Section (Turner) and
 membership of the Search Committee for a new JRSS B editor (Wadsworth).

 Jaki has been a member of the executive committee of the International Society for Clinical
 Biostatistics, and its treasurer. Eckley is on ENBIS Committee for the George Box medal.
 Wadsworth is the UK representative for European Courses in Advanced Statistics. Advisory
 board membership for APTS, EQUIP and Big Insight (all Eckley); and CRISM and SECURE
 (Tawn). Eleven staff are EPSRC college members, Nemeth is member of the EPSRC
 Mathematics Early Career Forum and a member of the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Peer
 Review College, Eckley, J. Grabowski and Nemeth have sat on EPSRC panels. Leslie was a
 member of the Bond Review Committee and Implementation Group. Jaki is a board member of
 the MRC Methodology Panel Advisory Group and was a member of the NIHR Efficacy and
 Mechanism Evaluation Advisory Group. Fearnhead and Jonathan are panel members for
 REF2021.

 Invited Talks at International Conferences: The many hundreds of invited talks at international
 conferences include BayesComp2020 (Fearnhead keynote talk, Florida 2020); Indian
 Mathematical Society (Dales, invited plenary, Jammu 2018); Geometry and Approximation (Elek,
 keynote talk, Dresden 2019); Analysis in Athens (Power, opening plenary speaker, Athens
 2017); Conference on Applied Statistics in Ireland (Leslie, 2016 ); South African Mathematical
 Society (Dales, Cape Town 2019); Banach Algebras and Application (Choi, Toronto 2015; Choi
 and Laustsen, Winnipeg 2019); Extreme Value Analysis (Tawn, Wadsworth, Zagreb 2019); the
 World Statistics Congress (Eckley, Morocco 2017).




                                                                                            Page 20
