Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Worcester

 Unit of Assessment: 23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 This submission consists primarily of staff from the School of Education, with one staff member
 from another School whose activity is focused in Education. The School is constituted of four
 departments, which are the organisational units for initial teacher education (Departments of
 Primary Education and Secondary Education), education studies and teacher/school leader
 professional development (Department of Education and Inclusion) and early childhood awards
 (Department of Children and Families). Research activity is located both within departmental units
 and their specialisms, as well as cross-School through Research Groups.

 The submission is built around five research groups (Social Psychology of Education; Social
 Justice; Post Compulsory Education; Religion and Society; and Inclusion by Design). Each of the
 research groups has a regular programme of research activities, drawing together doctoral
 researchers, staff, external academics, and members of the public.

 The Social Psychology of Education Research Group (led by Kington) focuses on the importance
 of social and learning relationships across all phases of education, in both formal and informal
 settings, and how these impact on the effectiveness and retention of practitioners, and the quality
 of children’s learning experiences. The group currently has 22 members from across the Schools
 of Education and Psychology, as well as five associate members (academics and practitioners).
 In addition to monthly discussion meetings, the group hosts specialist research methods training,
 research skills workshops, and a seminar series open to the public. The group has supported
 members in the development of their writing and, in addition to many individual publications, 2020
 saw the publication of a book co-authored and edited by members of the group. Further, 12
 members of the group have embarked on the ‘Teacher Identity and Retention Project (TRIP)’, a
 mixed-methods, longitudinal research study exploring how the reasons for teachers choosing to
 remain in the profession relate back to individual and collective identity.

 The Social Justice Research Group (led by Woolley) is engaged in research around education
 and social justice, including issues relating to diversity, equality and inclusion. It shares work in
 progress through seminars in a mutually supportive environment that gives critical and insightful
 enrichment to individual activities. Several members contributed chapters to the volume
 Understanding Inclusion: core concepts, policy and practice (Routledge 2018), bringing together
 experienced and emerging researchers and building capacity by jointly writing this significant
 publication in the field.

 The Post Compulsory Education Research Group is comprised of colleagues employed in, or
 associated with, the University of Worcester and its educational partners (led by Elliott and
 Dhillon). The aim of the group has been to provide a supportive and strategic forum in which
 members and associates plan, undertake and disseminate applied research, with a clear focus on
 enhancing the understanding and quality of learning, teaching, management and leadership in
 post-compulsory education.

 The Religion and Society Research Group is a cross-University, interdisciplinary, and external
 collaboration with colleagues at Worcester co-founded and convened by Parker (Education),
 Darren Oldridge (History) and Worcester Cathedral (The Rev’d Canon Dr Georgina Byrne, also
 an Hon. Fellow of the UW). Colleagues across the University and beyond are affiliated with the
 group - (Prof Rob Freathy (Exeter) and international affiliates, notably Professors Schweitzer
 (Tubingen) and Simojoki (Humboldt, Berlin). Three doctoral students have completed their
 projects within the group (one UW-funded; one Leverhulme Trust-funded) on the history of RE
 teachers and teaching (Russell), collective worship in schools (Shillitoe), and religious education

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policy in Wales (Jones). Two further doctoral students are working with Parker. Further, a Turkish
 government-funded visiting doctoral researcher spent a term with Parker on the development of
 theological and religious education in England in 2019 (Utku). In late 2020, Dr Maria Lucenti, a
 German funding council Prime DAAD scholar, began work with Parker on Islam in religious
 education textbooks in England. The Religion and Society Research Group worked closely with
 Byrne at Worcester Cathedral in 2018 on a series of public lectures on Religion and Society during
 Advent, the inaugural lecture of which was given by Parker on religious education in British
 broadcasting. The Religion and Society Research Group is the home of the international peer-
 reviewed Journal of Beliefs and Values: Studies in Religion and Education and Brill Research
 Perspectives in Religion and Education, both of which are edited by Parker.

 The Inclusion by Design Research Group (led by Bracken) brings together academics, students
 and student services colleagues who are interested in strengthening learning outcomes and social
 experiences of diverse learners. This community of researchers and practitioners is keen to extend
 internal and external networks to promote ever greater inclusive practice through inclusive
 curriculum and learning space design.

 The School of Education sits within the College of Arts, Humanities and Education. The new
 College structure was implemented in 2018/19 to ensure greater support for Research &
 Knowledge Exchange and Learning & Teaching in Schools, more consistency of practice, wider
 sharing of good practice, and increased opportunity for interdisciplinary activities. College
 Directors of Research & Knowledge Exchange and of Learning & Teaching were appointed to
 meet these objectives (REF 5a 1.1.5).

 Research across the College is overseen by a College Director of Research and Knowledge
 Exchange (Dr Paul Newland) who works closely with the School senior leadership teams and the
 Research School on areas of research strategy and recruitment and staff development. The
 Director chairs the College RKE subcommittee which oversees implementation of University RKE
 strategy, works with Research Group leads, and organises research events and training.

 Research and impact strategy

 Unit’s strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 In its REF 2014 submission, the unit identified the following strategic objectives: to develop its
 research groups; to develop its research leadership through recruitment, progression and
 honorary appointments.

 These objectives were elaborated and extended in the School’s Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Strategy (2014-19) which flowed from the institutional research strategy (REF5a 2.1).
 The School’s overarching strategic ambition was to deliver excellent research which would make
 a difference to the lives of its target communities. To achieve this, it would: increase its income
 from research; increase its research student body; enhance its research culture; and recruit and
 develop excellent researchers at all career stages. As with the University strategy (REF5a 2.2),
 the unit has been largely successful in meeting its objectives. This will be elaborated throughout
 this narrative, but we particularly note the following:
     • There has been a significant increase in income over the period compared to REF 2014:
         average income for the last REF assessment period was £25k per annum; for this
         assessment period, it is £118k.
     • The unit had 18 doctoral completions in the assessment period, compared to 8 in
         REF2014.
     • The unit has appointed two new professors (Dhillon and Savin-Baden); two staff have
         been promoted to professor (Kington, Woolley), and two honorary professors have been
         appointed (West-Burham and McCulloch).




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact Strategy

 The unit’s approach to facilitating impact has included:
    • Appointing an Impact champion who works to support staff to identify and develop their
        impact
    • Enhancing staff understanding of impact through staff development, specifically through
        all-staff away days focused on research impact
    • Engaging strategically with stakeholders such as local authorities, schools, educational
        practitioners, charities and not for profit organisations
    • Recognising and rewarding publication in professional journals
    • Presenting regularly at conferences with practitioner audiences
    • Embedding research in the curriculum
    • Feeding research into CPD

 The selected Impact Case Studies show many of these approaches in action:
    • ICS1 - Enhancing educational policy, practice and performance by increasing
        understanding of teacher identity and development at all career stages
        The case study articulates how researchers worked closely with stakeholders in the
        development and dissemination of the research and how their research informed the
        development of CPD for schools.
    • ICS2 - Enhancing inclusive practice in educational settings
        The case study demonstrates how impact has flowed from research informing the
        curriculum and informing educational practitioners.

 Inter-disciplinary Research

 The University’s College Structure was developed as an enabler of interdisciplinary research
 (REF5a 2.5). College Directors of RKE are tasked with identifying and developing
 interdisciplinary opportunities across Schools in a College but also between Colleges where
 appropriate. This is manifested in the submitting unit through the research groups outlined
 above.

 Open Research

 The University is committed to developing and maintaining an Open Research environment. It
 fundamentally recognises the value of open access publication to the HE sector, to the public, to
 the University and its researchers, but most vitally to the integrity and value of its research.
 All staff are required to upload outputs from research onto WRaP, the University’s research
 repository. The College is provided with monthly reports on Open Access (OA) compliance from
 a central Open Access Team based in Library Services (see REF5a 2.6). Information about
 WRaP and OA features in staff induction; training workshops are offered through the staff
 development programme; and 1-1 support is available on request from the Open Access and
 Advocacy Support officer.
 The University will look to review and revise its Open Access Policy in 2021 in light of national
 and international developments, in particular Plan S. The University has recently signed up to
 the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and has established a working
 group to implement its principles.

 Research Integrity

 At University level, the University’s Research Integrity & Governance Committee has oversight
 of policies and procedures to support research integrity, and its Chair is the University’s
 Research Integrity Champion. The Champion is expected to embed a culture of integrity across
 University through developing training and support for staff but also raising its profile.


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 At College level, Research Ethics Panels are responsible for review of all staff and research
 student projects to ensure they are conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Panel Chairs (Kington) and Vice Chairs
 (Gossman) are experienced researchers, whilst panel reviewers are drawn from across the
 College; lay reviewers are also recruited to the panel. Training is provided to all reviewers before
 they engage in the role. There is an annual audit of reviews to ensure the Panels are fulfilling
 their role.
 The University’s Research Integrity Champion works closely with the Chairs of Ethics Panels at
 College level to ensure a culture of research integrity is embedded in the wider research culture
 of the College, offering support and guidance to research students and staff and maintaining a
 high profile for the research integrity agenda.

 Future strategic aims

 The University’s new RKE Strategy 2020-25 was approved in summer 2020 (REF5a 2.3). The
 expectation is that Schools’ strategic objectives will flow from the University strategy but will also
 reflect disciplinary priorities, with Schools required to develop a strategy implementation plan
 accordingly. Inevitably, the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted on the development of this plan and
 aims set out here are consequently preliminary.

 The new strategy identifies five areas of challenge, and research in the unit will be developed in
 three of these areas – Professional Education, Culture, Identity & Social Exclusion, Digital
 Innovation - building on the existing strengths in the current Research Groups:

 Specific research objectives are to:
    • Increase the volume of bids submitted and increase rates of success and thus annual
         income totals; and to expand the diversity of funding bodies applied to, including
         charitable and third sector bodies.
    • Increase the number of PhD registrations and completions; grow staff capacity to support
         doctoral research through a team-based approach to supervision, and by directing ECRs
         to the supervisor training provided by the Research School (see section 3).
    • Retain ECRs and support their research career progression, encouraging and facilitating
         ECR’s involvement in PGR supervision and PGT teaching.
    • Consolidate and expand the research culture through a diverse range of events including
         conferences, symposia, workshops, and readings.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Recruitment and progression

 A primary focus for the School is the delivery of quality professional education which supports
 students to qualify as teachers. It is necessary therefore to recruit staff with experience of
 professional practice; consequently many staff in the School are second career academics, in
 some cases having come directly from practice. There has then been a mixed portfolio of
 recruitment over this period to meet this need, with staff appointed to teaching-only as well
 standard academic posts. However, there has been an increased emphasis on research in the
 recruitment process over the assessment period, with staff recruited to standard academic
 contracts normally expected to have a doctorate or to be working towards one. Further, new
 appointments are expected to align with research groups in the School.

 There are 67 Category A eligible staff in the School (44 FT, 23 PT), six of whom are ECRs. 28
 Category A eligible staff were recruited in the period. Table 1 shows the balance between contract
 levels in the unit for both Category A Eligible and Submitted staff (see REF5a 3.1.6 for institutional
 comparison).

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                               % Category A           % Category A
                                               Eligible               Submitted
  Lecturer/Research Fellow (K0)                4                      11
  Senior Lecturer/Senior Research              68                     28
  Fellow (J0)
  Principal Lecturer/Principal Research 19                           28
  Fellow/Head of School (I0)
  Professor (F1)                            9                        33
                          Table 1: Proportion of staff by contract level

 The School has significantly expanded its research leadership during the assessment period. It
 has appointed two new Professors (Dhillon and Savin-Baden in 2015), and there have been two
 internal promotions to Professor from Principal Lecturer (Kington in 2015 and Woolley in 2019).
 It has also appointed two Honorary Professors (West-Burnham, McCulloch) who play a key role
 in mentoring less experienced researchers. The majority of new appointments in the period have
 been at Senior Lecturer. As can be seen from Table 1, this group is under-represented in the
 submission. This reflects the fact that a high proportion of staff appointed in the assessment period
 at this contract level are currently undertaking a doctorate or have only recently completed. It is
 expected that these staff will be well-placed to be part of any future REF submission.

 The School has recruited a small number of research-only staff over the period for funded projects
 (see Section 3). It has also attracted visiting international researchers, funded by international
 mobility schemes such as CAPES (Brazil), who have been based in the School from 1-12 months,
 particularly in areas related to inclusive education and the history of religious education.

 Staff development

 The University was granted the HR Excellence in Research award in 2016 and is a signatory to
 the new Researcher Development Concordat, reflecting its commitment to researcher
 development.

 All research-active staff in the unit complete an individual research plan as part of the annual
 appraisal process, with short- and long-term objectives and identified training needs: progress
 against these objectives is monitored with line managers.

 These training needs can often be met through the University’s Researcher Development
 Programme, which is designed to support staff at all career stages (REF5a 3.2). Staff in the unit
 have consistently engaged with the University’s Research Leadership Programme, its Research
 Supervisor Development Programme, Bid Development training and Impact and Engagement
 training. Staff in the unit have also been active contributors to this programme. This is
 complemented by development events run by the School, including: research away days at
 departmental level, getting published, writing retreats, and shut-up and write events.

 Staff can also access the University’s Research Mentoring Programme (REF5a 3.2.4). They can
 do so at any point from appointment onwards and at any career stage. This programme has also
 offered an opportunity for Mentors to develop their skills, with all mentors receiving dedicated
 training for the role. Less formalised mentoring takes place in the School, particularly through the
 research groups which support new and emerging researchers to get involved in research projects
 and develop a publication profile, and the role of College Director RKE. A key component of this
 approach has been the publication of edited volumes by senior researchers on areas reflecting
 the schools research and practice expertise which provide opportunity for less experienced staff
 to publish their work. A good example of this is Woolley, R. (ed). (2017) Understanding Inclusion:
 Core Concepts, Policy and Practice. Routledge, London.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff in the unit can access the University’s research leave programme (see REF5a 3.2.3). Five
 staff in the unit have been awarded leave in the assessment period (Blackmore, Bracken, Savage,
 Solvason, Woolley). This has enabled them to develop their research, publish and extend the
 impact of their research. Further, all Category A staff have 20 days research and scholarly activity
 leave. This is complemented by individualised allocation of workloads, for example: ECRs are
 given reduced administrative and teaching loads in their first year of employment; and are given
 priority with internal research support funds; staff who are immediately post-doctoral are supported
 to produce outputs from their PhDs and to create a continuation strategy.

 The School supports staff to engage in doctoral study both through contributing 50% of fees but
 also through workload management to ensure timely completion and effective dissemination. 13
 staff have been supported and 6 staff have completed their doctorate in the period.

 The School also funds staff to attend and present at research and practitioner conferences
 regionally, nationally and internationally. This includes events run by TEAN (Teacher Education
 Advancement Network), UCET (University Council for the Education of Teachers), BERA (British
 Educational Research Association) and EECERA (European Early Childhood Education
 Research Association). This ensures staff remain aware of developments in their field, have
 opportunities to disseminate their work, and are able to network with academics and practitioners.
 The School has invested £128,596 in this activity over the assessment period.

 Research students

 The School offers both a PhD programme and, since 2014, a Doctor of Education (EdD)
 programme. It has expanded its PGR community over the assessment period. There are currently
 10 students on the PhD programme and 6 on the EdD. 22 students (21 PhD, 1 EdD) successfully
 completed their doctorates over the assessment period, several of whom in collaboration with
 other Schools (Allied Health and Community, Humanities, Sport & Exercise Science). Six of these
 students were funded by University doctoral studentships and one by the Leverhulme Trust. Five
 were staff in the School, including one PhD by Prior Published Work.

 Recruitment to doctoral programmes is overseen by School-level Course Leaders (PhD and
 EdD) who work closely with the central Research School (REF5a 3.3.2-3). In growing its PGR
 numbers, the unit has taken a three-pronged approach:
    • It has sought to increase its supervisory capacity. 19 staff in the unit are currently on the
        University’s Register of Approved Supervisors.
    • It has been successful in winning University-funded PhD studentships as noted above.
    • It has focused on growing numbers within its Research Groups.

 Course Leaders also play a core role in oversight of research student progress. They sit on the
 University’s Research Degree Board and are responsible for annual monitoring of student
 progress within the School.

 The University has a well-established graduate school (branded as the Research School) that is
 responsible for the management of all Research Degree Programmes (RDPs) from recruitment
 to examination, in partnership with the academic schools (REF5a 3.3.2-3). The Research School
 is also responsible for research student life, i.e., for the wider development and wellbeing of
 research students.

 The University has expanded the Research School team to reflect the growth in student
 numbers over the REF period. It provides a dedicated work and social space for students. The
 Research School team, co-located in this student space, provides advice and guidance for
 students on their programmes, and, working closely with other student-facing departments such
 as the Disability & Dyslexia Service, the student mental health team, careers service, also offers
 pastoral and wider support. A comprehensive programme of support and guidance has been
 developed for PGR students and supervisors around mental health and wellbeing.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All students on research degree programmes are required to undertake an associated training
 programme, run by the Research School (REF5a 3.3.4-5). The programme has been mapped
 against Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. The programme offers a suite of modules,
 short courses and workshops, delivered face-to-face or online, some of which are compulsory
 for all doctoral students, focused on the following core areas: planning and managing research;
 academic writing; research methods; data analysis; research integrity and ethics; dissemination,
 engagement and impact; careers and employability.
 The University also supports students to engage with external training where this is specialist
 and not available through the University’s programmes. Students are also able to access training
 offered through the GuildHE Research network.
 Beyond the programme, the Research School offers additional development opportunities.
 Research Students have opportunities to teach and can access modules and workshops to
 develop their skills in this area, with the opportunity to gain associate or full fellowship of the
 Higher Education Academy. The University offers research student-specific dissemination
 opportunities including an annual ‘Images of Research’ exhibition and student-led PGR
 Conference. The University provides funding opportunities for students to attend and speak at
 external conference and events and separate funds to support students to develop inter and
 cross-disciplinary networks, seminar series, conferences and events. The University is a
 member of the Brilliant Club, a charity focused on improving access to university, which provides
 opportunities for doctoral students to go to schools and deliver tutorials in their area of expertise.
 The Research School also provides ad hoc opportunities: for example, in 2019 the lead for the
 development programme worked with a student team to deliver a University programme for Pint
 of Science.

 Feedback is sought from doctoral students via the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES) every 2 years (see REF5a 3.3.6) and feedback has been utilised over this period to
 encourage doctoral students to feel more embedded within the culture of the School. For
 example:
    • The School’s Research Seminar series encourages participation from doctoral students,
    • The School runs its own annual PGR conference for doctoral students from across the
       region.
    • There is research student representation on the College RKE Subcommittee which
       ensures the student voice is fed into the development of research strategy at College
       level.

 Supervisors are supported in their role through the Research Supervisor Development
 programme. This programme has been in place for 20 years but was redesigned and
 relaunched in 2018/19. The programme offers a wide range of support for supervisors at various
 career stages on themes such as: introduction to supervision, supervisory styles, regulations
 and processes, supervising international students, PGR mental health and wellbeing, supporting
 student progress. New supervisors must complete the whole programme, but more experienced
 supervisors must also engage with core elements and all supervisors are required to engage in
 regular refresher training (every 3 years). The programme is complemented by supervisor
 lunches that bring together supervisors to discuss key topics and challenges in supervision.

 All supervisors are encouraged to engage with the UKCGE Good Supervisor Practice
 Framework and Accreditation programme, with workshops currently underway to support
 supervisors to apply for recognition. Professor Stephen Parker has recently been accredited by
 the UKCGE for his excellence in supervisory practice.

 Equality and diversity

 The University has a fundamental commitment to equality and diversity (REF5a 3.4). It seeks to
 consider and apply equality and diversity principles in all that it does. Its policies and processes
 are designed to disadvantage no-one and are subject to ongoing equality impact assessment to
 ensure this is the case.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The unit’s approach flows from this with the Head of School ensuring that the University’s
 principles and policies are fully enacted. Line managers ensure staff are aware of and are
 supported to engage with, for example, the University’s flexible working policy, its parental leave
 policies, its policies which support carers (such as its Critical Illness Policy) and its staff
 wellbeing initiatives (see REF5a 3.1.8)

 Several staff in the unit have benefitted from the University’s flexible working policy (REF5a
 3.1.8) with a move to part-time or compressed hours. There is no evidence that this has
 impacted on research productivity, access to funding or progression. It is notable that both at
 institutional (REF5a table 2) and unit level, part-time staff are as well-represented in the
 Category A submitted as eligible category.

 Staff in the unit have taken parental leave in the assessment period. They have received active
 support to transition back to work after the leave period, through ‘keeping-in-touch' days, phased
 return, and mentoring. It is ensured that where a staff member takes parental leave this does not
 impact on research leadership or supervisory roles. The School has a fair and flexible approach
 to working, particularly during the current lockdown period in recognition of the challenges of
 home schooling.

 Staff in the unit are committed to equality and diversity. Staff were members of the University’s
 Athena SWAN self-assessment team; the University received its institutional Bronze Award in April
 2018 and is committed to making departmental applications in the next 2 years. Staff are also
 engaged with various staff networks focused on protected characteristics and with the LGBTQ+
 Allies scheme.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The unit has sought to increase its external funding over the assessment period from its REF 2014
 levels and has been successful in doing so. Research Groups are expected to develop their own
 strategies for RKE income generation. They have been supported in this by the central Research
 Office and primarily, since the academic restructure, by a College Director of RKE and RKE
 Facilitator. The Director’s role is to provide leadership and guidance for Research Groups in
 developing their strategy, whilst the Facilitator works with Research Group leads to develop a
 bespoke funding opportunities service for members. Staff have also accessed training (general
 and bespoke) on bid development provided by the Research Office.

 Major funding successes include:
    • A Leverhulme Trust research grant (£219,050) awarded to Stephen Parker to explore the
        history of religious education on radio and television for schools (2014-17).
    • Significant funding (£385,130) from the Ministry of Defence (via BAE Systems) for a series
        of projects undertaken in partnership with a tech company to explore and develop “digital
        humans” in training and development contexts.
    • Funding (£300k) from Erasmus+ for two projects (GUIDE and SCALE) to develop and
        implement resources for educators to enable them to provide more effective support for
        students with disabilities.
    • Funding from the British Academy awarded to Sean Bracken for a collaborative project on
        universal design for learning with a colleague from Brazil (£10k) and for an academic
        writing workshop to support the development of colleagues working in HEIs in countries in
        receipt of ODA (£19k).

 In addition to this funding, staff in the School have been successful in winning grants from a diverse
 range of funders for evaluations and other projects, including: local authority bodies (e.g. Blaenau
 Gwent County Council, Herefordshire and Worcestershire Fire Service) health bodies (e.g. Health


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Education England), professional bodies (AdvanceHE, TACTYC), learned societies (e.g. Society
 for Educational Studies) and charities (e.g. Brook).

 Infrastructure and facilities

 The University has significantly expanded its institutional infrastructure for supporting research
 and impact over the assessment period, establishing a RKE Directorate consisting of a
 Research Office, Research School and College RKE infrastructure (REF5a 4.1). It has also
 expanded support for researchers offered by Library Services.

 The RKE Directorate provides wide-ranging support and guidance for researchers around
 identifying funding (including access to funding databases, such as Research Professional), bid
 development, KE and impact generation (including use of Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker),
 project delivery (including contract negotiation, liaison with partners, financial and other
 reporting) and research governance (including data management, data sharing, protecting and
 exploiting IP).

 The University has established robust Pre- and Post-Award processes for externally funded
 projects (approved in 2018/19 and subject to evaluation and review in 2020/21). These
 processes scaffold the Research Office support systems set out above and ensure good
 governance for bids and for projects.

 It has been recognised that processes need to incorporate Equality Impact Assessments at
 various stages of both pre- and post-award. In lieu of this broader development, the University
 has adopted the BBSRC EIA guidance and template for reviewing research bids. It has also
 been agreed to undertake a review of bidding over a 5-year period from an equality perspective
 and this will be completed in 2021. The review will inform the development of support
 mechanisms for bidding.

 It also provides access for researchers to a current research information system (PURE), a
 publication repository (WRAP – Worcester Research and Publications), major citation databases
 (Scopus and Web of Science), and subject-specific databases.

 The University offers a range of research support schemes designed to support researchers at
 all career stages and, variously, to pump prime projects, develop international collaborations,
 advance existing areas of work (REF5a 4.1.6).

 Staff in the unit have been successful in gaining funding from these schemes:
 • PhD studentships: as noted above (2.2.3), staff have been awarded six fully-funded full time
     PhD studentships (Elliott, Howard, Kington, Parker x 2, Woolley).
 • Vacation Research Assistantships (VRAs): staff in the unit have been awarded 4 VRAs over
     the period. These have been used to undertake systematic or critical literature reviews to
     underpin longer term projects.
 • Facilitating International Research Collaboration scheme: Bracken received funding through
     this new scheme to support the development of a project with partners in Morocco and Brazil
     focused on universal design for learning.

 Funding is also offered at School-level. In addition to funding for conference attendance already
 highlighted, it runs a Student as Academic Partners (SAP) scheme which provides opportunity
 for staff and students to work in partnership on a research project. Between 2015 and 2020, 22
 research projects were undertaken by 24 members of staff in partnership with 77 students
 ranging from level four to seven (i.e. undergraduate and postgraduate taught students). Notable
 successes included the publication of a peer-reviewed research article by one new member of
 academic staff and two level-five students, the launch and evaluation of online and mobile
 technology learning platforms, and the adoption of a pedagogical tool kit by the primary
 partnership consisting of over 500 schools.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration

 Staff in the unit collaborate extensively with HEIs, nationally and internationally.

 Bracken is engaged in research collaborations with Boston College and CAST (US) which led to
 the establishment of INCLUDE (International Collaboratory for Leadership in Universally Designed
 Education) with Associate Professor Dr Richard Jackson (July 2019 – Present). He has further
 collaborated with UNISA (South Africa) and University of Ibn Zohr (Morocco) (August -November
 2020); Universidade Municipal de São Caetano do Sul, Brazil – USCS (December 2018 -
 December 2021).

 Kington has developed new and extended existing collaborations over the period. The
 Inspirational and Effective Teachers project (2012-14), in partnership with the University of Oxford
 (Sammons, Lindorff & Ortega), was commissioned by the Education Development Trust (formerly
 CfBT). A second collaboration with the University of Oxford (Lindorff) was developed more recently
 for a project exploring the impact of home-schooling during lockdown on parent-child relationships
 (March-June 2020). Two studies were also carried out with a colleague at the University of
 Nottingham (Townsend). Kington has developed international collaborations through her
 involvement in the longitudinal (2015-2019) International Comparative Analysis of Teaching and
 Learning (ICALT) project, led by colleagues at the University of Groningen.

 Parker has been involved in a close collaborative research with Rob Freathy (Exeter), Friedrich
 Schweitzer (Tubingen, Germany) and Henrik Simojoki (Humboldt, Berlin) across the period.

 Solvason has engaged in research collaborations with Sussex University to carry out funded
 research for TACTYC into the role of Maintained Nursery Schools (2018-19), and with Dr Winwood
 at the University of Wolverhampton on the functioning of the ‘Team Around the Child’.

 Woolley has engaged in research collaborations with not-for profit organisations and universities
 in Italy, Spain and Poland through the Erasmus+ funded SCALE Project (Student Centred Adult
 Learning Engagement in Higher Education, 2018-2021) as principal investigator (€241,665) and
 with GR8 AS U R, Norfolk, evaluating two National Lottery Reaching Communities projects (2014-
 present).

 Contribution to the discipline

 Staff in the unit have made significant contributions to the discipline as follows:

 Keynotes and invited talks

 Bracken gave invited keynote presentations at University of Hertfordshire, Business School,
 Learning and Teaching Conference (7 Sep 2020); State of São Paulo Secretariat of Persons with
 Disabilities and the State Universities of São Paulo (USP / UNIFESP / UNICAMP) (27 August
 2020); University of Barcelona (Spain) - 2nd International Conference for the Association of
 Universities and Research Centres in Catalonia (7-8 Nov 2019); Queens University, Belfast,
 Northern Ireland (2 August 2019). Dart was invited to give a public lecture at the University at
 Herefordshire and Ludlow College of Technology. Russell was invited to present at an
 International symposium on Religious Education in October 2020 in Tübingen, Germany. She was
 also invited to present at follow-up International Symposium at the University of Exeter, March
 2015. She was invited to give a paper at the Department of Education, University of Oxford, on 26
 November 2019. Savin Baden gave invited keynote presentations at Roskilde University, Denmark
 (2018); University of Aalborg (2017), Targeting Online Behaviour Conference (9 February 2018),
 Waterfoot Hotel, Derry; University of Wolverhampton Teaching and Learning Conference (4 April
 2017); 10th PBL Conference Jejeu, South Korea (21 October 2016); Teaching and
 Communicating Science in the Digital Age, Society for Experimental Biology, EPA Symposium,

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 London (15-17 December 2014); 11th International Conference on Remote Engineering and
 Virtual Instrumentation 26-28 February 2014 Porto, Portugal; Euroversity Network Project,
 University of Manchester (14 March 2014); UK Council for Graduate Education Conference, Aston
 University, Birmingham (27 March 2014). Solvason has given invited keynote presentations at:
 Early Childhood Studies Degrees Network, 22nd January 2021, TACTYC conference June 2020,
 University of Sussex Early Years Research Conference, March 2018, University of Sussex, EY
 Partnership Conference, January 2016. She was invited to give a public lecture at The Early Years
 Summit (Early Years TV), June 2020, recording a podcast on Supporting Children’s Speech and
 Language Development. Over 7000 practitioners signed up for this event. She gave a Sage
 Masterclass podcast on Ethics in Early Childhood Research, 2018. In 2017 and 2016 she was
 invited to present workshops for head teachers at the Festival of Leadership and Learning, held
 in Stoke-on-Trent. Woolley gave an invited keynote presentation on Relationships Education at
 the Think2Speak conference, Lincoln, November 2017, and was invited by the Holocaust
 Education Trust to present at a national workshop in February 2016 entitled Remembrance and
 Remembering: exploring possibilities in primary education.

 Blackmore has been an invited speaker at several international conferences, including the
 International Technology, Education and Development (INTED) Conference (2015 and 2018).
 Bracken was also invited to present at AdvanceHE: Virtual Assessment and Feedback
 Symposium (October 2020); 4th Pan Canadian Conference on Universal Design for Learning
 (October 2019) Royal Roads University, Vancouver Island, BC, Canada; AHEAD Conference on
 Inclusion in Higher Education (March 2019) Dublin, Ireland; International Conference on Education
 Quality (June 2019) University of Ibn Zohr, Morocco; CAST Conference on Universal Design for
 Learning (August 2018) Harvard Law School, Boston USA; NASEN Live, Conference Centre
 Birmingham (July 2018); Researching Advancing and Inspiring Student Engagement (RAISE)
 Joint Inclusive Practice & Assessment SIGs (May 2018) Northumbria University; Higher Education
 Teaching and Learning Association (HETL) International Conference (June 2017), University of
 the West of Scotland; Supporting Inclusive HE in Flemish Belgium – Learning from a Erasmus
 Transnational Project (July 2016) SIHO Ghent, Belgium. Prowle was invited to present at the
 annual Conference of the Association of Child Protection Practitioners (AOCPP) in York (2019),
 and was invited to give an online public lecture for AOCPP (December 2020). Solvason was also
 invited to present at: BECERA International Conference (February 2021); the Child Poverty in
 Educational Contexts Conference (July 2019) at the University of Sussex; the EECRA
 Conference (August 2018) in Budapest; the TACTYC Conference (June 2018) in Birmingham;
 Value and Virtue in Practice-based Research Conference, July 2016, York University; Partnership
 Research Conference (June, 2016); Value and Virtue Conference, York University, (June 2015);
 and the inaugural PCET Conference (June 2014) at Bournville College.

 Journal editorial work

 Blackmore is the editor of an e-journal New Perspectives and was lead editor for a special edition
 of Education Sciences. Bracken has been a guest editor for four editions of Issues in Education
 Quality. Dhillon is a member of the International Editorial Board of the Journal of Vocational
 Education and Training (JVET). Dhillon is also an associate editor of the Journal of Educational
 Management Administration & Leadership. Elliott has been an Editorial Board member of the
 international peer-reviewed journal Quality Assurance in Education (Emerald, UK). He has been
 a member of the Editorial Advisory Board for the international peer-reviewed journal Research in
 Language and Education (Van Yuzuncu Yil University, Turkey). He has been a member of
 the Editorial Advisory Board for the peer reviewed International Journal of Human Resource
 Development: Practice, Policy and Research (EAPM, WFPMA, UFHRD, UK). Gossman has been
 a member of the editorial panel for the Staff Educational and Development Association publication
 Educational Developments since 2013. Kington co-edited the BERA publication, Insights (2011-
 15), as well as becoming the first Associate Editor for Review of Education (2012-15), a journal of
 the British Education Research Association, with responsibility for practitioner supplements: she
 now serves on the editorial board (since 2015). Parker became Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of
 Beliefs and Values: studies in religion and education in 2015 and founding editor and Editor-in-
 Chief of the journal Brill Research Perspectives in Religion and Education since 2018. He has

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been senior series editor of Peter Lang’s series in Religious Education and Values, a series now
 into 18 volumes, since 2010. He is on the editorial boards of the journals Religions, Practical
 Theology and History of Education. Savin-Baden is on the editorial board of: Journal of Post Digital
 Science and Education and International Journal of Medical Education. Sewell is a member of the
 editorial board of the Journal of Educational Psychology in Practice. Solvason serves on the
 editorial board of New Zealand International Research in Early Childhood Education since 2017.
 Woolley is on the editorial board of the Journal of Critical Education Policy Studies (JCEPS).

 Reviews for funding bodies

 Bracken has provided funding reviews for the Singapore Ministry of Education, the ESRC, the
 South African Ministry of Education, and the Estonia Ministry of Education. Kington has been a
 member of the Outer Assessment Board of the Irish Research Council since 2015. Further, she
 reviewed research proposals for the Education University of Hong Kong prior to submission to the
 Research Grants Councill’s General Research Fund (GRF) and Early Career Scheme (ECS)
 (2018-9). Kington is also a reviewer for the BERA College of Reviewers (established in 2020)
 which assesses all grants and awards given by the association, and the ESRC Peer review
 College (since 2009). Parker is in his second term as member of the Peer Review College of the
 Arts and Humanities Research Council (2014-).

 Advisory board and steering group membership

 Savin Baden was on the advisory board of the Digital and Ethical futures group (based at Trinity
 College Oxford) funded by William Temple Foundation. She was on the steering group of the
 AHRC funded study 'A creative partnership to develop immersive simulations of ancient heritage
 sites' (lead by Bournemouth University) (2017-2020). She was on the Blended Learning Advisory
 Group, Church of England Theology Programmes (2016 to present). She was also on the
 international advisory board for International Research Symposium on PBL 2017.

 Blackmore is a member of the Biochemical Society and the Association of Science Education.
 She also furthers her international research engagement by being a long-term member of the New
 Perspectives in Science Education international forum. As a result of leading a research project
 exploring student teachers’ experience of primary science teaching and the perceived impact on
 developing professional identity, (published in the European Journal of Teacher Education, 2015),
 Karen was approached to consult on a study into teacher resilience by academics at the National
 Institute of Education in Singapore.

 Bracken is a member of Worcestershire Local Authority Special Educational Needs Provider
 Collaborative Group (January 2019 to present).

 Elliott is Immediate Past President of the Association for Research in Post-Compulsory Education;
 he continues to serve on the Association’s Executive. He is a Fellow of the College of Teachers,
 the Higher Education Academy and the Royal Society of Arts. He is a member of the British
 Education Research Association and the English Speaking Union. He was a GuildHE nominated
 Board Member of the Office of the Independent Adjudicator from 2012 to 2020, and a member of
 its Risk and Audit Committee from 2016 to 2020. He was a member of the British Academy and
 Royal Society Joint Academies Working Group on Research in Further Education in 2017; in the
 same year he was appointed an Expert Panellist for the HEFCE and Association of
 Colleges Scholarship Project.

 Hatley is a member of the international Academic Network for Global Education and Learning
 (ANGEL network). Jenny is a member of the BERA SIGs for Early Career Researchers, Research
 Methodology in Education, Social Justice, Comparative and International Education and
 Educational Technology. Jenny is currently the co-chair for a national working group for Global
 Citizenship Education (GCED) as part of the national One Shared World Coalition.



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kington has served as an elected member of the British Educational Research Association
 (BERA) Academic Publications Committee (2010-2016), the BERA College of Reviewers (since
 2020), and the British Psychological Society (BPS) Psychology of Education Section Committee
 (since 2020). Kington is also involved with several research networks including BERA’s special
 interest groups for Teacher Education and Research Methodology, the American Educational
 Research Association (AERA), and the International Mixed Methods Research Association. In
 addition, Kington works closely with research networks developed through her role as Fellow of
 the College of Teaching (FCollT) and Associate Fellow of the British Psychological Society
 (AFBPSs).

 Parker was Secretary, then Vice-President, and is now President of the History of Education
 Society, UK (2020-2022). He is a committee member of the Church of England Record Society
 (2018) and Membership Secretary of the International Seminar on Religious Education and Values
 (2020-). He is an Associate Fellow of the University of Warwick’s Centre for Education Studies
 and a member of Domus: the interdisciplinary centre for the history of childhood and education at
 the University of Birmingham.

 Research event organisation

 Bracken is Co-Chair for the International Conference on Education Quality (ICEQ), University of
 Ibn Zohr, Morocco. He organized research conferences in 2019 and 2020.

 Savin Baden has worked on a number of conference committees, including Digital 2011;
 International PBL Symposium 2013; Program Committee of the 1st International Conference of
 the Portuguese Society for Engineering Education (CISPEE’13 & 2016).

 PhD examination

 Several staff have been involved in PG research examination. Bracken has examined a doctoral
 degree at UNESP, Faculdade de Filosofia e Ciências - Câmpus de Marília, São Paulo Brazil
 (2019). Duncan has examined doctorates at Staffordshire University in 2018 and 2019. Elliott has
 examined doctorates at Huddersfield University (2017), Portsmouth University (2019), Sunderland
 University (2020), University of Worcester (2020). Kington has examined doctorates at the
 University of Derby (2016 & 2018, EdD), University of Nottingham (2017, PhD), and the University
 of York, 2019 & 2020, PhD) within this REF cycle. She was also external examiner for the Doctor
 of Education programme (EdD) at the UCL Institute of Education for 4 years (2015-18). Parker
 has examined seven doctorates at UCL/Institute of Education (2014), Macquarie University, New
 South Wales, Australia (2014), Liverpool Hope University (2014), Glyndwr University (2016),
 Durham (2018), Canterbury Christ Church University (2018), University of South Wales,
 Pontypridd, (2018). Price has examined doctorate(s) at Birmingham University (School of
 Engineering). MPhil (2014), PhD (2015), PhD (May 2016), PhD (Jan 2019). Woolley has examined
 doctorates at the University of Derby (PhD, 2014) and University of Winchester (EdD, 2020).

 Dhillon is Visiting Professor and co-supervisor for PhD students at Panjabi University Patiala
 (PUP), India, and international mentor for educational research at the Central University of
 Punjab, India.

 Contribution to economy and society

 The unit and its staff make significant contributions to economy and society.

 The School of Education has extensive partnerships with organisations offering Higher Education
 opportunities to non-traditional and first-generation students. Once significant example is The
 Learning Institute (part of WeST Academy) which has centres across the south west of England
 and in London. As a part of developing the HE nature of their work, academics from the unit have
 contributed to staff development activities focusing on enhancing research skills (Woolley),


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing processes for the approval of research ethics (Solvason) and undertaking collaborative
 research to build capacity and evidence the impact of the work of the organization (Elliott).

 Woolley has been commissioned by long-standing partner of the University to evaluate the
 provision of arts interventions in special schools as a part of a Paul Hamlyn-funded project
 developed by Meadow Arts.

 Savin-Baden has worked with the Bishops of Oxford, Coventry and Worcester to increase
 understanding of digital afterlife and the spiritual realm and, through this, has gained access to
 speak to clergy and readers. She has advised the Saltley Trust on discipleship training for a digital
 age. She has also been invited to provide expert comment on October 2016 on Learning in an
 Age of Digital Fluency for Premier Radio, UK.

 Dart has worked with partners in Malawi and Zambia (AIMZ) and with Sight Savers International
 on albinism (2012-17). He is currently working with Advantage Africa to evaluate factors affecting
 the inclusive education of children with specific learning difficulties (SpLDs) of primary school age
 in Kenya.

 Dhillon has developed strong partnerships for research and knowledge exchange with Sikh
 communities, both regionally and internationally. She has worked in collaboration with a number
 Sikh and Panjabi organisations, such as the Sikh and Punjabi Studies in UK Higher Education
 Group, Punjab Research Group and the Centre for Sikh and Panjabi Studies. In 2018 she was
 given an honour and award by the British Sikh community for her contribution to education and
 research on Sikh families.

 Duncan has engaged with Blaenau Gwent County Borough Council Children’s Services to review
 their Safe Reduction of Looked After Children Strategy.

 Parker was instrumental in establishing a local RE teacher ‘hub’, which meets termly linking
 university academics with teachers and other community bodies, including representatives from
 Standing Advisory Councils on Religious Education.

 The Kinship Children Project (Prowle) began in December 2018. Findings formed the basis of a
 report to the Cross-Party Parliamentary Group for Kinship Care. The University researchers
 accompanied some representatives of the kinship care youth group to the Houses of Parliament
 in July 2019 in order to support their participation in a national focus group, developed to inform
 policy and practice across England.




                                                                                              Page 14
