Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: D28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Understanding the past helps promote an open, just and democratic future. This conviction
 underpins the Warwick History Department’s commitment to research that is internationally field-
 leading, innovative, and engaged. We have an outstanding reputation as pioneering practitioners
 of social, cultural and medical history, and have been instrumental in developing the
 methodologies of the new global history. Inspired by an expansive and inclusive vision of
 historical research, our work is multi-disciplinary and draws on environmental, literary, visual and
 material sources, engaging with a multilingual array of archival materials spanning the globe
 across five centuries.

 Three principles underpin our research. First, because we engage with today’s pressing
 concerns, knowledge exchange and impact are fundamental. Our impact cases reflect the
 strength of this commitment, although the relevance of our work is not confined to these
 examples. For instance, our research has also contributed to public debates about migration
 (Salzberg, Häberlen), recognised LGBT victims of the Holocaust (Hájková), and traced traditions
 of women’s political activism in Britain (Richardson).

 The second principle is to render visible people and processes whose historical presence has
 been neglected, repressed or under-valued. We have reconstructed the geographies of the cold
 war by focusing on letters by Kenyan students (Branch), made extensive use of visual records to
 offer a new cultural history of the NHS that foregrounds race and ethnicity (Bivins, Thomson),
 and studied under-explored archival materials to demonstrate women’s central role in film
 production in golden-age Hollywood (Smyth). Anderson was key to the successful campaign
 demanding the Foreign and Colonial Office (FCO) release a huge cache of documents dating
 back to the colonial era, many of which were held illegally. Lambert and Lockley have re-centred
 British military history by focusing on the black soldiers who constituted the West India
 Regiment.

 The third is an avowed internationalism, in terms of the scope of our research, the composition
 of the Department, and our approach to collaboration. The Department is home to an
 international group of 52 full-time scholars, from 14 nationalities, with expertise of wide temporal
 and geographical scope (Europe, Africa, the Americas, Asia) and methodological range. We
 conduct research in Arabic, Catalan, Chinese (Classical and Modern), Czech, Dutch, English,
 Farsi, French, German, Gujarati, Hindi, Italian, Kiswahili, Latin, Portuguese, Polish, Russian,
 Spanish, Tamil and Ukrainian.

 In the census period, we have published over 40 monographs, 130 articles in peer-reviewed
 journals, 140 chapters in edited collections, and 30 edited books and journal issues. Alongside
 these scholarly publications, we have also written opinion pieces, policy briefs, museum guides,
 KS 3-4, and A-level materials. We work closely with non-academic partners such as libraries,
 museums, film producers and journalists to bring our work into wider public dialogue; during the
 REF period, we for instance contributed to television and radio programmes for producers
 including the BBC, ITV and the US Public Broadcasting Service.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research and impact strategy has been to foster outstanding research by recruiting,
 mentoring, and retaining a cohesive and dynamic community of productive and creative scholars,
 and to work with them to explore the impact and engagement potential of their research. Our
 departmental and institutional structures (described in §2), are designed to support a fertile
 intellectual environment that nurtures early-career scholars, encourages research agendas with
 impact, and celebrates the range of contributions our colleagues make to their fields. Our work
 contributes to the Arts Faculty’s research themes and the University’s Global Research Priorities
 (GRPs), and has helped develop a robust research profile for the Humanities at Warwick nationally
 and globally in line with the University’s Excellence with Purpose strategy (Ref5a2.1;2.9.1).

 This strategy has enabled us to achieve the strategic goals set out in REF2014. These were to:

 (1) produce research of international calibre (2) pursue international collaborations (3) conduct
 collaborative research (4) promote impact through a range of channels (5) support the discipline
 through editorial work, membership of learned councils, and other professional activities.

 In fulfilment of these aims we have:

 Produced Internationally-acclaimed Research.

 Warwick historians produce outstanding research. Our scholarship is published by the leading
 academic presses (e.g. OUP, CUP, Harvard, Chicago, Yale), features in the discipline’s journals
 of record (e.g. Past & Present), and attracts prestigious awards. Marshall won the 2018 Wolfson
 Prize, as well as the Sixteenth-Century Society’s 2017 Harold J. Grimm Prize. Riello won the 2014
 World History Association Book Prize; Crouzet the Centre National du Livre’s 2016 Sophie Barluet
 prize and the Académie de Bordeaux’s 2017 Guy Lasserre prize; Salzberg the 2017 Renaissance
 Society of America Gladys Kriebel Delmas Book Prize. Smyth won the 2018 Richard Wall
 Memorial Award Special Jury Prize; Shaw the 2019 BASEES Women’s Forum Book Prize; B.
 Smith the 2020 Howard F. Cline Book Prize; and Poskett the Social Science History Association’s
 2020 President’s Book Prize. McGill was awarded the 2017 Scottish History Society’s Rosebery
 Prize; Earle the 2018 Omohundro Institute Douglas Adair Memorial Award; and Hájková the
 International Lesbian and Gay Cultural Network’s Orfeo Iris Prize. Berg, Capp, Earle and Marshall
 are fellows of the British Academy (BA).

 Our research is funded by the European Research Council (ERC), AHRC, Leverhulme and
 Wellcome Trusts, the BA, DFID, the Australian Research Council, the Humboldt Foundation, and
 other major funding bodies. The high reputation of Warwick historians is further attested by the
 competitive research fellowships held during the census period; colleagues for instance held
 fellowships at Berlin’s Max Planck Institute for the History of Science (Gerritsen, Riello, Stein), the
 European University Institute (EUI) (Berg, Salzberg), the University of Singapore’s Middle East
 Institute (Shafiee), Fudan University’s International Center for the Study of Chinese Civilization
 (Gerritsen), Paris’s Institut d’Études Avancées (Roberts, Walton), and the Swedish Collegium for
 Advanced Studies (Earle). From 2013-18 Gerritsen held the Kikkoman Chair and subsequently
 the Chair of Asian Art at Leiden University, alongside her post at Warwick. Molà and Riello have
 had lengthy secondments to the EUI.

 The international orientation of our research is further demonstrated in our publishing in Dutch,
 Estonian, French, German, Italian, and Spanish, alongside English; and by the translation of our
 English-language work into Chinese, Finnish, Japanese, Korean, Polish, Portuguese and Spanish.
 We also present our work globally. In the census period we delivered over 900 keynotes,

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conference papers and workshop presentations in 42 different countries, in Europe, Africa, the
 Americas, Asia and Oceania. Marland for example delivered the Wellcome Trust (WT) 2016 Roy
 Porter Lecture. Marshall delivered a public lecture at the British Library during the quincentenary
 of Martin Luther’s posting of the 95 Theses, and Roberts the 2019 Royal Historical Society Lecture.
 Gerritsen delivered the keynote at the 2019 annual meeting of International Society for Cultural
 History, held in Estonia, and Bycroft the keynote at the annual Gems and Science Symposium at
 Yale in 2019.

 We achieved this goal by recruiting, mentoring, and retaining excellent researchers whose
 research, engagement and impact are facilitated by our systems of practical support (detailed in
 §2) and fostered and tested in the open, engaged intellectual culture we encourage in the
 Department (§3).


 Pursued International Collaboration.

 Our commitment to innovative international partnerships has led to research collaborations with
 colleagues in Australia, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
 Kenya, Mexico, the Netherlands, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, and the
 USA, with whom we have organised conferences, published co-authored research, supervised
 students and developed research agendas. Anderson for instance plays a prominent role in
 several international collaborations, including a five-year Marie Curie International Training
 Network that resulted in 12 doctorates alongside high-quality peer-reviewed publications. He is
 moreover PI on a project based at the University of Cologne, and collaborates with colleagues in
 Budapest, Dar-es-Salaam, Nairobi, and Toronto. Van Meersbergen is a member of a team linking
 Monash, McGill, University of Texas (Austin) and Warwick to produce a critical edition of Sir
 William Norris’s diaries. Hodges’ WT-funded ‘What’s at Stake in the Fake?’ project links scholars
 at Warwick with colleagues at Witwatersrand and the Amsterdam Institute of Global Health and
 Development. Bycroft is working with the University of Paris to produce an online edition of Diderot
 and d’Alembert’s Encyclopédie, in a major collaboration funded by the Académie des Sciences.
 (Further collaborations are detailed in §4.)

 We have been able to consolidate these partnerships, and attract external funds to sustain them,
 through our deliberate programme of fostering intellectual exchange. Departmental, faculty-wide
 and university-level funding enable us to bring relevant collaborators into the Department for
 seminars, lectures, and periods of research leave. Building on these connections, we work with
 Research and Impact Services (R&IS) to support colleagues in applying for external funding
 (Ref5a2.6-2.7). For instance, in 2015 Walton used internal funding to host a visit by Samuel Moyn
 (Yale), as part of a broader research programme co-led by Stein into human rights that later
 received Leverhulme Trust (LT) funding. The Global History and Culture Centre’s (GHCC) existing
 links with Miki Sugiura (Hosei University) enabled her to gain funding from the LT, the Japanese
 government, and the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, which she used to develop new
 research networks between the GHCC and colleagues in Japan, and also to produce jointly-
 authored publications with Warwick historians. The Department’s vigorous programme of
 seminars, workshops, and conferences thus feeds directly into larger international research
 collaborations.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pursued Interdisciplinary Collaboration.

 Historians recognise that today’s pressing questions often demand an interdisciplinary approach.
 Warwick historians pursue active interdisciplinary collaborations within the University and more
 widely to strengthen our research, extend its reach, and enhance its impact. Knights collaborates
 with Italian philosophers on joint funding applications to support research into political
 transparency and integrity. Stein’s and Walton’s above-mentioned network draws on cultural
 anthropology and political theory as well as history. Together with Knights, Kümin and Philp,
 Walton is also involved in the EU-funded ‘Digitens’ project, an interdisciplinary and multiple-
 method exploration of eighteenth-century sociability. Marshall was part of the interdisciplinary
 Early Modern Conversions project, funded by the Social Science and Humanities Research
 Council of Canada (SSHRC), which brought together a substantial community of scholars from
 across the world to excavate the meanings of ‘conversion’. Alongside a statistician, an
 entomologist and several artists, Fletcher runs an AHRC-funded project on locusts and the British
 empire. Bycroft worked with chemists to reproduce early-modern alchemical experiments, and
 with colleagues in Physics and Life Sciences to establish a new Warwick GRP on ‘Habitability’
 (Ref5a2.9.1). As co-investigator for an AHRC network on ‘Jazz and Everyday Aesthetics’, Fagge
 worked with musicians to explore audience responses to live performance. The Department has
 been one of the most successful across Warwick in securing the funding offered by the Institute
 of Advanced Study (IAS) to sustain interdisciplinary research collaborations, which we used to
 host visiting fellows such as the literary scholar Deirdre Colman, the poet and activist Meena
 Kanadasamy, and the Indian publisher Stephen Anand. The Department has supplied the director
 for the interdisciplinary Humanities Research Centre (HRC) throughout the census period, aside
 from 2017-18 (Ref5a2.9.2).

 Our commitment to interdisciplinarity has resulted in the formation of new degree courses that
 capitalise on these collaborations. Middleton’s appointment supported the creation of a new joint-
 degree programme with English and signals our continued engagement with literature as a fruitful
 field for historical investigation. Philp leads our collaboration with Philosophy, which led to another
 joint degree and co-teaching that (again) reflects our conviction that the best scholarship often
 results from looking at one’s own research from an unfamiliar vantage point. Bycroft and Poskett
 contribute to modules offered by Life Sciences, Physics, and the Centre for Interdisciplinary
 Studies; Earle to modules in Global Sustainable Development. Members of the Centre for the
 History of Medicine (CHM) work closely with medical researchers in (for instance) using historical
 data to predict clinical outcomes, and teach in the Medical School. We routinely co-supervise
 doctoral students with colleagues in other departments.

 We are assisted in developing these interdisciplinary associations by the University’s support for
 cross-faculty research through its GRPs (Ref5a2.9.1). The Arts Faculty’s emphasis on cross-
 departmental Research Themes also contributes to interdisciplinary collaboration. Such
 institutional support enables us to pursue the interdisciplinary connections—whether with
 philosophers, literary critics, or medical clinicians—that we need to explore the complex
 relationship between the past and the present.

 Dissemination and Impact Activities.

 Public engagement and impact are central to our research. Whether through collaboration with
 local history societies, work with museums, media presence, or policy work, both in the UK and
 abroad, we aim to influence audiences outside the academy. In the census period we contributed
 editorials, articles, and opinion pieces to (for instance) the British Medical Journal, Cineaste,

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nature, and History Today. Our online activities include podcasts and blogs for the BBC, History
 Hit, and many other sites. We produce scholastic material; Lockley, Read and Richardson for
 instance edit Modern History Review, aimed at A-level students and distributed to schools across
 the UK. Many of us write regularly to the mainstream media, and articles about our research have
 appeared in venues as varied as Women’s Weekly, the New Scientist and Corriere della Sera.
 Our work with leading UK museums has brought our new understandings of historical practice to
 a wide public audience. §4 offers a fuller discussion of our approach to impact and engagement.
 §2 details the institutional support that facilitates our approach.

 Supported the Discipline.

 The vitality and relevance of history as a discipline relies on the labour invested in editorial work
 for journals and book series, grant evaluations, service on research councils and learned societies,
 and mentoring and training postgraduate and early-career scholars. Marshall is co-editor of the
 English Historical Review, Lockley edits Slavery and Abolition, and Lambert edits Atlantic Studies.
 Warwick historians serve on the editorial boards of 35 scholarly journals, including Past & Present,
 French History, Journal of World History, Journal of African History, Social History of Medicine,
 Revue d’Histoire Moderne et Contemporaine, Journal of Historical Geography, and Ricerche
 Storiche. We also serve on the editorial boards of book series published by Bloomsbury, Boydell
 & Brewer, Brill, Manchester, OUP, Palgrave, and Routledge. We peer-review manuscripts for all
 the major presses (CUP, OUP, Polity, Harvard, Stanford, Princeton, Yale, etc.), and referee
 articles and write reviews for all major journals (American Historical Review, Journal of Social
 History, Journal of British Studies, etc.). In addition to winning prizes, as detailed above, Warwick
 historians serve on the panels that award these accolades. Carruthers for instance served on the
 panel for the Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations’ Robert H. Ferrell Prize, Earle
 on the American Historical Association’s James A. Rawley Prize, Marland on the American
 Association for the History of Medicine’s Shyrock Prize, and Roberts on the Sixteenth-Century
 Society’s Nancy Roelker Prize.

 We are also active in supporting the research councils and societies that underpin historical
 research. From 2017 Riello chaired the Pasold Research Fund; Kümin is a member of the Conseil
 Scientifique of the European Institute for the History and Culture of Food; Knights was a member
 of the Academy of Finland’s Research Council for Culture and Society. During the census period
 Gerritsen served as president of the Society for Ming Studies, and Purseigle of the International
 Society for First World War Studies. Berg served on the British Academy Council and the
 Research Council of Princeton’s Institute for Advanced Study. Earle sits on the Past & Present
 Council, Lockley on the Board of the European Early American Studies Association, and Van
 Meersbergen on the Hakluyt Society Council. Roberts is a Trustee of the Society for the Study of
 French History. Knights served on the Joint Information Systems Committee Advisory Board that
 created the widely-used Historical Texts platform, which produced a new interface running across
 the corpus of digitised British print 1450-1800.

 Colleagues regularly review grant applications for funding bodies in the UK and abroad,
 contributing to the BA, AHRC (6 Warwick historians are members of the Peer Review College),
 WT, ERC, Swiss Research Council, Israel Science Foundation, Irish Research Council, National
 Science Center of Poland, Research Council of Norway, Netherlands Organisation for Scientific
 Research, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, American Council of Learned Societies, and the
 SSHRC, among others.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are able to contribute to the discipline in these ways in part because we have a longstanding
 workload scheme that regulates teaching and academic administrative duties, with the aim of
 ensuring that all colleagues enjoy protected time for research, impact and academic service, and
 because our mentoring arrangements (§2) help early-career colleagues identify relevant activities
 for developing rounded career profiles. Finally, the strong international and interdisciplinary links
 described above help us establish the connections that lead to invitations to serve on research
 councils, editorial boards and advisory panels globally and in the UK.

 In sum, we believe we have achieved our strategic aims: we have sustained and consolidated a
 vibrant, collegial and resilient research culture, we have expanded our public engagement,
 broadening the impact of our research, and we are recognised globally for the calibre of our
 scholarship and for our interdisciplinary collaborative work.

 Details of future strategic aims and goals for research and impact. How these relate to the
 structure of the unit; and how they will be taken forward.

 The History Department will maintain its commitment to field-shaping individual and collaborative
 research, to sustaining the discipline through involvement with learned societies and the like, and
 to further widening our public engagement and knowledge exchange to the benefit of our partners
 and community. We look to respond to and promote new developments within our discipline, to
 ensure that these are reflected in our teaching and research, and to maintain the supportive,
 stimulating environment on which our early-career scholars have thrived and that is essential for
 the future success of the Department and the growth and development of the discipline, despite
 the challenges of the global crisis of 2020-21.

 Two broad areas have emerged as important, as our discipline responds to the obvious place that
 science, technology, migration, and the environment will have in debates about humanity’s future.

 Science and Technology

 In keeping with our belief in the value of interdisciplinarity, we are working to develop our growing
 expertise in the history of science and technologies. Our approach positions the history of science
 within the context of broader historical developments such as globalisation and the rise and fall of
 states and empires, harnessing the Department’s strength in global and colonial histories. We
 have established a History of Science and Technology Hub, which provides a new intellectual
 forum for the cohort of colleagues hired in the census period (see §2). Developing work associated
 with this Hub includes Bycroft’s project on assessing the authenticity of material goods in early-
 modern Europe, and Poskett’s research on the global history of science. E. Smith’s study of
 maritime medicine in Britain, and Shaw’s research into disability in the USSR connect the Hub’s
 activities to those of the CHM.

 The Hub’s focus on the transformative nature of new technologies speaks to the current historical
 moment, while also resonating with work by longstanding members of the Department such as
 Molà, who has undertaken pioneering research on the silk industry in early-modern Italy. Ongoing
 impact work in this area includes Bycroft’s leadership in designing a new permanent exhibition on
 forgery for the largest diamond museum in the world (in Antwerp), and Poskett’s collaboration with
 the Historic Royal Palaces and the National Maritime Museum in developing new research and
 displays related to the history of science.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environment, Space and Mobilities

 Environments, spaces, and mobility have become key themes for our research, as they are for
 society more generally. Crouzet and Shafiee have produced exceptional work on the entangled
 histories of natural resources, technological developments, and empire, in their studies of the
 modern oil industry. Lambert’s highly cited analysis of the ‘master-horse-slave’ assemblage in the
 West Indies combines a global approach to environmental history with more-than-human studies
 to produce a new understanding of plantation slavery that places mobility at the centre. Anderson’s
 work illustrates how conflict over environmental resources lies at the centre of colonialism in Africa.
 These projects resonate strongly with the growing consensus that control of mobility is a
 fundamental aspect of modern statecraft. Anderson, Bivins, Branch, Cowling, Fletcher, and
 Lambert all address the importance of mobility to modern expressions of power, often with
 particular attention to the connections between mobility and ethnicity. Urban geographies are
 central to this analysis of modernity: Mick’s work examines ethnic violence in twentieth-century
 Lviv; Salzberg’s prize-winning research focuses on the urban spaces of early-modern Venice to
 understand how the city absorbed a very large number of migrants. Häberlen and Thomson study
 children in urban environments, paying particular attention to physical freedom and the spaces for
 recreation. Poskett’s co-edited book on migration brings together scholars from across the arts,
 humanities, and sciences to assess the ways in which cross-border movement shapes the modern
 world.

 Given the importance of the environment and migration to public debate nationally and globally,
 these themes will also inform future impact cases. The United Nations’ ‘Locust Watch’ programme
 has already drawn on Fletcher’s expertise in the history of desert management; Häberlen is
 collaborating with refugees in Berlin to explore new ways of narrating the contemporary refugee
 crisis. Using the support detailed in §2-3, the Department is working to develop this ongoing work.
 New University- and Faculty-wide initiatives in digital humanities may provide one means for this
 work to reach new audiences at a time when more traditional forms of public engagement are
 becoming difficult.

 Early-career staff have played a central role in enabling and shaping these developments.
 Bycroft and Poskett led on the creation of the Science and Technology Hub and early-career
 staff have contributed powerfully to sustaining the vitality of the GHCC, the CHM, and other long-
 established centres. Their activities have drawn strength from the existing research
 infrastructure described in §3. Research funding is crucial to embedding these new areas and
 strong departmental and University support fostering grant applications has already produced a
 stream of internal and external funding for work in the history of migration, technology and
 environment.

 2. People

 Our staffing strategy is central to the delivery of our strategic aims. We have sought to sustain
 areas of the Department with developed research strength and prominence (early-modern social
 and cultural history, history of the Americas, history of medicine, global history), and to extend our
 expertise in environmental history and the history of science and technology, which we see as
 important and innovative fields within the discipline and areas of major public relevance. Moreover,
 we are committed to sustaining a culture in which colleagues feel personally supported and valued,
 where they can expose their thinking to a variety of perspectives, enjoy institutional structures



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 when seeking research funding, obtain sufficient time for research, and meet the complex
 challenges involved in bringing research to non-academic communities.

 Since REF2014 we have made ten early-career and one senior appointment. We used departures
 strategically to balance the Department’s gender, age and seniority profiles, as discussed below.
 Strong institutional support, and our reputation, ensured that all new appointments were drawn
 from international recruitment pools. We are sector-leading in the percentage (25%) of our
 undergraduate population drawn from BME backgrounds and we strive to emulate this success in
 our academic appointments: since 2014 the percentage of BME staff has doubled, although much
 more work remains.

 Like many other members of staff, these recent hires often work across several fields. Our early-
 modern group has been strengthened by the addition of Bycroft, Pullin, E. Smith and Van
 Meersbergen, ensuring a concentration of scholarly expertise in the socio-cultural history of early-
 modern Europe that is widely respected internationally. Increasingly, this research cluster situates
 European history in a transnational and global context. We were also able to recruit Carruthers
 from Rutgers, supporting modern North American interests and building on a decades-long
 tradition of teaching US history from a comparative perspective. The appointments of Middleton,
 Ross, and Shaw augment expertise in modern European history; Shaw and E. Smith also reinforce
 our strength in medical history. We also used these appointments to expand into new areas. Early-
 career appointments in environmental history (Chen, Fletcher, Shafiee), Middle Eastern history
 (Fletcher, Shafiee), and the science and technology (Bycroft, Poskett, Shaw) have ensured that
 our expertise is ever more global and relevant.

 Career development is understood as a continuous process. It encompasses research students,
 post-docs funded by research projects or through our regular stream of BA, Marie Curie and LT
 fellowships, through to early-career appointments and more established staff. Indeed, we have
 recruited two new colleagues following their stints at Warwick as LT fellows (Bycroft, Van
 Meersbergen). New colleagues and early-career researchers are actively integrated through
 departmental and University-level induction events and are connected to one or more of the
 Department’s centres or research groups. All early-career researchers enjoy reduced teaching
 and administration (2/3 normal load) during their probationary period, which lasts three to five
 years. Each early-career researcher is assigned an academic mentor with whom they meet
 regularly. Probationers are also supported in becoming fellows of the HEA, a requirement for
 completing probation. Throughout the probationary period the aim is to integrate new staff into the
 department’s research and impact culture and into the activities of its centres so as to support
 them in developing the highest ambitions for their research.

 Staff development straddles the probationary frontier. To support the research of both
 probationary and early-career colleagues, mentors and senior staff read and comment on work-
 in-progress and advise on publishing strategies. The Department facilitates visits from publishers
 and journal editors to familiarise staff, post-docs, and postgraduates with the range of publishing
 opportunities available in the UK and abroad, and assembles expert reading groups to review final
 versions of monographs. The Early Careers Writing Group (co-founded by Pullin) also holds
 regular writing surgeries. Additional training is provided in constructing research funding
 applications, publishing, managing research grants, planning engagement and impact, and
 academic leadership. This training is delivered by senior members of the Department, as well as
 by central services.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Non-probationary staff continue to enjoy robust development opportunities. Annual reviews and
 regular meetings with the Director of Research help identify areas for development, supported by
 the Academic Development Centre, and the other University-level teams. The annual Personal
 Development Review provides an open framework for self-reflection and structured mentoring
 conversations between peers. Mid-career staff are supported in obtaining experience in
 leadership, as well as in developing research networks and programmes, through the
 opportunities to direct research centres, reading groups and seminar series.

 Enabling dedicated time for research and impact plays an important role in our research strategy.
 All permanent academic staff are entitled to apply for one term of study leave for six terms of
 service. External research funding supplements this accrued entitlement. In this census period all
 eligible staff have had leave for research or impact activities.

 The support of skilled professional services staff is another prerequisite for a flourishing research
 community. Departmental and Faculty research support teams underpin our research activities.
 To develop their expertise they undertake regular training; annual review helps identify relevant
 areas for development, and flexible working arrangements facilitate them in taking advantage of
 in-hours training programmes. Faculty-based professional services staff also provide impact
 training for early-career researchers, postgraduates, and senior academics through departmental
 training sessions, impact lunches, workshops and one-to-ones. The University’s IT and technical
 support team has enabled our research centres to continue an active programme of seminars
 during the pandemic, as discussed in §3.

 Support mechanisms for, and evidence of the training and supervision of, PGR students

 The Department is committed to fostering the next generation of research leaders. Over the
 census period 80 students gained doctorates. A further nine earned research masters or M.Phils.
 Postgraduates are a fundamental part of the Department’s research community and our doctoral
 programme is closely integrated into our wider research activities. For instance, Kümin’s guest
 professorships at the University of Konstanz resulted in an application for doctoral study from a
 German student who was subsequently awarded a Wolfson Postgraduate Scholarship. (Kümin’s
 long-standing links with Technische Universität Dresden, fostered by a LT network, likewise led to
 a funded Dresden-Warwick postgraduate workshop and 6-month study visits to Warwick by two
 Dresden postgraduates.)

 Potential supervisors and the director of graduate studies discuss their projects with prospective
 students, and advise on draft applications, helping to ensure that research themes and questions
 are clear. We also work with partners outside the university sector to develop collaborative bids
 for doctoral awards. In the census period we established new partnerships with the Foundling
 Museum, the Horniman Museum, and the Imperial War Museum. The Department is part of the
 AHRC Midlands4Cities group, established in 2018, and the ESRC Midlands Graduate School
 (Ref5a3.9.2;3.9.3). Both offer advantages to our students, by pooling expertise across the region
 with supervision arrangements spanning institutions. University awards complement these
 external scholarships. The Department has a strong record in recruiting international students,
 drawing on the resources of the University’s Chancellors International Fellowships and the China
 Scholarship Council. Such awards help ensure that we are able to support a global group of highly
 competitive graduate students in completing doctoral work and making the transition to the wider
 professional world. In the census period we admitted an annual average of twelve new (and
 funded) doctoral students.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our postgraduates are embedded in the Department’s research culture through formal and
 informal training and mentoring. All new PGRs become members of the Graduate Research
 Forum in their first year of study. The Forum provides essential skills and methods training, with
 sessions focused on project design, bibliographical and e-resources, presentation skills and
 data/evidence management. The programme is adaptive and incorporates new elements to meet
 the demands of specific cohorts; a new session on oral history methods was provided for 2018-
 19, for example. The Forum also runs a popular ‘Research Journeys’ series in which early-career
 members of the Department discuss the development of their own doctoral projects and the writing
 of their first book. Although aimed at first-year doctoral students, it draws an audience from across
 our postgraduate community. Progress is monitored through supervision reports, which must be
 submitted at least monthly, by the Department’s Annual Review panels, which evaluate the
 progress of each student, and, for MPhil/DPhil students, a rigorous upgrade procedure. All
 postgraduates have a personal tutor. Department-specific training is complemented by an
 extensive central programme of research training (Ref5a3.9.3).

 Our postgraduates participate fully in the Department’s range of research seminars, reading
 groups and other fora. We encourage postgraduates to take an active role in organising
 conferences. Doctoral student Somak Biswas for example collaborated with Crouzet to organise
 a two-day event on ‘Transnational Networks of the British Empire’ (2018); Natalie Hanley-Smith
 won a 2019 internal funding competition to run a workshop on ‘Constructions of Love and
 Emotions of Intimacy’. The annual postgraduate conference is also organised by doctoral students
 and attracts participants from other UK universities. In 2020 the conference took place entirely
 online, with students producing a weekly podcast that included presentations and Q&A sessions.
 Doctoral students have been key in establishing reading groups on early-modern history, food
 history, queer history, and feminist history, and in 2019-20 formed part of a collective organising
 the Department’s flagship Research Seminar. They sit on the Department’s Research Committee
 and the boards of our research centres, and also benefit from the interdisciplinary research
 environment nurtured through the IAS and HRC (Ref5a2.9.2).

 We strongly encourage students to publish in refereed journals and edited collections, and to
 embed public engagement and impact into their projects. During the census period our doctoral
 candidates have published in Cold War History, History Compass, Journal of Historical
 Geography, Journal of Urban History, Slavery & Abolition, and Women’s History Review, among
 others. Indeed, we encourage all our students to publish their research; Mara Gregory’s taught
 masters thesis won the 2015 RHS Rees Davis Prize and was published in the Transactions of the
 Royal Historical Society. Our undergraduates have also published articles based on their
 dissertations in venues such as Third World Quarterly (Gonzalez-Ormerod, 2014) Modern Asian
 Studies (Dobson, 2019), Sexuality and Culture (Tan, 2018), Time Magazine (Perrigo, 2018),
 History Today (Owusu, 2019), and Economic and Political Weekly (Jenkins, 2014). They have
 won external awards; the British Commission for Maritime History undergraduate dissertation
 awards was won by Elizabeth Denny (2016) and Josephine O’Dowd (2018), and in 2015-16
 Emelia Antiglio won the World History Association undergraduate award. Our students thus learn
 the historian’s craft through direct training, through active participation in the research life of the
 Department and wider academic community, and through engagement with broader publics.

 This training pays off. On leaving Warwick our postgraduates have an excellent record of
 employment in academia and other professional walks of life. Doctoral students who completed
 their doctorates in this cycle now hold permanent academic positions, or postdoctoral fellowships,
 at institutions such as Bristol, Cambridge, Cardiff, Dar es Salaam, Manchester, Oxford, the Royal
 College of Art, and the Maritime Museum. Since 2014, our students have published monographs

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 originating in Warwick dissertations with publishers such as Bloomsbury, Brill, Cambridge, and
 Manchester. Katherine Foxhall won the 2016 Harold D. Langley Book Award for Excellence in the
 History of Maritime Medicine for her first monograph, based on her Warwick dissertation, and Seth
 Thévoz’s dissertation-derived monograph was shortlisted for the RHS Whitfield Prize. Our doctoral
 candidates are also successful in attracting research funding after leaving Warwick. Former
 doctoral students who completed their studies in this cycle have subsequently gained funding from
 the Mellon Foundation, the Economic History Society, and the Leverhulme and Wellcome Trusts.

 Evidence of how the submitting unit supports and promotes equality and diversity

 The Department actively promotes equality and diversity both departmentally and across the
 University. Ono-George has led a number of University-wide initiatives on anti-racist pedagogy,
 social mobility, and the Black student experience. All colleagues are encouraged—and
 appointment panel members required—to complete training in unconscious bias and diversity in
 the workplace and we support other University-level equality and diversity training for staff,
 including guidance on REF2021. We operate a gender-balanced promotions committee and
 senior management team. Of our permanent members of academic staff, 40% of the professors
 are female, which exceeds the national average. There is near gender-parity at the associate
 professor level (47%); 58% of assistant professors and senior teaching fellows are women. The
 postgraduate population tends to have a majority of female students. The BME composition of the
 Department is improving and is considerably better than the national average if we take into
 account our students as well as our staff, although we aspire to implement further changes by
 recruiting more staff and postgraduates of BME background. In 2019-20 three fees-only MA
 bursaries were offered to Warwick history graduates from BME backgrounds.

 The 2016 establishment of an Equality and Diversity Working Group (EDWG) helped embed these
 ambitions within our governance structures. It reports to the Staff Meeting and includes members
 from across the departmental community, including the professional services team and
 undergraduates. EDWG works on clarifying principles and implementing changes to enhance
 equality and diversity, and organises training events such as the all-staff away day on anti-racial
 pedagogy held in 2018. EDWG also promotes social inclusion through its webpages (visible to
 staff and students), which include links to relevant reports and charter marks.

 EDWG’s priorities include ensuring a 100% completion rate of the University’s ‘Diversity in the
 Workplace’ module amongst staff, championing policies that support equality and diversity, active
 mentoring of mid-career female colleagues in taking on senior departmental officer roles,
 promotion among staff and students of the Dignity at Warwick Policy, and increasing staff and
 curricular diversity.

 These commitments affect the Department’s everyday practices. For example, in 2019 EDWG’s
 ‘decolonising the curriculum’ project held an exploratory workshop where colleagues shared
 syllabuses to receive feedback on ensuring that readings and other learning material adequately
 addressed questions of equality and diversity in terms of the authors assigned and the framing of
 module content. Staff are encouraged to apply for compressed working hours to support family
 and other caring commitments, as well as to take advantage of the expertise of Wellbeing Services
 and Occupational Health to identify specific workplace needs. Over the census period, we’ve
 supported colleagues through major illness and worked with them to facilitate their return to work
 in ways that mitigate stress. EDWG also championed the creation of formal and informal
 communication networks such as a WhatsApp group and a webpage that lists information and
 resources for staff and students with children.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our students have been essential partners in these processes. Doctoral students for instance
 worked closely with permanent staff to develop agenda-setting seminar programmes in queer
 history and feminist theory. Undergraduates have been active in the decolonisation initiatives,
 which aim at broadening both the undergraduate curriculum and also the range of historical
 questions the Department is able to pose. Student representatives from the SSLC and the
 Warwick Decolonise Project have also developed student and staff surveys to accumulate better
 data and help us implement change.

 Our REF2021 submission also reflects these commitments. Research staff were consulted
 individually and repeatedly about their output submissions, their impact work, and on how best to
 represent their own research. The environment statement was circulated at regular intervals so
 that all colleagues could comment and offer revisions, and the procedures governing the
 submission of personal circumstances were explained individually and at departmental briefing
 sessions (Ref5a3.7).

 This inclusive approach has resulted in increased commitment and engagement with equality
 issues across the Department among both faculty and students. Such community-building is a
 key complement to the inclusion and diversity policies implemented by the University.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Department’s external research funding contributes significantly to sustaining our innovative
 research and impact activities. It supplements University-level research leave, supports
 collaborative and international cooperation, funds impact and engagement endeavours, and
 contributes to the development of early-career researchers. It helped establish our leading role in
 global history, and maintains our influence in the history of medicine. It also underpins a host of
 individual research projects that have resulted in outstanding publications, engagement, and
 impact, as evidenced by our impact case studies and outputs. Finally, external funding supports
 collaborative work between colleagues with different specialisms. For instance Philp’s AHRC
 GCRF project brought together European, Kenyan and Mexican experts to explore the varied
 nature of ‘corruption’ in ‘public office’.

 Attesting to the national and international recognition of our scholarship, our research income has
 increased significantly over the last decade. £2,895,779 of research income in RAE2008 rose to
 £4,922,364 in REF2014, and for the current period stands at £6,930,000. This external income
 includes funding from the AHRC, ESRC, ERC, LT, WT, and BA. In addition we have been awarded
 internal funding from sources such as the Warwick Impact Fund, Research Development Fund,
 Global Challenges Research Fund, the HRC, the Humanities Research Fund (HRF), the GRPs
 and the IAS (Ref5a2.7;2.9.1;2.9.2). From the HRF alone we have had over 60 grants, totalling
 some £30,000.

 Infrastructure and facilities pertaining to research and research impact

 Infrastructure supporting departmental research and impact is embedded at all levels.

 Departmental committees and officers




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department’s Research Committee, which oversees research policy and strategy, meets
 twice-termly and links to Faculty and University Research Committees. It is chaired by the Director
 for Research. Its members advise on potential funding bids, facilitate connections between
 colleagues with related interests, read funding applications, support the management of projects,
 and work closely with applicants on engagement and impact strategies. The Director of Graduate
 Studies reviews funding applications from postgraduates in collaboration with the University’s
 Doctoral College, and together with the proposed supervisors gives detailed guidance to
 applicants. Undergraduates interested in undertaking research beyond the classroom have the
 support of the Director of Student Experience, who facilitates research assistantships and
 placements. Programmes such as the University’s Undergraduate Research Support Scheme
 (URSS) also enable undergraduates to pursue independent research, as described below.

 Faculty- and University-wide research resources

 Dedicated Arts Faculty staff based in R&IS assist with the preparation of external funding
 applications and work closely with the Director for Research and with departmental research
 support staff. Ethical probity is ensured through the University ethics procedures. The Library is a
 key facility, and includes the Modern Records Centre (MRC), the UK’s most important archive for
 trade union, NGO and pressure group collections. This is a major resource for the department’s
 staff and students, who benefit from its unusual and diverse holdings. During the census period,
 the MRC for instance acquired the papers of Eric Hobsbawm and the National Union of
 Mineworkers. The Library’s policy of acquiring databases of primary and secondary sources
 enables access to digital collections as well as to print and manuscript materials and has been
 particularly important in 2020 (Ref5a4.4). The University has expanded its Digital Humanities team
 into a Centre for Digital Inquiry, in which historians such Knights have played a key role, and which
 provides support for the development of digital skills and projects and the use of digital methods
 in research and teaching. The HRF and the IAS provide research funding for scholars at all career
 stages (Ref5a2.9.2). Since 1967 the University has also supported a base in Venice, used by staff
 for teaching, conferences and workshops; a 2018 workshop for instance brought together
 members of the GHCC with a Japanese network of global historians.

 The Arts Faculty Impact Team has been central in supporting our impact and engagement
 activities. These activities build on the networks we have established over many years with
 practitioners, professionals and external institutions. Together with departmental officers, the
 Impact Team works to embed knowledge exchange and impact into the induction and research
 training of postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers, and to support colleagues in articulating
 strong cases in funding applications, in addition to horizon-scanning for impact funding
 opportunities. The University’s Impact Leave Scheme and Impact Fund also provide funding and
 teaching relief to support impact activities; Hájková, Philp and Richardson have all benefitted from
 its provision (Ref5a2.6-2.7).

 A crucial component of the University’s commitment to supporting research has been its creation
 of a series of centrally-funded GRPs, each managed by cross-faculty committees of academics
 (Ref5a2.9.1). These enable new research collaborations and initiatives, and the Department has
 played a leading role in the creation and management of several; Earle for example served on the
 Food GRP. Support from the GRPs has led to concrete interdisciplinary activities; the Connecting
 Cultures GRP, for instance, supports a cross-disciplinary programme on memory studies based
 in our Department, with an annual lecture and workshop that brings together literary theorists,
 historians, and scholars from modern languages and the social sciences.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Departmental and Interdepartmental Research Centres

 The Department is home to four research centres whose purpose is to champion specific research
 priorities by creating robust communities of expertise and interest that reach out from the
 Department to colleagues throughout the University and beyond. As well as providing a platform
 for outstanding research by encouraging the exchange of knowledge and ideas, the centres foster
 funding applications, manage projects, workshops and other events, act as foci for postgraduates,
 and support engagement and impact in the wider community. Depending on their interests,
 members of the Department may be linked to several centres (including those in other
 departments), and this is very much encouraged as a means of generating new lines of academic
 inquiry and supporting professional development. Alongside the departmental research seminar,
 which brings together the whole Department as an intellectual community, the Centres are home
 to some of the Department’s most frequent and intense intellectual exchanges. All have active
 members from other Departments and work closely with the Faculty and its Research Themes,
 and the GRPs. Centres enjoy administrative support and offer funding for conferences,
 workshops, visiting speakers, and (hitherto) travel. Their costs are met from departmental and
 University funds, coupled with external research income. During the pandemic the centres have
 maintained an active online programme of seminars, reading groups, and writing workshop. For
 example, the European History Research Centre’s memory group held a series of online event on
 perpetrator cinema, and the GHCC posted blogs from members across the world reflecting on the
 pandemic from the perspective of global history.

 Centre for the History of Medicine (CHM)

 Established in 1999, the CHM seeks to understand medical ideas, practices, and institutions in
 their broad social and cultural contexts, to develop intellectual tools to study the many challenges
 faced by medicine both historically and in contemporary society, and to support innovative
 research in the history of medicine. In the census period historians associated with the CHM have
 attracted £3,209,976 in external funding. WT Investigator Awards have supported major projects
 such as ‘Mental Health in Prisons’, ‘What’s at Stake in the Fake’, and the ‘Cultural History of the
 NHS’; a WT University Award likewise funded Davis’s work on motherhood in post-war England
 and Israel. WT Postdoctoral Awards brought four outstanding early-career scholars to the
 Department, and WT Research grants added a further twelve post-docs. The WT has also funded
 one MA per annum, and seven doctoral awards during the census period. These awards and
 departmental financing help sustain administrative support not only for these projects but also for
 seminars, reading groups and work-in-progress sessions. From 2014 to 2020 the CHM hosted 24
 workshops and conferences, 50 seminars, and 28 works-in-progress, as well as approximately
 three skills sessions a year catering for early-career scholars. Reading lunches also occur
 regularly throughout the year.

 Working closely with colleagues in Classics, French, and the Medical and Business Schools, as
 well as the IAS and the GRPs, the CHM provides the major focus for work on the history of
 medicine for the University and a wide community of scholars with interests in this field. The CHM
 is very active in public engagement and impact work, including many successful collaborations
 with museums and arts organisations, hospitals, policy forums, and NGOs. These activities
 include a three-part BBC4 documentary series, participation in the Science Museum’s Lates
 programme, a set of roadshows to encourage public participation with the WT-funded ‘Cultural
 History of the NHS’ project, installations at the Tate Modern, a commissioned theatre production,
 and three participatory projects in prisons. Research internships have embedded CHM


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 postgraduates in University Coventry and Warwickshire Hospital, and other locales. Impact Cases
 d28BivinsNHS and d28MarlandPrisons describe two of these projects in more detail.

 Global History and Culture Centre (GHCC)

 The GHCC celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2017 as a world leader in global history. GHCC’s
 members (staff and students) have successfully challenged the idea that either nation-states or
 culturally-homogenous regions form the natural units for historical enquiry. Its broad spatial
 approach covers a wide chronological range, from the ancient to the contemporary world. Centre
 members have research strengths in Africa, Eurasia and the Americas, in numerous disciplines
 (History, Economics, Literature, Art, Archaeology and the Natural Sciences), and multiple
 languages. Members have worked on path-breaking methodologies—including the use of art,
 material culture, food, and animals as sources for global history—to generate new approaches
 and to transform the field. Its activities are supported by an administrator, and operate under a
 steering committee with two external advisors who attend the annual AGM and Lecture. The
 ‘GHCC Fund’ with two calls a year supports workshops, seminars and conferences that open new
 avenues of inquiry and sustain the profile of the Centre and the University.

 Three research strands underpin the GHCC’s activities: Power and Politics in the Colonial and
 Post-Colonial Worlds; Material Life in a Globalizing World; and Science and Environment. Taken
 together, they reveal the importance of exploring global connections and identifying the threats
 these can pose to global humanity, equality and justice, the environment, and the global circulation
 of knowledge and resources. Each has been supported by external funders, including the AHRC,
 the BA, the LT, and the WT. International collaborations have been central to these pursuits. The
 GHCC’s externally-funded networks all featured international participants. Berg’s AHRC-funded
 Global-Microhistory network for instance brought together scholars from institutions such as
 Princeton, Stanford, Yale, the EUI, and Basel; the Co-PI was from Oxford. Gerritsen’s WT-funded
 network (‘Therapeutic Commodities’) combined scholars from China, India and South Africa. Other
 co-funded activities with leading international institutions included a 2019 conference at Stanford,
 the hosting of short-term visiting scholars from China’s Fudan and Jiaotong Universities, and the
 long-term secondment of a global historian from Japan’s Hosei University.

 In the census period, in addition to its regular seminar series, the Centre collaborated in the
 organization of over 30 international workshops and conferences, including three major
 conferences with open calls for papers, sponsored reading groups led by members of our
 postdoctoral community, organised career-development events for early-career scholars, and
 collaborated with wider audiences. Speakers came from around the world but also from institutions
 outside the academy, including Chatham House and the FCO. The Centre has strong partnerships
 with museums, especially the Victoria & Albert Museum. The LT-funded networks on Luxury
 (Riello) and Gems (Bycroft) were co-organised with the V&A, as were the salons of Berg’s Global-
 Microhistory network. Students from the GHCC also worked with the V&A in a workshop on
 curating and history (2017).

 European History Research Centre (EHRC)

 The EHRC was established in 2015 to provide a supportive infrastructure and focus for our new
 appointees in European History (Häberlen, Hájková, Philp, Purseigle, Walton and, subsequently,
 Middleton, Ross), and to facilitate workshop and research projects in the area of modern European
 History. The EHRC has provided administrative and intellectual support for a series of projects
 across a range of themes, including a LT-funded network on Social and Economic Rights (Stein

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Walton), which included scholars from the US, Germany, France, Spain and the Netherlands;
 Häberlen’s ‘Experimental Culture in Post-War Politics’ (funded by a Marie Curie Career Integration
 Grant); Purseigle’s Marie Curie Global Fellowship on urban reconstruction in inter-war Europe;
 and Philp’s AHRC project on the comparative history of public office. To support interdisciplinary
 projects, the EHRC has worked closely with the Early Modern and Eighteenth Century Centre to
 provide a forum for interdisciplinary collaboration with scholars in Modern Languages, Law,
 Politics and International Studies, and Sociology. Philp for instance worked with a colleague in
 French on two projects exploring Napoleon’s 100 Days and forms of protest in Europe between
 1815 and 1850; Pullin collaborated with scholars in Law and English for a project on sociability
 and enmity. As mentioned, the EHRC also worked with the Connecting Cultures GRP to develop
 an annual Memory Lecture and Masterclass, linked, through the Memory Studies Association, to
 the growing field of European memory studies.

 Working with undergraduate researchers has been an important aspect of the EHRC’s ethos. The
 EHRC has supported more than 20 successful URSS studentships, enabling undergraduates to
 participate actively in its research programme, notably through the web-based ‘100 Days’,
 ‘Barricades’, and ‘Youth and Brexit’ projects. Regional impact activities are equally central; the
 EHRC for instance hosted a 2016 discussion day on the relationship between research activity,
 exhibitions and impact that brought curators from Warwick and Coventry together with researchers
 from across the Faculty. It also supports activities linked to the Coventry City of Culture 2021
 programme (e.g. Richardson’s work on local suffrage movements) and organises our ongoing
 collaboration with the Warwick Words History Festival—a programme of lectures and events
 aimed at local communities in Warwickshire and the Midlands.

 Early Modern and Eighteenth Century Centre (EMECC)

 In 2016-17 the EMECC merged the existing Eighteenth Century Centre with the Department’s
 Early Modern Seminar to create this new research centre. The Department has long been noted
 for its expertise in early-modern European (especially English and Italian) history, and over the
 last decades has become increasingly prominent in the field of eighteenth-century history. The
 EMECC unites these strengths. The EMECC’s community of early-modernists includes permanent
 academic staff, post-docs, postgraduates and emeritus professors. The EMECC is based in
 History—about a third of the Department have interests in the period before the French
 Revolution—but it is interdisciplinary in its reach, working especially closely with colleagues in
 English and Modern Languages as well as the Centre for the Study of the Renaissance.

 The Centre seeks to stimulate interdisciplinary and collaborative research by identifying themes
 of research interest that cut across the work of its members. In the census period these themes
 have led to workshops on Laughter and Satire (2014 Venice conference, which resulted in a 2017
 collection of essays published by Boydell & Brewer), Analysing Visual Print Culture (2015 Venice
 conference), and the Emergence of Socio-economic Rights (2015-18 LT-funded network with
 meetings in Paris, Berlin, Harvard, Mainz, Lausanne and Warwick, resulting in publications
 including a special issue of French History).

 Secondly, it works to consolidate and develop regional and international collaborations, utilising
 multiple routes to impact. Locally, the EMECC for instance supports an annual workshop with
 Birmingham’s Eighteenth-Century Centre, which in 2018 expanded to include other Midlands
 universities. It likewise developed a partnership with Oxford’s Maison Française that brings French
 scholars to Oxford and Warwick to discuss ongoing collaboration and shared research interests.
 Internationally, its activities include the above-mentioned Socio-economic Rights collaboration

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with, inter alia, the Danish Human Rights Institute, NYU’s Law School, and the United Nations. In
 2017 the EMECC joined an international consortium preparing funding bids for the creation of a
 Digital Encyclopaedia of Sociability in the Enlightenment, which in 2018 received Horizon 2020
 funding.

 Finally, the EMECC sponsors events aimed at stimulating debate and collaboration between
 colleagues at all levels. In this REF cycle these included workshops on ‘Experiencing Time in the
 Early Modern Period’, ‘Early Modern State Formation in Britain, Japan and China’, ‘Early Modern
 Women’s Roles and Identities’, and ‘Languages of Slavery’.

 Other Interdisciplinary Centres

 Alongside these Department-based centres, colleagues play important roles in other
 interdisciplinary centres that provide intellectual communities and administrative support for
 research and impact. Twelve historians are active members of the Centre for the Study of the
 Renaissance, which provides advanced research-skills training, administrative support for
 research grants, and funding for conferences, workshops and visiting speakers. It also hosts a
 seminar series. The Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies, which supports humanities-
 based research on the countries and societies of the Caribbean and its littoral, has close links to
 the Department, which has often provided the director, and is a key source of intellectual and
 administrative support for the research of a number of historians (Cowling, Earle, Lambert,
 Lockley, Ono-George). It hosts a seminar series, an annual Walter Rodney lecture, and visiting
 fellows from the Caribbean, as well as providing postgraduate research funds endowed by Gad
 Heuman, a former member of the Department.

 The Department’s Centres bring people together as research communities, track developments
 in their fields, and provide a framework within which colleagues can develop and realise their
 research projects. Even when research is undertaken by a single scholar, we believe that this
 wider community is central to supporting the development of their thinking and their reflection on
 engagement and impact activities. Our Centres aim to provide that experience for all members
 of the Department.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  As a leading research department Warwick History expects its work to provoke scholarly and
 wider public debate. We also expect our research to inform the activities of policy makers in central
 and local government, cultural and heritage institutions, and the arts and media, just as our
 research itself responds to the issues and debates that concern society more widely. Our strategic
 aims of supporting outstanding research, internationalisation and interdisciplinarity, and
 connecting our scholarship to matters of broader relevance, guide our collaborations. We work
 actively, using the structures described above, to reach the groups and individuals with whom we
 need to collaborate. The relevance and vitality of our scholarship depends on the stimulating
 collaboration provided through these key relationships within and outside the academy.

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships, including relationships with key
 research users, beneficiaries or audiences

 Our research is committed to reflecting on and responding to the important challenges facing our
 world. Our collaborations therefore contribute to national and international debates about civil


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 liberties, political corruption, public (and especially mental) health and the NHS, the presence of
 women in public life, environmental risk, democratic culture, popular protest and many other topics
 of keen interest to engaged citizens. We are convinced that the public appreciate exposure to
 critical research-based thinking and we actively seek to bring our work to wide audiences to
 support participation and opinion formation.

 Warwick historians have developed collaborations with partners outside the academy that directly
 advance our strategic aims. Our strong research culture and publication record bring our work to
 the attention of interlocutors across the globe and allow us first to identify appropriate collaborators
 and then to build relationships. Internal funding and administrative support from research centres,
 GRPs, the IAS, and other interdisciplinary initiatives facilitate the initial visits and scoping
 workshops that can lead to joint research projects (Ref5a2.5;2.9.1;2.9.2). R&IS and the
 administrative support associated with our research Centres assist in gaining the external funding
 that gives these networks longevity and sustainability (Ref5a2.6;2.7).

 Our research findings, skill in evidence-gathering, and ability to provide context form the basis for
 a series of close relationships with governmental, cultural and arts institutions. We have developed
 and sustain active dialogues with heritage bodies, government committees, international
 organisations, and arts and media companies. During the census period we have for instance
 hosted visits from writers, film-makers and public intellectuals, including Margaret Drabble, Sheila
 Rowbotham, Oliver Sachs, and Oliver Stone. We have extensive links to libraries and museums
 in the UK and abroad. These relationships serve multiple purposes. They allow us to bring new
 ways of understanding our past and current realities to professional historians and wider user
 groups and ensure the salience of our work. They also ensure that we understand the needs of
 our non-academic collaborators.

 We work with four key research user-groups:

 Policy-makers, politicians and senior civil servants, for whom we provide systematic evidence from
 research, and clear analytical thinking in the provision of advice in relation to policy problems and
 initiatives. Both Bivins and Thomson presented findings from the Cultural History of the NHS
 project at the House of Commons, with Bivins also speaking to the All-Parliamentary Group on
 Archives and History, and Thomson participating in a range of Kings Fund events. Knights’
 research on the history of corruption informed a Council of Europe briefing paper and Philp has
 been central to the research and policy papers of the Committee on Standards in Public Life.
 Fletcher’s investigations into locusts has resulted in collaborations with the World Health
 Organization. Anderson’s work on reparations for colonial injustice in Kenya led to consultations
 with lawyers fighting comparable cases in Cyprus and Malaya; similar cases have subsequently
 been prosecuted in the Netherlands following consultation with him; others are currently lodged in
 South Africa. Knights’ and Philp’s work is detailed in Impact Case d28PhilpStandards and B.
 Smith’s work is described in Impact Case d28SmithCartelsNfp.

 Cultural institutions and creative industries, where our research has shaped new approaches to
 curatorial practice. We have particularly longstanding links to national and international museums.
 Lambert and Lockley curated a 9-month exhibition at the Museum of London Docklands as part
 of their ‘Africa’s Sons under Arms’ project; Fletcher and Bivins both worked with the National
 Museum of Wales in Cardiff on several projects. Members of the Department have played central
 advisory roles in designing displays and exhibitions: Berg, Gerritsen, Riello, worked with the V&A
 to help redesign the 1500-1815 Galleries; Poskett worked with the Science Museum on the
 development of a new permanent gallery, in addition to advising both the National Maritime

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Museum and Historic Royal Palaces (as noted above); Earle (and doctoral student Camilo Uribe)
 are working with Birmingham Museums on a new permanent exhibition devoted to the
 Anthropocene. Riello sat on the academic board for the re-development of the Museum of London;
 Knights has written catalogue entries for the National Maritime Museum. Bivins sits on the
 Advisory Board of the London Science Museum’s Medical Galleries project, and is currently
 advising on Covid collecting policies. Schwartz has spoken about her research at the Geffrey
 Museum (London). In support of these collaborations the Department has also hosted residences
 with curators and museum experts, including the print specialist Tim Clayton and the curator Helen
 Clifford. Lambert and Lockley’s work is detailed in Impact Case d28LambertEmpire.

 Internationally, Smyth worked with the Writers Guild Foundation in Los Angeles on an exhibition
 about the first female president of the Screen Writers Guild; Bivins collaborated with the Medical
 Museion, Copenhagen, and Aarhus University (as well as with the London Science Museum) on
 a major funding bid on ‘Living with Diabetes’, for the Novo Nordisk Foundation; Philp collaborates
 with the Bibliothèque National de France on the cataloguing and interpretation of its collection of
 British caricatures; and Purseigle works with the Imperial War Museum’s ‘Lives of the Great War’
 project and serves on the academic and scientific boards of the US National WWI Museum and
 the French Historical de la Grande Guerre.

 Heritage groups and organisations that wish to extend their own knowledge and engagement with
 history. Poskett has produced a series of well-received YouTube videos on the history of science;
 his explanation of how a printing press works has had over 22,000 views. Richardson hosted a
 post-performance discussion with the cast and audience after a performance at London’s
 Finborough Theatre of John Pratt Wooler’s Victorian ‘comedietta’ A Winning Hazard. Her research
 into the suffrage movement also led to an exhibition in Westminster Hall attended by over 100,000
 visitors. Colleagues regularly speak to local history societies, literary festivals, and community
 fora. Marshall discussed the English Reformation at the Chalke Valley History Festival in June
 2017 (the previous month he participated alongside the Archbishops of Canterbury and
 Westminster at a symposium held at Lambeth Palace on Thomas Beckett). Salzberg participated
 in the design of the ‘Hidden Trento’ app, which affords visitors a virtual experience of navigating
 the early-modern city. Capp has served as a consultant for the Royal Shakespeare Company, and
 Lockley for the Royal Court Theatre. Marland’s extensive work with theatre companies is detailed
 in Impact Case d28MarlandPrisons.

 Media professionals benefit from the depth of research knowledge that members of the
 Department provide. Capp, Knights, Kümin, Marland, Marshall, and Richardson have all
 appeared, some several times, on Who Do You Think You Are? Gerritsen, Knights, Lockley, and
 Marland have featured as experts on Radio 4’s In Our Time. Capp has also served as a consultant
 for Radio 4’s The Moral Maze. Many other members of the Department have appeared on Radio
 4, Radio 5, Sky, the World Service, Channel 5, Al-Jazeera, and US National Public Radio, to
 discuss their research and its relevance to current events. Smyth’s research underpinned a PBS
 television documentary about Hollywood’s exploration of mid-century American racism and the
 Criterion Collection’s Hollywood films. Thomson was a central interviewee in the three-part series
 on Growing Up in Scotland, screened on BBC2 in 2017. Ono-George was an advisor to the BBC’s
 3-part adaptation of Andrea Levy’s The Long Song. She in addition provided expert commentary
 on Front Row Late (BBC2) alongside Mary Beard. We also write about our research in national
 and regional papers in the UK, Europe, and beyond. Branch is a columnist for The Nation, Kenya’s
 premier newspaper. Marshall writes for The Tablet and Catholic Herald. Bivins, Carruthers, Crane,
 Poskett, and others write opinion pieces and Op-Eds for the British Medical Journal, Lancet, Le


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Monde, New York Times, and Nature, as well as British broadsheets. Impact case d28BivinsNHS
 details Bivins’ and Thomson’s work with the BBC.

 Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

 The Department promotes wide engagement with the non-academic world and believes that it
 ought to convey its knowledge and experience in ways that support the intellectual development
 and continuing relevance and vitality of the discipline. It is also committed to engaging the public
 in thinking anew about the aspects of their pasts and presents (and futures) which they have taken
 for granted or ignored. We seek to promote engagement with impact by challenging people’s
 understandings, opening them to new interpretations, and giving them critical purchase on their
 individual and collective histories, so as to enable new responses.

 Many of our contributions to strengthening the research base are listed in §1, in the discussion of
 our strategic aim #4. Beyond these contributions to the discipline, we actively work to support the
 frameworks and infrastructures that underpin historical research, as with our extensive
 collaborations with museums and libraries, but also in relation to areas in which information about
 the past remains politically and culturally sensitive. B. Smith collaborates with journalists in Mexico
 whose investigative work puts them at serious risk. Anderson works with the National Archives
 and the Kenya Ministry for Culture & Sports on the repatriation of archival materials that were
 removed from Kenya at the time of the British decolonisation. He also works actively with the
 National Museums of Kenya in developing sensitive ways of dealing with human remains, after
 his research revealed that the Museum held nearly 500 skeletons from the 1950s. Ono-George is
 a member of Cambridge University’s Legacies of Enslavement Advisory Board.

 As described above, members of the Department have worked closely with museums, arts,
 theatre, media and other organisations, to challenge them to reflect on and innovate in their
 representation of historical work, so as both to engage audiences and provoke questioning and
 change. With the Warwick Words History festival, for example, we have introduced local
 communities to dramatizations of historic trials and performances of European protest songs. We
 have also worked closely with other local initiatives such as the Also Festival and the Kenilworth
 Arts Festival, as well as with regional, national and international events and organisations that
 share our commitment to grounding contributions to wider public engagement on original research.
 Our experiments with finding new ways to present material aim to connect with and advance the
 interests of the wider public, thereby informing their participation in, and reflections on, the wider
 world. These experiments include Richardson’s work on women’s suffrage, which involves
 crowdsourcing to identify suffrage activists, thereby empowering participants by uncovering the
 activism of local women. Marland’s work with theatre companies on the history of Irish migration
 to the UK brought home to audiences the depth of the traumas suffered by Irish migrant
 communities, opening paths to franker discussions of family histories. By uncovering a
 controversial and hidden history, Hájková’s work on the treatment in concentration camps of
 members of the LGBT community offers today’s LGBT communities a new past for reflection and
 identification. Ono-George developed and co-led the ‘Windrush Strikes Back’ project, in which the
 local Caribbean community investigated the history of Black people in Warwickshire and West
 Midlands. We believe that by attempting these acts of identification and engagement we play an
 essential part in the development of an inclusive and open society and political culture in which
 people are able fully to participate.

 All good historians share a commitment to high-quality historical research that deepens and
 expands our understanding of our pasts and recognise that this is essential to any self-critical,

                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inclusive and forward-looking society. Warwick historians, alongside our colleagues in the UK and
 abroad, place this obligation at the centre of our research, and our Department.




                                                                                          Page 21
