Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Surrey

 Unit of Assessment: 17- Business and Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 With a global reputation and distinctive research strengths, Surrey Business School (SBS) is a
 leading research-intensive business school, best known for innovative research in the areas of
 digital economy, business analytics, business transformation, leadership, quality of
 working life, sustainable innovation, and responsible management. SBS is research-led
 with a supportive, diverse and vibrant research culture. Knowledge is advanced through
 rigorous, original and pioneering research with impact delivered both locally and globally.
 Working closely with business, public sector and charitable organisations, researchers publish in
 world-leading journals and disseminate research widely beyond the academy. Over the
 REF2021 period (2014-2020) SBS research outputs have been cited more than 2.5 times the
 UK average with a field-weighted citation impact (FWCI) of 2.61 and 57% of publications have
 an international co-author (Source: SciVal).

 The SBS mission is to inspire and enable positive change in business and society, for
 individuals and organisations, locally and globally by delivering impactful research and
 programmes which promote a global and digital mindset for the future of business.
 Positive change is enabled through stakeholder collaboration and high-quality, impactful
 business and management research combined with the strengths of a technology-led university.
 Central to this is the recognition of the importance of a socially responsible outlook for
 understanding the role of business in building a better society. Since 2015 a core strategic aim
 has been to create significant and far-reaching research impact for business, policy and the third
 sector. This has been enabled through considerable investment in people and resources.

 The UoA 17 REF2021 submission comprises 53.55 FTE. SBS has grown in research intensity,
 invested in research and strengthened capabilities and training to respond to the changing
 external environment. Investment in research over this REF period has enabled the recruitment
 of top-quality researchers, a focus on output quality, impact and funding success, and
 strengthened research leadership and core expertise via resourcing of departments and
 interdisciplinary Research Centres. It has also expanded the provision of facilities, administrative
 research support and project management. SBS is also committed to the career development of
 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) and Post-Graduate Researchers (PGRs) (ECR and PGR
 support details are provided in section 2). During this REF period SBS total research income
 was £4.345 million, with average research income of £620,714 per annum (the REF2014
 average research income was £316,400 per annum for the Business and Management UoA).
 Funding was from a range of sources including UK Research Councils, the European
 Commission, industry partners, and other public and charitable sector organisations. This
 increase in average yearly research income during the REF2021 period was achieved through
 diversification of funding sources as well as tailored support for grant application development
 and submission.

 Research is organised around six subject-focused departments and two core interdisciplinary
 Research Centres, supported by an additional management education focused Centre.
 Reflecting a thriving community of PGRs, SBS awarded 56 research degrees in this REF period.
 In 2019/20 SBS had over 2,000 undergraduates, approximately 760 taught postgraduates and
 38 registered postgraduate research students (PGRs). It is one of nine Schools in the Faculty of
 Arts and Social Sciences (FASS), one of the University of Surrey’s three Faculties. SBS
 research strengths align with the University Research and Innovation Strategy and
 interdisciplinary cross-Faculty priority themes, namely digital innovation, sustainability and
 technology and society, drawing support and funding from them.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Dean (Wood) is responsible for overall strategic, financial and operational management.
 The Director of Research (Di Domenico) is responsible for research strategy and management.
 All researchers and PGRs are based in one of six departments (subject units), each led by a
 Head of Department (HoD). SBS also has interdisciplinary Research Centres, which are
 designed to enable researchers from different departments, and elsewhere in the University and
 externally, to come together to develop joint projects, creating a dynamic and collaborative
 research environment. The School, Faculty and University have invested in the growth and
 development of SBS Departments and Research Centres through targeted recruitment of faculty
 with expertise that reinforces the School’s research strengths, ECR/ PGR support, and provision
 of administrative staff.

 The Departments are: People and Organisations (led by Woodhams); Marketing and Retail
 Management (led by Jayawardhena); Finance and Accounting (led by Buchanan); Strategy
 and International Business (led by Rajwani); Business Transformation (led by Aitken); and
 Digital Economy, Entrepreneurship and Innovation (led by Gawer). Research originates
 within each of these subject areas and from internal and external collaborations beyond them.
 The departmental structure provides research continuity and sustainability, allowing for the
 School to evolve and develop according to its research strengths and priorities. For example,
 since REF2014 the Department of Business Transformation was formed partly to spearhead
 research excellence in business analytics, and the former Entrepreneurship and Innovation
 Department is now the Department of Digital Economy, Entrepreneurship and Innovation,
 reflecting the growth of and investment in the digital economy as a core research focus.

 The People and Organisations Department conducts cutting-edge research in organisational
 behaviour and human resource management, driving forward the School’s global reputation and
 strengths in areas including leadership, quality of working life and responsible management. The
 Marketing and Retail Management Department researches retail marketing, services
 marketing, and consumer behaviour. Researchers in Finance and Accounting carry out world-
 class research that positively impacts the financial services sector in areas including FinTech,
 corporate governance, corporate finance and macro-finance. The Department of Strategy and
 International Business is influential in the fields of international business, trade and strategic
 management. The Business Transformation Department is a leader in business analytics and
 sustainable supply chain management research. The Department of Digital Economy,
 Entrepreneurship and Innovation is internationally recognised as being at the forefront of
 pioneering research on the digital economy, digital and business transformation,
 entrepreneurship and sustainable innovation.

 SBS also encourages dynamic research and collaboration via interdisciplinary Research
 Centres that support its strategic research objectives (discussed below), drawing members from
 departments across the School, wider University, and external national and international
 research communities. Following REF2014, SBS has built on the success of existing research
 and moved towards an arrangement of having two core Research Centres as well as one further
 centre focused on management education and pedagogy. The Research Centres serve as
 research hubs positioned to address key societal-level research challenges organised around
 identified thematic clusters. Research Centres carry out timely and impactful research pivotal to
 the research strategy. The Research Centres are the Centre of Digital Economy (CoDE) and
 the Centre for Social Innovation Management (CSIM). The pedagogy-focused centre is the
 Centre for Management Education (CME).

 The Centre of Digital Economy (CoDE) is a leading, world-class research centre. Led by
 Gawer (CoDE Director), CoDE is internationally recognised for its research which is organised
 around five thematic clusters: digital entrepreneurship and innovation; digital platforms and
 new business ecosystems; digital transformation of government; ethics and privacy of
 big data; and social media. Facilitated by its global research reputation, CoDE attracts and
 includes leading researchers from the School, across the University and internationally (e.g.,
 leading researchers recruited by SBS over this REF period include Castello Molina; Gawer;
 Parry; Tee; Vanhaverbeke).

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Centre for Social Innovation Management (CSIM) conducts research into social
 innovation and entrepreneurship, responsible management and social impact investing. Led by
 Matos, CISM has three thematic clusters: sustainable innovation and entrepreneurship for
 social inclusion; social impact investing and responsible management. CSIM has a
 national and growing international reputation. This is reflected by for example, its pioneering
 work on recent global societal challenges for business and policy makers in more advanced and
 developing economies, such as those in Europe and South America. CSIM activities have been
 further boosted in recent years by increasing membership, including joint collaborations with
 members who contribute to both CoDE and CSIM (e.g., Bonina; Castello Molina; Di Domenico).

 The Centre for Management Education (CME), a pedagogy-focused centre, enhances
 teaching excellence through industry-informed innovative curriculum design, staff development,
 research and events. Serving as a bridge between research and teaching, it supported research-
 led digital learning and collaboration, effectively addressing challenges exemplified by the Covid-
 19 pandemic. A well-resourced, hybrid model was developed, combining face-to-face and virtual
 working to facilitate collaboration between colleagues, PGRs and students, leveraging
 investment in IT infrastructure and digital platforms.

 Research strategy and objectives

 Over the assessment period SBS achieved the strategic aims it set itself following REF2014.
 These were as follows:

    a)      To create an environment where business and management research is
            valued as an indicator of personal achievement, a contribution to
            disciplinary knowledge and a tangible benefit to society.

 SBS nurtured personal achievement and research collaboration. Disciplinary knowledge and
 engagement with business and society were supported and enabled through collaboration
 between Departments, Research Centres and disciplines across the School, wider University
 and externally with stakeholders. For example, the CoDE Research Centre achieved notable
 success in further enhancing its world-renowned international profile, and researchers proved
 highly successful in raising research income in collaboration with researchers externally and
 across the University (e.g., Computer Science and Engineering). Investment in the CSIM
 Research Centre facilitated its growing reputation and contributions to several of the School’s
 main research strengths (e.g., sustainable innovation and responsible management). Also, the
 University of Surrey Business and Economics Experimental (USBEE) Behavioural Laboratory
 was established in 2019 to support world-class experimental research through £76,000 of
 University capital investment. Consequently, through its strategy, structure and organisation,
 SBS created an environment where researchers thrived both in terms of their individual
 contributions and their collaborations (see section 4 for evidence of esteem indicators,
 collaborations and contributions to the research base, economy and society).

    b)      To support and encourage staff to produce work of the highest possible
            calibre in relation to their international peers and of sufficient value to be
            worthy of external funding.

 SBS grew and strengthened its departments and Research Centres, investing in staff and
 creating clusters of world-leading scholars. Established senior researchers and ECRs have
 joined SBS over this REF period, further strengthening research activity. External funding bids
 and publishing in high esteem journals were enabled through training and development focused
 on supportive peer review, mentoring, and workloads, including dedicated research time for all
 researchers, from ECRs to professors (see also section 2 on people: staffing strategy and staff
 development). This evidence of vitality and sustainability has resulted in high quality and quantity
 of research outputs and £4.345 million research income over this REF period (REF2014
 research income was £1.582 million).

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    c)      To foster collaborations that bring intellectual vitality, insight and
            innovation to bear on consequential problems.

 Collaboration is embedded within the research strategy. This was facilitated by, for example,
 strengthening Research Centres as collaborative hubs for researchers across departments, the
 wider University and externally. Investment included recruitment of top-quality researchers and
 strengthened research leadership. Collaborations involved working with a range of stakeholders,
 including through joint funding bids with industry partners/other Universities, Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships (see section 3 for examples of KTP projects), consultancy, and industry PhD
 partnerships/co-funding. SBS hosted international researchers via the visiting scholar
 programme and actively engaged alumni in research events and activities. Collaborations were
 built with research funders, major corporates, Technology Research Centres such as the 5G
 Innovation Centre, and innovative SMEs including those at the Surrey Research Park, a centre
 of excellence in technology, science and engineering. Examples of successful collaborations
 included the HEFCE-funded ‘Innovation Gateway for Connected Digital Economy' project
 involving CoDE and other SBS researchers (with the 5G Innovation Centre and numerous
 industry partners) and UKRI funded projects exploring Blockchain and Distributed Ledger
 Technologies (DLT) alongside academics from across the University. The diversity of funding
 sources over the REF period evidences a highly collaborative approach.

    d)      To develop a world-class PhD programme that produces graduates who will
            be sought by top international business schools or businesses.

 Over the REF period SBS also invested in the development and launch of tailored, cutting-edge
 methodological training and career development courses. Since REF2014 these have become
 mandatory for all first year PGRs, providing a rigorous doctoral training foundation supported by
 high-quality research supervision. SBS PGRs provided a 92.9% overall satisfaction score in the
 2019/20 AdvanceHE Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) (see section 2 for PGR
 programme details and development activities).

 Enabling impact

 A key strategic aim for SBS has been to enable and enhance impactful research. Creating
 impact from its world-leading research has been a high priority for the School. Impact is
 considered within recruitment and staff are recognised for impact in appraisals. Pump-priming
 awards are available locally and centrally and regularly taken up by colleagues (e.g., Hilson
 received £2,000 in 2017 for stakeholder visits to support research impact), with ECRs
 encouraged and supported to apply for funds. The University won an ESRC IAA (Impact
 Accelerator Award) grant of £1 million (2019-23), which has been used to facilitate impact during
 this REF period and beyond.

 SBS actively plans and nurtures impact of different types, as reflected by the range of impact
 case studies. The Research Impact Lead (Parry) led and supported impact. Support for impact
 included training events to raise awareness of impact pathways, cultivating, and communicating
 with, potential user groups and providing time and financial support to impact authors and
 others. The selected case studies evidence the approach to enabling, and achieving, impact in
 line with the SBS mission and research themes. Brief impact case summaries and lead authors
 are provided below (other impact evidence beyond the 5 submitted cases and examples of
 developing impact are provided in section 4).

    •    Research impacted Argentinian policy-making; unilateral tariff reductions and talks with
         MERCOSUR, a 270 million inhabitant trading block, and the EU-Mercosur free-trade
         deal; leading to tariff-reform proposal and partial revision of the Common External Tariff
         (CET) of MERCOSUR (Carluccio).
    •    In sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), reform of artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) entails
         policy change and engagement of individual operators. Research has provided a voice

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        for 500,000+ female gold panners in Mali; shaped ASM policy architecture across SSA;
        and guided donor interventions, including the €13 million UN/ACP/EU Development
        Minerals Programme and World Bank ASM projects (Hilson).
    •   Research on employee involvement in workplace decision-making as a key element of
        job quality has shaped UK and Welsh government policy, influenced policy in the OECD,
        and been adopted in the G20 Labour and Employment Ministers’ Ankara Declaration in
        2015 (Zhou).
    •   Research on digital transformation in government has developed a tool for the
        Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to assess its digital
        government directives. Research also impacted digital government strategy in Colombia,
        new legislation in Costa Rica and open data for business strategies in Argentina as part
        of an influential World Bank report (Bonina).
    •   Research influencing the retail experience, consumer behaviour and price management
        has triggered successful changes to the strategic positioning, store concept and service
        portfolio of a major European wholesaler supplying over 57,000 convenience stores, and
        successful changes to their wholesale pricing strategy leading to a 3% increase in sales
        for 20,000 German customer stores; category and price management reform of a petrol
        station chain; and to the services that the Association of Convenience Stores (ACS) offer
        their 33,500 organisational members (Benoit).

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 Over the next five years SBS will:
    (i) maintain and extend a culture of research excellence;
    (ii) continue to be a leader in field-defining research;
    (iii) produce world-class outputs; and
    (iv) use impactful research to contribute to society and the economic base.

 To achieve this, the School’s strategic research aims, targets and enablers are as follows:

    1. To continue to focus on research quality, world-leading expertise and publications.
       SBS will maintain its focus on areas of research strength. Delivery will be evidenced by
       publication in world-leading journals, strong engagement with business and policy-
       makers, research-led teaching, income streams indicative of research quality (through
       peer review) and sustained by necessary levels of investment in infrastructure and
       research time. Enabled through mechanisms including mentoring, provision of research
       infrastructure and administrative support and guidance, these activities will be supported
       through career development and appraisal as well as annual output reviews (AOR) of
       publications by both internal and external assessors. Fundamental to this approach is a
       commitment to the principles of openness, integrity and research ethics.

    2. To grow the range of impactful and relevant research developed by SBS. To ensure
       SBS continues to support vitality and sustainability of impact in the future, the strategy
       will support a "culture of impact" to affect commercial activity, policy, the third sector and
       wider stakeholders. This will be further enabled by activities including a researcher
       development programme, impact workshops and doctoral programmes supporting high-
       impact research. Research impact will continue to be supported by the School Impact
       Lead and impact mentors, including external experts where required. Structured support
       will be provided through an Impact Committee, the SBS Advisory Board, and corporate
       and third sector partners.

        Research strengths in the areas of digital economy, business analytics, business
        transformation, leadership, quality of working life, sustainable innovation, and responsible
        management will be proactively resourced and supported throughout the next REF
        period. This approach includes an emphasis on future collaborations and initiatives (e.g.,
        Oct 2020 – Sept 2025 EPSRC £4.65 million 60-month EPSRC Decentralised Digital
        Economy Centre, partnering 30+ companies, Universities of Surrey and Edinburgh, and

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the Digital Catapult, with SBS as a key partner). Emerging and complementary research
        areas may be identified where appropriate.

    3. To further develop a supportive and collaborative research culture. Senior
       academics support ECRs through mentoring and peer review. SBS will continue to run its
       series of popular research seminars through its Research Centres and Departments and
       support PGRs through its leading 1+2 PhD programme. SBS will also develop an
       Executive PhD programme built around the needs of those seeking to undertake PhD
       study part-time whilst in employment. This is based on a goal to grow PGR student
       numbers to approximately 75 by 2023/24. These aims complement the University’s
       overall Research and Innovation Strategy, which aims to grow the PGR and ECR
       communities and enrich their experience and preparation for future careers. This would
       solidify SBS and the wider University as a first-choice destination for aspiring research
       leaders.

        Research collaboration at all levels will be supported. For example, the Visiting
        Researcher Scheme will be further promoted to support leading internationally-
        recognised researchers and the creation of new collaborations. All academics are
        allocated funds to present at least one refereed paper per year at high esteem
        conferences, including strategically-targeted conferences outside Europe (e.g., Academy
        of Management). Flexible use of the conference funding model will be encouraged,
        maximising opportunities for collaborations and learning. Collaborative bid development
        will be enabled through mechanisms including interdisciplinary sandpit and other
        facilitative events and support.

 These strategic aims inform overall planning and the School 2020–2025 five-year plan. The SBS
 Dean (Wood) and the Director of Research (Di Domenico) have responsibility for defining
 strategic aims in collaboration with Department and Research Centre Heads and colleagues,
 and ensuring they are met. The Impact Lead also champions and supports impact. The heads of
 the six SBS Departments have responsibility for developing research activity at subject level,
 alongside engaging with research streams from other Departments and in collaboration with
 Research Centre heads. These are monitored and reviewed by the Senior Management Team
 (SMT). The Faculty Research Committee, led by the Faculty Associate Dean (Research &
 Innovation), acts as an intermediary between SBS and the University Executive. It receives
 regular updates on School progress and performance against targets, providing direction and
 support from the University Research and Innovation Committee, led by the Pro-Vice-
 Chancellor, Research and Innovation. Strategic aims and targets are appraised in line with this
 structure to ensure they continue to leverage the School’s research strengths and address
 opportunities and challenges both internally and externally. Individual staff members have
 research targets set annually at appraisal. These are necessarily stretching, and are fully
 supported by training, infrastructure and investment. These targets prioritise research quality,
 publications, research income, impact, esteem, external engagement, collaboration and working
 with industry and policy makers.

 Open research and integrity

 SBS is committed to transparency, open communication and making research findings widely
 available to other researchers and the public in accordance with the University’s open access
 policy. Researchers work closely with the Open Research and Surrey Research Insight (SRI)
 teams as well as the University’s academic lead for research culture and integrity, embedding
 open practices across all activities including publication, impact and dissemination. In
 accordance with the Concordat on Open Research Data SBS promotes and supports open
 access to publications, data and other outputs wherever possible. This is a key part of the
 research strategy and regularly emphasised to colleagues in communications, meetings and
 reviews. Examples of application of open research activities include: data and publications are
 shared through the SRI open access repository and researchers deposit all outputs at the point
 of acceptance; upon completion, all PGRs deposit an electronic copy of their thesis in the SRI

                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 repository; researchers are encouraged to use ORCID profiles; regular presentations cover
 topics including Open Research, research visibility, impact, data management, and open data
 approaches; and periodic checks ensure practice is actioned. Commitment to openness cuts
 across research strengths, thematic clusters and impact. For example, a submitted impact case
 (Bonina) focuses on open data (see ‘Enabling Impact’, this section).

 SBS supports staff and student engagement with ethical and legal research aspects to ensure a
 culture of integrity. Formal processes ensure research of the highest ethical standards. The
 University Research Integrity and Governance Office (RIGO) provides guidance on proposals
 and ethical review submissions. SBS works closely with the University’s research legal contracts
 department. Data is stored securely, maintaining subject confidentiality where relevant, and
 preventing unauthorised access or loss.

 The University Ethics Committee (UEC) focuses on research with human participants and has a
 diverse, interdisciplinary membership including lay representation. It works closely with the
 Faculty Ethics Committee, Chaired by an SBS academic (Kreuzbauer). SBS prioritises high
 quality research ethics education, a key part of UG, PGT and PGR programme content. As an
 advocate of ethics, responsibility and sustainability in business and management, SBS became
 a signatory of PRME (Principles for Responsible Management Education) in 2017.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 SBS has successfully managed growth in UG/PGT student numbers while developing world
 class research specialisms and embedding professional business expertise into the School.
 Category A eligible staff included in this submission comprise 21 Professors, six Readers, 10
 Senior Lectures and 19 Lecturers.

 SBS recognises that ensuring effective approaches to the recruitment and support of staff and
 research students is crucial to sustaining a thriving research culture. Strategic investment in
 Departments and Research Centres and the creation of a diverse body of researchers enhanced
 the vitality and sustainability of the research culture over this REF period. Pivotal to the School’s
 research strategy has been recruitment, development and retention of researchers with a track
 record or potential to publish, raise income and generate impact at world leading and
 internationally excellent levels. There is an explicit commitment to, and expectation of, high
 calibre research. This is reflected by the research staff output and impact profiles and rising
 research funding.

 Since REF2014, colleagues who have left through a combination of career progression and
 retirement have been replaced on a like-for-like basis. In addition, in areas of research strength
 and strategic importance, the School grew and built capacity through recruitment (e.g., Aryee,
 Benoit, Buchanan, Gawer, Jayawardhena, Parry, Rajwani, Travlos, Vanhaverbeke, Woodhams),
 enabling effective management of research activity and succession planning. Reflecting a
 strategic focus on developing staff and research activity, SBS also recruited high-potential early
 and mid-career researchers, providing an environment and culture in which they can excel. This
 augmentation of research leadership included attracting and retaining talented ECRs. Where
 new staff are recruited, priority is given to researchers with strengths that align well with existing
 research areas and thematic clusters (see section 1). SBS also has a track record of supporting
 existing staff, evidenced, for example, by promotions and career development. Support is
 available to staff seeking progression, including ECRs, which comprises of mentoring and
 processes for identifying future candidates suitable for promotion and leadership development
 through the annual appraisal. Research active colleagues at various career stages were
 successful in this REF period. Excluding teaching-focused roles, the majority (eight) were from
 lecturer to senior lecturer, one lecturer A to B, four from senior lecturer to reader, and a senior
 lecturer and a reader to professor.


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All colleagues are recognised for their outputs, bids, impact and other activities through
 appraisal. Colleagues can apply to, or nominate peers for, competitive School awards including
 ‘Researcher of the Year’, ‘Innovator of the Year’ and the ‘SBS Impact Award’. Winners are
 considered for Faculty level awards and may be put forward for annual University Research
 Excellence Awards. There are also competitive awards for ‘PGR Student of the Year’ and ‘PGR
 Supervisor of the Year’.

 Dedicated research time is facilitated using a workload model ensuring researchers can devote
 approximately 40% time to research. Colleagues have access to and are encouraged to make
 use of research-related development opportunities including, but not limited to: research leave
 (sabbatical); training workshops (e.g. bid writing, data analysis software, pathways to impact); a
 generous conference attendance policy enabling engagement in leading UK and international
 conferences funded from Head of Department (HoD) budgets, individual research fund
 allocations in addition to conference and other allowances; funding for data sets and computing
 software/hardware; further HoD-managed funds for activities including research seminars, away
 days and seminar series attracting leading scholars; and various ‘pump-priming’ competitions
 including seedcorn funding. Internal financial research support is primarily via the School-level
 research budget, complemented by Departmental allocations. All researchers, including ECRs,
 have access to seedcorn funding (e.g., via a School research budget), providing financial
 support for new research projects, data collection and other resources, and facilitating impact
 activity and development of external funding bids (e.g., Hilson’s research on Sub-Saharan Africa
 artisanal small-scale mining). Other examples include attendance funds for the 2019 OGP
 (Open Government Partnership) Global Summit, Ottawa, Canada (Bonina) and funds for a 2019
 research symposia series (Ahmed). Tailored funds are also provided for themes or facilities for
 researchers with early stage, experimental and collaborative work. For example, using the
 School’s interdisciplinary USBEE (University of Surrey Business and Economics Experimental)
 Laboratory infrastructure, SBS provides funding via its ‘Trailblazing Award’ (i.e., £1,000 for
 projects); ‘Grant Application Award’ (i.e. £1,100 to prepare larger grant applications involving at
 least one PGR/ECR); and ‘MSc Thesis Award’ (i.e., thesis supervision awards of £330 per
 student project).

 Additional Faculty level support includes pump-priming funds and the annual ‘Festival of
 Research’ interdisciplinary conference. The latter brings together Schools and Departments
 across the social sciences. The University’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) also provides
 support for workshops bringing together researchers and practitioners and SBS researchers
 received competitive IAS awards (e.g., £3,500 in 2019 by Cojuharenco for hosting a
 ‘Behavioural Science for Usable Security’ workshop). SBS colleagues also secured University-
 level competitive funding (e.g., Heliot received two awards in early 2020: £11,000 from the
 ESRC Impact Accelerator Award Grant for research into workplace religious identity, and
 £11,552 from University of Surrey ‘Lifelong Health’ theme funding for research into wellbeing
 and resilience amidst the Covid-19 pandemic).

 Support is provided to all colleagues to apply for external funding by dedicated research support
 staff and internal peer review. Funding calls are distributed at least monthly. Colleagues are
 encouraged to consider impact from the outset of bid development. Support is provided for
 research events, training and pathways to achieving impact through nurturing interactions with
 collaborators, participants, user groups and other stakeholders. The Research Applications
 Service team provide costings support for funding applications.

 The SBS research strategy is committed to research leadership and staff development for
 colleagues at all career stages and the implementation of the principles of the ‘Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers’. These encourage recruitment and retention of
 researchers from the widest pool of available talent, including those from diverse backgrounds.
 The School works with HR colleagues to ensure explicit consideration of equality, diversity and
 inclusion in design, execution and monitoring of recruitment, promotion and development.
 Commensurate with contracts, fractional appointments carry the same research quality
 expectations and commitments as full-time appointments. Senior colleagues are responsible for

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 setting research priorities (in collaboration with the Dean and Director of Research), mentoring
 less experienced staff, providing publication and bidding guidance and involvement in academic
 networks.

 There is a sabbatical policy that eligible staff can apply for and, if awarded, the typical length is
 one semester. In this REF period 14 SBS research colleagues were awarded sabbatical leave.
 Sabbatical leave is being further supported in future, with an aim of having one member of staff
 on sabbatical at any one time within each department.

 A core part of SBS research strategy is providing ECR support through training and collaboration
 with senior colleagues and peers. All ECRs have a senior colleague as a mentor for research
 and teaching. ECRs usually have a three-year probation period during which they have reduced
 teaching, publication and income targets commensurate with career stage. The School has
 shifted to an approach whereby individual targets are set at Department level, ensuring
 publication and income targets are appropriate to subject discipline and field. ECR Support
 Groups are encouraged and actively led by ECRs themselves. For example, ‘Thinking Space’ is
 an SBS ECR group offering publication workshops, including presentations by journal editors,
 bidding advice and career development. These are well-attended, positively received and
 inclusive (i.e., although ECR-focused, PGRs and senior colleagues contribute).

 In addition to its visiting scholar programme, SBS has commercial links developed through
 Executive Education, its Advisory Board, companies on the University-owned ‘Surrey Research
 Park’, and connections through student placements facilitating exchanges with industry, public
 and third-sector bodies. The School has a dedicated full-time Business Development and
 Advancement Manager and a full-time Business Co-ordinator to support business links and
 develop research and innovation funding sources. Staff working on consultancy projects can
 take individual payments or use monies as research funds.

 SBS has an Advisory Board consisting of eleven senior managers in regional and national
 industry. It supports business engagement, providing an external perspective on research
 partnerships, development, curriculum and employability. Through their wide-ranging
 experiences, the Board brings strategic advice, acting as a sounding board for impact activity.
 Current Advisory Board members hold, or have held, senior roles in organisations including the
 Foreign and Commonwealth Office, HSBC, McKinsey & Co., Duke of Edinburgh’s International
 Award Foundation, Western Union, Goodwood Estate Company, Institute of Directors, Isotrak,
 Celador, News International, Spezialguss Wetzlar, Rocket Fuel, Tesco, Mott MacDonald, and
 Shell International.

 PGR students: Support mechanisms, training and supervision

 Table 1 shows SBS doctoral awards over the REF period. Doctoral completion rates are strong
 due to an ethos of recruiting students exhibiting potential, and providing the support needed to
 succeed. Applicants are expected to hold a good first degree (minimum 2:1), a Master’s degree
 (minimum Merit) in a relevant subject from an internationally-recognised university, be
 successful at interview, and have suitable references. Recruitment panel members and
 supervisors complete diversity and Unconscious Bias Training (UBT) ensuring adherence to
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) policies. In the current REF period there were 56 doctoral
 awards, 50 PhDs and 6 Research-based professional doctorates (DBAs). Various mechanisms
 support completion rates including regular progress monitoring (i.e., six-monthly reviews),
 monthly supervision, and a formal oral and written assessment 12-18 months from registration
 assessed by two internal examiners independent of the supervisory team. 38 PGRs were
 enrolled in 2019/20 and research strategy is to pursue growth in PGR numbers, aiming for
 approximately 75 by 2023/24.




                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                               Table 1. Doctoral Degrees Awarded

      Academic Year               PhD               Research-based                 Total
                                                 professional doctorate
                                                         (DBA)
          2013/14                   4                      2                         6
          2014/15                   8                      1                         9
          2015/16                   6                      1                         7
          2016/17                   4                      1                         5
          2017/18                   9                      0                         9
          2018/19                  11                      1                        12
          2019/20                   8                      0                         8

 New DBA enrolments were suspended from 2014/15 due to altered programme demand
 patterns. Although the DBA is no longer offered for new entrants, there is evidence of continuing
 demand for research-based business and management professional doctorates, particularly the
 PhD through flexible and part-time provision. In response to this, in 2021 SBS is launching an
 innovative, new Flexible Executive PhD designed around the needs of those seeking to
 undertake PhD study whilst in employment. Delivered as a blended six-year programme, it will
 have two optional two-day long schools per learning unit, structured using seven units delivered
 via SurreyLearn, a bespoke Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), and day schools. The new
 programme has been approved by the University.

 SBS has a long history of supporting research students. Since 2017 the core ‘Management and
 Business’ doctoral programme has been revised and strengthened (by Aryee, PGR Director
 2017-2019; and Alexander from 2020-present). The programme (full-time and part-time)
 commences with specialist modules focused on methodological training and broader research
 skills supporting students to scope out and refine proposed research. These include intensive
 training on advanced quantitative and qualitative methods, researcher development and
 publishing. To meet research goals around interdisciplinarity, doctoral training provides in-depth
 subject-specific knowledge and grounding on topics cutting across business disciplines. Once
 PGRs acquire the foundation training for their doctoral research and pass ‘confirmation exams’,
 they proceed to empirical and field research, data analysis and write-up. PGRs are considered
 junior academics and are an integral part of the School. Students can either write a traditional
 monograph or follow a three-paper dissertation model. Near to completion, they are provided
 with opportunities to attend professional development workshops in preparation for the academic
 job market.

 Following the reorganisation of the ESRC Doctoral Training Centres (DTCs), the University
 established a Doctoral College in December 2016 to support the development of PGRs and
 ECRs. The Doctoral College has been a partner institution in the South East DTC and member
 of the South East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS). It provides additional support to PGRs
 and supervisors such as training and facilitation of administration, including progress reviews
 and viva voce examinations. It launched its own competitive PGR studentship scheme in 2018.
 PGRs enrolling during this REF period included two who received competitive Doctoral College
 (launched 2018) studentships, 27 who received Faculty-sponsored studentships, and two who
 received ESRC-funded studentships covering a maintenance stipend (UKRI Rate £15,009 in
 2020) and/or tuition fees waiver (one of these was a CASE-style ESRC studentship co-funded
 by an industry partner). PGRs receive a £750 per annum research and mobility allowance for
 three years full-time (or part-time equivalent) for PhD related activity (e.g., conferences,
 fieldwork, additional equipment).

 PGRs are visible at the heart of SBS culture and thrive in the School’s environment as key
 researchers and future aspiring academic leaders. They make valuable contributions to research
 strategy and are actively involved in the research agendas of their supervisors. All PGRs are
 attached to an SBS Department according to disciplinary focus and supervisory team, engaging
 with departmental events including presenting in research seminars. PGRs can also be active

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 members of a Research Centre, providing further opportunities for collaboration and mentorship.
 PGRs often help to drive business engagement and impact strategy through empirical research
 with industry or collaborative projects with partners and outside organisations.

 The PhD programme is led by the PGR Director (Alexander), who sits on the Doctoral College
 Research Committee. PGRs have at least two supervisors, who receive mandatory supervision
 training, updated every three years. PGRs meet at least monthly with their supervisors, including
 monthly reporting on progress. At 12-18 months from their start date, PGRs undertake an oral
 assessment and submit a confirmation report assessed by two Internal Examiners who are not
 part of their supervisory team. Supervisors, Internal Examiners and viva/confirmation
 examination Panel Chairs undertake tailored Doctoral College training and refresher training. All
 academics eligible to supervise are expected to do so. PGR supervision is recognised within
 workload models and as part of promotion criteria. To facilitate ECR and mid-career researcher
 development, supervisory teams are encouraged to include an ECR or a mid-career researcher
 as a second or third supervisor.

 The SBS building contains physical spaces for formal and informal interaction between PGRs
 and faculty. Full-time PGRs have dedicated desks in shared offices. In addition to required
 modules, PGRs have access to over 300 Doctoral College professional development courses,
 training and seminars available to academics. PGRs contribute to the annual University PGR
 Conference, Faculty ‘Festival of Research’, ESRC advanced training workshops and residential
 PGR Summer School.

 Evidence of support for and promotion of equality and diversity

 SBS is dynamic and collegiate, with an international staff body representing over 19
 nationalities, and diverse knowledge and experiences that have benefited the School’s research
 activities and environment. SBS is committed to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) and in
 May 2020 was awarded the Athena SWAN Bronze Award after successfully carrying out a
 detailed self-assessment of EDI approaches, policies and activities. It is also committed to
 University participation in national schemes including Disability Confident, Race Equality Charter
 Mark and Stonewall Workplace Equality Index.

 SBS embeds EDI principles into its culture and workings in terms of policies and as an academic
 subject for research and teaching (e.g., Woodhams carried out extensive research on the
 gender pay gap on behalf of the UK Government Department of Health & Social Care). Staff
 organise regular research seminars addressing EDI. Information is shared about EDI training
 and staff contribute to University EDI policy work and are encouraged to take up leadership and
 other roles across the School, Faculty and wider University on equality initiatives and
 committees. Contributions are recognised in appraisals and workload (e.g., Di Domenico
 successfully led SBS’s Athena SWAN bronze award application; Heliot contributed to University
 EDI policy on student diversity, religion and wellbeing).

 SBS has specifically considered equality and diversity in its curation of the REF2021
 submission. Publications submitted by staff for potential inclusion in this submission were
 reviewed by internal and external assessors as part of an annual output review (AOR) exercise.
 Staff had the opportunity to nominate their top five publications which fed into the output
 selection process. Consistent with the University’s code of practice, output selection was
 conducted at UoA level output selection panel meetings attended by a member of the University
 REF2021 Team to ensure fair process and held in accordance with guidance set by the
 University’s REF2021 Team. Membership of output selection panels took account of the
 population characteristics of the UoA. All attendees completed bespoke REF2021 EDI and
 Unconscious Bias Training (UBT).

 SBS is committed to EDI in all processes including recruitment, retention, promotion,
 remuneration, training, and career development. For example, online UBT is mandatory for all
 staff and face-to-face UBT is mandatory for all staff involved in recruitment, disciplinary and

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promotion procedures. Recruitment adverts for new posts are prepared by staff who have
 completed UBT and Diversity in the Workplace training. Job purposes and advertisements are
 scrutinised to not bias certain groups or those with protected characteristics. All disabled
 candidates meeting the core competencies are offered an interview. Consideration is given to
 whether posts can be undertaken on reduced hours/flexibility/job share. Recruitment, short-
 listing and promotion panel members must complete diversity training and UBT, with panels
 having at least 25% of the minority gender. For senior posts, one panel member is from another
 academic department, adding a different perspective to decision-making. Appropriate support for
 all staff, including those with protected characteristics, is considered in all research and support
 processes including external funding applications, access to internal funds, conference
 attendance, sabbaticals and training.

 SBS promotes equality of opportunity. For example, the remote working policy has been
 expanded, offering more flexibility to colleagues to work from home where possible and
 desirable. To maximise inclusion and participation, meetings are scheduled within core hours
 (10am – 4pm). Occasional optional events may extend beyond core hours where unavoidable
 and notice is provided (virtual attendance is available). Wednesday afternoons tend to be
 preferred as no teaching is scheduled. The ‘Flexible Working Policy’ considers a wide range of
 arrangements, including part-time and/or term-time working, job-sharing, annualised hours and
 additional planned unpaid leave. In addition to part-time i.e., fractional FTE contract working
 (four SBS Category A eligible staff members were employed on fractional contracts as at the
 census date 31st July 2020), other flexible working arrangements are supported, including
 flexible scheduling of teaching hours as per the ‘Teaching Constraints Policy’. Policies allow for
 phased return to work following parental leave and teaching and/or administration loads are
 reduced for one semester to facilitate staff reaching their research targets. SBS supports staff
 returning after career breaks and, where practical, approves requests for transition from/to full-
 time or part-time roles. Academics returning from extended leave are eligible to apply for the
 Vice Chancellor’s Inclusion and Career Investment award for research (the Academic Returners’
 Award) worth £5,000. All staff, regardless of level of seniority, have the same access to research
 support and are eligible to apply for research (sabbatical) leave after five years’ service,
 irrespective of FTE.

 As well as adhering to University EDI policies, SBS implements local initiatives to enhance EDI,
 supporting staff and student wellbeing, fostering a culture of mutual respect and equality. From
 April 2019 the SBS ‘Wellbeing Champion’ role was introduced, comprising specially trained staff
 who promote wellbeing and enhance the relationship with the University’s Centre for Wellbeing
 (which supports the health and emotional wellbeing of staff and students). A wellbeing
 newsletter and dedicated ‘Wellbeing Noticeboard’ feature EDI news. Colleagues have free
 access to an anonymous, non-judgemental online environment providing 24/7 professional
 support from trained counsellors. Close links are held with the University Chaplaincy (e.g., Heliot
 is the School’s contact champion). 17 chaplains provide representation for those with faith, belief
 and non-belief who wish to avail themselves of their support, pastoral care or advocacy.

 Regular EDI events include annual SBS International Women’s Day events and the ‘SBS Athena
 SWAN annual lecture’ addressing career progression and women leaders in academe. SBS has
 events for LGBT History Month, Black History Month, Holocaust Memorial Day, Trans Memorial
 Day and Disability Awareness Week. Training and support are provided for staff and students
 including the Doctoral College’s disability and neurodiversity service for those with additional
 learning needs and other disabilities, mental health ‘first aid training’ to support PGR and ECR
 mental health, the ‘Rainbow Allies’ network enabling staff to show support for LBGTQI+
 colleagues, and anti-racism and LGBTQI+ awareness training.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 Income links to high quality research outputs and is considered vital for leveraging additional
 resources, increasing impact, developing collaborations, and enhancing team research. During
 this REF period SBS sought funding from a broad range of sources, earning £4.345 million in
 research income from sources including UK Research Councils, the European Commission,
 industry partners, and other public and charitable sector sources (£1.582 million research
 income was received over the previous REF2014 period).

 Income-generation is supported and encouraged. SBS strategy is to further grow research
 income which aligns with our thematic research strengths and priority areas. Moving forward, the
 aim will be to particularly increase income in targeted research areas such as digital economy
 where, since REF2014, the School has been especially successful in generating funding. Over
 this REF period, awards ranged from major projects involving multiple collaborators, to smaller
 awards enabling completion of individual investigations. The School has funding expertise
 reflecting its distinctive research strengths in areas including digital economy, business
 analytics, business transformation, leadership, quality of working life, sustainable
 innovation, and responsible management. SBS has been active in engaging with a range of
 bodies including charities, private corporations and the public sector (e.g. the Department of
 Health, NHS England, regional authorities and Surrey County Council). This enabled
 identification of how business and management research can help to drive agendas and
 generate impact as part of a process of strategic engagement with end-users and funders.

 Research income has been aligned with the strategic objective of developing more impactful
 research, achieved by working closely with industry and stakeholders at the outset and engaging
 in impact development planning throughout from the early stages of crafting funding bids.
 Examples of recent research income awards evidencing and reinforcing research themes and
 strategic priorities include, but are not limited to:

    -   2020 − £23,973 EPSRC (UK Manufacturing Symbiosis NetworkPlus grant) ROADS UK –
        Reimagining the Opportunities of Asphalt Development for Sustainability in the
        United Kingdom (Cole and Aitken)
    -   2018-20 − £843,000 (SBS £106,000) EPSRC funding as part of the dynamic, real time,
        on-demand personalisation for scaling (DROPS) project. DROPS examines privacy,
        trust and identity issues arising from the development of personalised e-books for
        children’s reading. DROPS utilises HAT (Hub of All Things) micro servers developed
        under £2 million of previous EPSRC grants. This fully scalable technology creates a
        decentralised person-owned database, providing individuals with data ownership,
        enabling reuse when interacting with websites and apps (Parry, with Warwick, Exeter
        and UCL).
    -   2018 − £82,927 (SBS £59,914) funding from the Department of Health and Social Care
        to research the gender pay gap in the NHS (Woodhams).
    -   2017-22 − £2.2m (SBS £86,000) EPSRC project to develop the next generation of
        ‘Trans-Disciplinary Design-Engineers’ with skills to realise the potential of current and
        future manufacturing processes and techniques (Parry, with Bath and Bristol).
    -   2017-20 − £1.9m (SBS £79,000) Optimising Me Manufacturing System (OMMS)
        EPSRC funding for developing a healthcare micro factory providing on-the-body
        therapeutics manufacturing (Parry, with Kent, UCL, Imperial, Cambridge and Bath).

 SBS received research income for, and amplified impact generated by, close collaboration with
 industry. These included consultancy (e.g., Gawer regularly consults for major international
 corporations on platform and ecosystem strategy), executive education which facilitated industry
 engagement and income (e.g., Benoit and other colleagues regularly engage businesses such
 as retailers and other organisations through executive education programmes), and Knowledge


                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) via UKRI (Innovate UK) in partnership with private, public and third
 sector organisations. Examples of KTPs and researchers include, but are not limited to:
        - 2019-2021 − KTP project with Basemap Ltd (grant amount £152,341) to develop a
            holistic logistics management routing software tool, enabling rapid entry/growth in the
            commercial electric transport market (Garn, Turner and colleague in Faculty of
            Engineering & Physical Sciences);
        - 2017-2020 − KTP project with William Medcalf Ltd (grant amount £151,121) to
            prepare for expansion, formalise a supply chain and embed new knowledge enabling
            deployment of cutting-edge techniques for vintage cars (Aitken and colleague in
            Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences);
        - 2015-2019 − KTP project with Surrey County Council (grant amount £113,490) to
            increase patronage of bus services by establishing new ways of identifying customer
            needs, behaviours and user-experience (Aitken, Garn);
        - 2016-2019 − KTP with Sustainable Homes Ltd., part of Hastoe Housing Association
            (grant amount £138,087) to build an advanced predictive tool providing improved
            business decision-making promoting sustainable living for the social housing sector
            (Garn and colleague in Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences);
        - 2013-2015 − KTP with the Royal Mail Group Ltd (grant amount £62,205) to transfer
            knowledge and capability of business analytics combined with swift even flow for
            optimisations and simulations of letter and parcel sorting processes (Aitken, Garn).

 Infrastructure and facilities

 SBS is located on the University’s main (Stag Hill) campus in Guildford and housed in a
 purpose-built facility comprising teaching rooms, a large lecture theatre, meeting and conference
 facilities, staff common rooms, self-catering facilities, interactive meeting spaces, offices, a
 cafeteria and a full-service restaurant.

 The University’s Research and Innovation Strategy is a key driver for supporting innovation
 through investment in infrastructure and facilities. This, together with local SBS support
 structures, enable vibrant research and innovation, ensuring facilities and processes incentivise
 research and impact activities. These include proactive bid identification through an ‘intention to
 bid’ process; internal bid peer review and audits for research quality and integrity management;
 dissemination of short-term government/third sector calls; dedicated bid development,
 technology transfer and partnerships teams; contract management; pre and post award
 administration; and annual output review (AOR) exercises involving internal and external expert
 reviewers providing a rigorous, independent system for output quality. There are seedcorn,
 conference, and impact pump priming funding; impact support and mentoring by the School
 Impact Lead; facilitation of interdisciplinary bidding; ECR mentoring by senior colleagues (bids
 and papers); and a workload system ensuring research-active staff are allocated teaching duties
 commensurate with career stage (see also section 2). The latter can involve teaching in only one
 semester, team-taught modules and sabbaticals. SBS employs teaching fellows who undertake
 the bulk of teaching administration.

 Infrastructure investment supports cultivation of high-quality research impact, income and
 outputs. Investment supports collaborative research through the interdisciplinary Business and
 Economics Experimental (USBEE) behavioural laboratory, providing computer and other spaces
 for experiments. Launched in 2019 and receiving capital investment for equipment and facilities
 of approx. £76,000 through University Research & Innovation Equipment CapEx Cross-Faculty
 funding (led by Cojuharenco) the USBEE lab facilitates world class experimental research in
 business, economics and other social science disciplines, promoting a vibrant research
 community. The USBEE Lab is SBS-based but open to all University staff and affiliated external
 members. It enables research including psychometric assessments, experimental design,
 hypothesis testing, project operationalisations, manipulations, quality checks, and data analysis.
 USBEE links to other facilities including the cross-faculty Digital Lab, a facility for next generation
 eye-tracking equipment. This joint infrastructure involves an SBS co-investigator (Cojuharenco)
 in collaboration with investigators in three other Schools and Departments (i.e., SBS, School of

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hospitality and Tourism Management, Department of Psychology, and the Centre for Vision,
 Speech and Signal Processing). USBEE and the Digital Lab form part of ongoing plans to form a
 University-wide Network for Behavioural Science. This demonstrates commitment to
 infrastructure and equipment investment, ensuring capacity for cross-faculty and external
 collaborations.

 Academics have individual offices with high quality IT facilities and online access to all key
 management journals. Servers and data security are regularly upgraded to meet research
 delivery and legislative requirements. Academic offices are physically co-located to ensure
 departmental colleagues have frequent interactions. Administrative support for research, HR,
 finance, marketing, events management, and IT is located within the Business School building.
 SBS has invested in a range of specialist research software packages for project management
 and data analysis. Staff have access to over 140 bibliographic and other online databases,
 42,000 subscribed e-journals, over 300,000 e-books, and extensive finance and accounting
 databases such as Bloomberg. Further resources include e-theses, audio-visual materials,
 special collections and unique archive collections.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Success indicators in collaboration as an integral part of the School’s research environment
 include partnerships and networks; collaborations with research users, beneficiaries and
 audiences; hosting prestigious conferences; joint publications with international co-authors from
 the UK, Europe, Asia, Australasia, Canada and the US; successful collaborative awards and
 grants; and exchanges with visiting scholars.

 Collaborations between and across disciplinary boundaries
 SBS nurtures interdisciplinary research. Collaborations are a pre-condition for most major
 funding awards and a source of intellectual stimulation. Strategies to build capabilities in income
 generation, particularly for converting small bids into larger bids, include a scheme providing
 pump priming grants. Reflecting the increasing importance of interdisciplinary research in
 gaining access to larger grants, research activities are directed towards stimulating large
 collaborative applications cutting across disciplinary boundaries, including outside SBS (e.g. the
 USBEE and the Digital Lab infrastructures as outlined in section 3).

 Funding is available from the School research budget for collaborative staff visits (UK and
 overseas). The University’s Research and Innovation Services provides set-up and ongoing
 support for collaborating institutions. Overlapping research interests with other disciplines
 include but are not restricted to: economic geography (Wood), business history (Alexander);
 sociology, business ethics and sustainability (Di Domenico; Matos; Sadler-Smith); tourism
 management (Di Domenico); sustainable management of extractive industries (Hilson) and of
 the natural environment (Castello Molina); psychology and work (Cohen-Chen; Cojuharenco;
 Dhensa-Kahlon); and international trade and economics (Carluccio). Newer recruits are
 extending these interests into fields including digital science (e.g., Jayawardhena; Parry;
 Vanhaverbeke).

 Successful major SBS collaborations during this REF period included, but are not restricted to,
 the HEFCE-funded ‘Innovation Gateway for Connected Digital Economy' project (with the 5G
 Innovation Centre and numerous industry partners). UKRI funded projects exploring Blockchain
 and Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLT) involved socio-technical projects contributed to by
 technical and social science disciplines across both the Faculty of Engineering and Physical
 Sciences (FEPS) and the Faculty of Arts and Social Science (FASS), including academics from
 CoDE, the SBS Research Centre of Digital Economy.

 The ALPHA (African Livestock Productivity and Health Advancement) Initiative was created in
 May 2017 following a $14.4 million, three-year co-funded grant awarded by the Bill & Melinda

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gates Foundation (BMGF) to Zoetis lnc., the largest global animal health company. CoDE
 partnered with Zoetis and the Veterinary Health Innovation Engine (vHive) Research Centre and
 start-up incubator working on new digital technologies in animal health. The partnership links
 new science in animal health to technological opportunities represented by the Internet of Things
 (IoT) and other advances.

 Collaborations with industry, research users and beneficiaries
 During this REF period researchers have collaborated with companies, public and third sector
 organisations such as with joint industry (CASE) PhD studentship co-funding, Knowledge
 Transfer Partnerships, consultancy, and with companies on the Surrey Research Park. SBS has
 a visiting scholar programme, with research visitors (staff and PGRs) hosted and engaging in
 joint research activities. Alumni take part in School activities, presenting guest lectures and
 enabling data collection and industry engagement. Alumni involvement in research activities is
 facilitated by the School’s Business Development and Advancement Manager and Business Co-
 ordinator. Researchers and PGRs engage with organisations for data collection, impact and
 research dissemination. This can involve co-designing projects with corporate, public or third
 sector partners to address research questions that maximise the potential for impact, as well as
 the facilitation of data access and resources by partner organisations. There are jointly funded
 collaborative agreements and sponsorships such as the PhD studentship CASE-style award co-
 funded by the ESRC (2013- 2016) in collaboration with UnLtd, The Foundation for Social
 Entrepreneurs, which addressed ageing and ‘later life’ social entrepreneurs (supervised and led
 by Di Domenico). Evidence of other research leadership and collaborative roles with industry
 and research beneficiaries include Parry’s Academic Directorship of HATLab, a coalition of
 academic and businesses working towards empowering individuals with digital rights
 https://www.hat-lab.org/ and Xiong’s non-executive Chairmanship of London-based innovation
 centre, Cocoon Global.

 Research partnerships, networks and conferences/contributions to sustainability of the discipline
 SBS engages in international partnerships. The University Global Partnership Network
 (UGPN) is a key strategic formal partnership network spanning four continents
 (https://ugpn.org/), aiming to develop sustainable world-class research, education and
 knowledge transfer. The collaborating universities are: University of Surrey, North Carolina State
 University, USA, University of São Paulo, Brazil, and University of Wollongong, Australia. Annual
 conferences foster joint collaborations and staff and PGR exchanges. In 2014 and 2018, the
 University of Surrey hosted the UGPN conference and in 2018 SBS academic Di Domenico led
 a major conference track on ‘Entrepreneurship and Economic Development’. SBS researchers
 contributed papers to that track and to a parallel ‘Digital Innovation and Applications’ track.

 SBS organises and hosts/co-hosts other regular prestigious conferences, with three to four
 international conferences and large-scale workshops held annually. Demonstrating SBS’s
 extensive international collaborations and esteem as a recognised leader of research at the
 forefront of the digital economy, in April 2018 it hosted the three-day Academy of Management
 (AOM) Specialised Conference on ‘Big Data and Managing in a Digital Economy’. It
 included the following Divisions and Interest Groups of the Academy of Management: Strategic
 Management (STR), Human Resources (HR), Management Consulting (MC), Organisational
 Behaviour (OB), Organisational Communication & Information Systems (OCIS), Organisation &
 Management Theory (OMT), Organisations & the Natural Environment (ONE), Social Issues in
 Management (SIM), Technology & Innovation Management (TIM). The conference was attended
 by over 350 delegates from more than 30 countries. Sponsors included Google Cloud Platform,
 Tableau, RAE (Journal of Business Management), MIT Press and SAGE Ocean. Keynote
 speakers included Paul Y Mang, Senior Advisor, Aon plc.; Cassie Kozyrkov, Google Chief
 Decision Intelligence Engineer; and Nuria Oliver, Director of Research in Data Science,
 Vodafone.

 Other examples of international research conferences and events hosted during this REF period
 include the 2018 Colloquium on European Research in Retailing (CERR), providing a high-
 profile platform for European retail researchers focusing on marketing and operations.

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Commencing in 2018, SBS’s Research Centre CoDE has co-hosted the annual ‘Regulation of
 AI’ International Workshop Symposium in collaboration with the Surrey Centre for Law and
 Philosophy. Sponsored by IBM, the annual interdisciplinary workshop includes academic and
 industry speakers addressing how artificial intelligence (AI) is changing business and
 professional services. It reinforces the AI@Surrey University interdisciplinary collaboration,
 bringing together world-leading expertise in AI research. Since 2016 SBS has supported the
 annual Extractive Industries for Development (Ex4Dev) international interdisciplinary
 workshop (https://ex4dev.com/), bringing together leading academics, expert practitioners and
 PGRs specialising in extractive industries and sustainable development.

 Collaboration success indicators also include the chairing and organisation of high-standing
 international special interest groups. For example, Massaro is a founding co-chair of the
 Academy of Management (AoM) Organizational Neuroscience Interest Group (NEU),
 established in March 2020. The Organizational Neuroscience (NEU) Interest Group is dedicated
 to using neuroscience knowledge and approaches at different levels in organisations, as well as
 promoting linkages to management practice.

 Academics co-author journal articles and books with esteemed collaborators across the UK,
 Europe, Asia, Australasia, Canada and the US. Examples include Wojakowski’s collaborator,
 Economics Nobel laureate Professor Robert Shiller (Yale University) and Gawer’s collaborators
 Michael Cusumano (MIT) and David Yoffie (Harvard Business School). In 2019 the latter
 resulted in the book The Business of Platforms: Strategy in the Age of Digital Competition,
 Innovation, and Power that was subsequently favourably reviewed in the New York Times.

 Collaborations to develop impact that have enriched the research environment
 SBS has an Advancement Manager dedicated to nurturing links with alumni and industry. The
 Advisory Board also provides industry expertise and collaboration. Organised through its
 Departments and Research Centres, each focusing on issues resonating with non-academic
 end-users, SBS has emphasised building critical mass to enable substantial and sustained
 academic and non-academic impact.

 Beyond the research impact captured in submitted impact case studies (see case summaries in
 section 1), additional evidence of collaborative contributions, activities and impact that enriched
 the research environment include:
     - A 2020 EPSRC Network+ grant in the Centre of Digital Economy (CoDE) brings together
        a multi-university academic team to develop Digitally Enhanced Advanced Services
        (DEAS) within the rail transport sector (total award £98,000). The team includes SBS,
        Henley Business School, Exeter Business School, the Institute for Future Transport and
        Cities at Coventry University, and industrial partner Thales UK (Parry).
     - The 2020 project “Promoting citizens’ health and well-being through a multi-level model
        of resilience amidst the Covid-19 pandemic” (awarded £11,552 seed funding by the
        University’s Lifelong Health Research Theme fund), with the LSE and Nottingham Trent
        University (Heliot).
     - Research on environmental sustainability and plastics with business partner RECOUP
        (RECycling of Used Plastics Ltd), a charity providing expertise across the plastics
        recycling value chain, examines how to improve communication effectiveness to reduce
        plastic pollution (by companies both in developing countries and the UK). AHRC funding
        was received in 2019 (£60,000) and a paper on plastic pollution and social media
        communication was published in 2019 in the Academy of Management Journal (AMJ)
        and reported in the Financial Times (24th Feb 2020) as a leading example of business
        school research having social impact (Castello Molina & collaborators).
     - Funded by the £82,927 (SBS £59,914) Department of Health and Social Care award,
        research on the NHS gender pay gap examined 10 years of staff data, including 16,000
        GPs and approximately 96,000 trust doctors. It showed that the doctors’ gender pay gap
        is 17% based on total pay, a large contributor to the overall 23% NHS pay gap. This work
        led to collaborative and stakeholder engagement events with end users including NHS
        management, doctor and consultant groups, and NHS Employers (Woodhams).

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   The Research impact project ‘Influencing and supporting religious identity in the NHS’
        was funded £11,000 in 2020 by the ESRC IAA (Impact Accelerator Award). Research
        was also commissioned by NHS employers (part of the NHS Confederation), the
        outcomes of which were disseminated in a report published in January 2020 on
        ‘Religious identity and working in the NHS’ and at two stakeholder engagement events
        attended by key NHS groups, practitioners and end-users (Heliot).
    -   Research into online harm and cyberbullying received funding from Amazon in 2019
        (£20,000) in partnership with Exeter Business School, Google, the Cybersecurity Institute
        (Spain) and the Alan Turing Institute. It aims to improve analysis and detection of online
        harm and advance debates on global internet challenges (Castello Molina and
        collaborators).

 Wider contributions to the research base, economy and society

 SBS engages with diverse communities and publics (locally, nationally and internationally)
 through research, including consultancy reports, for the public sector and industry. Annual
 agenda-setting sandpits and think-tanks are held with academics, industry, government and third
 sector participants. Staff research (e.g., Gawer; Parry; Zhou) is cited by UK government bodies
 and select committee reports including by the UK Parliament and House of Lords. Staff present,
 advise and provide evidence to government. For example, Zhou’s research into job quality has
 shaped UK and Welsh government policy. Gawer advises the European Commission on the
 regulation of online platforms as an expert member of the European Commission’s Observatory
 of the Online Platform Economy. She has also advised the UK Parliament House of Lords, the
 UK Government, and the OECD.

 Indicators of wider influence, contribution to, and recognition by the research base
 SBS’s responsiveness to national and international research priorities is evident, for example, in
 success with KTPs and grants through public, private and third sector funders. Research
 Centres are aligned with three ESRC strategic priority areas: ‘Productivity’ and ‘Climate Change’
 - reflecting the remit of the Research Centre for Social Innovation Management (CSIM), and
 ‘New Ways of Being in a Digital Age’ - reflecting the remit of the Research Centre of the Digital
 Economy (CoDE). Interdisciplinarity is threaded throughout research activities, both large and
 pilot projects.

 Influential activities contribute to the sustainability and vitality of business and management,
 enabling researchers to shape and influence agendas and future research directions for the
 discipline. Colleagues regularly chair, review for and are invited keynotes at national and
 international conferences (e.g., Academy of Management Meeting). Researchers host and give
 expert talks to global audiences. They contribute as Editors, Associate Editors, Consulting
 Editors and Special Issue Editors (including numerous Editorial Board memberships) of leading
 journals and review for book publishers e.g., Cambridge University Press, Elsevier, Kogan Page,
 MIT University Press, Oxford University Press, Pearson, Routledge/Taylor & Francis, Sage.

 Colleagues act as expert reviewers for 100+ business and management journals. Staff
 undertook significant journal editorial leadership roles for 21 international journals during this
 REF period as Editor-in-Chief, Associate or Consulting Editor. These include, but are not limited
 to, the following leading journals: Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology
 (Aryee: Consulting Editor); Business & Society (Castello Monlina: Associate Editor); Long Range
 Planning (Lawton: Associate Editor); International Journal of Management Reviews (Sadler-
 Smith: Consulting Editor); Journal of International Management (Rajwani: Associate Editor);
 Management Learning (Sadler-Smith: Editor-in-Chief then Consulting Editor); Technovation
 (Vanhaverbeke and Matos: Joint Editors-in-Chief); Gender, Work and Organization (Woodhams:
 Associate Editor).

 In addition, colleagues served as Editorial Board members for more than 50 international
 journals during this REF period, including for leading journals such as the British Journal of

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Management (Rajwani); Human Relations (Aryee); Industrial Marketing Management (Heirati);
 International Business Review (Lawton); Journal of Business Research (Benoit; Huo); Journal of
 Development Studies (Pal); Journal of Management (Aryee); Journal of Management Studies
 (Aryee); Journal of World Business (Rajwani); Long Range Planning (Rajwani); Psychology and
 Marketing (Benoit); Supply Chain Management: An International Journal (Aitken).

 During this REF period colleagues participated on grant committees, including UKRI Peer
 Review College panels. They also served as grant peer reviewers for ESRC (Alexander; Balse;
 Benoit; Cole; Pal; Parry; Rajwani; Wood; Woodhams; Zhou) and EPSRC (Parry). Colleagues
 reviewed for the British Academy Reviews Panel (Hilson); Medical Research Council (Eldabi;
 Rajwani); UKRI Global Challenges Research Fund (Balse); Innovate UK (Eldabi); Austrian
 Academy of Sciences (Floh); Netherlands Research Council for social sciences and humanities
 (Matos; Turner); Swiss National Science Foundation (Cohen-Chen); US National Science
 Foundation (Massaro); University Grants Commission, Hong Kong (Aryee); SSHRC - Social
 Science and Humanities Research Council, Canada (Aryee; Petmezas); Sloan Foundation
 (USA)/National Bureau of Economic Research (Gawer); Fulbright Core Scholar Selection
 Committee, Finland (Buchanan); German Research Foundation (DFG) Humanities and Social
 Sciences (Gawer); and Polish Scientific Research Council (Buchanan).

 Researchers offer expert commentary on news and current events. Social media and press
 releases communicate research findings to the public, end-users, general and specific
 audiences. A dedicated ‘social media influencer’ manages social media exposure. Research
 attracted global media attention including BBC, Sky, Channel 4 and other broadcasters and
 featured in the New York Times, Financial Times, Economist, The Wall Street Journal, The
 Guardian, The Times, The Conversation, The Wire Science and Times Higher Education
 (Castello; Cojuharenco; Gawer; Lawton; Pal; Parry; Rajwani). Research was also published in
 professional journals and highly-regarded industry-focused outlets including Forbes (Heliot;
 Parry; Sadler-Smith), People Management, published by the Chartered Institute of Personnel
 and Development (Heliot; Sadler-Smith); and foreign-language publications including French
 newspaper Le Monde (Zhou) and Danish newspaper Weekendavisen (Kreuzbauer).

 Colleagues contribute to discipline sustainability. SBS provides capacity building, recognising
 and resourcing contributions to the wider research base by senior colleagues and ECRs/PGRs.
 During this REF period research received recognition via prestigious prizes and awards.
 Examples include:
    -   Academy of Management (AoM) Conference, various years for Best Paper Awards/
        Proceedings or Best Paper Finalists (e.g., Benoit; Chu; Castello Molina; Gawer; Heliot;
        Hu; Massaro; Tavalaei; Tee; Zhou);
    -   2019 Abbie Griffin High Impact Award Winner for ‘the most influential article published in
        the past five years’ in the Journal of Product Innovation Management (JPIM) for the 2014
        paper “Industry Platforms and Ecosystem Innovation” (Gawer);
    -   2019 Emerald Literati Award Winner, 2018 paper “Modern slavery in supply chains: A
        secondary data analysis of detection, remediation, and disclosure”, Supply Chain
        Management: An International Journal (Cole);
    -   2019 & 2018 Best Paper Finalist EurOMA Conference (Cole);
    -   2018 British Academy of Management Conference Best Developmental Paper Awards
        (Parry; Tavalaei);
    -   2018 Best Paper nomination in corporate finance, European Financial Management
        Association (EFMA) Conference, Milan, Italy (Petmezas);
    -   2018 Best Paper nomination in Corporate Finance, European Financial Management
        Association Annual Conference (Karampatsas);
    -   Best Paper Awards from the Korean Society of Strategic Management Conference 2018
        and the Korean Academy of International Business Conference 2016 (Park);

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   2018 & 2017 Best Paper Awards, Journal of Services Marketing and Journal of Service
        Management 2019 Highly commended paper award (Benoit);
    -   2017 Highly commended paper awards by Editor of Supply Chain Management: An
        International Journal (Aitken and Garn; Parry);
    -   2017 & 2016 Best Paper Awards, Journal of Service Research (Benoit);
    -   2016 Best Paper Award: Strategic Management Society Conference (Tee);
    -   2016 Best Paper Award Behavioral Finance Working Group Conference, London
        (Buchanan);
    -   2016 Emerald Citation Award, 2013 paper ‘Corporate political activity: a literature review
        and research agenda,’ International Journal of Management Reviews (Lawton; Rajwani);
    -   2014 Monica M Lee Research Excellence Award, 2014 paper ‘HRD research and design
        science: recasting interventions as artefacts,’ Human Resource Development
        International (Sadler-Smith).




                                                                                           Page 20
