Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Greenwich

 Unit of Assessment: 8 - Chemistry

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 a) Overview

 Chemistry is a core constituent of the School of Science (SoS), part of the Faculty of
 Engineering and Science (FES), which also comprises Medway School of Pharmacy (MSoP),
 Natural Resources Institute (NRI) and School of Engineering (SoE). Greenwich returned under
 Chemistry (UoA8) for the first time in 2014, reflecting the expanding role chemistry plays across
 all the activities within the SoS. Importantly, chemical sciences underpin much of the Faculty's
 research activity spanning several subject disciplines, supporting interdisciplinarity and broader
 impact, as reflected in its staff being returned in UoAs 3, 6 and 8.

 We have improved performance since 2014 measured against common key metrics of research
 excellence (Table 1).

         Table 1: Improved performance in research excellence over the REF period.
        Metric                                                         % Increase over
                                                                       2014 (2021 figure)
        Scholarly outputs                                              78% (345)
        Field weighted citation impact                                 14%
        Outputs in the top 10% citation percentile (field-weighted, %) 35%
        PhD completions                                                8.5% (47)
        Research income                                                370% (£6.09M)
        Increase in research active staff under UoA8                   16.3% (17.2)


 Chemistry recruited 2 new research-active staff who are part of this submission and invested
 £2.13M in core analytical testing facilities and general infrastructure. Of particular note, is the
 near four-fold increased research income over the period, much of which is collaborative in
 nature. Several colleagues are active in multi-national consortia projects reflecting the unique
 contribution they bring to that research. To highlight this, in the following narrative, such activity
 will be presented in terms of total project values as well as that element retained at Greenwich.
 The total value of the entire research and enterprise project portfolio that UoA8 staff are
 engaged in is close to £15M.

 Our two impact case studies (ICS) (i) ‘Carbonation as a Circular Economic Solution: Innovating
 the waste management and the construction sectors through commercialisation of carbon-
 negative building aggregate’ (ICS-1) and (ii) ‘Pheromone Traps: Providing New Tools Across
 Europe for the Prevention of Spread of Pine Wood Nematode, an Invasive Disease of Pine
 Forests’ (ICS-2) show the significance of our chemistry research and its broad applications in
 areas of strategic national and global importance. Both ICS have received national recognition
 awards: ICS-1 was recognised in 2017 by the ‘Queen’s Award for Enterprise: Innovation’; while
 ICS-2 was part of the submission awarded the ‘Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and
 Further Education’ in 2019/20.

 Research continues to be organised through 3 research groups: (i) Pharmaceutical and
 Materials Sciences (ii) Biological, Medicinal and Synthetic Chemistry; and (iii)
 Chemometrics and Analysis. These have expanded over the REF period, creating a vibrant
 interdisciplinary environment spanning the interface of core (organic, analytical, physical,
 inorganic) and applied (pharmaceutical/materials science, computational modelling, medicinal)
 chemistry research, supported by well-equipped analytical and material characterisation
 laboratories. Within each of these 3 overarching groups, there are also cognate research sub-
 disciplines, which collectively has resulted in a wide spectrum of activities reflected in research

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 income, international collaborations, highly cited Q1 research articles, PhD supervisions, and
 impactful research with international reach and recognition.

 b) Research Strategy – progress since 2014

 The University’s Strategic Plan aims to "Enhance Science and Society Through Inspiring
 Research and Enterprise”. Based on this, the Faculty and Unit-level strategies set out several
 key objectives over this REF period including:

    •   develop the research staff base, such that more than 80% of staff with significant
        responsibility for research (SRR) were publishing at a minimum of 3* (based on annual
        internal reviews of outputs in preparation for REF).

    •   grow and expand our research groups, doubling research and enterprise income.

    •   substantially strengthen our links with industry, as a vehicle to drive impact.

    •   increase the number of registered postgraduate research (PGR) students and successful
        completions.


 Evidence of achieving these goals is:

    •   net growth in the unit size, through strategic new appointments at early and mid-career
        stages to ensure sustainability and promotions based on research excellence at
        associate professor/full professorial levels to drive research leadership.

    •   significant improvements in impact pathways in an academic sense - the quality and
        volume of output generation with outputs in journals such as ‘Angewandte Chemie’,
        ‘Carbon’, ‘Nature Catalysis’ and ‘Green Chemistry’, textbooks - as well as granted
        patents.

    •   implementing strategic, impact-orientated, collaborations against global challenge-
        orientated themes allied to relevant stakeholders and target groups, most succinctly
        evidenced by the portfolio of commercial partners e.g. Infineum, Unilever, Santas,
        Chevron, Shell, Pfizer, Akzonobel, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, GALVmed, Curadev,
        Mylan, Merck and agro-chemical companies resulting in research income >£5M, a
        significant proportion of the total research & enterprise income.

    •   developing interdisciplinary impact through pursuance of chemistry-based research
        through strategic collaborations and/or consortia internally and with other universities at
        international and national levels (section 4).

    •   investments in studentships through VC scholarships, strategic allocation of HEIF/QR
        funding and membership of the University Alliance Doctoral Training Alliance (UADTA)
        and the London Interdisciplinary Doctoral Programme (LIDO) to boost our PGR student
        numbers. Total HEIF and QR investment into UoA8 was £1.55M.


 Organisation

 Members being submitted to UoA8 for REF 2021 are placed into one of three professorially-led
 core research groups (group leader underlined), with several members working at the interface
 of more than one group. Furthermore, to reflect the breadth of interdisciplinary research themes
 and enhance the international and national reach/impact of our research, the three groups have



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 specialist sub-disciplines, centres of excellence and spin-out (consultancy) companies, most of
 which are industry facing.



 1. Pharmaceutical and Materials Sciences: Alexander, Antonijevic, Boateng, Coleman,
 Douroumis, Griffiths, Hills, Mitchell, Snowden.

 Research focuses on (i) pharmaceutical pre-formulation, advanced drug delivery systems
 (formulations and devices), pharmaceutical process engineering and analytical technologies,
 biomaterials for tissue regeneration and (ii) use of carbonation systems for land remediation.
 The group has won external grant income >£5M over the REF period.

 Preformulation, Process Engineering and Analytical Technology and Quality by Design

 Douroumis develops secondary continuous manufacturing using hot melt extrusion (HME)
 coupled with process analytical technology (PAT) tools and resulted in a recent KTP award
 (section 4) with Cubic Pharmaceuticals. He is also involved in developing targeted anticancer
 drug delivery systems and 3D printing technologies for medical devices (e.g.
 microneedles/stents) and personalised medicines, resulting in 2 granted patents and 2
 submitted. As Director of the Centre for Innovative Processing Engineering and Research
 (CIPER), Douroumis has extensive collaborations with industry/other universities funded by the
 EU and pharmaceutical companies such as Pfizer and Celgene (£754K, with overall total project
 value >£3M). Douroumis was among the top 2% (around top 100K) across all scientists and
 scientific disciplines globally, based on composite citation index. Griffiths’ research employs
 spectroscopic and neutron scattering methodologies to quantify complex structure-property
 relationships in commodity formulations (funded by Unilever and Infineum-£440K) and in drug
 delivery contexts (e.g. an €8.1M FP7 funded project with18 partners (academia/industry) spread
 over 11 EU countries entitled “Mucus Permeating Nanoparticulate Drug Delivery Systems”
 (Greenwich allocation-€472K). Mitchell - internationally recognised expert in pre-formulation
 sciences and Head of Medway Sciences (an early spin-out from SoS) – has generated
 significant income (£4.3M) through contract research undertaken for major pharmaceutical
 companies, including Mylan, Merck, Pfizer, and GSK. Snowden has research interests in the
 chemistry of microgels and their pharmaceutical applications and has industry-funded research
 in collaboration with Mitchell.

 Advanced Drug Delivery Systems and Biomaterials Linked with Tissue Regeneration

 Boateng researches (i) buccal delivery of large and small molecules to improve compliance in
 paediatric/geriatric patients, which resulted in a DFID funded (£18K) postdoctoral research
 project on formulations for treating malaria in children (<5 years) in line with UN Millennium/
 Sustainable Development Goals; (ii) developing nanocarriers for mucosal vaccines. Seven of his
 outputs in these areas are among the top 10% most cited publications in the field worldwide
 (SciVal); (iii) nanocarriers for optimising cellular output of complement regulators in hereditary
 angioedema (new VC scholarship collaboration between UoA8 and UoA3). Further work
 includes Boateng’s research in advanced biomaterial-based wound healing technologies for
 delivering actives (e.g. honey and growth factors) to wounds and 3D printing/bioprinting of
 bioactive scaffolds for tissue regeneration. These resulted in an invitation by Wiley to edit
 “Therapeutic Dressings and Wound Healing Applications” (February 2020). Six of his wound
 healing articles are in the top 10% most cited publications in this field worldwide, with 2 of these
 in the top 1% most cited (SciVal). Coleman applies inorganic expertise to biomaterials
 applications, including artificial cements for bone and teeth regeneration and prosthesis (gum
 and dental implants) and attracted funding (£55K) through collaborations with industry.

 Materials Science Engineering Linked to Land Remediation



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Carbonation research initially developed in SoS resulted in the formation of a spin-out company
 Carbon 8 Systems (C8S), (ICS-1). C8S novel CO2 mineralisation technology is world-leading
 and recognised in 2017 with ‘Queen’s Award for Enterprise: Innovation’. They were funded
 (€860K) by the EU for an INTERREG project “Sustainable Aggregate Production with Imbibed
 Carbon Dioxide (SAPICO2)” (2013-2015). C8S expanded to involve multi-disciplinary
 collaborations with the SoE and the founding of a new spin-out company, Carbon 8 Aggregates
 (C8A). In 2019, C8A became fully independent, operating under license from C8S and
 rebranded as OCO. The group is led by Hills, Director for the Centre for Contaminated Land
 Remediation and he is also a non-executive Research and Development Director of C8S.


 2. Biological, Medicinal and Synthetic Chemistry: Boateng, Dobbs, Everett, Farman, Lam
 (new staff), Leach, Mitchell, Pang

 Research focuses on the application of synthesised/natural molecules in agriculture, disease
 diagnosis, targeting, prediction and therapy and won grants totalling £650K.

 Biological Chemistry

 Metabonomics, Microbiome and Predicting Disease

 Everett - an internationally recognised expert in metabonomics, having co-conceived and co-
 defined the term with Nicholson (Murdoch University, formerly at Imperial College) - leads the
 Medway Metabonomics Unit with members from MSoP and other colleagues within SoS. The
 group has established high-profile collaborations, including NTU (Singapore), Murdoch
 University (Australia), Imperial College & UCL; he won £297K from various sources, including
 Wellcome Trust. A key output during the period concerned phenotype of a knockout mouse.
 Follow-on studies in collaboration with UCL led to the discovery of an anti-obesogenic agent
 (patent filing-2019), and the University is currently seeking to commercialise this compound. A
 second key output describes the discovery of the final biosynthetic step to taurine in humans.

 Computational Chemistry, Drug Targeting/Discovery

 Research focuses on the molecular mechanisms for disease and developing relevant therapies
 and achieved key outputs (patents, Q1 papers, strategic international/national collaborations),
 important for our future strategic plans. Leach, who specialises in the biochemical basis of
 neurological and immune-related diseases, is co-inventor of Pleneva (BGC20-0134; BTG
 International), which has reached Phase II clinical trials for multiple sclerosis. Research into the
 medical uses of triazine derivatives resulted in 12 patents, including: “HK1170726 (A1)2017-06-
 02 Cyclic triazo sodium channel blockers” (2017); and “Triazine derivatives as interferon gamma
 inhibitors” (2018). Pang’s computational chemistry research aims to elucidate fundamental
 mechanisms of enzyme activity and has gained EPSRC National Computational Facility access,
 and her expertise interfaces with other members, e.g. PhD supervision with Alexander and
 Dobbs.

 Medicinal and Synthetic Chemistry

 This is led by Dobbs and strengthened by the recent strategic appointment of Lam, which has
 resulted in excellent synergy between novel asymmetric synthesis and electrosynthetic
 chemistry respectively, coupled with the refurbishment of a new synthetic lab (£157K) equipped
 with modern facilities (section 3). Sustainability of the group has been reinforced by the recent
 appointment of two new ECR’s (Gale and Honey). Dobbs is a leading heterocyclic chemist with
 >£200K in grants for developing new synthetic methodologies. Other areas include novel nitro-
 containing heteroaromatics as potential anti-parasitic agents and developing anti-mesothelioma
 compounds funded by June Hancock Mesothelioma Research Fund (JHMRF) and British Lung
 Foundation (BLF). Lam’s research (activation of organic molecules using electrochemistry,
 medicinal electrochemistry, and electrocatalysed reduction of carbon dioxide) has demonstrated

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 rare interdisciplinarity and made significant contributions to disparate fields including catalysis
 and oncology with funding from EPSRC (Electrochemical generation of oxygen and nitrogen
 centred radicals) and Wellcome Trust (£300K).


 3. Chemometrics and Analysis: Alexander, Antonijevic, Everett, Farman, Griffiths, Pang,
 Wray, Zand, Zeinalipour-Yazdi

 Research covers critical fields of current social importance, including environment and
 sustainable global food security as outlined below:

 Petrochemical, Geochemical and Environmental Analyses

 Highlights in this area are exemplified by the work of Wray, founder and Technical Manager of
 the ISO 17025 accredited Analytical Services Laboratory (ASL) housed within the SoS, which
 offers advanced analytical facilities. Research focuses on inorganic elemental, isotopic and
 mineral analysis by ICP- and X-ray-based techniques for solving geochemical, forensic, and
 environmental challenges with an annual turnover of £200K. Over many years, research work
 has formed the basis for international collaborations with industry, most derived from the oil and
 gas industry, through a long-standing technology transfer collaboration with Hafren Scientific.
 Examples include mineral provenance studies using automated Raman spectroscopy and Pb-U
 isotope chronology of zircons in East Africa (Apache/BG/Shell-US$100K); NW Shelf of Australia
 (Apache Quadrant/Santas-US$400K); Greater Grand Banks of the North Atlantic (Hafren- £1M),
 which has established the largest source to sink mineral provenance database in the world for
 this active area of exploration and new development. ASL has also provided mineralogical,
 chemical, and rock evaluation studies to shale gas projects in the Permian Basin of Texas (USA)
 for clients including Chevron, Oxy, EOG (US$300K). These collaborations have also resulted in
 publications, e.g. implications for the paleoenvironmental conditions leading up to the Late
 Devonian Mass Extinction in terms of ocean chemistry and a co-funded PhD. A significant
 geochemical output involving national/international collaborators from Oxford, University of
 Washington, Curtin, Utrecht & Milan Universities presented and interpreted data from a globally
 important Late Cretaceous succession in which the rock record is interpreted to show elevated
 global temperatures, high sea levels and likely reduced oceanic circulation. Wray generated and
 interpreted the inorganic and rock evaluation chemical data.

 Renewable Energy, Catalysis, Sensors and Green Chemistry

 Work in this area is typified by Alexander and Zeinalipour-Yazdi’s research, in collaboration
 with the computational chemistry sub-group. Alexander’s research covers solar energy
 conversion, photocatalysis/renewable fuels, computational chemistry, modified surfaces for
 micro-array sensors and spectroscopic analysis of geological samples and been funded (£270K)
 and involved strategic collaborations with Wray and internationally recognised researchers in
 other fields. A key output resulted from collaboration with Australian and UK researchers,
 focusing on how the structure of a key peptide involved in Alzheimer disease and diabetes is
 influenced by interaction with nanomaterials’ surfaces, with clear societal impact. Zeinalipour-
 Yazdi’s research has resulted in important outputs, e.g. a Nature group paper demonstrating the
 ability of combined operando spectroscopy and density functional theory calculations to
 characterise a previously unidentified PdNx species, and how Pd catalysts support catalytic
 oxidation of NH3 to N2.

 Pharmaceutical Quality Control, Consumer Product Development and Analysis

 Antonijevic’s research using thermal (TSC, DSC, TGA) analytical techniques to study
 pharmaceutically important molecules has resulted in strategic collaborations with industry. His
 collaboration with Dermal Laboratories, who have a unit within SoS, has brought in
 approximately £714K in enterprise research income.


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Global Food Security and Nutrition

 This involves strategic collaborations with the NRI, an internationally recognised centre of
 excellence. Farman undertakes pheromone chemistry research for agricultural purposes (ICS-
 2), with significant external funding (£500K), from various sources such as Gates and McKnight
 Foundations. Farman’s research provided the first evidence that plant chemicals confer
 resistance to sweet potato weevils, and segregate with insect resistance based on field and
 laboratory studies. Plant chemicals can therefore be used as markers for resistance in potato for
 the first time and will accelerate the development of improved varieties in breeding programmes.
 This has substantial impact on improving food production in Africa and highly relevant to sweet
 potato production in the USA and worldwide. Zand’s research focuses on nutritional chemistry
 and developing new protocols for analytical based optimisations for nutritional quality of new
 food products. Her work is referenced in Public Health England advice documents on infant
 nutrition standards.


 c) Research Culture

 The Unit actively contributes to FES weekly research seminars with both internal and external
 speakers. All PGR students, postdoctoral fellows and Unit members are required to attend to
 keep up to date with current developments in their respective fields. Furthermore, to ensure
 strategic interdisciplinary research with other Units, our members participate in MSoP, and NRI
 seminar series and members have active collaborations with both entities, including joint
 supervision of PGR students and postdoctoral fellows. Each PGR supervisor holds regular
 research group meetings comprising academics, PGR students and postdoctoral fellows where
 each presents and answers questions about their research. This is supplemented by training
 and Three Minutes Thesis (3MT) competition implemented by the Greenwich Research and
 Enterprise Training Institute (RETI). The ECR forum within FES allows ECRs to discuss
 research and highlight for senior management, areas where further external training input and
 support are required. Research groups hold regular meetings to review research progress
 including evaluating targets/milestones set for internally allocated research funding, exploiting
 grant opportunities and growing our research impact, allowing a vibrant environment within the
 Unit and sustains vitality. We also contribute to the FES Public Lectures named ‘GREat Medway
 Talks’ and ‘Pint of Science’ which are designed to expose the surrounding Kent townships to the
 excellent research undertaken by UoA8 members and other FES researchers. In addition to
 supporting open access publication using allocated research group funds, we strictly adhere to
 open access requirements. All published work and PhD theses are deposited to our institutional
 literature archive and are freely available after the embargo periods. All ethical matters are
 initially scrutinised by Faculty Research Ethics Committee which can approve straightforward
 applications, while more complex applications are forwarded to the Central University Ethics
 Committee

 d) Impact Strategy

 The strategy to derive impact from UoA8 research has several connected threads;

    •   profile raising both at the level of the individual academic within- and of- an institution
        with ambitions to achieve a more research intensive environment.

    •   consolidation/diversification of external partnerships with a focus on addressing
        industry/societal problems and opportunities.

    •   an increased focus on the practical nature of our research and its ability to address
        global challenges,

    •   Patenting and licencing of knowledge and technologies, and where appropriate


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Developing impact pathways for key research portfolios including investment in
        knowledge exchange activities to support translation of research into impact e.g.
        appointment of a new Enterprise Business Manager.

 There is evidence of significant success in this strategy on which the UoA can build e.g. the level
 of funding from strategic partnerships with industry etc. (>£5 million); the work with GALVmed
 supporting overcoming livestock diseases in low and middle income countries, and the
 importance of licencing technologies in the impact pathways of the two case studies submitted
 partners.

 e) Specific Objectives for the Next REF Period

 The research strategy of the SoS and UoA8 is developed in tandem with the Faculty and
 University Research & Enterprise Committees. The Faculty committee is also guided by an
 external industrially-focused Advisory Board. Chemistry has ambitious targets and objectives:

    •   consolidate and expand the existing research groups and specialist centres including
        enhancing interdisciplinary collaborative research across FES and wider university.

    •   expand international collaborations - our international outlook informs the practical nature
        of our research and seeks to address global challenges that affect particular regions of
        the world e.g. (i) Dobbs’ synthesis of novel drugs to treat leishmania common in
        developing countries, (ii) Boateng’s DFID-funded collaboration with Ghanaian
        researchers that significantly improves compliance with antimalarial medication in African
        children (<5 years) to reduce fatalities. These fulfil UN Sustainable Development Goals,
        and we will expand this approach to other areas.

    •   develop researchers at all career stages in an inclusive and nurturing environment for
        sustainability of research capability and ensure succession planning (e.g. Lam has been
        supported with VC PhD studentships to help delivery on his EPSRC First Grant).

    •   exploit our research outputs and commercially supported projects to drive grant
        submissions in our core research themes and sub-groups.

    •   pursue an active programme of infrastructure enhancement, through laboratory
        refurbishment and a rolling programme of replacing capital equipment.

    •   drive research quality, interdisciplinarity and knowledge through the evolution of the
        groups into a cross-faculty impact-focussed Institute, in alignment with the University’s
        new strategy (2021-2030).



 2. People

 i) Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Staffing strategy within the SoS is structured to achieve equality and diversity of research
 themes/groups and protected characteristics and balance between ECRs and experienced
 researchers for effective succession planning and sustainability of the Unit. Subsequently,
 strategic academic appointments have been made to support, broaden, and enhance the key
 research areas in line with FES philosophy of ‘learning by doing’ and rewarding research
 excellence. The underlying theme of our staffing strategy has been the recruitment and
 development of well-rounded academics that recognise opportunities in research, research
 informed training/teaching and enterprise. In addition, it provides a supportive, and enabling
 environment for existing members to progress their research careers. This includes targeted


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research training and development and well-defined career progression through the Research
 Career Pathway.

 Staff undergo annual appraisals to celebrate achievement and facilitate career development and
 discuss individuals’ needs, including adjustments to workload via the Greenwich Balanced
 Academic Workload model. All academic staff with a minimum 20% allocation in their workload
 model are designated as having SRR. Appraisals help to evaluate and identify researchers for
 promotion, with several Unit members benefiting from this approach. The School was involved in
 Erasmus exchange scheme for all researchers during the REF period, offering the opportunity
 for knowledge exchange and seminars at partner institutions. The ‘Outside Inside’ inter-
 university scheme offers researchers the opportunity to gain work experience by undertaking a
 shadowing placement at a partner institution. Some examples of our staffing strategy and staff
 development are outlined below:
 Lam (Reader/Associate Professor: electrosynthetic chemistry); Castilla (Senior Lecturer:
 pharmaceutical sciences); Gonzo, Honey and Zeinalipour-Yazdi were recent appointments to
 strengthen our research environment and boost outputs (grant income/publications). Castilla,
 Gonzo, and Lam have been supported with VC PhD studentships to progress their research and
 mentoring support provided by Boateng and Dobbs.

 ii) Early Career Researchers and New Academic Staff

 Greenwich is a nurturing environment for early career appointees, as evidenced by a good
 record of successful awards in EPSRC First Grants. During the REF period, all eligible UoA8
 staff (4) were able to submit their EPSRC First Grant with 2 successful outcomes (Szilagyi 2015;
 Lam 2019). The School has been successful in attracting its first Marie Curie Individual
 Fellowship (Mittapalli) and has 3 additional independent research fellows, one of whom
 contributed towards our ICS-1. New and early career staff undergo a structured probation (1
 year) and supported in career development by the appointment of mentors, provision of PhD
 studentships and start-up funds, low teaching and administration loads for the first two years and
 meet with the Head of School every 4 months. RETI provides regular staff development to
 academic researchers; indeed, all research active staff are required to undertake refresher
 courses every three years. All academics and researchers new to supervision must attend the
 “Essential Training for Research Staff” courses to acquire the skills and knowledge required to
 effectively function as PGR supervisors. They also receive guidance on obtaining research
 funding, writing grant applications and publications.

 The SoS actively encourages career progression of all its researchers through effective
 mentoring. Several members who started their Greenwich careers as ECRs at AC2 have all
 progressed significantly through the mentoring system [Alexander (AC4), Antonijevic (AC4),
 Boateng (AC5), Coleman (AC3), Douroumis (AC5), Wray (AC5), Zand (AC4)]. The Unit
 strategically allocates PhD supervision roles and funded VC PhD scholarships (Alexander,
 Antonijevic, Boateng, Coleman, Dobbs, Douroumis, Everett, Griffiths, Lam, Pang, Zand),
 Research Group Funded PhDs (Boateng, Douroumis, Hills, Lam) as well as DTA PhD
 allocations (Dobbs, Lam). We organise these roles to enable ECRs to act as First Supervisor
 while experienced researchers act as co-supervisor and mentor. ECRs can also act as second
 supervisor on other PGR projects, observing effective supervision from experienced supervisors.

 To further strengthen our research staff base and provide more opportunities for ECRs, UoA8
 has successfully bid for internal (REF and HEIF) and external grants to recruit postdoctoral
 fellows who undertake specific programmes of research and provide day to day oversight for
 research teams led by Unit members. This includes being on supervisory teams for PGR
 students, contributing to a diverse and vibrant research environment. For example, 6
 postdoctoral fellows have supported Boateng and Douroumis to run CIPER and delivering
 important externally funded research projects (see below).


 iii) Research Students

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 An important aim of the REF 2014 strategy was to increase the number of doctoral students. In
 addition to various externally funded scholarships (RCUK, EU, industry, charities) Greenwich
 provided annual VC Scholarships (fees and maintenance) on a competitive basis (Table 2).
 Greenwich joined the UADTA which supports PhD students in two schemes (Biosciences and
 Energy), benefitting the School with additional PhD students. The Head of SoS (Dobbs) is also
 Director of the UADTA in Biosciences (2019-date). Greenwich has signed up to the new UADTA
 and was also invited to join the recently renewed BBSRC-funded Doctoral Programme (LIDO),
 which will provide additional students for the next REF period. These schemes mean high quality
 students continue to be recruited with many coming through our MChem and MSc
 Pharmaceutical Science /Formulation Science programmes. Since REF 2014, Chemistry has
 increased its overall number of PGR students with completion rates increasing by 8.5% from 43
 in 2014 to 47 (Table 2).

 Another key infrastructural change was the establishment of RETI, which oversees all aspects of
 PGR recruitment, supervision, PGR training, and progression, aided by the Faculty Research
 Degrees Committee (FRDC), chaired by Wray. All PGR students undergo a formal interview
 with a minimum of two research active academics, to determine their suitability for research at
 PhD level. Each student has a 1st and 2nd supervisor and in many interdisciplinary projects there
 is a 3rd external (academic or industrial) supervisor. Student progress is carefully monitored by
 FRDC via a series of report forms (6, 12, 24, 36 months). All students submit a transfer report
 and undertake an MPhil-PhD oral viva within 18 months, assessed by two research active
 academics independent of the supervisory team.

 Table 2: Total VC/DTA PGR Students and PhD Completions August 2013 – July 2020
  Year           2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Total
  VC/DTA            2       5        -       2        5        2        1       17
  Completions       6       7       11       2        5        6        10      47

 All 47 PhD graduates have either become successful academic researchers in several UK (e.g.
 Queens University Belfast, University of Strathclyde, Imperial College, De Montfort) and
 international (e.g. University of Texas at Austin, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and
 Technology (KNUST), Ghana, University of Napoli, Modern University of Science & Arts, Cairo)
 universities, or gone into research careers in industry (e.g. AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Bristol Myers
 Squib, Almac, Infineum and Novartis).

 The School funds one UK and one international conference for all PGR students, conditional on
 presenting at the meeting. UADTA students get additional training and placement opportunities
 provided by the UA and partner academic and industrial organisations. PGR students are
 represented on the Faculty Board. In addition, there are two dedicated Programme Leaders for
 MPhil/PhD (Lam) and MRes (Bartlett) students. Lam represents PGR students’ interests at
 FRDC, while Wray is the FES Representative on the University R&E Committee.

 iv) Equality and Diversity

 Greenwich is a signatory to the Concordat to support the career development of researchers.
 The SoS operates under Greenwich’s Equality and Diversity Policy, covering all aspects of
 university work, including appointments and promotions. This is aptly reflected in the SoS
 leadership team comprising Head of School (M), Deputy Head of School (F), 4 women
 (Teaching Leads (x2), Director of Enterprise (BAME), & Director of Admissions & Outreach) and
 Director of Research (M). Of the 18 staff being submitted to Chemistry, 3 are women, 3 are
 developing-country nationals, and 2 are British of BAME background. Boateng (BAME) is also
 Joint Lead (with the Head of Science) for UoA8 REF 2021 submission. Greenwich was awarded
 an Athena Swan Bronze award in 2013 and the Head of SoS is a former Chair of the University
 Athena Swan Committee. Greenwich also runs the Aurora programme for female staff
 considering future leadership roles. More female [Pecorino (2019), Bartlett (2020)] and BAME


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Boateng-2020) staff have been proactively encouraged and supported to apply for promotion to
 full Professorship and have been successful.

 All appointment panels for research fellows and academics with research roles, include
 members of both sexes and an external panel member, and have all undertaken EDI training. All
 senior staff undergo training concerning legal requirements around maternity/paternity/adoption
 leave and staff are made aware, via HR, of what leave is available. PGR supervision cover for
 members on maternity/adoption leave and paid ‘Keeping in Touch’ days are provided. The SoS
 also encourages continued research activity by Senior Emeritus staff, who have contributed >60
 papers, 5 PhD completions and raised over £489K research income during the REF period.
 Finally, staff are allowed working at home arrangements for writing grant applications and
 significant publications, which is particularly convenient for those with parental responsibilities.

 UoA8 has welcomed PGR students and postdoctoral fellows from all continents which has
 provided a rich diverse cultural environment. Of the 47 successful PhD completions, 38 (81%)
 were of BAME origin and 24 (51%) were female, reflecting the inclusive, international outlook
 and widening participation ethos of Greenwich which has enormously enhanced our research
 environment.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 i) Research Income

 The Unit won external grants with total project value around £15M (Greenwich allocation
 £6.09M, during the period, representing a significant (370%) increase over REF 2014 income
 (see Table 3 for selected highlights). To maintain a sustainable chemistry Unit, the School has
 acknowledged and adapted to changes in the funding landscape. Funding sources have been
 diversified, including EU, EPSRC, BBSRC, Innovate UK, DFID, industry (e.g. Pfizer, Merck,
 Celgene) and charities (e.g. Leverhulme, Wellcome Trust). The applied nature of most of our
 research has resulted in high levels of success with development, industry and enterprise grant
 income.


    Table 3: UoA8 Income (Greenwich Allocation) Based on Relevant HESA Categories
              Accrued (2020) from Different Funding Sources Compared to 2014
                    Income Source                     Total Income   Increase over
                                                       REF 2021        REF 2014
    UK-based charities (open competitive process)        £1.59M          £145K
    UK central government//local, health & hospital      £107K            £14K
    authority
    UK industry, commerce, public corporations           £1.24M          £578K
    EU government bodies                                 £1.17M          £981K
    Non-EU Industry, commerce & Public corps             £102K            £92K
    Non-EU Other                                         £798K           £797K
    Research income-in-kind                              £827K           £554K

 Selected highlights of external income are outlined below:

 Alexander has been funded to the tune of £270K including a KTP (£130K) with Chemostrat,
 involving automated analysis of heavy minerals for the oil industry and self-cleaning coatings in
 collaboration with Wray as part of technology transfer into the company. Alexander was granted
 beamtime at the ISIS Neutron beam for soft matter analysis and consultancy income from
 Raman microscopy analysis of heavy minerals. Dobbs received £178K for Marie Curie
 Postdoctoral Research Fellow (FP7-PEOPLE-IEF Scheme:2016-2018). Everett achieved grant
 income (£297K) including Wellcome Trust Pathfinder Award and Horizon Discovery. Antonijevic
 brought in industry-based income (£714K), involving characterisation of topical formulations for
 clinical effectiveness and user acceptance. Douroumis obtained funding from the EU and

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pharmaceutical companies (£754K) e.g. “3D Printing Platform” (Celgene Corporation, US);
 “Innovative MulticOmponent Drug dEsignINTERREG-2018; “Transdermal Microneedles for
 Insulin Delivery” (Science without Borders, Brazil). Boateng/Douroumis won an Innovate UK,
 KTP Award (£158K) in collaboration with Cubic Pharmaceuticals (Kent). Farman obtained
 research income including BBSRC (£146K), Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board
 (£175K) and DEFRA (£112K). Griffiths received external research funding approximating
 £440K, predominantly from major companies such as Akzonobel, GSK, Unilever and Infineum in
 addition to EU FP7 grant (€472K) noted in section 1 above. Hills accrued £192K in research and
 enterprise income including “Investigation of the Treatment of Incinerator Bottom Ash Fines by
 Accelerated Carbonation”. Lam obtained EPSRC funding (£260K) on ‘Electrochemical
 Generation of O and N Centred Radicals’ while Dobbs, Lam have won 3 UA Doctoral Training
 Alliance–PhD Scholarships (£130K). Mitchell, Snowden have obtained significant income
 £4.3M) through contract research for various pharmaceutical companies including Merck
 (£556K); GALVmed (£1.69M); Pfizer (£64K); Curadev (£100K); Mylan (£114K); and Merial Inc/BI
 (£1.8M). Wray, through ASL obtained £993K over the REF period, providing chemical and
 mineralogical data derived from advanced instrumental techniques to clients across petroleum,
 environmental and geotechnical disciplines based in the USA, Australia, UK, Africa and the
 Middle East. Zand, obtained income of £167K including: Innovate UK Smart Grant 2020, PhD
 research grants and consultancy projects.

 ii) Infrastructure and facilities

 The SoS and UoA8 infrastructure has benefitted from external grants and strategic investment
 from Greenwich to conduct cutting edge chemistry research, reflecting a research-intensive
 School. Since 2014, the University has spent a total of £2.13M on capital equipment (£1.75M)
 and infrastructure (£389K) projects in SoS.

 a) Core facilities

 The core facilities have been maintained and enhanced during the period. There is significant
 NMR provision (500MHz, 2 x 400MHz, 300MHz) for solution and solid-state studies with one
 400MHz machine replaced in 2020 (£325K) funded by the University. We have a mass
 spectrometry centre of excellence, containing 11 mass spectrometers, including single
 quadrupole, ion-trap, triple quadrupoles and MALDI-TOF machines and an Orbi-trap HRMS. The
 total investment in new equipment for the mass spectrometry centre during the period was
 £520K. A trace metal analysis facility comprising a WD- and ED-XRF, 2 ICP-OES and 2 ICP-MS
 instruments, one of which is coupled to a 213nm laser ablation solid sample introduction system
 forms are key components for our ISO 17025 accredited ASL. Others include benchtop IR, UV,
 circular dichroism, fluorescence and vibrational (Raman mapping/SERS) spectroscopies; and for
 interdisciplinary projects; X-ray diffraction, atomic force and electron microscopy (AFM, SEM).
 The SoS’s high quality research environment is supported by highly skilled and dedicated team
 of technicians (21 FTE), 5 of whom have PhD, who maintain all equipment and provide
 interpretation expertise.

 The SoS is supported by excellent library facilities, and Greenwich has supported UoA8 with
 increased investment (£2.12M) in facilities, including access to all the major chemistry related
 journal publishers (Science Direct, RSC Gold, Wiley) and databases (Reaxys, Scopus, Web of
 Science), supplemented with IT provision including statistical tools such as MATLAB, SPSS,
 Origin and Sigma Plot and a ChemDraw site licence.

 b) Research group specific facilities

 Pharmaceutical/Materials Sciences: Specialised facilities for pharmaceutical/materials
 analyses, include LC-MS/GC-MS, HPLC (9 instruments) and GC (5 instruments) laboratories;
 two Nanosurf EasyScan atomic force microscopes, two Malvern Zetasizer Nano ZS for
 measuring size and zeta potential of colloids and nanoparticles/proteins. The group hosts CIPER
 which has extensive international collaborations through EU funded projects (e.g. AMPTEC and

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 IMODE (INTERREG 2 seas). CIPER houses advanced state of the art formulation technologies
 including hot melt extruders (x2), freeze-dryers (x3), spray dryer, texture analysers (x2), 3D
 printers/bioprinters (x13), Franz cells and automated industrial tabletting machine. Others (flow
 through USP dissolution baths, powder testing machine and a rheometer) were donations from
 Colorcon (Darford) through their collaboration with Boateng. Griffiths uses scattering and
 spectroscopy to characterise hierarchically organised materials and has access to a 400 MHz
 NMR spectrometer customised for conducting electrophoretic mobility and diffusion
 measurements, and a prototype solvent relaxation benchtop NMR spectrometer which are
 deployed in combination with the world-class neutron scattering facilities through STFC (ISIS
 and ILL) (£720K in-kind contribution).

 Biological and Medicinal Chemistry: A new synthetic chemistry lab (£157K) was developed in
 2018 (Dobbs, Lam). This is fully equipped with all the tools for synthetic chemistry, including, a
 glove box, ultrahigh speed potentiostat, CombiFlash automatic chromatographic purification
 system (x2), and Microwave reactor. In 2019, IKA provided electrochemical/electrosynthesis
 suite of equipment containing 10xElectrsyn 2.0 (£39K) and associated electrodes. The group
 has unrestricted access to a state-of-the-art LSM880 confocal microscope with airyscan and a
 Tutting edge electrophysiology rig, which was a £400K capital investment by Greenwich with
 further benefit for other members (Boateng, Douroumis), resulting in significant outputs, and
 impactful externally funded collaborative research with other Units (UoA3, UoA6). Key areas
 include ‘Printing of Tissue Engineered Scaffolds for Wound Healing and Skin Regeneration’, and
 ‘Microneedles in Drug Delivery Through Skin Cells’. The ‘tissue culture and parasitology
 research laboratory, funded by FES is the only CAT 2 laboratory at Greenwich, equipped with an
 Accuri C6+ Flow cytometer for cell analyses and an ultramicrotome for preparing biological
 samples for SEM, and serves various research groups within UoA8 (Boateng, Dobbs,
 Douroumis, Lam).

 Chemometrics and Analysis: Greenwich strongly supports computational research
 (Alexander, Pang, Zeinalipour-Yazdi) through the provision of a local High Performance
 Computing (HPC) facility (ca £400K) based on a 64-bit Centos 7 Linux operating system,
 comprising 1150 processing cores, including 48 compute nodes, each with 20 CPU cores
 (2.4GHz, 128GB DDR4 RAM) for molecular modelling research. The group also has DSC, HSM,
 TGA, cone and plate rheometers (x2), and advanced FTIR/Raman mapping capabilities, which
 serves collaborative research with the Pharmaceutical/Material Sciences research group.


 iii) Future investments

 The secure financial position within the Faculty and University means that a future funding
 strategy will build on enhancing our research infrastructure and facilities over the next period,
 complimented by external capital grant income. These include continuing the rolling programme
 of laboratory refurbishments (3-5 years); an update of at least one of the ageing core analytical
 instruments e.g. plans for one new NMR machine and Research England World Class
 Laboratory Fund from which SoS will gain £94K to part fund a triple quad ICP-MS.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Greenwich’s core research vision (section 1) is embedded through all our research activities.

 (i) Collaborations

 The SoS has been designed to remove barriers and to facilitate interdisciplinary research. UoA8
 demonstrates excellent collaborations with international, national and local partners alongside
 demonstratable impact/pathways to impact. This is clearly evidenced by the number (1011) of
 collaborative articles (Table 4) over the REF period, involving industrial, academic and clinical
 partnerships as well collaborative grant income (section 3).


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Table 4: Number of Co-authored Publications 2014-20 by Research Group and
                                       Collaboration Type
    Research Group                              International National   Institutional
    Pharmaceutical/Materials Sciences                178        162           172
    Biological and Medicinal Chemistry                67        72             22
    Chemometrics and Analysis                        161        103            74



 Key and impactful collaborations of UoA8 are briefly outlined below.

 Pharmaceutical/Materials Sciences

 Boateng’s collaborations with Ayensu, (KNUST, Ghana), on ‘Novel Antimalarial Paediatric
 Formulations’ resulted in a DFID-funded postdoctoral fellowship (2018) and being progressed for
 phase 1 clinical trials in collaboration with the School of Medical Sciences, KNUST and a
 Ghanaian pharmaceutical company. Collaboration on ‘Antimicrobial Dressings for Wound
 Healing and Tackling Biofilms in wounds’ with Debrah (University of Ghana), resulted in a 2019
 article. Coleman’s collaboration with FORZA Industries Ltd on food supplements and medical
 devices resulted in external income (£55K). Douroumis’ collaboration with Uddin (BRAC
 University, Bangladesh) and Lamprou (Queens University Belfast) resulted in a key output on
 intradermal insulin delivery. Boateng and Douroumis collaboration with Lille 1&2 University and
 Lamprou resulted in a second article on insulin skin delivery while their collaboration with Cubic
 Pharmaceuticals resulted in an Innovate UK KTP (see above). Hills is a Director of the
 University spin-out company Carbon8Systems. Mitchell and Snowden’s collaborations with
 world leading pharmaceutical industries resulted in significant research income (section 3),
 publications, patents, and commercial products.

 Biological and Medicinal Chemistry

 Dobbs hosted a CASE award with AstraZeneca and fully funded postdoctoral research fellow
 from GSK on butylrubber oligomers. He collaborates with Szlosarek (Bart's Hospital)
 investigating anti-mesothelioma compounds funded by JHMRF and BLF. Everett collaborates
 with Nicholson (Murdoch University), yielding several patents and publication [(e.g. on Metabolic
 Phenotyping. His collaboration with Shephard (UCL), on therapeutics for lowering plasma
 cholesterol and weight gain, resulted in Wellcome Trust Pathfinder and UCL TAS Fund Awards.
 Farman works extensively with partners in the horticulture sector. Lam’s collaborations with
 several universities have resulted in significant publications: (i) Zaitsev, Moscow State University
 on aryl oligogermanes; (ii) Geiger, University of Vermont (USA) on ethynylferrocene; (iii) Hilton
 UCL on electrochemical methoxymethylation. Lam actively collaborates with GSK, Johnson &
 Johnson (Belgium, Spain) developing novel electrosynthesis methodologies for drug synthesis.
 Pang has several international and national collaborations including Lange, Alborg University,
 Denmark employing molecular dynamics simulations.


 Chemometrics and Analysis

 Alexander has significant publications from collaborating with Stephens, a Biomedical
 Materials Scientist (Imperial College London), Taillefumier (Universite Blaise Pascal),
 Hjelmgaard (Technical Unitesrity Denmark) and Guilliano Sgiligardi (Diamond Light Source).
 Antonijevic’s collaboration with Dermal Laboratories on formulation product design resulted in
 key open access publication and research income (£714K) as noted above. Griffiths has an
 extensive network of collaborators including funding industries outlined above and hosted 3-5
 Erasmus researchers annually. Wray’s international collaborations with several petrochemical
 companies and universities (e.g. Oxford University) has resulted in significant income (sections 1
 and 3) and research outputs. Zand is a Member of the Joint Research organisation of NHS


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 South East Trust and developed strategic collaborations around healthy baby foods especially in
 Kent, illustrating the social impact of our research.


 ii) Leadership and Recognition in the Academic Community

 Research achievements of staff have been recognised by the award of prizes, invitations,
 election to leadership roles (nationally/internationally) and other indicators of esteem as
 summarised in Table 5 below and supported by selected highlights.

 a) Exemplars of leadership positions in learned societies/professional bodies/international
 committees

 Antonijevic (Vice Chair, RSC Thermal Methods Group; Boateng (Evaluator Panel Member,
 Czech Academy of Sciences-2020, the Czech equivalent of REF); Dobbs (Secretary &
 Treasurer RSC Heterocyclic & Synthesis Group (2011-15), RSC Organic Division Council (2013)
 & RSC Admissions Committee (2016-2022); Committee Member International Society of
 Heterocyclic Chemistry (2019-2022); Douroumis (Member, Board of Academy of
 Pharmaceutical Sciences (APS) of GB and Ireland (2014-2015), Everett (Member, Metabolite
 Identification Working Group and served on Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) expert panels
 deciding on grant awards approximating €44M); Griffiths (Chairperson, Society of Chemical
 Industry Rideal Trust and ISIS Faculty Access Panel 8 (SANS); Leach (Member, Royal Society
 of Medicine's Clinical Neuroscience section); Pang (Committee Member Molecular Graphics and
 Modelling Society); Wray (Custodian Trustee-2017-date and, Vice President (appointed 2020) of
 the Mineralogical Society of GB and Ireland); Zand (Member, Research Award Board of Coeliac
 UK).


                          Table 5: Summary of Members’ Recognition
                                                                                     Count
      Exemplars of leadership in the academic community, learned societies,          >20
      professional bodies
      Conferences organised or chaired                                               >13
      Plenary/invited keynote lectures                                               >100
      Fellowships                                                                    >20
      Journal editorial advisory board membership, national and international        >20
      advisory boards/committees
      Refereeing academic publications or research proposals                         >200


 b) Prizes/Awards

 Dobbs, (RSC Inspirational Member Prize Award 2015); Douroumis (APS Outstanding Scientific
 Contribution Award 2017); AAPS Pharmaceutical Research Meritorious Manuscript Award
 (2020); Lam (Thieme Journals Award 2019).


 c) Organisation of major international scientific meetings

 Examples include: Douroumis, Mitchell, Snowden (10th APS PharmSci Conference,
 Greenwich 2019); Snowden was elected Science Chair for the 11 th APS Conference in 2020.
 Boateng (Organising Committee Member-International Conference and Exhibition on
 Pharmaceutics and Nanotechnology, London 2018); Dobbs (Organising Secretary and
 Chairperson, 22nd RSC Grasmere Heterocyclic Chemistry Symposium 2015); Griffiths (UK
 Colloids 2017, 2021); Pang (MGMS Young Modellers Forum 2015-date)



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 d) Invited/plenary lectures/session chair roles

 The Unit’s members have given over 100 invited/plenary lectures over the REF period at
 international conferences and taken chairing roles (>20) in conferences including:

 Boateng (International Conference on Pharmaceutics and Nanotechnology, London, 2018);
 Coleman (ICDP Surtsey Workshop, Iceland, 2014); Dobbs (>10 plenaries, e.g. International
 Society of Heterocyclic Chemistry Conference, Japan 2019); Douroumis (chaired over 5
 sessions and delivered more than 30 plenaries/keynotes e.g. Controlled Release Society Annual
 Meeting, Seattle, USA 2016); Everett (20 keynotes, e.g. “R & D Innovation Leaders Forum, Next
 Level Life Sciences, Basel, Switzerland 2020); Lam, delivered over 20 plenaries/keynotes e.g.
 (ACS Meeting San in Francisco 2020, GSK meeting on Electrosynthesis for Drug Discovery
 2019, Stevenage, UK); Pang, (EPSRC UK National Service for Computational Chemistry
 Software (NSCCS) user meetings (2014-2015); Zand (Food Innovation Asia Conference,
 Bangkok 2018), Chaired session at Food Matters Lives, London 2014).


 e) Visiting professorships

 Many staff have had visiting academic positions during the period, including Antonijevic
 (Faculty of Pharmacy, University Business Academy, Novi Sad, Serbia); Boateng [KNUST
 (2014-date) and University of Ghana (2013-2014), both in Ghana)], Everett (Imperial College
 and NTU, Singapore). These have achieved social impact, through research capacity building
 especially in developing countries, thus fulfilling UN sustainable and millennium development
 goals.


 f) Editorial roles

 Members act as journal editors or editorial board members and exemplars include: Alexander
 (Journal of Chemistry); Antonijevic (Journal of Mining and Metallurgy); Boateng (Journal of
 Pharmaceutical Sciences; Polymers), Coleman (Prosthesis; Crystals, Journal of Composites
 Science), Dobbs (Molecules); Douroumis (Advances in Pharmaceutical Technology; Journal of
 Nanomedicine and Nanotechnology); Everett (Metabolites); Griffiths (Polymers); Pang (Journal
 of Algorithms and Computational Technology; Journal Frontiers in Chemistry); Zand (Journal of
 Pharmacy and Nutrition).


 (g) Refereeing academic publications or research proposals

 The international profile of our members is shown by reviewing for high profile scientific journals
 and major funding bodies, with selected highlights of reviewing for funding bodies outlined
 below.
 Alexander (Polish National Science Foundation); Boateng (BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC, Danish &
 Polish Science Foundations); Dobbs (EPSRC); Coleman (Estonian Research Council);
 Douroumis (BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC, UKRI, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft); Lam (EPSRC,
 UKRI, French & Austrian Ministries of Science); Pang (BBSRC, EPSRC).


 (h) Fellowships

 Antonijevic, Alexander, Coleman, Dobbs, Everett, Griffiths, Hills, Pang, Wray (Fellows of
 the RSC); Boateng, Mitchell (Fellows) & Douroumis, Snowden (Eminent Fellows) of APS;
 Leach (Fellow, Royal Society of Medicine); Hills, Wray (Fellow, Geological Society of London);
 Zand is Fellow, Institute of Food Science & Technology and has listed chartered status. The
 SoS also has two Principal Fellows (including Snowden) and three Senior Fellows of the Higher
 Education Academy.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (i) Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training

 Antonijevic has been funded extensively to provide research capacity building to several
 universities in Serbia including training of PGR students; Boateng’s Visiting Professorship at
 KNUST and University of Ghana provides direct PhD supervision, training and expert advice on
 developing effective PGR programmes. Four PGRs have successfully graduated and another
 postdoctoral research fellow successfully trained and co-supervised 2 other PGR students at
 KNUST; Boateng received DFID development funding for: “Novel Antimalarial Formulations for
 Paediatric Patients in Ghana” (£18K) and “Testing of Phosphonium Salts” with Dobbs (£27K) in
 collaboration with KNUST. Boateng, Dobbs, Getti’s collaboration with KNUST researchers
 resulted in a prestigious Royal Society Exchange Grant in 2018 (£27K) to expand PGR training
 and setting up of a drug testing laboratory in Ghana, resulting in an externally funded DTA PhD
 studentship (2018). Dobbs is Director of the UADTA in Applied Biosciences; Everett is Visiting
 Professor at Imperial College School of Medicine (2014-date) and Lee Kong Chian School of
 Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (2016-2019), supporting PGR training
 and development.


 (iii) Relationships with research users, beneficiaries of our research, audiences

 UoA8 maintains active relationships with key research users and beneficiaries including patients,
 and chemical/pharmaceutical companies. Selected highlights are outlined below.
 Antonijevic works extensively with Dermal Laboratories as consultant and resulted in
 rebranding formulation improvement which is currently on the market. Boateng provided
 consultancy (£10K) expertise to NDR Ltd, helping to develop and optimise a sublingual delivery
 system for their proprietary peptide for subsequent clinical trials. CIPER, through Boateng,
 Douroumis’ research is a key partner in interdisciplinary networks in pharmaceutical materials
 sciences, pharmaceutical processing engineering and biomedical sciences and makes
 significant contribution to international priorities such as “Technological & Social Innovation”
 including marketed products. For example, relationship with Cubic Pharmaceuticals resulted in a
 KTP Award (£158K) (2019) to support the transfer and embedding of CIPER generated research
 knowledge, within the company over 18–24 months. CIPER provides consultancy and support
 for other pharmaceutical companies, including Celgene, Fuji Chemicals and Pfizer. Boateng,
 Douroumis also supervise an employee of Gamlen Ltd (tabletting machine company) for a PhD,
 to enhance the company’s skills base for expansion. Everett was Acting Director of the
 Singapore Phenome Centre at Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological
 University-NTU (2016-2018) and generated significant outputs including (i) Virus-induced
 cancer: translational oncology research and Immunology Consortium-VICTORY, with NTU,
 Singapore) for OF-LCG May 2017 Grant Call, £200K (2018); (ii) Precision Medicine in
 Hepatocellular Carcinoma, Singapore Clinician Scientist Award - National Medical Research
 Council, £484K (2017). Griffiths undertakes research for various companies (e.g. Akzonobel,
 GSK, Unilever and Infineum); Mitchell and Snowden undertake contract research and product
 development for various companies including Merck, GSK, GALVmed, Mylan and Pfizer; Wray
 through ASL has provided geochemical input into oil and gas projects from the Middle East, SE
 Asia, Norway, and Africa. Clients include PDO, BG, BHP, Chevron, Murphy, Shell, CNNOC,
 Husky, COP, Oxy, Santas, Beach. Zand is Food Standard Agency registered specialist and
 frequently contributed to several food-related projects, including “Good Food in Greenwich
 (GFIG)”, “Eating Well: First Year of Life Practical Guide”, published by the Caroline Walker Trust
 and “Baby Food in the UK”.




                                                                                           Page 16
