Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: UoA14 Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


  UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE

  The Critical and Creative Geographies (CCG) research group, comprising all human
  geographers and GIS researchers at the University of Leicester (UoL), forms our UoA14
  submission. CCG has an outstanding reputation for excellence in critical research, which
  questions established theorisations and looks at the world in innovative ways. Our research
  addresses substantive research questions across many sub-disciplines of geography; what
  unites it is this critical perspective, the application of creative methodologies, and a commitment
  to using our research to support progressive social change through formal policy channels,
  community empowerment, and activist-scholarship.


  Highlights include:

        Lees’s international, agenda-setting work on gentrification and policy interventions to
         defend low-income groups against displacement. Her Planetary Gentrification (2016)
         [Output 1] was lauded as ‘Theoretically inspirational…an excellent role model to show
         how critical comparative studies can be done for fruitful knowledge production’ (Lin
         2016).
        Brown’s significant contributions both to the conceptual and public understanding of
         the international anti-apartheid movement. His book Youth Activism and Solidarity
         (2017) [Output 1] has been commended for framing ‘lessons of that campaign … to
         more effectively and equitably organise solidarity in new contexts’ (Kelliher 2018).
        Gulliver leads the only dedicated environmental noise and health team in the UK. The
         Centre for Environmental Health & Sustainability (CEHS: established in 2018 with an
         institutional investment of £5M), of which he is Deputy Director has attracted grants
         worth £1.5M in just 2 years. This includes Gulliver’s £515k EU grant for the ‘Equal-
         Life’ project, which is developing a novel approach to multi-modal environmental
         exposures on children’s mental health and development.
        Securing £3.17M of research funding and publishing 211 outputs which have been
         cited 3102 times (SciVal) with 14.5FTE members.


 Since REF2014, Geography merged into the School of Geography, Geology and the
 Environment (SGGE). The CCG group, currently led by Brown, is one of SGGE’s four
 research groups. Our modus operandi is to be democratic (staff, ECRs and PGRs are seen as
 equal, we manage ourselves horizontally), visionary (both as academic and public
 geographers) and transformational (using our work to better society). Our workshops and
 weekly seminar series invite (inter)national speakers to inspire new lines of enquiry and grow
 collaborations.

 We have created a supportive, inclusive, and collegial environment that fosters intellectual
 curiosity and inspires researchers to pursue novel and societally-relevant research. This has
 enabled a track record of setting research agendas internationally in three key fields:


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gentrification and housing justice, critical environmental futures, and global sexualities
 and migration. Here the CCG group is positioned at the forefront of critical human
 geography’s concerns with inequality, social justice and liberation.


 RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

 Revision of REF2014 aims
 In REF2014, we stated that our strategic priorities were the:

         development of cutting-edge theory in urban, rural and cultural geographies -
         from local communities to global environmental challenges; developing the next
         generation of geographic information science, geospatial analysis methods and
         remote sensing applications from forthcoming space missions.

  We have achieved these ambitions, but also refined the focus of our research priorities, in the
  light of opportunities afforded by the formation of SGGE, staff changes, and our dynamic
  responses to the research funding landscape. We increased research income per FTE,
  improved recruitment of funded PGRs and postdocs, improved output quality and developed
  the key intellectual strengths of the group. In our commitment to urban and rural geography,
  we have built a larger cluster of researchers investigating gentrification and housing
  justice. We have begun to grow a team capitalising on Brown’s international leadership in
  geographies of sexualities and we have led on the prioritisation of interdisciplinary migration
  research across the University. In alignment with the School’s strategy, our critical
  environmental futures team have driven innovative research collaborations with ecologists,
  earth observation (EO) scientists, geologists, and public health researchers. By focusing on
  these strengths, we have built a more vital and sustainable research environment that
  integrates impact and public engagement into our research.

  Vision and strategy
  Our research vision is to deliver high-quality, theoretically-sophisticated, empirically-rich
  research addressing substantial societal challenges that can have meaningful impact,
  creating positive social change. To achieve this, our strategy is to:
         Further-develop our research strengths in gentrification and housing justice,
          critical environmental futures, and global sexualities and migration and to deliver
          impact in these areas.
         Recruit and support outstanding staff by prioritising investment in existing and
          emergent research strengths.
         Recruit and develop outstanding PGRs, and to support early-career staff to supervise
          them.
         Apply for larger grants from research councils and charities, but also continue to
          diversify and increase our research funding portfolio by using local seedcorn-funding
          schemes to build larger discipline-specific and interdisciplinary teams that then
          underpin proposals for more substantial external funding.


  Developing Impact
  Our research has had major impact at a local, national and international scale, through
  collaborations with policy-makers, businesses, NGOs and community groups. It has


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  contributed to the University’s position in the top 3% in the Times Higher Education World
  Impact Rankings 2020. Research by Gulliver, Matulis, and Upton contributed to UoL’s
  ranking of first in the world for work towards the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) of
  ‘Life on Land’. Additionally, 33 publications by members of this UoA contributed to impact on
  SDGs ‘good health and wellbeing’ and 30 publications to ‘Sustainable cities & communities’. In
  REF2014 we planned to formalise an impact strategy and create additional funding to support
  impact development; both aims have been achieved. CCG members are supported with
  impact planning through dedicated training sessions and liaison with School Impact
  Champions. The two ICSs returned in this UoA demonstrate that our research is having clear
  impacts on policy in the UK and internationally (Lees ICS1), as well as commercially (Upton
  ICS2). Both ICSs benefited from financial support from the University’s Impact Development
  Fund, and from periods of study leave/reduced workload to consolidate impact in the UK,
  Southern Europe, and Mongolia. A recent award to Lees through our ESRC Impact
  Acceleration Account will fund the Leicester Urban Observatory which she co-founded in 2016
  (to facilitate knowledge exchange between urban researchers, Leicester’s Planning
  Department, and critically – Leicester’s publics), by establishing an ‘Urban Room’ in Leicester
  to enable citizen science, civic engagement, and impact. To ensure the vitality of our research
  impact, ECRs have been supported with awards from the GCRF Impact Accelerator (Matulis)
  and the Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (WTISSF, Di Feliciantonio).

  Fostering Interdisciplinary Research
  CCG members are actively engaged in leading interdisciplinary research within our School
  and beyond. Across UoL, interdisciplinary collaborations are nurtured by the Leicester Institute
  for Advanced Studies (LIAS, IES 2.2). LIAS provide small grants to support the formation of
  interdisciplinary teams exploring collaborations and developing larger funding applications.
  Through this scheme, the UoA has attracted £66k of institutional investment. Brown and Di
  Feliciantonio collaborated with clinical academics on a project about infectious disease
  screening for recent migrants and Upton collaborated with psychologists on the resilience of
  cared for children in Bangladesh, Kenya and South Africa. CCG researchers also led the
  creation of an interdisciplinary ‘Migration, Mobility and Citizenship’ research network.
  Recently, CCG researchers have initiated LIAS interdisciplinary projects on COVID19.
  Bennett and Brown participated in an interdisciplinary research network on ‘Solidarity in
  Diversity’ funded by the Belgian FWO (2015-20), sustained through a Marie Sklodowska-Curie
  Action (MSCA) Innovative Training Network (2021-25). CCG members also critically reflect on
  the conduct of such research to inform future practice, both for ourselves as researchers and
  for funders such as GCRF (Upton, Kalimantan Lestari project, 2020-23).


  ACHIEVEMENTS BY RESEARCH THEME
  Brief descriptions of our thematic clusters are given below, highlighting significant research
  and impact achievements:

  Gentrification and housing justice [Busa, Di Feliciantonio, Lees, Phillips, Portelli, Tate,
  Wilde] has attracted £1.44M of external funding in this REF period. It is known for
  internationally leading research examining the ways in which both cities and rural areas are
  being reshaped in the interests of elite groups, and particularly for questions relating to
  gentrification and housing justice – emphasised by Lees and Phillips editing the first
  Handbook of Gentrification Studies (2018) (SciVal Field-weighted citation impact 4.95), noted
  for setting ‘new research agendas on a variety of topics’ (van Gent 2019). Creative



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  methodologies, scholar-activism with grassroots organisations, and a focus on policy and
  practice is a distinctive feature of their work.

  Lees [Outputs 2, 3, 4] has mapped the displacement of tenants and leaseholders from
  London council estates which has informed extensive impact work with the London Tenants
  Federation and local communities to assist them resisting displacement [ICS 1]. Alongside
  Lees, a group of ECRs, including Di Feliciantonio [Outputs 1, 2; O1 has a SciVal FWCI of
  2.04], Portelli [Output 1] and Wilde [Output 2], have theorised the impact of the
  financialisation of housing on renters’ subjectivities and the implications of this for housing
  justice movements in Barcelona, Dublin, London and Rome. Phillips [Output 1; SciVal FWCI
  4.36] has conducted international research on rural communities in the UK, France, Japan
  and North America and developed a comparative model for understanding rural gentrification
  (featured as a forum debate in Dialogues in Human Geography, 2018).

  Critical environmental futures [Brown, Coles, De Sabbata, Gulliver, Last, Matulis,
  Phillips, Tate, Upton, Thornton] is internationally known for innovative collaborative research
  on contemporary environmental challenges in diverse geographical contexts, with research
  income of £1.2M. Its members work at the complex intersections of socio-economic, political
  and environmental change to facilitate the emergence of environmentally just and sustainable,
  rural and urban futures. Their theoretically innovative, interdisciplinary, and activist
  scholarship encompasses environmental governance, lived landscapes, political ecology and
  environmental health.

  Upton [ICS 2; Outputs 1-4] has developed innovative interdisciplinary analyses of resilience
  and the impacts of environmental change on pastoral livelihoods in Central Asia and East
  Africa. This has built upon UoL’s excellence in satellite-based EO to allow nomadic herders,
  government agencies, and the insurance industry to make better, contextual decisions on
  sustainable resource use, which support local livelihoods and values. Phillips [Outputs 1, 2]
  is part of the Programme Coordination Team for UKRI’s ‘Landscape Decisions’ Programme
  (worth £739k to UoL). This strategic initiative addresses how land can best be managed for
  the benefit of society and is developing innovative, interdisciplinary solutions to ‘real world’
  problems about land use. Since being appointed Deputy Director of the CEHS, Gulliver’s
  research has developed new methods for monitoring environmental exposures and health
  outcomes related to mental health in children [Output 1].

  Global sexualities and migration [Bennett, Brown, Di Feliciantonio, Dickinson, Last,
  Madge]. This theme combines transnational research on sexualities and migration, with
  specific attention to the experience of LGBTQ migrants and diasporic groups within
  ‘multicultural’ communities. Brown’s international leadership in the field is exemplified by
  publication of The Routledge Companion to Geographies of Sex and Sexualities (2016)
  described as ‘an impressive marker in the field’ (Miles 2017).

  Brown [Output 3] has redefined international, interdisciplinary debates about
  ‘homonormativity’, arguing that the social inclusion and legal recognition of LGBTQ people
  over recent decades cannot be reduced to an effect of neoliberalism. Di Feliciantonio’s study
  of the migration of HIV+ gay men has reframed understandings of why men relocate after
  receiving an HIV diagnosis, informing the work of LGBTQ sexual health providers in Italy and
  the UK. With European partners, Brown and Bennett have secured a MSCA Innovative
  Training Network (£449k) on ‘Solidarity in Diversity’, examining social solidarities in
  superdiverse communities.

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Research governance and integrity
  The development and implementation of our research and impact strategy is the responsibility
  of the School Research Committee, and includes: Director of Research, Head of School, REF
  lead, Research Group leads, Postdoctoral and PhD student representatives, and technical
  staff. The HoS and Research Director monitor success through scrutiny of output grades (in
  line with the University’s Output Quality Review Policy [IES 2.7]) and grant application and
  success rates, as well as through bi-monthly 1-2-1 meetings with the Dean of Research. Our
  commitment to maintaining and embedding a culture of research integrity is rooted in
  adherence to the requirements outlined in the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (IES,
  2.7). We ensure that all researchers observe these standards, promote an ethos of
  professionalism, and embed best practice in all aspects of their work. All research projects are
  scrutinised for research ethics and GDPR compliance upon award. The School has a
  dedicated Ethics Officer, who offers guidance and advice on applications. All research ethics
  applications are approved by the Research Ethics Committee (chaired by Phillips). The
  University’s Information Assurance Team ensure data protection and security protocols are
  legally compliant.

  Open research
  Embedding a culture of open research is a strategic priority as we seek to increase global
  engagement with our research. We do this by: (i) ensuring our publications comply with REF
  and funder open access requirements and institutional policy (IES, 2.6); (ii) utilising open
  scholarly infrastructures to disseminate outputs and data; (iii) incorporating open research
  outputs/data in funding applications; and (iv) explicitly recognising how open research,
  including open data, is critical to the sustainability of the unit. We have made codes, preprints,
  conference papers, and reports openly accessible and our researchers have edited open-
  access journals, including ACME (Di Feliciantonio), Urban Planning, and Sustainability
  (Lees). Portelli organised a 3-day seminar at Harvard (2019), which facilitated debate about
  the importance of urban activists accessing urban scholarship. This led to a series of
  coauthored articles between academics and activists published in the open-access Radical
  Housing Journal to enable sustained knowledge exchange.


 FUTURE RESEARCH AND IMPACT PLANS
 Over the next 5 years, CCG will actively shape geographical and interdisciplinary debates
 about major challenges facing humanity and the planet. Our work will continue to develop
 theoretically innovative critical social science to offer creative solutions around housing,
 environmental issues, sexual politics, and migration.

 Specific future research trajectories are:
        The gentrification and housing justice cluster will set new research agendas around
         climate/environmental gentrification, anti-gentrification policy making, the post-COVID
         city, the urbanisation of the rural, and developing machine learning applications to track
         gentrification-related displacement.
        The critical environmental futures cluster will lead international and interdisciplinary
         work on geographies of the Anthropocene, disaster gentrification, landscape futures,
         and mutualistic cities, including through innovative arts-based methodologies.
             o Through the new EU-funded Equal-Life project (£515k), Gulliver will study the
                  long-term effects of the interactions between the environment and children’s

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                 mental health and cognitive development; stimulating new collaborations on
                 urban public health.
              o We will capitalise on the opportunities afforded by hosting the UKRI Landscape
                 Decisions Programme (£739k) and the £100M+ investment in Space Park
                 Leicester [IES 2.4, 4.4] to create opportunities for large, interdisciplinary grant
                 applications in these areas.
        The global sexualities and migration cluster aims to sustain and develop the vitality
         of geographical research on global sexualities at Leicester. Utilising the ESRC IAA
         investment in the Leicester Urban Observatory, we aim to utilise Leicester’s history of
         migration and unique social geography as a living laboratory for life in medium-sized
         cities.
 Cross-cutting these themes, we will:
         Develop innovative methodological approaches to digital geographies by coordinating
          emerging collaborations between critical human geographers, data scientists, and the
          expertise of CEHS.
         Recruit and support outstanding staff, with a prioritisation of investment in expanding
          our capacity and expertise at the interfaces between spatial data science and critical
          digital geographies, as well as in health geographies.


 COVID-19. Our staff have responded proactively to the crisis by leading, interdisciplinary
 COVID-related research projects on track and trace technologies (De Sabbata, Matulis),
 sexual politics and intimacy in lockdown (Brown, Di Feliciantonio), and evaluating whether
 the needs of migrants were incorporated in pre-COVID-19 pandemic planning guidelines
 issued by supranational organisations such as WHO and the World Bank (Brown) – attracting
 £20k internal pump-priming funds in total. Brown and Upton were also part of an ‘Advanced
 Study Group’ convened by LIAS in July 2020 to shape an internal funding call for
 interdisciplinary Pandemics research (2020-2022). Subsequently, Brown, De Sabbata, Di
 Feliciantonio, Matulis and Upton secured Pandemics projects worth £89k (we note the
 leading role of ECRs in this).


 2. People

  STAFF

  Staff composition
  CCG consists of 12 T&R staff: 4 (28%) are ECRs (De Sabbata, Last, Matulis, and Wilde), 2
  (17%) are Associate Professors (Bennett and Tate), and 5 (42%) are Professors (Brown,
  Gulliver, Phillips, Lees and Upton).

  Over the REF period, UoA14 staff have secured £640k to employ PDRAs and attract
  independent fellows. We have recruited 9 PDRAs on UKRI and Leverhulme Trust research
  grants, plus 6 independent postdoctoral fellows (compared to no such fellows in REF2014).
  We have had significant success recruiting MSCA fellows to work on Gentrification and
  Housing Justice (Annunziata, Sakizlioglu, Portelli, Busa) and Global Sexualities and
  Migration (Di Feliciantonio). Thornton’s success in securing the only ESRC Postdoctoral
  Fellowship at the University in 2018 has been particularly pertinent for the Critical



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Environmental Futures cluster, sustained through Thornton’s PDRA position on a major
  GCRF project.


  Staffing strategy
  We aim to make research-led appointments, whilst retaining our strongest researchers, to
  underpin our goal of delivering outstanding research. The size of the CCG group is similar to
  the number of human geographers and GIS specialists returned by Leicester in REF2014.

  CCG has been enriched by the appointment of De Sabbata, Gulliver, Last, Matulis and
  Wilde. De Sabbata adds expertise in quantitative human geography, with specific interests in
  the analysis of ‘big data’ from social media and creative data visualisation. Last and Matulis
  have expanded our interests in critical and creative methodologies in the geohumanities
  through their expertise in creative writing about nature and the environment. Wilde is
  conducting ethnographic urban research in the UK and Venezuela, broadening our core
  cluster of urban researchers investigating housing justice globally. Gulliver, a quantitative
  geographer with a focus on environmental epidemiology, was appointed at Professorial level
  as a University-led strategic investment to form the interdisciplinary CEHS which he co-
  directs. This was a major strategic investment (£5M) designed to link atmospheric and
  environmental research with health researchers. Gulliver’s own research focusses on GIS-
  based methods of assessing environmental air pollution and noise exposures. His
  appointment strengthens the applied GIS research and methodological expertise of the
  Critical Environmental Futures cluster.

  Staff development and promotion
  The establishment of the CCG group and the new School have enhanced the support given to
  researchers at all career stages, in accordance with the Researcher Development Concordat
  (2019). CCG works collectively to foster people’s research potential through discussing
  emerging ideas on new research, providing peer review of papers and grant applications, and
  encouraging staff to utilise internal seedcorn funding to develop ideas and new
  transdisciplinary research collaborations.

  Support for professional development is integral to the CCG group. All staff have an annual
  Performance Development Discussion (PDD) with a Professorial colleague. Research review
  and planning is a core component of this discussion, in addition to public engagement and
  impact. PDD reports are reviewed by the HoS to identify whether interventions such as
  workload adjustments or additional mentoring are needed, thus providing tailored support for
  professional development and advancement at all career stages.

  Generous financial arrangements within the University allow overheads from grants to be
  shared between the School and PIs, facilitating further research investment, teaching buy-
  outs, dissemination activities, and equipment procurement. We run an active Study Leave
  programme, allowing permanent staff to apply flexibly for relief from teaching and
  administration to meet their specific research objectives. Since REF2014, 70% of eligible staff
  returned here (including 83% of women) have benefitted from a period of study leave, with
  resultant outputs contributing to career progression and our research priorities. For example,
  Coles’ sabbaticals have led to a major international ESRC-funded research project
  ‘Reconnecting the Nexus’ (RCTN) and production of a monograph. Staff are supported to
  undertake field research activities through short ‘leaves of absence’ critical to fulfilling their
  roles in major research projects. Upton has benefitted from this to enable fieldwork, network

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  building, management, and dissemination activities for major GCRF and UK Space Agency
  projects in Mongolia, Kenya and Kyrgyzstan.


  Since REF2014, there have been seven internal promotions: one to Associate Professor
  (Brown) and six to Professor (Brown, Comber, Kraftl, Madge, Phillips and Upton). These
  reflect the significant research achievements and contribution of geographers at Leicester and
  are testament to the School’s leadership development strategy, which is supported by
  University-level initiatives such as the Future Leaders Programme (FLP). The FLP was
  successful in developing the leadership skills of Brown. Under his direction, CCG developed
  a more coherent and ambitious research strategy and raised its profile across campus and
  externally. Weekly meetings of the research group have helped bond it as a collective and, by
  delegating specific leadership tasks to early- and mid-career researchers, which ensures that
  the group’s work and vision is sustainable.

  Early career researchers (ECRs)
  ECRs have a mentor with whom they meet regularly to discuss research plans, teaching, and
  career development, augmented by a formal annual review process to ensure equity and
  transparency. ECRs receive help with grant and output writing through their mentor, informal
  networks within the CCG group, and the University’s Research and Enterprise Division (RED).
  ECRs also benefit from reduced teaching loads in the first three years of their employment.
  Training opportunities are afforded through a comprehensive university–wide programme
  encompassing aspects of research design, methods and analysis, as well as training
  delivered by the Doctoral College (IES, 3.2). ECRs are encouraged to apply for study leave.
  Matulis’s sabbatical supported him to develop novel film outputs with Filipina co-researchers,
  and complete his first monograph. The School has a Research Staff Advisory Group to
  support the professional development of postdoctoral staff, who are represented on the
  School’s Research Committee.


  RESEARCH STUDENTS
  Over the REF2021 period, our doctoral completion per FTE has doubled from 0.8 to 1.65.
  Human geography at Leicester benefits from two UKRI DTPs: the ESRC Midlands Graduate
  School and the AHRC Midlands4Cities. Since joining the ESRC DTP in 2016, we have
  secured more than half the ESRC-funded studentships for human geography across the
  Midlands Graduate School DTP. These funding streams have led to a growth in UKRI-funded
  PGRs during this REF period. We have hosted visiting international PGRs from Argentina,
  China and Europe.

  Supervision and monitoring
  Students are allocated two supervisors and many have external supervisors through their
  funding or project partnerships. Students meet with their supervisors at least once a month,
  and these meetings are recorded to monitor engagement and record actions. Progress is
  assessed at three and nine months, and then annually until the viva, by the PGR Tutor and a
  panel independent of the supervisory team.

  In the 2019 PRES survey 81% of our PGRs’ agreed with the statement ‘my confidence to be
  creative or innovative has developed during my programme’ and 90% agreed that their ‘skills
  in critically analysing and evaluating findings and results have developed during my
  programme’ (both higher than the sector average). The 2019 PRES survey shows 92.3% of
  our PGRs were highly satisfied with the quality of supervision they received, with particularly

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  positive feedback from female students (95.9%). Lees actively mentors first generation PGRs
  from working class backgrounds.

  Training and development
  PGRs complete a training needs analysis (TNA) and are supported by an extensive training
  programme informed by the Researcher Development Framework, facilitated by the Doctoral
  College. We organise discipline-specific advanced training on research methodologies,
  techniques, and academic writing. All PGR students attend our weekly research group
  meetings, and vibrant seminar programme. PGRs are actively engaged in demonstrating in
  the classroom and field courses; they are given preparatory training for teaching in Higher
  Education and accredited First Aid training. PGRs serve on several RGS-IBG research group
  committees.

  There is a monthly PGR Student Forum, chaired by the PGR Tutor, where ‘Training’ is a
  standing agenda item. Students raise issues in this meeting and PGR Tutors are responsible
  for identifying any training gaps in the School or wider University.

  PGR Achievements
  Several of our PhD students have been externally recognised for their research. Van Allen
  received the Emerging Scholar Award at the 2019 Inclusive Museum Conference. Steele was
  awarded an OBE (2016) for her long-standing commitment to enabling community-led
  regeneration. She was also a highly commended runner-up for the 2019 William Sutton Prize
  for Social Innovation. Two PGRs secured ESRC overseas institutional visits in 2020/21, and
  another obtained a UKRI Policy Internship with the NI Assembly. We support PhD students to
  publish high-quality outputs. During the current REF period, students have published in
  journals including Annals of the AAG, Journal of Historical Geography, and Social & Cultural
  Geographies. Our PGR community also make important contributions to public engagement.
  For example, Thornton curated an exhibition on conservation in tropical peatlands at Newark
  House Museum, Leicester.

  PhD graduates during this REF have gone on to secure Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships
  (Emery), ESRC Postdocs (Thornton), and other postdoctoral positions (Hewitson, Isyaku,
  Smith), as well as academic posts in the UK (Barker, Sykes) and internationally
  (Janchivlamdan).

  Equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)
  CCG has a strong commitment to EDI, and leads many aspects of the wider School and
  University’s EDI work. Matulis serves as dedicated EDI Champion for the School and
  proactively ensures that all aspects of the group’s operations, including professional
  development strategies, are informed by EDI best practice. Equality impacts are a standing
  item for all School committees and actions are monitored by the EDI Champions. These
  include implementing policies that have benefitted staff, for example, returning to full-time
  work following a period working part-time while children were young, as well as temporary
  flexible working arrangements to manage care responsibilities and a phased return to work
  after extended sick leave.

  All staff returned in this UoA are white, but 6 (41%) are international migrants. Members of the
  School (Byron and Last) play a leading role in the Royal Geographical Society’s Race,
  Culture and Equality Working Group. We have also increased the diversity of our PGR cohort,
  with 36% of awards in this REF cycle being made to BAME students. PRES surveys over the

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  REF period shows that 91% of BAME students agreed that ‘overall, I am satisfied with the
  experience of my research degree programme’. This provides clear evidence of the success
  of our EDI strategy in providing an intellectually stimulating, inclusive, and supportive
  environment for minoritised students.

  Only 4 (28%) of the Category A staff returned in this UoA are women; however, 42% of REF
  outputs and both ICSs are from women and 75% of female staff returned in this UoA are at
  Associate Professor level or above. Upton and Madge were both promoted to Professor
  during this REF cycle. Our School is preparing an Athena SWAN Bronze application for 2021.
  By recognising and rewarding the leadership and professional standing of female colleagues,
  we hope to attract more female ECRs in future. We are encouraged by the near equal split of
  doctoral awards (54%M:46%F) – which we hope indicates a snapshot of the unit in the future.

  Four staff in this UoA (28%) identify within the LGBTQ spectrum. There is also a much larger
  group of LGBTQ-identified staff and PGRs within the School who meet informally under
  Brown’s mentorship, with a view to enhancing the School’s reputation as a centre for
  geographies of sexualities research and a supportive environment for LGBTQ people. The
  existence of this support network has contributed to recruiting new PhD students and
  postdocs.

  We are submitting all eligible staff in our REF return. UoL’s REF Code of Practice specifies
  how our REF return has been compiled with due regard to EDI. In advance of this, we
  ensured a diverse mix of staff were involved in output quality review. We have a supportive
  process in place for declaring staff individual circumstances in relation to our REF submission,
  guided by our EDI Champion (Matulis) and University’s EDI team. We have robust support
  structures in place so that even staff facing substantial challenges have been able to produce
  outputs for REF.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


  INCOME
  The formation of CCG, and the new School, have helped the group to increase their per capita
  research income per year over the REF period (from £27,318 to £28,805 Income/FTE/yr). In
  REF2014, 24.39 FTE staff were returned in the UoA17 Geography submission, including
  physical geographers (now returned in UoA7).

  Strategy for generating research income: We use internal seedcorn funding schemes (primarily
  via LIAS, CAMEo [IES 2.2], and the WISSF to develop new research collaborations and grow
  projects. We also capitalise on support provided by RED, with several staff actively participating
  in local ‘funder groups’ including the GCRF (Upton), ESRC (Lees), and AHRC (Matulis). By
  cascading the insights from these funder groups, we have improved the quality of our funding
  applications through focused internal peer review. A key part of our strategy has been to
  diversify our funding streams – in addition to the AHRC and ESRC, we have secured funding
  from BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC, UKSA, GCRF and NERC. Overall, this strategy has enabled us to
  improve the success of our external funding applications and to collaborate on the submission
  of larger, higher value applications.

  Key research funding awards

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  UKRI: We have attracted £1.57M in funding from UKRI (principally AHRC, ESRC and NERC).
  In 2019, a team from the School (Balzter, Phillips and Whelan) secured funding to host the
  Programme Coordination Team (PCT) for the UKRI Strategic Programme Landscape
  Decisions, which is developing national interdisciplinary capability and engagement with Defra
  and other stakeholders.

  Key UKRI awards include Lees’s (ESRC, 2016) grant on ‘Gentrification, displacement, and the
  impacts of council estate renewal in C21st London’ (£370k), which facilitated significant
  research on the scale and social impact of the displacement of tenants (and leaseholders) from
  London council housing estates. This research has expanded the field of gentrification studies,
  to consider how the state has pursued the gentrification of public housing. Through her anti-
  gentrification toolkit and https://estatewatch.london/, this work has had significant impact by
  providing evidence for council tenants to challenge plans for the ‘regeneration’ of their estates.

  Phillips has secured two significant ESRC awards, the ‘ORA Gentrification Project’ (£141k)
  and ‘Explorations of comparative ruralism in the UK and Japan’ (£50k), which have enabled
  international comparative research on rural gentrification in the UK, USA, France and Japan.
  Phillips has also contributed to five small projects from the AHRC Connected Communities
  programme (total value to Leicester £36k), which have utilised creative, participatory research
  methodologies to explore community heritage and asset mapping in rural communities. This
  has enabled members of those communities to reevaluate their relationships to place, and
  rethink the futures they envisage for rural life. Consequently, this work has made intellectual
  contributions at the intersections of rural geography, critical environmentalism (Phillips Output
  2) and creative methodologies.

  UK Central and Local Government: This includes considerable success across the GCRF
  arena (Coles, Gulliver, Madge, Matulis, Upton) and several grants from the UK Space
  Agency (Upton; ICS2), totaling £387k. These grants have strengthened existing collaborations
  in Mongolia and Kenya (Upton), as well as advancing new collaborations and impact in Brazil
  (Coles), Kyrgyzstan (Upton), the Philippines (Matulis), and South Africa (Madge). Our GCRF
  work spans the range of human geography, from Matulis’s work in the geohumanities,
  exploring uses of creative ‘nature writing’ with marginalised Filipina women, through to Upton’s
  collaborations with EO scientists and industry to increase the resilience of nomadic herders in
  Central Asia and East Africa.

  UK charities: Bennett/De Sabbata and Brown have received funding from the Leverhulme
  Trust, totaling £144k. Brown’s research on the historical geography of young Londoner’s anti-
  apartheid activism in the 1980s has resulted in a monograph (Output 1), several papers (Output
  2) and significant public engagement work in Britain and South Africa (outlined in Section 4).
  Bennett and De Sabbata’s project uses novel digital techniques to explore young people’s
  everyday negotiations of multicultures in Leicester – exemplifying how cutting-edge GIS and
  digital geographies are integrated into our critical and creative approach.

  EU funding bodies: We have secured funding from H2020, the European Space Agency, and
  the MSCA programme, totaling £789k. Gulliver is work package leader on the ‘environmental
  exposome’ for the H2020 Equal-Life project (£515k), a toolbox for assessing the impact of
  environment on mental health and cognition of children and adolescents. We have had
  significant success recruiting high-quality ECR researchers through the MSCA Fellowship
  scheme. Lees has hosted four MSCA Fellows (including Busa and Portelli), which has
  enabled her to lead comparative research on gentrification and the financialisation of housing in

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Italy, Spain, Greece, Portugal, Turkey, Morocco and the US. Brown secured a MSCA
  Fellowship for Di Feliciantonio to research the experiences of migration within Europe of HIV+
  gay men who relocate their lives after receiving an HIV diagnosis.

  INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
  All staff in this unit are housed in a dedicated building on the main University campus which
  integrates offices, laboratories, and teaching spaces for the whole School. Our research is
  underpinned and enabled by world-class infrastructure and resources including high
  performance computing platforms and software for applications in geographical information
  science and remote sensing.

  Investment
  £6k was invested by our School in creating a new seminar space where staff and PGRs meet
  to collaborate. £5k was invested in updating our VR Theatre, directly contributing to research
  projects by Bennett, De Sabbata and Matulis. A multimedia exhibition space was created
  within the School in 2019 (£500k) to facilitate creative research methodologies and showcase
  creative research outputs.

  The University has invested £5M in staff and computing facilities to establish the Centre for
  Environmental Health and Sustainability (CEHS), for which Gulliver is Deputy Director. This
  strategic investment has enabled us to focus our existing excellence in GIS research in relation
  to urgent issues of environmental health. CEHS provides seedcorn funding to initiate new
  research within its remit, including funding for a scoping study to develop a multivariate
  environmental index for health in urban areas (Tate).


  Operational and scholarly infrastructure
  Our research is underpinned by the contribution of professional and technical staff, including a
  dedicated cartography unit staffed by two design technicians. Their expertise extends beyond
  conventional cartography to providing specialist design work that supports the group’s use of
  creative research methods and dissemination. The School also has two IT technicians who
  support specialised hardware and software needs including GIS applications and computer-
  supported laboratory and field instrumentation.

  We have utilised the University’s impact development funds to ensure the social impact of our
  research is maximised. This has enabled Lees, Matulis, and Upton (total £52k) to develop,
  extend, and document the impact of their research in the UK, the Philippines, Kenya, and
  Mongolia [see ICS 1 & 2]. Similarly, Phillips and Lees have made use of the University’s £1M
  ESRC Impact Accelerator Award to enhance the impact of their research (inter)nationally. In
  particular, Lees received an IAA rapid response grant (£7k) to develop her toolkit for housing
  activists, developed in London, for use in Southern Europe.

  Human geographers in this UoA have been proactive in engaging with the Leicester Institute
  for Advanced Studies (LIAS) to foster innovative interdisciplinary research addressing global
  challenges. Brown and Upton have hosted LIAS Visiting Fellows: Upton hosted Batbuyan
  Batjav from the Centre for Nomadic Pastoralism Studies, Mongolia, helping to extend her
  long-standing collaborations in Central Asia. Brown hosted Dhiren Borisa, an early-career
  geographer of sexualities from India, which has generated new collaborations. Brown and Di
  Feliciantonio formed a LIAS-funded team (with clinical academics) developing
  interdisciplinary interventions around health screening for infectious diseases, including HIV,

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  amongst recently arrived migrants in the UK. This work has also received pump-priming from
  Leicester’s WTISSF (£3k). This interdisciplinary collaboration has already been scaled up,
  with Brown co-leading the formation of a new LIAS research network on ‘Migration, Mobilities
  and Citizenship’. Brown is a member of the network’s core leadership group (as is Byron, a
  teaching-focused academic, importantly this initiative is enabling her to restart her research
  career) and its advisory board is chaired by the Leicester’s Director of Public Health. This
  network has enabled UoL to lead high profile national research programmes on migration and
  COVID-19.


  We have access to Leicester’s award-winning library (IES, 4.1), which has benefited from £28M
  investment since 2014 to improve access to special collections, databases, and e-journals.
  Brown is collaborating with the Library archives team on an impact project to digitise papers
  relating to anti-apartheid exiles in Britain which will be open access.

  Future strategies for generating research income and investment
  We will continue to use seedcorn-funding opportunities to establish new collaborations, grow
  research initiatives, and expand the impact of our research. CCG will continue to lead
  disciplinary-specific and interdisciplinary initiatives capable of attracting large grants within an
  increasingly ‘post-disciplinary’ funding environment. We will actively recruit new postdoctoral
  fellows to expand our capacity and reputation in core research areas. Over the next REF
  cycle, many recent investments will come to fruition. In particular, we expect our leadership of
  the Leicester Migration, Mobility and Citizenship research network, and our proactive
  leadership of COVID-related interdisciplinary research, to attract significant funding. Phillips
  leadership of the Landscape Decisions programme will provide new opportunities for large-
  scale research projects, as will Gulliver’s leadership of CEHS. Finally, UoL’s international
  profile in EO, and the £100M+ investment in Space Park Leicester (IES 2.2, 4.2), which drove
  Upton’s successful collaboration through the SIBELIUs project, will create new strategic
  opportunities for innovative collaborations between critical human geographers and EO
  scientists, not just around environmental issues, but also humanitarian and geopolitical
  concerns.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration with and contribution to the research base
 Through our leading role in local, national, and international research collaborations, we are
 developing critical, impactful research outputs across a range of contemporary challenges
 such as gentrification and housing justice (Lees, Wilde), environmental justice (Coles, Upton,
 Matulis), sexual politics and health (Brown, Di Feliciantonio), and migration (Bennett,
 Brown) and involving both senior and ECRs. These networks secured ~£2.9M in the current
 REF period and encompass international academic, NGO, and policy partners in the US, Italy,
 the Netherlands, and Turkey (Lees); Peru (Wilde); Brazil (Coles); Mongolia, Kyrgyzstan,
 Kenya, Indonesia (Upton), Belgium, India, Ireland (Brown), as well as colleagues in UK
 universities. Examples which exemplify the quality and significance of these academic
 collaborations, include:

 Coles [Output 1] collaborated with colleagues at Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP) in
 Brazil on a major Newton ESRC grant ‘(Re)Connecting the Nexus’. This collaboration
 developed new ways of conceptualising ecological/resource interdependencies through critical

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 challenges to ‘nexus thinking’. Coles and colleagues then deployed these new conceptual
 tools to reimagine and decolonise contemporary approaches to the food/water/energy nexus.

 Brown [Output 3] initiated a European-wide network of sexualities researchers through the
 biennial European Geographies of Sexualities Conference in 2011. Since 2014, that network
 has matured and enabled more stable collaborations, including recruiting Di Feliciantonio as
 a MSCA Postdoctoral Fellow and Dr Dhiren Borisa securing a four-month LIAS Visiting
 Fellowship at Leicester in 2019. Borisa subsequently obtained his first permanent academic
 post at the OP Jindal Global Law School, enabling new collaborations, and helping to raise the
 profile and legitimacy of geographies of sexualities research in India.

 In 2015, CCG were invited to participate in a five-year research network on ‘Solidarity in
 Diversity’, funded by the Flemish FWO, focused on how social and political solidarity can be
 fostered across intersectional social difference. This has integrated us into an interdisciplinary
 network of researchers across Europe. This has resulted in a successful application for a
 MSCA Innovative Training Network (led by Oosterlynk, Antwerp).

 Collaboration and contribution, beyond the academy
 CCG has a strong commitment to public engagement and ensuring that our research expertise
 is used for social, cultural, economic and policy impacts, locally (where we are deeply
 embedded in community and policy networks within the city), nationally, and internationally.
 Many of our collaborations utilise our research to assist communities to critique policies that
 risk disadvantaging them. CCG members work with communities in participatory, collaborative
 ways to identify problems which need researching, working with them throughout the research
 cycle. Since 2014, collaborations beyond the academy include: commercial EO companies
 and partner NGOs in the UK and government bodies in Mongolia, Kyrgyzstan, and Kenya
 (Upton); social housing tenants/renters in London and southern Europe, the GLA, DCLG
 (Lees, Wilde); and LGBTQ community development and sexual health projects in India, Italy,
 and the UK (Brown, Di Feliciantonio). The significance and impact of these activities is
 exemplified through the following:

 Lees’ leading research on gentrification-induced displacement in London has been drawn on
 by community groups and social movements in the UK, Sweden, and Southern Europe; by
 non-profits in the US (the Annie E. Casey Foundation); and political organisations (Green
 Party, Labour Party), to advance demands for better protection of public housing tenants from
 dispossession. As a result of this work in 2020 Lees was appointed Chair of the London
 Housing Panel (funded by the GLA and Trust for London), and to present at a Knowledge
 Sharing Session on ‘Integrated Planning and Housing to Create Future Cities for All’, UN-
 Habitat Global Future Cities Programme. Wilde has provided policy advice and briefings for
 Action4Renters, the London Renters Union, StART, and the New Policy Institute.

 The Mikiko Pamoja Project, a Kenyan NGO that Upton has advised, was awarded a UNDP
 Equator Prize in 2017 for their work on the sustainable conservation of mangroves. Upton’s
 SIBELIUs project is working directly with government bodies in both Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan
 to improve the nature and relevance of satellite–derived information delivered to vulnerable
 herding communities and local government bodies. This supports changes in herders’ land
 use, decision making and resilience, as well as governance and practice in key statutory
 bodies. Upton has also collaborated with leading Maasai and Mongolian NGOs to examine the
 ethics and practice of UK-funded research partnerships with indigenous peoples. This resulted
 in a co-developed ‘best practice’ case study for UKRI (Maasai partner) and an invited

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 presentation to the International Development Committee at the UK Houses of Parliament
 (Mongolian partner). Visual ‘photovoice’ outputs from the GCRF Resilient Pastoralism project
 were co-developed with local herders and used in policy debates.

 In addition to co-leading the CEHS, Gulliver is Deputy Director of a new Health Protection
 Research Unit (HRPU) funded by the National Institute for Health Research and is leading the
 development of the first national toolkit for environmental noise burden of disease
 assessments, a commercial tender via Public Health England. He is also a member of the
 British Standards Committee developing a new UK method for the calculation of road traffic
 noise.

 Brown’s research on the historical geographies of British anti-apartheid activism [Outputs 1
 and 2] led to extensive public engagement work. Brown has been an academic advisor on
 three Heritage Lottery Fund projects working with community groups to preserve the heritage
 of British protest movements, including one that led to a co-authored popular book, Singing for
 our Lives (2018). Work from Brown’s anti-apartheid research [Outputs 1, 2] has been included
 in exhibitions in Australia, Britain and South Africa, including the highly successful Disobedient
 Objects exhibition at the V&A (over 416,000 visitors) and the Nelson Mandela Centenary
 exhibition at the Southbank Centre (over 25,000 visitors). Through his initial research, Brown
 gained access to a significant privately held archive of the correspondence and documentation
 of the City of London Anti-Apartheid Group. He was able to negotiate the deposit of this
 collection in the archives at the Bishopsgate Institute in London, where it is now available as a
 resource for other researchers. Significantly, representatives of the Pan-Africanist Congress
 (PAC, from South Africa) began exploring this archive, with Brown’s support, in 2020, as part
 of an effort to reconstruct an archive of South African pan-Africanists in exile during the
 apartheid era. With support from the ESRC IAA (£4k), this material will be digitised and made
 open access.

 Leadership, recognition, and esteem
 Geography at Leicester has a long-standing commitment to making an active contribution to
 the academy (inter)nationally. Consistent with these commitments, staff hold leadership
 positions within the discipline and beyond. Below we offer selected examples of our staff’s
 leadership, recognition and esteem.

 Journal Editorship.
 Several members of staff have served as editors of leading Geography and interdisciplinary
 academic journals: Geography Compass (Bennett, Tate); Geoforum (Lees); Social & Cultural
 Geography (Brown); ACME (Di Feliciantonio). Staff at every career stage also serve on the
 international editorial boards of a further 15 human geography and GIScience journals, e.g.
 Lees on Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers, and interdisciplinary journals
 such as Art in the Public Sphere. Brown and Di Feliciantonio serve on the editorial board of
 Gender, Place and Culture, demonstrating the exceptional international reputation of Leicester
 for geographies of sexualities. We estimate that the 14.5 staff returned in this UoA review in
 excess of 200 papers per year for academic publications across Geography, Anthropology,
 Computer Science, Media Studies, Sociology, and Urban Studies.

 Prizes and Awards.
 Since 2014, several early- and mid-career researchers have been recognised for the high
 quality of their research: Bennett was awarded the 2020 Sage Prize of Innovation and
 Excellence for her research on living multicultures; De Sabbata was awarded the Highly

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Commended Paper Award (2016) from the Journal of Documentation for their work on
 geographical dimensions of relevance; Di Feliciantonio was awarded the (2018) Gabriele
 Zanetto Prize for best early career geographer by the Association of Italian Geographers and
 the (2016) Best PhD Thesis award by the Global Network on Financial Geography (FINGEO).

 Fellowships
 Last was awarded a World Social Science Fellowship in 2014, by the International Social
 Science Council, for Global Social Governance. Phillips and Lees are Fellows of the Royal
 Society of the Arts and Lees is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences.

 Invited Keynotes and Seminars
 Lees has given over 40 (inter)national keynotes and plenaries since 2014. Bennett gave an
 invited keynote lecture on living multicultures at KU Leuven in Flanders. Brown and Di
 Feliciantonio have both given keynote lectures at the European Geographies of Sexualities
 conferences. Di Feliciantonio has been invited to speak at the Italian Conference on AIDS
 and Antiviral Research. Coles was invited to give a keynote at the Goldlab Symposium in the
 USA (2017). De Sabbata has given keynotes on volunteered geographic information and
 internet geographies to the AGILE conference and the Internet Governance Forum. Phillips
 has given invited keynotes on rural geography and gentrification at conferences organised by
 the Association of Japanese Geographers, the Geographical Society of Finland, and the
 Congress of Canadian Federation of Humanities and Social Sciences.

 Members of the UoA have, between them, given over 50 invited research seminars in the UK
 and internationally at universities in France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Morocco, the
 Netherlands, Sweden and the USA.

 Conference organisation
 Members of the UoA play an active role in conference organisation. Key examples include:
 hosting the GIScience Research UK conference, 2018 (De Sabbata; Tate). Last co-organised
 Decolonising the Anthropocene, 2015. Brown and Di Feliciantonio have been members of
 the scientific committee of the European Geographies of Sexualities Conferences (in 2015,
 2017, 2019), with Di Feliciantonio playing a central organising role in 2015. Portelli
 organised an international conference on Urban Activisms, as part of his MSCA Global
 Fellowship, at Harvard in 2019.

 Committee Membership
 Members of the UoA provide research leadership through RGS-IBG research groups and their
 membership of other committees/boards. For example, De Sabbata was appointed as
 Secretary of the RGS-IBG GIScience Research Group; Phillips is a member of the RGS-IBG
 Rural Geography Research Group committee; and Tate is on the National Steering Committee
 of GIS Research UK. Tate is also on the National Steering Committee of GEOSTATS UK.
 Brown is the Human Geography judge for the RGS-IBG Steer’s Dissertation Prize (2020/21).

 The research expertise and leadership of many members of staff is recognised through their
 membership of national and international peer review panels, including: AHRC and ESRC
 (Brown, Coles, Lees); UKRI Future Leaders Programme (Brown; Lees); ERC Advanced
 Grants (Lees); Irish Research Council (Brown; Coles; Lees); National Science Foundation,
 USA (Brown; Lees); and SSHRC (Brown; Lees).



                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research fuses critical social science, which challenges established paradigms, with
 innovative creative, digital, and quantitative methodologies. We are committed to using our
 research to support progressive social change through formal policy channels, community
 empowerment, and activist-scholarship, locally and (inter)nationally. We offer agenda-setting,
 creative solutions around housing, environmental issues, health, sexual politics, and migration.
 We exemplify the University of Leicester’s mission to be ‘Citizens of Change’.




                                                                                           Page 17
