Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Manchester Metropolitan University

 Unit of Assessment: B11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Computer Science research at Manchester Metropolitan University focuses on the real-world
 applications of technology that are of strategic importance to the UK’s economy and society.
 Research in artificial intelligence (AI) and cybersecurity aligns to local and national Research
 and Development (R&D) priorities. Leadership of collaborative initiatives such as the Greater
 Manchester AI Foundry and Cyber Foundry consortia give us the means to translate our
 research into economic and commercial impacts. Interdisciplinary research with healthcare,
 social science and agriculture is rapidly expanding and leading to new developments that are
 transforming the lives of people across the world.

 The vitality and sustainability of our research and impact strategy is evidenced by:
     A 100% increase in the number of staff that we are returning to REF 2021.
     A 156% increase in research income from £1.4m in REF 2014 to £3.58m in REF 2021.
     A 113% increase in PhD completions from 16 in REF 2014 to 34 in REF 2021.
     Leadership of the £12m AI Foundry and Cyber Foundry projects.

 Unit context and structure
 Research is led by the Centre for Advanced Computational Science (CfACS), one of 14 flagship
 University Centres for Research and Knowledge Exchange (UCRKE) that were established as
 part of the University’s ambitious RKE Strategy (see REF 5a).

 CfACS is quality-focused and innovation-driven. It was created following an assessment of REF
 2014 results mapped against areas of growing research excellence that link into the strategic
 policy landscape including the Industrial Strategy, the Science and Innovation Audit and the
 national skills agenda. CfACS was approved with a five-year development plan that outlines its
 management structures, research themes and includes specific funding, publication, citation,
 impact and staffing strategies.

 Yonghong Peng (Professor of Artificial Intelligence) and Liangxiu Han (Professor of
 Computational Science) provide leadership for CfACS, which includes 54 staff (29 full research
 members with a significant responsibility for research, seven research assistants, seven
 Knowledge Exchange members who lead on industrial collaboration and ten associate members
 undertaking research skills development). CfACS currently has 40 PGR students.

 CfACS is submitting 23 staff to B11 with a further six staff submitted to B12 Engineering. Staff in
 CfACS are from the Department of Computing and Maths in the Science and Engineering
 Faculty, one of the UK’s largest providers of research-led teaching in Science and Technology.

 This submission includes four research themes:

 Data Science
 With funding from BBSRC, Royal Society (Newton Advanced Fellowship), British Council and
 Innovate UK, data science research develops interdisciplinary methods, frameworks, algorithms
 and systems to enable the extraction of knowledge from the integrative analysis of structured
 and unstructured data. Our research concerns data science fundamentals and the application of
 cutting-edge technologies in big data, machine learning/deep learning, AI, natural language
 processing, governance and security. The impact of our research on social network analysis,
 data science and AI in Pakistan is in impact case study (reference: ICS 3).

 Machine Intelligence
 Machine intelligence research explores the design and application of biologically and
 linguistically motivated computational paradigms (e.g. conversational agents, natural language

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 systems, robotics and synthetic biology), computational intelligence, adaptive psychological
 profiling and human-computer interaction. This group is investigating the ethical, social and legal
 dimensions of AI through place-based research, working with policy think tanks and local and
 national government and community stakeholders (ICS 1). Research is funded by the European
 Commission and Innovate UK. This group provides academic leadership for the GM AI Foundry.

 Smart Infrastructure
 Smart infrastructure research focuses on the increasing demands of digital transformation and
 Industry 4.0. Researchers investigate future network and computation (e.g. 5G and 6G),
 intelligent transport, connected healthcare, Internet of Things and smart cities. Research leads
 to the development of tools and methodologies that address challenges in cybersecurity, privacy
 and computer forensics (ICS 2). Funding comes from industrial partners and Innovate UK. This
 group provides research leadership for the GM Cyber Foundry.

 Human-Centred Computing
 Research focuses on computer image and video analysis, visual computing, augmented/virtual
 reality, serious games and approaches to empower individuals to take better control of their
 data. Projects funded by The Royal Society, Cancer Research UK, EPSRC and Innovate UK are
 concerned with ageing and the use of virtual cosmetics. Interdisciplinary collaboration is leading
 to new innovations for the detection and amelioration of conditions such as dementia and
 diabetes, human motion analysis for rehabilitation and serious games for the development and
 understanding of healthcare issues.

 Review of plans and objectives from REF2014

 REF2014 Objective 1 - Cohesion and Communication
 Our major objective in 2014 was to strengthen core areas of research and to encourage
 interdisciplinary activities. CfACS has provided the leadership to achieve this primary objective.
 We have built critical mass with a large uplift in the volume of staff and outputs, increased
 quality, and fostered interdisciplinary research. Research cohesion has been strengthened
 through significant investment and the career development of staff (Section 2).

 REF2014 Objective 2 – Key themes
 We have continued to collaborate with high-quality partners in the delivery of technology that is
 important to the wider economy and society. Research in AI, cybersecurity and big data aligns to
 ‘future and emerging technologies’ and are important themes in the Government’s R&D
 ambitions. We have built on strengths in AI and Digital Health with industrial partners, NHS
 Trusts and healthcare academics. For example, the development of AI-enabled technology for
 the early detection of diabetic foot ulcers has led to clinical trials expected to deliver significant
 patient benefits and cost savings (see output reference: 2354).

 REF2014 Objective 3 – Facilitation
 We aimed to enhance the quality of research by securing increased levels of external funding
 and through additional investment in the development of staff. We have achieved increased
 value of competitive awards over the assessment period winning £5.27m from prestigious
 funders (EPSRC, STFC, BBSRC, Innovate UK, The Royal Society, Cancer Research UK,
 H2020). We have also captured significant knowledge exchange funding to transfer research
 excellence into impact through the award of ERDF funds for the AI Foundry and Cyber Foundry.

 REF2014 Objective 4 – Public engagement leading to impact
 We have curated innovative and popular Manchester Science Festival events characterised by a
 deep understanding of best practice that go well beyond ‘top down’ dissemination formats. In
 2018, we developed an immersive theatre experience that put AI ‘on trial’ in the Manchester
 Police Museum and in 2019; we delivered an event around public attitudes to AI. The results of
 these activities are informing our forward strategy and the development of initiatives such as the
 Greater Manchester Charter for Ethical AI.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategy for the next ten years
 Our future strategy aims to enhance research excellence, targets the delivery of global impacts,
 encourages the development of new areas of intellectual leadership and increases opportunities
 for commercial development. We will achieve this by supporting a collaborative and inclusive
 research culture; inspiring support for future research leaders and promoting our world-leading
 research.

 Investing in People: We are continuously strengthening our themes by investing in high-quality
 staff that understand our ethos and are passionate about our mission. We will focus on
 expanding the equality and diversity of staff and have ambitions to create a gender-balanced
 research centre. We support our ECRs to become future leaders with continued mentoring and
 access to development programmes (Section 2). We will expand national and international
 collaboration linked to strengths in AI, data science, and cyber security.

 Sustaining excellence: We have an important role in helping businesses to recover from Covid-
 19. The impact of our research on the technological advancement and productivity of SMEs and
 its link to the future skills agenda will be critical for Greater Manchester. We will develop a
 ‘Research Institute for Future AI’ that will support the rapid and extensive uptake of AI-enabled
 technology. Our work will be at the forefront of efforts to promote an ethical approach to AI, and
 we will embed this approach across disciplines and sectors for the achievement of positive
 economic and societal impacts. Postgraduate researchers are vital for the sustainability of our
 research, and we will embed them into the full range of our activities so they are well prepared
 and equipped for their future careers.

 Engagement = Impact: Collaboration is vital for our intellectual and financial sustainability and is
 the key mechanism for delivering economic and societal impact. We anticipate that future
 funding will go to interdisciplinary projects that can harness the collective knowledge of diverse
 teams of researchers, industrial partners and communities. The sustainable partnerships that we
 are developing through our KTP pipeline and large-scale KE initiatives will ensure we play an
 important role in these emerging opportunities. We will set ambitious targets for the growth of
 research awards and deliver impacts with a global resonance.

 Enabling impact
 CfACS has an Impact and Engagement Manager who helps staff to embed impact across
 research activities. The Impact Manager works with a group of seven KE members whose focus
 is on the translation of research into activities that lead to impact.

 We have an outstanding KTP portfolio supported by an award-winning team. In the assessment
 period we have secured £2.3m for 17 KTPs that have transformed the productivity of North West
 SMEs. We have delivered KTPs across all research themes, but they have played a particularly
 important role as pathway to impact in cybersecurity (see ICS 2). Staff who act as KTP
 supervisors are rewarded by a 10% workload allocation throughout the duration of their project.

 Staff are supported by MetroPolis, the University’s research-led think tank (see REF 5a).
 MetroPolis links our research into policy and provides funding for roundtable events and
 resources that have helped us to respond to parliamentary enquiries.

 Internal funding supports impact. Prof Liangxiu Han accessed £30,000 to develop drone
 technology, which led to field trials to protect food crops from disease in China. Global
 Challenges Research Funding (GCRF) is used for impact. For example, Dr Nawaz used GCRF
 to support activities around gender-based violence in Pakistan (see ICS 3).

 We collaborate closely with NHS Trusts on technology-enabled healthcare. For example, we are
 working with the Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust on AI applications for pathology and with the
 Salford Royal Foundation Trust on AI for Health and Social Care.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for impact will continue after REF 2021. Our Impact and Engagement Manager is
 already working with staff to make plans for the areas where we want to develop future benefits.

 Interdisciplinary research
 Our research structures and strategies encourage staff from different disciplines to undertake
 collaborative research that would otherwise not be possible. We have a particular strength in
 research that is at the interface of informatics, health and agritech, and our outputs report many
 collaborations with healthcare providers and international partners. 30% of the outputs included
 in the submission are interdisciplinary.

 Examples include collaboration with ecologists on early warning systems which led to co-funded
 work with the EPSRC (output 2347), an exploration into the decision-making processes of
 physiotherapists that led to a large MRC grant on neuromuscular control in children (output
 2367) and research on machine learning with psychologists and media professionals. We have
 won £955,000 from the BBSRC, EPSRC and Innovate UK for international interdisciplinary
 research in precision agriculture with botanists from the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew and the
 Centre for Agriculture and Bioscience International.

 Open research
 Our open access policy is fully compliant with REF requirements and 90% of our in-scope
 outputs are fully open access compliant (without exceptions). Staff have access to resources for
 both green and gold open access (see REF 5a). Our institutional repository currently includes
 700 items associated with CfACS. Some of the most downloaded work is on traffic-management
 systems and interdisciplinary collaborations on micro-facial expressions, wrinkles and ageing
 (over 1,000 downloads). We have UKRI and institutional funding available for article processing
 charges as well as arrangements with various publishers such as an IEEE Deposit Account.
 Twenty-two outputs were made immediately available through Gold Open Access resources
 including impactful research on health informatics and data science.

 We are fully compliant with the Concordat for Open Research Data, adhere closely to funder
 policies and seek to make research data accessible and useful to others. Staff share their data
 using the University repository (see REF 5a), and there are examples of the use of GitHub and
 other systems to create datasets that have a big impact. For example, in output 2354 we report
 the creation of the world’s largest dataset for the medical imaging of diabetic foot ulcers used by
 over 50 institutions from 25 countries.

 Research Integrity and Ethics
 Researchers are aware of their responsibilities under the revised Concordat for Research
 Integrity. Our unit has 3 ethics leads (Prof Han, Dr Yap and Dr Kharel) who represent computer
 science at the Faculty Research Ethics and Governance Committee. All staff, PGRs and taught
 students obtain ethical approval before commencing any data collection. Ethical approval is
 managed through EthOS (see REF 5a). Our Research Ethics and Governance Manager
 provides training and guidance and has expertise in healthcare-related research.

 We participate in annual audits of compliance with the institutional expectations around research
 ethics and governance. We are fortunate to have staff who provide academic leadership for
 ethics across Computer Science disciplines. In 2019, Prof Crockett co-organised a special
 session at the IEEE CEC on the Ethics of Computational Intelligence and in 2020, she co-
 chaired a panel and workshop on Ethical AI at IEEE WCCI.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy is to attract high-quality researchers and to provide support to enable staff
 to achieve their full potential. We have invested in staff development and infrastructure. This has
 underpinned a large growth in critical mass and the number of staff included in our submission
 has increased by 100% from 11.5 FTE in REF 2014 to 23 FTE in 2021. Our recruitment policy

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 emphasises the importance of high-quality research, we have workload processes that
 incentivise and reward good performance, staff development and training initiatives that
 underline our commitment to the Concordat for the Career Development of Researchers,
 support for early career researchers, and clear research-based academic pathways and
 promotion routes.

 Recruitment
 We work closely with Heads of Departments and Faculty planners to recruit into areas of
 expertise. The Director of CfACS and our theme leads are included in recruitment processes to
 ensure that candidates meet our requirements for both quality and ‘fit’. Beyond like-for-like
 replacement, recruitment is driven by our strategic plans. We have demonstrated world
 leadership and reputation in specific areas and are using this leverage to attract new talent. The
 reputation and profile of our research is evidenced by the fact that we attract high quality from an
 international talent pool and we regularly receive a high volume of applications from around the
 world. Principles of equality, diversity and inclusion are embedded throughout our recruitment
 processes.

 A series of new appointments has underpinned a growth in critical mass in all core areas.
 Twelve staff were recruited during the assessment period including two professors (Profs Peng
 and Aspin) and five early career researchers (Cavaliere, Drikvandi, Cunningham, Moretti and
 Shardlow).

 Our recruitment strategy in combination with staff development activities (see below) has led to a
 large increase in overall research capacity, as reflected in our staffing contract profile (Table 1).

  Professor                       Reader            Senior Lecturer          Lecturer, Research
                                                                             Fellow
  17%                             26%               48%                      9%
 Table 1: Staff contract level profile

 All of our submitted staff are on permanent employment contracts. 22% of our staff are ECRs.

 Staff development and progression
 We provide time for colleagues to engage in a minimum of ten days professional development
 each year. We organise a vibrant programme of ongoing activity including seminars where staff
 (including ECRs and PGRs) share findings and build collaborative networks. The University is a
 signatory to the revised Concordat for Career Development of Researchers and has held the EU
 HR Excellence in Research award for eight years (see REF 5a).

 Workload allocation
 All staff with a significant responsibility receive a minimum of 20% of their time allocation for
 research and are full members of CfACS in line with our approved Code of Practice. Our
 members have access to internal funds to produce high-quality outputs. They generate research
 income, supervise PhDs and mentor ECRs.

 Pay and career progression
 Colleagues at the top of Grade 8, 9 or 10 (Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Reader) can apply for
 additional increments to reward excellent research or impact activities. Professors have their pay
 reviewed annually to provide the flexibility to reward outstanding contributions and retain our top
 performers.

 Promotion from Lecturer to Professor is delivered through two Academic Career Pathways:
 Education, Pedagogy and Citizenship and Research, Knowledge Exchange, Impact, Education
 and Citizenship. In the assessment period, five staff (22% of our submission) were promoted for
 their contribution to the production of high-quality outputs and impact. This includes promotions
 from Reader to Professor for Han, Crockett and Hammoudeh and from Senior Lecturer to
 Reader for Yap and Kharel.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Mentoring and individual research plans
 Mentoring from research leaders is a key part of our culture. All ECRs are assigned a mentor
 who can help with their career development. Mentors provide input into the development of
 individual research plans, publications and grant applications. Information from individual
 research plans feeds into departmental professional development reviews (PDRs), ensuring that
 individual research supports departmental strategies and goals.

 Induction
 All new staff (including ECRs) undertake an induction program, providing critical knowledge on
 research conduct, integrity and ethics, the use of RKE Systems, health and safety, procurement
 and grant management. Institutional training is provided on PhD supervision, postgraduate
 examining and chairing assessment panels and our equality and diversity policies. All new
 starters have a reduced workload during their probation period, with a 25% uplift in preparation
 time for units taught in their first year at the University.

 Our postdoctoral research associates (PDRA) and KTP associates are members of the UCRKE
 and engage with seminars, training, funding and other aspects of research culture. They are
 supported by the PDR system, are allocated mentors and are able to access internal funds to
 attend conferences and research networking meetings in the same way as other staff.

 Early career researchers
 We currently have five ECRS (22% of our overall submission) who were all appointed during the
 assessment cycle. ECRs are assigned a mentor and complete an individual research plan.

 We have a number of internal funding schemes and training programmes to support the career
 development of ECRs including Research Accelerator Grants and RKE Future Leaders. The
 CfACS management structure includes a dedicated ECR Lead (Prof Crockett) who represents
 our ECRs at an institutional ECR forum. Prof Crockett organises an annual ECR Showcase to
 raise the profile of individuals and their research areas. We have an excellent record of
 supporting ECRs to achieve their full potential, and we see this as a distinctive feature of our
 culture. For example, Dr Yap was appointed as a lecturer in 2011 and was returned as an ECR
 in REF 2014. She was promoted to senior lecturer in 2014, and subsequent participation in our
 Future Leaders scheme helped her to develop larger funding applications such as the Royal
 Society Industry Fellowship that she was awarded in 2016. This activity led to promotion to
 Reader in 2017. Dr Yap is now benefitting from the University’s Good to Great programme that
 is designed for advanced career development and progression.

 Internal investment and support for professional development
 We provide staff with access to resources to pursue their ideas and a range of internally funding
 opportunities for career development.

 Funding for conferences and events: CfACS members including ECRs and PGRs have access
 to funding to attend international and national networking events and conferences, to run
 workshops, to invite external speakers and for knowledge exchange and public engagement
 activities.

 Writing Retreats: CfACS organises a biannual writing retreat that has provided staff at all career
 stages (including ECRs and PGRs) with mutual help and support in developing their personal
 publication strategies and outputs.

 Seed funding for the development of new activities: Staff can apply for seed funding (up to
 £10,000) to develop RKE activities. This has been used variously to purchase equipment, to pay
 for the costs of visiting research partners, to access external facilities and to support activity that
 can leverage new funding opportunities and generate high-quality outputs or impact.



                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sabbatical arrangements: Staff have access time and resources for sabbaticals that have been
 used to support high-quality work. For example, Prof Hammoudeh’s sabbatical helped him to
 develop a strong collaboration with Lab-STICC CNRS, Université De Bretagne
 Occidentale, France, and Al-Balqaʼ Applied University, Jordan. This led to the creation of the
 world's first simulator for smart city digital twin and the production of over 10 publications. Dr Yap
 used a sabbatical to establish new collaborations with University of Waikato. This led to an
 EPSRC funding award (EP/N02700/1) and an international workshop in conjunction with
 MICCAI.

 Research Accelerator Grants: CfACS staff have been able to access research accelerator grants
 (see REF 5a) to collect preliminary data for proof of the concept and feasibility. Staff have used
 the funds to develop capacity in software agents and big data analyses.

 Global Challenges Research Funding: GCRF is used to develop overseas links with a particular
 emphasis on support for impact-related activities. Prof Han and Dr Nawaz have used £12,000 of
 GCRF to extend partnerships around crop disease and gender-based violence in China and
 Pakistan, respectively.

 RKE Future Leaders Scheme: CfACS has five RKE Future Leaders (Yap, Latham, Dhajel,
 Hammoudeh and Kharel) who have benefited from this scheme. Participants are selected
 through a competitive application process and are given a £5,000 personal development
 allowance and time allocation to attend the cohort-based learning opportunity. RKE Future
 Leaders has helped Yap, Hammoudeh and Kharel to secure promotions during the assessment
 period.

 Good to Great (G2G): G2G is a competitive development scheme that provides an advanced
 level of career development for staff who are moving towards the highest levels of academic
 leadership. Each G2G participant undertakes a needs analysis that informs their learning
 pathway. They receive internal and external mentorship and are able to access considerable
 funds for personal and professional development. Dr Yap received £35,000 and teaching relief
 that enabled her to participate in a series of funding sandpits that led to a successful award from
 Cancer Research UK and EPSRC.

 Strategic Opportunities Funding (SOF): SOF provides strategic investment into areas of growth
 that align with our research ambitions. In 2018, we invested £65,000 for Prof Hammoudeh to
 produce a prototype system for cybersecurity in the pharmaceutical supply chain (see ICS 2),
 and Prof Han accessed £30,000 to extend field trials around agritech solutions for crop disease
 in China (output 2363).

 Staff exchange mechanisms
 We have funded mechanisms in place to facilitate staff exchanges including the International
 Visitor and Research Network Fund that staff use to develop strategic collaborations with
 overseas partners. Dr Nawaz used the funding for a partnership with the National Centre for
 Artificial Intelligence in Pakistan, and Dr Dhajel developed links with the University of Rennes
 around research into smart transportation.

 We also have a number of visiting professorships which staff use to develop new, externally
 funded collaborations. For example, Prof Ana Fernández Vilas (University of Vigo) visited staff in
 the Machine Intelligence group in 2018. This led to the successful award of the €64,600 grant
 Magos (Secure sMArt Grid using Open Source Intelligence) funded by the Ministerio De
 Economia, Industria Y Competividad, and joint supervision of a PhD student (output 2352).

 2.4 Research students

 Strategy



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs) are a vital part of our research community. Our
 strategy highlights the importance of PGR quality and allocates funding to provide in-depth
 personalised support to develop our PGRs’ research skills and career development.

 A proportion of our UCRKE budget is ring-fenced to support PGR activities. In the 2019
 Postgraduate Research Environment Survey (PRES) we were in the top quartile for the quality
 of our supervision, and we have delivered 34 doctoral completions in the assessment period – a
 113% increase on REF 2014.

 Recruitment and funding
 Eighty students have enrolled with CfACS during the assessment period, and we currently have
 a diverse community of 40 PGRs recruited from all over the world including China, Saudi,
 Malaysia, India, Iran, France and Spain. CfACS leads the advertising, recruitment and
 appointment process to ensure that we attract the right candidates. All PGRs are interviewed by
 a gender-balanced panel who have completed equality and diversity training including a
 mandatory module on unconscious bias. Our commitment to individual circumstances is
 reflected in our PGR community. Fifteen percent of our PGR students have declared a disability,
 29% are female and 46% identify as Black and Minority Ethnic (BAME).

 Studentships are funded from external and internal sources. We have been successful in
 winning competitive funding such as the Royal Society PhD Studentship for Industry Fellows in
 2017 when we were awarded £86,000 for a joint studentship with Image Metrics (output 2339).
 We were also the first modern University to win the EPSRC Dorothy Hodgson Postgraduate
 Award to support research on the detection of glaucoma (output 2342). PhD student Dr Haleem
 was selected as a finalist under the Transforming Society category in the UK ICT pioneer
 competition 2015 as a result of this project. We have received full funding for studentships from
 Service Power and matched funding from partners such as Intellicentrics and IBM (output 2385).
 We are also able to access fully funded Vice-Chancellor Scholarships which are advertised on
 an annual basis in high-profile global campaigns.

 Monitoring and support
 PGRs have a minimum of two academic supervisors including a Director of Studies who
 supports the development of the student’s research including access to training and career
 development opportunities. One hundred hours of annual supervision is usually divided between
 the supervisory team.

 The SkillsForge system supports student progress and development (see REF 5a). SkillsForge
 generates automatic reminders about official milestones and records training and actions from
 supervisory meetings. An Application for Registration takes place after three months (for full-time
 study) and a Progression Review or Transfer of Registration takes place after 12 months full-
 time). All PGRs are expected to submit within four years (pro-rata for PT students).

 The most recent (2019) results of the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES)
 evidence our strong support for PGRs. We were ranked within the top quartile for the quality of
 supervision in the Computer Science and Informatics category with 100% of respondents
 reporting that they had regular contact with supervisors that was appropriate for their needs. We
 have delivered 34 successful doctoral completions during the assessment period.

 PGR Support and Training
 All PGRs automatically become members of CfACS, which gives them access to funding,
 research-focused events and the opportunity to contribute to our collaborative research culture.
 We run a bi-weekly seminar series that integrates PGRs into our wider mission. A departmental
 Research Degree Co-ordinator is assigned to provide dedicated support to PGR students.
 CfACS has a PGR representative (Prof Crockett) who provides an opportunity for the PGR voice
 to be heard and understood in CfACS meetings.



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We work with the University’s Graduate School to provide training for PGRs (see REF 5a).
 CfACS hosts away days where we discuss research, career development and practical and
 theoretical techniques. We encourage PGR students to join professional societies to develop
 their academic networks, and we signpost opportunities to get involved in public engagement
 activities, present at conferences, and encourage PGR representation on committees. For
 example, 10 PhD students were involved in the 2018 and 2019 Manchester Science Festivals
 supporting our events on AI. PGRs in their second and third year are encouraged to act as
 mentors to new students. Regular teaching opportunities are available with the process de-
 coupled from the Director of Studies in order to provide a range of academic experience and
 viewpoints. PGRs have access to lockers, staff common rooms and desks, with the majority
 using university laptops to allow flexible working.

 Dr Ryan Cunningham provides a good ‘case study’ of how we support PGRs and how this, in
 turn, feeds back into our research environment. In 2012, Ryan was awarded a fully funded PhD
 studentship on a collaborative project with healthcare scientists. Following a successful
 completion, we were able to offer a research fellowship in Healthcare Science and afterwards a
 lectureship in Computing. As part of his development, we have been able to provide
 approximately £20,000 internal funding for Dr Cunningham to attend conferences and to
 purchase research equipment. In 2019, Ryan’s work with musculoskeletal scientists was
 awarded £900,000 from the Medical Research Council (output 2383).

 2.5 Equality and Diversity

 We have made progress in improving equality and diversity with a particular emphasis on
 addressing levels of gender and ethnic representation at senior roles. The equality and diversity
 of our submitted staff against the total eligible population is included in Table 2 below.

  Protected                    % of submitted           % of staff in overall eligible
  characteristic               staff (REF 2021)         population (REF 2021)
  Female                       17%                      13%
  Male                         83%                      87%
  Declared disability          0%                       5%
  White                        61%                      73%
  Total BAME                   39%                      27%
  Black                        0%                       0%
  Chinese                      13%                      7%
  Asian                        17%                      15%
  Mixed / Other                9%                       5%
 Table 2: Equality characteristics of staff against the total eligible population.

 Our submission is more representative then the total eligible population with more women
 included in the return and more staff who identify as BAME. We are more representative than
 the sector average in terms of ethnicity (39% of staff identify as BAME whereas the average
 according to the latest HESA data for academic staff in relevant disciplines is 25%). Fifty percent
 of our professors are female and all of our research themes are led by women. Three out of four
 professors identify as BAME (compared with nil in REF 2014).

 We have inspirational leaders of the sector’s approach to equality and diversity. Prof Crockett is
 Chair of the IEEE Women in Computational Intelligence Committee and Chair of IEEE Task
 Force on Ethical and Social Implications of Computational Intelligence. In 2019, Prof Crockett
 was tagged as a “Woman to Watch” (IEEE Women in Engineering Magazine), and in 2020 she
 was shortlisted as one of the 100 most influential women in UK Technology by Computer
 Weekly. Dr Latham is currently the Chair of IEEE UK and Ireland Women in Engineering
 Committee (serving since 2012) and is a committee member of IEEE Women in Computational
 Intelligence.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CfACS makes a contribution to the University’s equality and diversity agenda. We provided
 leadership for activities that underpinned the award of Athena SWAN Bronze, and Dr Latham is
 currently leading a team of academics, technicians and PGRs assembling an application for a
 departmental submission.

 Flexible working arrangements
 Our flexible working procedure facilitates temporary part-time working, compressed hours, job
 share, and career breaks, combined with a promotions scheme to ensure that colleagues are not
 disadvantaged by career breaks (see REF 5a). We recognise the effect that equality-related
 circumstances can have on an individual’s ability to research or on their productivity. Following
 disclosure of an equality-related issue, we adjust our expectations for the production of research.
 ECR colleagues have reduced expectations of research outputs.

 Part-time and fixed-term staff have access to the same support and progression systems as full-
 time staff including PDR, career development funds and opportunities. Additional training to
 gaining academic qualifications is made available to all.

 Support for staff and research students returning from leave
 We have policies in place to support staff who are returning from leave or other long-term family
 absence. We have a generous annual leave allowance with enhanced maternal, paternal and
 adoption leave in addition to unpaid parental leave if required. We make adjustments for
 colleagues with caring responsibilities; those with chronic disabilities; and those returning to
 work after a period of sickness or leave of family-related absence (see REF 5a).

 The wellbeing of staff and research students
 All staff have access to the Lifeworks portal for counselling, confidential advice and support for
 personal issues. Lifeworks is a fully integrated wellbeing platform that provides everyone access
 to discounts and wellbeing assistance seamlessly via website and a mobile app. Regular
 meetings with mentors and research theme leaders help us to identify staff that might need to be
 signposted to support where appropriate.

 Equality and Diversity and our REF 2021 return
 In the process of preparing for REF 2021, the Unit of Assessment coordination team aimed to be
 fair, transparent and inclusive, following the processes set out in our University’s Code of
 Practice, which we have used to guide decisions around our submission. All colleagues with
 significant responsibility for research are included in the submission. All staff involved in unit of
 assessment co-ordination have completed training on ‘Managing Diversity’, ‘Equality and
 Diversity Essentials’ and ‘Unconscious Bias and REF2021’.

 All colleagues have been made aware of the processes surrounding requests for a reduction in
 output expectations, and adjustments in expectations have been made where appropriate. We
 studied EDAP’s guidance closely and decided that we could manage the cumulative effect on
 our submission within the revised rules and therefore did not request a reduction in the number
 of outputs.

 We have paid particular attention to ensuring that equality and diversity are embedded into the
 development and preparation of the submission. The Computer Science and Informatics
 REF2021 Coordination Group featured one male and three female colleagues. We have taken
 positive steps to share the attribution of outputs: 26% of the outputs are attributed to females
 despite the fact that there are only 17% female staff in the overall submission.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic investment in staff including development schemes as well as excellent support from
 our Research Development Managers has resulted in 51 external research awards totalling
 £5.26m. We have also secured significant knowledge exchange awards, principally for the GM
 Cyber Foundry and AI Foundry projects (see below).

 Research income is £3.58m (156% larger than the £1.4m we reported in REF 2014) with funding
 from BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC, Royal Society, European Commission, Innovate UK and industrial
 collaborators. There has been a sustained uplift in external income from 2013/14 (£142,000) to
 2019/20 (£863,000).

 The scope of our funding portfolio remains diverse with 21% from UK Research Councils
 (EPSRC and BBSRC are our main UKRI sources of income) and 15% from European Funders
 (see table 3 below). The majority of our income is from UK business, industry and government
 sources including a large and successful KTP portfolio comprised of 17 projects worth £2.3m.

 Diversity of Income Sources

  Source of          BEIS               UK Charities,   UK Govt,     European         Non-EU
  Income             Research           Open            Industry &   Union
                     Councils           Competition &   other UK
                                        Other           Sources
  Percentage         21%                0%              64%          15%              0%
  of Income
 Table 3: Diversity of Income Sources

 Major competitive awards include:

 “UK-China Agritech Challenge: CropDoc - Precision Crop Disease Management for Farm
 Productivity and Food Security” BBSRC (BB/S020969/1), £449,193 (2019).
 Prof Han leads this international project in collaboration with industry and academia in UK and
 China. The project overall funding is £1.5m. CropDoc employs cutting-edge technologies such
 as IoT, mobile devices, big data and AI to tackle the economic devastation that potato blight
 causes (output 2363).

 “iBorderCtrl” European Commission (ID: 700626), €4,501,877, £301,776 to Manchester
 Metropolitan (2016).
 Prof Crockett leads our contribution to this EU-funded project with partners from Luxembourg,
 Greece, Spain, Hungary and Latvia. The project implements faster, more thorough border
 control for third-country nationals crossing European borders. This project has received a lot of
 media and political attention (see ICS 1), fuelling international public discourse about the ethics
 of AI technology.

 “Populism and Civic Engagement – a fine-grained, dynamic, context-sensitive and forward-
 looking response to the negative impacts of populist movements (PaCE)", European
 Commission (107402), €2,319,719, €332,063, to Manchester Metropolitan (2019).
 This is a cross disciplinary project, led by Prof Edmonds (Centre for Policy Modelling, C17) in
 collaboration with Prof Crockett and Dr David McLean. Project partners include organisations in
 Iceland, Bulgaria, Austria, Germany, Belgium, Ireland and Finland.

 “Air Handlers KTP” Innovate UK (KTP 11024) £284,948 (2018)
 This project led by Dr Kharel is in partnership with Air Handlers who manufacture heating and
 ventilation systems that are used in hospitals, schools and other public and private settings. The
 KTP was awarded for the development of a smart, scalable and productive manufacturing
 system that could expand the existing product range through the adoption of leading-edge mass
 customisation techniques.

 “Greater Manchester Cyber Foundry” (ERDF) £6,615,951, £3,000,000 to Manchester
 Metropolitan (2018)

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dr Kharel and Keith Miller (KE member) lead this major collaborative project with the universities
 of Lancaster, Manchester and Salford to deliver targeted business support to SMEs whilst
 identifying projects that can harness R&D expertise to develop new products, services and
 capacity. The Cyber Foundry is driving economic growth and productivity through the application
 of cyber research and innovation (see ICS 2).

 “Greater Manchester AI Foundry” (ERDF) £6,876,491, £3,000,000 to Manchester Metropolitan
 (2020)
 Keith Miller (KE member) leads this major collaborative project with Profs Aspin and Crockett.
 From disease detection using deep learning to autonomous vehicle technology using computer
 vision – the AI Foundry, led by Manchester Metropolitan, harnesses the research across a
 consortium of four universities (partners are universities of Lancaster, Manchester and Salford)
 to unlock new products and services in Greater Manchester’s businesses.

 Strategy for external research income generation

 Strengthen leadership for developing collaborative larger bids: Engagement with funders
 and priority-setting exercises led by our Research Development Manager has resulted in an
 increasingly strategic approach to bidding. Experienced researchers are encouraged to bid more
 selectively, for larger grants. Robust peer review processes, starting with formal CfACS-level
 support and scrutiny, enhance the quality of bids and share expertise across the staff team.

 A careful pathway of mentoring and support for ECRs: We support ECRs to identify
 opportunities, write convincing cases for support and conduct rigorous peer review and
 mentoring activities. We also provide internal investment through RKE Future Leaders and
 Research Accelerator Grants.

 Playing our part in the Industrial Strategy and future economy: We have won large awards
 for knowledge exchange projects that translate research in cyber security and AI into tangible
 benefits for the region’s economy and workforce. Our research and teaching nexus provides a
 fantastic opportunity for us to feed research-led innovations into a new way of doing things
 across Greater Manchester. Our large and expanding KTP portfolio is enabling us to translate
 new ideas into impact that benefits North West SMEs, and we will continue to grow this activity
 into the future.

 Using knowledge of funders more strategically: Regular bidding workshops across
 disciplines share specific funder knowledge. We have used this experience to work alongside
 our Research Development Manager to provide critical appraisal of proposals throughout. This
 has been a successful approach for us with BBSRC funding and with Royal Society funding in
 particular.

 Internal investment to support external income: As reported in section 2 we use internal
 funding to support early-stage ideas from our staff. Schemes such as the Strategic Opportunities
 Fund (SOF) and Research Accelerator Grants are used with precision to pump prime activities
 that have been worked up into full external proposals. For example, Dr Yap has been able to use
 internal investment to grow her research team and to develop collaborations with Image Metrics
 Ltd (output 2339) and CSols Ltd into successful awards from The Royal Society (£146,381) and
 Innovate UK (£218,486). This has resulted in more than 30 high-quality publications.

 The development of new clusters of expertise: We have invested in the development of
 significant new clusters of activity during the assessment period such as “Precision Agriculture”.
 With £30,000 internal support from the SOF and GCRF, Prof Han has constructed a portfolio of
 precision agriculture solutions for crop health management and monitoring, soil analysis and
 crop site management, which has generated more than £900,000 to Manchester Metropolitan
 and resulted in eight high-quality research papers.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exceptional support from the RKE Directorate: We have a strong relationship with our
 Research Development Manager, who attends management meetings and works with us on
 long-term funding strategy. We also have access to an International Research Development
 Manager and an experienced Delivery team (see infrastructure below).

 Infrastructure

 Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate (RKE)
 CfACS benefits from significant expertise in an expanded RKE Directorate. RKE includes
 research development and delivery, research ethics and governance, impact, business
 engagement, KTP support and The Graduate School (see REF 5a).

 We have access to fantastic RKE Systems including Symplectic for outputs and web profiles,
 Worktribe for external funding applications, EthOS for research ethics, and SkillsForge for
 managing the PGR student journey. We also have access to SciVal for benchmarking and
 reporting purposes.

 We have a press officer, an HR business partner, Information Systems support and expertise for
 the negotiation of RKE-related contracts and commercialisation activities. We receive excellent
 support for the management of our web and social media presence.

 Technical Support
 We receive support from 16 technicians organised across research-facing teams in Diagnostic,
 Mobile and Digital Computing (8 FTE) and Computational Facilities (8 FTE). Research
 Technicians manage our “core” facilities and provide hands-on expertise for research. We are a
 signatory to the Science Council and Gatsby Foundation’s Technical Commitment.

 IT Infrastructure
 We have access to a £500,000 Research Data Storage facility that provides a centrally
 managed data storage solution. This provides a system that is highly available with performance
 and storage capacity to meet current and future needs (multiple petabytes).

 Library Services
 Research Support Librarians provide access to 349 electronic databases including CORE,
 Scopus, Web of Science and Science Direct, and provide guidance on appropriate publishing
 routes, copyright, enquiries around Open Access and Research Data Management. The Library
 also manages green open access through the ‘e-space’ repository (integrated with Symplectic)
 and administers funding for article processing payments for gold open access.

 Specialist facilities
 Research takes place in the John Dalton Tower on 8 floors of combined research space.

 The Visual Computing Lab is equipped with six GPU machines (including one that is sponsored
 by Nvidia). Research on facial analysis uses high-speed cameras and a specialist machine for
 facial micro-expressions research. For human motion analysis, we have two types of depth
 sensors to measure movement.

 The CfACS IoT Lab has a 50-device test-bed of Internet of Things (IoT) and Wireless Sensor
 Networks. It is also equipped with specialist kit including IoT Care (Norma, Korea), Next
 Generation Firewall (Palo Alto Networks, US) and Quantum Secure IoT chipset (BST, UK). We
 have in-house tools, including Smart City Digital Twin, RFID deployment and planning tools, an
 indoor-IoT simulator and smart healthcare kits.

 Adaptive psychological profiling research within the Machine Intelligence theme utilises a state-
 of-the art Usability Lab to capture and analyse human behaviour utilising a wide range of
 technology including remote eye-tracking hardware (SMI RED 250) and the head-mounted eye
 tracking system (SMI) using lightweight glasses.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Access to shared facilities and “in-kind” support
 A collaboration with Scan Computers enables us to use their DGX high-performance machine,
 and we secured Nvidia sponsorship for training in the use of deep learning algorithms. We also
 received an Oracle Innovation Accelerator Program Award to use their cloud infrastructure for
 the proof-of-concept phase of our FootSnap AI-enabled product (output 2354).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Support and effectiveness of collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Staff collaborate with a wide range of partners in many fields; the reach of this work is evidenced
 by the fact that 69% of our submitted outputs are co-authored with 114 international partners.

 We participate in various European consortia including iBorderCtrl with 13 partners including
 Leibniz University and the National Technical University of Athens, Populism and Civic
 Engagement (PaCE) with 8 partners including University of Helsinki and University of Salzburg,
 and ImageInLife with the University of Montpellier.

 Internationally, we work with partners in Pakistan on AI-enabled applications including National
 University of Science and Technology (NUST) and the National Centre for Artificial Intelligence.
 We have collaborations in China where we work on agritech applications and Internet of Things
 technology. We have visiting professorships at Sudan University of Science and Technology and
 Southwest University of China (Yap).

 In the UK, partnerships include the £12m GM AI and Cyber Foundry projects with Lancaster
 University, University of Manchester and Salford University. We are partners in the Cancer
 Research UK, EPSRC-funded ‘Mammobot’ project that is investigating breast cancer diagnosis
 with University of Bath, King’s College London, Leeds, Edinburgh and Imperial. We are working
 on the early detection of skin cancer using mobile devices with The Dermatology Centre at
 Salford Royal Foundation Trust.

 Contributions to the economy and society
 Our researchers make a major contribution to the regional economy through one of the UK’s
 largest KTP portfolios. We have been awarded 17 KTPs leading to new products and services
 for SMEs including Access Systems, Blueskytec, Cherry Pop Games, RAA IT, Kindus, REM UK,
 Service Power, Brodericks, Packaging Automation Limited and The Insights People. We even
 have an international KTP for a project that uses data to enhance crop yields with the University
 of Johannesburg. Outcomes of KTPs not featured in our impact case studies include research
 on quantum technology with Service Power Ltd that led to several patents and a £14m buyout
 from US investors in 2017.

 CfACS carries out research into the development of smart transport systems. We are partners
 with Network Rail on an Innovate UK funded project using disruptive radar technology to create
 3D visualisations of subsurface rail infrastructure that will lead to improved safety for rail
 passengers. We have a KE Fellowship arrangement with the Transport Systems Catapult
 providing ongoing advice and consultancy and stimulating innovation projects.

 Research contributes to national policy. Prof Hammoudeh’s research on zero trust was cited
 nine times in the reports of the Joint Committee on National Security Strategy and the Joint
 Committee on Domestic Threat of Drones. Research in quantum annealing featured as a case
 study in a Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology publication. Prof Crockett’s work on
 place-based ethical AI has engaged policymakers and data scientists in round tables organised
 by think tank Policy Connect with the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Data Analytics.

 Prof Peng has been appointed as honorary visiting professor with SRFT and the Northern Care
 Alliance NHS Group to advise on the development of AI for health in the region. Prof Peng is
 collaborating with The Royal Veterinary College and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medicine to investigate the applications of AI and machine learning in combating infectious
 disease and Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR). We undertake research in partnership with
 University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust (automation analysis of
 embryoscope images), Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust (body scanning and self-
 esteem), Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (diabetes) and Norfolk and
 Norwich Teaching Hospital (breast cancer). We also collaborate with technology providers such
 as Oracle, Cisco, Croda and Image Metrics on health-related contributions to wider society.

 Public and end-user engagement
 We gain enormous benefits from public engagement both in terms of improving the quality and
 direction of our research but also the opportunity that it provides for staff and PGRs to
 collaborate on interesting projects. We believe in meaningful two-way public engagement in
 which the expertise of the public is valued. For example, the outcomes of our events at
 Manchester Science Festival are informing the future direction for the development of a Greater
 Manchester charter for ethical AI. Our staff frequently work with artists and authors to develop
 innovative forms of public engagement. ICS01 describes our collaboration with the award-
 winning Manchester-based independent Comma Press who we have worked with over a number
 of years on popular science fiction anthologies inspired by our research. ICS01 also features
 Prof Crockett’s collaboration with world-renowned composer Bofan Ma, whose experimental
 pieces have featured in performances across Europe. Whilst we are enthused by the
 development of new forms of collaborative public engagement, we also engage the public
 through more traditional routes. Staff regularly contribute to schools engagement and outreach
 activities, and our researchers feature regularly in the broadcast and print media and use social
 media channels such as The Conversation.

 Contribution to the discipline

 Invited/plenary lectures: Staff are invited to give many invited presentations, plenary lectures
 and seminars at key international conferences. A selection includes:
      10th International Joint Conference on Computational Intelligence, Spain 2018
      4th International Conference on Green Computing and Engineering Technology,
        Denmark 2018
      International Conference on Wireless Communication and Networks, US 2018
      18th International Conferences on Ubiquitous Computing and Communications, China
        2019
      IEEE European Summer School on Smart Cities, Italy, 2017
      NSF Workshop on Interdisciplinary and Collaborative Research in Cybersecurity, USA,
        2019
      ACM Distinguished Lecturer Series, USA, 2020
      Role of Network Virtualization in the Future Internet, India, 2020
      IEEE International Conference on Computing, Electronics and Communication
        Engineering, London, 2019
      10th International Congress on Ultra Modern Telecommunications and Control Systems,
        Russia, 2018

 Conference Session Chairs/Organising Committee: Staff are active members of the organising
 committees of several major conference series. A short list includes:
     19th IEEE International Conference on Scalable Computing and Communications, 2019
     4th IEEE International Conference on Data Science and Systems, 2018
     10th IEEE International Conference on Cyber, Physical and Social Computing, 2017
     13th IEEE International Conference on Ubiquitous Intelligence and Computing, 2016
     19th IEEE international Conference on Scalable Computing and Communications, 2019
     3rd IEEE International Conference on Smart Data, 2017
     IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 2015 - 2020
     IEEE Women in Computational Intelligence 2014, 2016, 2018, 2020
     10th IEEE International Conference on Big Data and Cloud Computing, 2020

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       23rd International Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted
        Intervention (Diabetic Foot Ulcer Challenge) 2020
       18th IEEE International Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Processing with
        Applications, 2020
       IEEE/IFIP Wireless Days Conference 2018, 2019
       IEEE 91st Vehicular Technology Conference, 2020
       IEEE International Smart Cities Conference 2015 – 2018, 2020
       17th IEEE Consumer Communications & Networking Conference, 2020
       IEEE Globecom, 2019 – 2020
       ACM MobiCom, 2020
       IEEE International Conference on Computing, Electronics & Communication
        Engineering, 2020.
       International Conference on Smart Machine Intelligence and Real-Time Computing, 2020
       IEEE Wireless Communication and Networking Conference, 2020
       IEEE International Conference on E-health Networking, Applications, and Services, 2019
       International Conference on Emerging Technologies in Computing, 2019
       IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence 2016, 2018, 2020
       Panel of “Women in AI” at IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence, 2020
       IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence, 2020
       International Conference on Cyber Security Intelligence and Analytics, Canada, 2019

 Editorships:
 Staff are members of the editorial boards or guest editors of many journals (>50):
      IEEE Transactions on Artificial Intelligence
      IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems
      IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computational Intelligence
      IEEE Transactions on Big Data
      IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems
      IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics
      IEEE Sensors
      IEEE Access
      IEEE Internet of Things Magazine
      IEEE Future Directions Newsletter
      IET Networks, Computer and Electrical Engineering
      Journal of Supercomputing
      Digital Communications and Networks
      Natural Computing
      Journal of Computational Science
      Journal of Healthcare Engineering
      PeerJ and PeerJ Computer Science
      Computer Communication, Elsevier
      Personal and Ubiquitous Computer, Springer
      Wireless Personal Communication, Springer
      Cluster Computing, Springer
      Multimedia Systems, Springer
      Sustainable Computing: Informatics and Systems, Elsevier
      Journal of Multimedia Tools and Applications, Springer

 External advisory boards:
 CfACS makes a significant contribution to a range of external advisory bodies, including:
     International Society for Computational Biology (Han)
     IEEE Special Interest Group on Big Data for Cyber Security and Privacy (Peng)
     IEEE Taskforce on Ethical and Social Implications of Computational Intelligence and
       Ethics (Crockett)

                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Well Being Officer for Special Interest Group on Humanitarian Technology UKRI
        (Crockett)
       Oracle Research Industry Strategy Council (Yap)
       Transport Catapult (Djahel)
       Adviser, Prime Minister’s Task Force on Science and Technology, Pakistan (Nawaz)
       IEEE Special Interest Group on Green Internet of Vehicles (Djahel)
       Chief Adviser, Visual Intelligence Research Centre, University of Electronic Science and
        Technology of China (Bashir)
       IEEE Women in Engineering Chair UKRI (2016-2021) (Crockett)
       Member IEEE Women in Engineering Leadership Committee (Crockett)
       IEEE World Congress on computational intelligence 2016, 2018, 2020
       Shoman Arab Researchers Award (Hammoudeh)
       Chartered Institute of Information Security (Hammoudeh)

 Fellowships and Prizes:
 The quality of our research is recognised through numerous awards and prizes:
      Best paper award, the 16th IEEE International Conference on Smart City, 2018
      Best paper award, the 8th IFIP International Conference on New Technologies, Mobility
       and Security
      ACM Distinguished Speaker (2019-2022)
      IEEE Outstanding Leadership award as a chair of ScalCom 2019
      IEEE Outstanding Leadership award as a chair of DSS-2018
      FY2021 JSPS Invitational Fellowships for Research in Japan award
      Best paper award IEEE Conference on Cognitive Machine Intelligence, 2019
      Best student paper award by Beijing Technology and Business University, China, 2019

 National and international peer review:
 Staff in the unit have been members of national grant award bodies including:
      EPSRC Peer Review College (Han and Hammoudeh)
      EPSRC Funding Panel – big data call and ICT prioritisation (Han)
      ESRC Funding Panel – Canada-UK Artificial Intelligence Initiative (Peng)
      The Royal Society Industry Fellowship Joint Panel (Yap)
      Horizon 2020 proposal evaluation and mid-term project reviewer (Han)
      British Council (Han and Hammoudeh)
      IEEE CIS Graduate Student Research Grants Committee (Latham)
      IEEE CIS Outstanding PhD Award Committee (Crockett)
      Cancer Research UK Expert Panel (Yap)
      Czech Science Foundation (Djahel)
      Swiss National Science Foundation (Djahel)
      The Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (Djahel)
      Science Foundation Ireland (Hammoudeh)




                                                                                          Page 17
