Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen Mary University of London
 Unit of Assessment: 8-Chemistry

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview
 The Department of Chemistry at Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) is a small unit (15.5
 FTEs) that continues to successfully generate first-class and impactful research as evidenced
 by high quality outputs, excellent PhD students’ numbers and research income. Post REF 2014,
 with the aim of further increasing research excellence in the key priority areas of materials,
 catalysis and computational chemistry, the unit developed a strategy focusing on:
     •   the appointment of new early- to mid-career academics in priority areas;
     •   diversifying gender representation, significantly increasing REF-submitted female
         T&R staff, from 14% to 25%, vs 17% Russell group (20% sector) national benchmark;
     •   increasing PhD student population: more than tripled PhD completion numbers, from
          16.5 (REF2014) to 54.8 (REF2021);
     •   increasing research income: 25% increase of grant income compared to last REF, and
          doubled income in-kind from use of central facilities. Overall income (including from
          use of central facilities) of ca £127k per submitted FTE/year, despite new appointments
          not having time to generate income at the level of their full potential: 68% of the REF
          submitted T&Rs were appointed in 2013-2019, and two joined only in 2019;
     •   diversifying income sources (from UKRI and EU, to Charities, overseas funding and new
         industrial partners);
     •   broadening impact, from commercialisation and industrial engagements, to impact on
         health, patient care, public awareness and debate, as well as changes in policy on
         environmental issues.
  The research profile is aligned around three major thematic areas:
     •   Functional Materials and Nanoscience
         Abrahams, Giordano, Lu, Nielsen, Palma, Resmini
     •   Synthesis and Catalysis
         Arseniyadis, Cambeiro, Jones
     •   Physical and Computational Chemistry
         Chass, Crespo-Otero, Dimitrov, Di Tommaso, Fornili, Vlcek, Zarbakhsh

 In this REF period, the Department has supported 35 PDRAs and 8 Marie Curie fellows (2.7 per
 submitted FTE; 42% and 87% female, respectively;) and an average per year of 35 PhD
 students enrolled (average PhD awarded per submitted FTE: 3.5; 95% on-time completion
 rate). 50% of our staff members (eight) were promoted at least once, of whom 43% were female,
 with one promoted to Professor.
 1.2 Research Strategy
 The Department’s research ambitions are to promote diverse research, influence national and
 international research debates, produce and promote world-leading research that is conducted
 according to the highest standards of integrity and in line with QMUL’s 2030 strategy (see also
 REF5a).
 Since the last REF period the Department has:
 - Developed new research lines including: single-molecule approaches in materials science,
 DNA nanotechnology, nanoscale sensors, organic- and bio-electronic materials, bio-inspired


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 catalysis, nanocatalysts for key electrochemical processes, and materials design for
 CO2 sequestration.
 - Increased and diversified income: 25% increase of grant income and doubled income in-
 kind, with new funding sources (see section 3). We coordinated 3 Marie Curie ITNs, 1 Marie
 Curie IAPP (Industry-Academia Partnerships and Pathways) and have enrolled multiple shared,
 internally and externally funded, PhD studentships, e.g. University of Muenster (DE), the
 Austrian Institute of Technology, University of Trieste (IT), Lilly and Servier.
  - Supported interdisciplinary research: early-/mid-career academics were recruited to
  develop new research lines at the interface between chemistry, physics, engineering and
  biology, in line with the interdisciplinary nature of 21st century impactful research. This led to
  new and fruitful cross-departmental efforts with the Schools of Physics and Astronomy, and
  Engineering and Materials Science, as evidenced by co-led EPSRC funding and joint
  publications. The Department has taken an active role in the development of structures to
  support interdisciplinary research with key roles (Palma, Nielsen, Crespo-Otero) in the
  senior leadership teams of interdisciplinary centres within QMUL, namely the Materials
  Research Institute and the Institute of Bioengineering: Section 3.2.1. The Department has
  further examples of successful interdisciplinary collaborations with the School of Medicine and
  Dentistry and the Barts Cancer Institute (e.g. Palma with Prof Marshall at Barts, and Jones with
  Prof Denise Sheer at Blizard).
 - Contributed towards strategic challenges, including: healthcare technologies (organic
 bioelectronics, nanoscale biosensors, nanogels for drug delivery, DNA nanotechnology);
 industrial (bio)technology and sustainability (bio-inspired asymmetric catalysis, sustainable
 organometallic catalysis); energy (alternative materials for cathodes, energy storage
 composites, water splitting, ammonia production, oxygen reduction reaction); manufacturing for
 the future (functional materials/nanostructures, bioactive glass ionomer cements); and
 computational strategies in the design of materials for CO2 capture and utilisation.
 - Invested in core laboratories and equipment including a state-of-the art scanning probe
 microscopy system, a high-definition mass spectrometer, NMR and X-ray facilities upgrades,
 and in Tier-1 (QMUL’s supercomputer Apocrita) and Tier-2 (MMM, Jade and Midlands Plus
 consortia) High-Performance Computing centres.
 - Further embedded equality, diversity and inclusion. The principles of equality, diversity
 and inclusion are embedded in our research strategy and during this REF period there has been
 a particular focus on improving the recruitment and progression of female researchers, (section
 2.2.). This resulted in significantly increasing the number of female T&R staff submitted
 for REF, from 14% to 25%, vs 17% Russell group (20% sector) national benchmark.
 - Promoted research impact in society. Research in this REF period informed the public
 debate on the environmental impact of plastic-based pollutants (see REF3), while collaborative
 research with the School of Physics and Astronomy led to a new spin-out company (Chromosol),
 which has obtained over £1M in funding and won the Royal Society of Chemistry Emerging
 Technologies competition 2020. Additionally, as a result of research performed by the
 Department, the healthcare company Baxter International developed a new synthetic bone graft
 product, with enhanced bone forming capacity, leading to improved health outcomes and patient
 wellbeing (ApaTech): see REF3.
 - Supported openness and integrity of research. All the published papers are publicly
 accessible via QMUL’s Elements database (see REF5a, section 2); we also upload publications
 to the arXiv. The Department has developed an open-source platform to characterise photo-
 phenomena in molecular crystals, “Fromage” (https://github.com/Crespo-Otero-group/fromage)
 and open source tools to characterise conformational changes and drug binding sites in proteins
 (https://fornililab.github.io/dfs/). We are aligned to the University’s commitments of the UK
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity; our research integrity (mentoring, code of conduct) is
 underpinned by membership of (inter-)national grant panels and learned societies; we embed this
 culture in our staff via staff development activities and plans (Section 2.1).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 - Contributed to the research base, economy and society. The Department has established
 new collaborations with industrial partners (from Sanofi and Servier, to BP, Illy, Symphony
 Environmental) and numerous world-class research institutions in the UK, the rest of Europe,
 China, Singapore and the U.S.A. (Section 4.1). Moreover, we established a national Tier-2 High-
 Performance Computing centre, the MMM Hub, for materials and molecular modelling (£4.5M),
 and were granted visiting and honorary Professorships at Hong Kong University and the
 California Institute of Technology among others. Through a dedicated Director of Outreach and
 Public engagement the Department has been exceptionally active and successful in the delivery
 of multiple outreach and public engagement activities (Section 4.2).
  1.2.1 Mechanisms for promoting research
  Strategic research decisions within the School are taken by the Senior Executive, with the
  support of the Research Strategy Group, which includes established and early career staff
  members from across our research themes (2 T&Rs and the Head of Department). The
  Research Strategy Group monitors grant applications, success rates and provides an important
  framework for internal peer review and mentoring. Given the large proportion of new and junior
  staff, a number of initiatives have been introduced throughout the REF period. These have
  included: i) grant and paper writing workshops, ii) research ideas pitches (bi-monthly), iii)
  specific support in writing, and iv) internal evaluations. Centralised support at the University
  level provides costings, grants management, and workshops on embedding impact into
  proposals. Active engagement to attract funding from industrial sources, is overseen by the QM
  dedicated Business Unit and its partner QM Innovation.
  Researchers are expected to submit at least one large grant application a year and this forms
  a part of their appraisal process. Newly appointed staff are allocated at least one PhD
  studentship in their first year in order to build their research and help generate the preliminary
  data for grants; they are further assigned a research mentor during their first three years
  who helps with research or teaching issues; additional support is encouraged throughout an
  individual’s academic career. Moreover, 10% of the overheads from grant income is
  awarded to researchers as a research enabling fund, and additional PhD studentships are
  provided for grants over £750k. Projects are match-funded where industry contributes 50% of
  the total costs. Researchers are financially supported in the development of impact via proof of
  concept funds and the University’s EPSRC Impact Acceleration Accounts (Section 1.3).
  1.2.2 Research Themes
     •   Functional Materials and Nanoscience
         Abrahams (SL), Giordano (Reader), Lu (L), Nielsen (SL), Palma (Reader), Resmini
         (Prof). Summary of outputs (2014-2020);170 publications; £5.1M research grant
         awards; £1.7M income in-kind
  The Department has expanded in the area of materials science with special focus on functional
  materials and nanoscience. The research is focused in three sub-themes: functional organic
  (bio)electronics, inorganic-based materials and hybrids, and nano-biomaterials. The research
  in these sub-themes has been successful in developing novel functional materials for different
  applications, including:
     •   soft colloidal nanoparticles for sensing and drug delivery applications: Resmini;
     •   novel energy storage materials: Abrahams;
     •   sustainable nanoparticles for oxygen evolution reaction: Giordano;
     •   solution-processable carbon nanoelectrodes for single-molecule investigations and
         biosensing: Palma;
     •   DNA Nanotechnology for single-molecule cancer cells investigations: Palma;
     •   advanced semiconducting materials for organic electronics and healthcare: Nielsen;
     •   new antifouling nanomaterials: Lu;
     •   environmental impact of (bio)degradable plastics: Resmini.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  The research success has been reflected by publication in high profile journals (JACS, ACIE,
  Chem. Sci.) and has been made possible by the University’s investment in new staff (Giordano,
  Nielsen, Lu) and new equipment, including a dimension icon AFM set-up, a UV plus
  spectrometer, and specific equipment for nano-ceramics synthesis. Funding for our research
  comes from: the EPSRC (e.g. in organic bioelectronics sensors, Nielsen; first grant scheme in
  molecular electronics, Palma); the European Commission under the Marie Curie schemes
  (Resmini coordinating three ITN projects on the topic of drug delivery , NANODRUG and
  NANOSTEM, and one European Industrial doctorate, IPCOS), in addition to the EU Marie Curie
  Industry-Academia Partnerships and Pathways project “Intelligent recognition materials for
  extraction devices”, as well as three Marie Curie Individual Fellowships and will soon begin a
  further ITN as partner (Bio2Brain). Resmini’s total awarded amount from Marie Curie Schemes
  is €9.5M including partners, €4.7M to QMUL. New funding sources for the Department were
  explored by staff appointed since 2013: e.g. the US Air Force (Palma) and the Academy of
  Medical Sciences and the Wellcome Trust (Nielsen). One particular strength is the access and
  in-kind support for use of the Science and Technology Facilities Council (Abrahams) in relation
  to the ISIS Neutron & Muon Source. Moreover, strong interactions with the Schools of Physics
  and Astronomy, and of Engineering and Materials Science, are evidenced by joint publications
  and EPSRC grants: e.g. Abrahams with Reece, Yan and Hao (Engineering); Nielsen with Drew
  (Physics); Palma with Gillin, Sapelkin, and Mol (Physics), and with Fenwick and Iskratsch
  (Engineering).
  Recently, internal funding from QMUL in addition to financial support from the medical charity
  Life Arc is helping to take the nanoscale biosensors developed in the Palma group (UK, EU and
  US Patents filed) from the laboratory to “the field” - ambulances and home as point-of-care
  devices, from neurotrauma to antimicrobial resistance sensing- via the fabrication of a portable
  biomarker reader with Maddison limited product design company. Global Challenges Research
  Fund (GCRF) awards obtained (Palma, £48K) are allowing the development of biosensors that
  will benefit people in South-Africa and Mexico. Resmini co-leads a team of QMUL scientists
  with expertise in polymer chemistry, biochemistry, microbiology and ecology, to focus on the
  sampling and analysis of (bio)degradable plastics in the context of their environmental impact.
  Their research has led to impact in informing the public debate on oxo-biodegradable plastics
  and providing key references on the sampling and analysis of plastics for new UK and EU
  guidelines (see REF3). Furthermore, as a result of IPCOS (EC-funded project) the collaboration
  with DEMUS Spa has resulted in the development of a new protocol for the purification of
  caffeine; a pilot plant was set up and a new full-scale facility is currently being developed in
  Italy.
     •   Synthesis and Catalysis
         Arseniyadis (Reader), Cambeiro (L), Jones (SL). Summary of outputs (2014-2020); 46
         publications; £1M research grant awards.
  Research in Synthesis and Catalysis encompasses a wide variety of topics from target-oriented
  synthesis and new methodology development, to biology-inspired and photoredox catalysis.
  The Group works closely with other groups in the Department, notably Functional Materials and
  Computational Chemistry, as well as external academic collaborators and industrial partners.
  Since the REF 2014 two strategic appointments to the Synthesis group have been made:
  Cambeiro (Lecturer) and Arseniyadis (Reader). These appointments have significantly
  strengthened the group in terms of research capability, increased the international profile and
  broadened the research expertise in catalysis and methodology.
  This has been reflected by publication in high profile journals (JACS, ACIE, Chem. Sci.), with
  examples of new successfully developed research areas including:
     •   DNA-based asymmetric catalysis: Arseniyadis;
     •   natural Product Synthesis: Arseniyadis;
     •   homogeneous transition metal catalysis and photocatalysis: Arseniyadis, Cambeiro;
     •   harnessing reactive intermediates: Jones;
     •   C-H activation and functionalisation: Arseniyadis, Cambeiro, Jones;


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   in vitro chemical probes: Arseniyadis, Jones.
 Financial support for the research in this Group comes from a diverse portfolio: UKRI for the
 development of new catalytic and synthetic methodologies (EPSRC Early Career Fellowship,
 Jones) and new 1D channelled framework materials (EPSRC CAM-IES Network, Jones as Co-
 I); multinational pharmaceutical and agrochemical companies for asymmetric synthesis of small
 molecules (Sanofi, Lilly, Servier: Arseniyadis) and consultancy (Syngenta: Jones; Minakem,
 Novartis, Sanofi and Solvay: Arseniyadis); EU Marie Curie Individual Fellowship (Cambeiro
 supervisor), the Royal Society (Jones) and the Royal Society of Chemistry (Jones, Cambeiro)
 and from QMUL strategic research initiatives for small molecule drug development (Proof of
 Concept funding, Jones as Co-PI) and internal EPSRC strategic equipment grants for HPLC
 column collection. The group has benefitted from infrastructure investment in new high definition
 mass spectrometry and improved NMR capabilities: see Section 3.2.
 Synthesis underpins discovery across a wide variety of chemistry and the Group has broadened
 its interdisciplinary research through external (inter)national academic and industrial
 partnerships and internal collaborations. The latter include, DFT calculations to support research
 on new reaction mechanisms (e.g. Jones with Crespo-Otero) and applied synthesis used in the
 preparation and validation of new materials (e.g. Jones with Palma). Intra-faculty partnerships
 have been established through QMUL’s Materials Research Institute (Jones with Szilagyi and
 Titirici) and the Life Sciences Initiative with colleagues from the School of Medicine & Dentistry
 (Jones with Sheer, Lockley).
     •   Physical and Computational Chemistry
         Chass (FTE 0.5; Reader), Crespo-Otero (SL), Dimitrov (L), Di Tommaso (SL), Fornili
         (SL), Vlcek (Prof), Zarbakhsh (SL). Summary of outputs (2014-2020); 180 publications;
         £2.2M research grant awards; £ 4.2M income in-kind.
  Research in Physical & Computational Chemistry at QMUL employs a wide range of empirical
  and theoretical/simulation approaches to characterize the chemical, physical and biological
  properties of molecules and materials and to identify the relationship between molecular
  structure and function. There is a synergistic interplay and active collaboration between the
  experimental and computational members and with academics from other research sections
  within Chemistry (3 grants, 3 studentships, 1 Marie Curie fellowship) and other QMUL
  departments (Physics, Materials, Engineering). The results of these collaborations have been
  reflected in high impact joint publications (JACS, Nat. Commun., J. Chem. Theory Comput.,
  Chem. Sci., Advanced Sci. News, ACS Cent. Sci). Successfully pursued research directions of
  this section include:
     •   acceleration and control of long-range electron transfer: Vlcek;
     •   atomistic and vibrational origins of mechanical properties in (bio-)cements: Chass;
     •   solution chemistry effects on crystal polymorphism and nucleation: Di Tommaso;
     •   open-source platform to characterize photo-phenomena in molecular crystals,
         “Fromage” (https://github.com/Crespo-Otero-group/fromage): Crespo-Otero;
     •   adsorption of stimuli-responsive nanoparticles at interfaces, lubrication and Stem cell
         adhesion and nanosheets at the oil-water interface: Zarbakhsh;
     •   open source tools to characterise conformational changes and drug binding sites in
         proteins (https://fornililab.github.io/dfs/): Fornili;
     •   novel electron accepting organic semiconductors for organic solar cells: Dimitrov.
  This research is strongly underpinned by diverse funding streams: UKRI (grants to Crespo-
  Otero, Fornili, Vlcek), EU (Di Tommaso, Chass), BHF (Fornili), Leverhulme (Crespo-Otero),
  Welsh Government (Dimitrov), Muscular-Dystrophy UK (Fornili), Royal Society (Di Tommaso),
  STFC Impact Acceleration Account (Di Tommaso, Chass, Zarbakhsh). Industrial support has
  been secured from BP Int. (Zarbakhsh), and Cambridge Carbon Capture Ltd. (Di Tommaso,
  Chass). Research has benefitted from access to world-leading national and international
  experimental facilities: ISIS neutron & muon beam source (Zarbakhsh, Chass), laser facility
  STFC (Vlcek), Canada's TRIUMF facility (Chass, see table 2, section 3), and computational
  facilities: ARCHER, UK’s Tier-1 high performance computing centre, via the HECBioSim (Fornili

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  45,000kAUs) and HEC MCC (Crespo-Otero, Di Tommaso 63,000kAUs) consortia. Additionally,
  a contribution has been made to funding Thomas-2 (Crespo-Otero, Co-I, £4.5M), a 20k cores
  Tier-2 Hub for materials and molecular modelling, securing QMUL 10% of Thomas-2 over 2020-
  23.
 1.3 Impact Strategy and Support for Impact Realization
 The Department has developed a clear strategy, designed to embed impact in all our activities
 and to ensure a significant cultural shift among researchers. This has been implemented along
 three main action points, each supported by specific initiatives:
     •   Diversification of research funding, with the aim of achieving impact on policy changes,
         on the environment, health, and society, having a significant effect on UK’s economy,
         e.g. research from the Department informed the public debate on the environmental
         impact of plastic-based pollutants (see REF3).
     •   Fostering and promoting excellent interdisciplinary research with productive impact by
         engaging with academics, charities, companies and a variety of stakeholders.
     •   Providing support to researchers with a combination of leadership and enabling tools.
 Below are some of the key initiatives implemented:
     •   Research manager: highlights on a monthly basis all relevant funding calls, specific
         targets individuals on the basis of their expertise.
     •   Business development Team: institutional team with dedicated person focused on
         Chemistry and Biology, provides support in finding business/charity partners for
         multidisciplinary calls, identifies CASE partners, relevant academic expertise to meet
         commercial requirements.
     •   School’s Research Strategy Group (RSG): meets every 3 months and considers all
         aspects of Research Impact including requests for “pump-priming” money and
         studentships.
     •   Director of Impact: as a member of the RSG provides leadership to staff, discusses
         research outcomes and evaluates their impact potential; reports to the Head of School
         and works closely with the Faculty Impact Team and the Vice Principal for research.
     •   Queen Mary Innovation (QMI), QMUL’s wholly owned technology transfer company. This
         unit negotiates agreements with industry to commercialise innovations arising from the
         QMUL research base, including licensing and other royalty-bearing agreements in order
         to ensure the effective translation for societal and economic impact.
     •   Impact acceleration awards: internally managed awards designed to support and
         accelerate impact achievement. These include EPSRC and STFC Impact Acceleration
         Accounts (IAA) and Proof of Concept funding from HEIF
  The Department has been successful in securing funding from Impact initiatives, e.g.: the
  development of microbial quality testing for drinking water (Zarbakhsh, £50k); the development
  of nanoscale multiplexed biosensors (Palma, £38k + £50k), the optimisation of a drug candidate
  for neurodegenerative diseases (Jones, £50k) and the development of a prototype high-precision
  flow cell for performing in-situ neutron scattering measurements of real-time CO2 mineralization
  (Di Tommaso & Chass, £25k).
 1.4 Future Strategic Goals
  The Department will build on its strengths and successes of the last 7 years to consolidate and
  grow a diverse and research-intensive Chemistry unit, characterised by excellent
  interdisciplinary research areas, diverse portfolio of funding streams and strong impact-driven
  culture. This vision is developed around four main areas:




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        Interdisciplinary      Enhanced collaborative       Impact-driven      Diversity of staff
      research addressing      research with industry       research and        and research
         societal needs         and diversification of       educational          students
        aligned with the          research income             activities
      UKRI/UKRI research
            priorities


  For each of these areas specific measures will be implemented, in line with the QMUL’s 2030
  strategy (see also REF5a, section 2):
  Interdisciplinary research addressing societal needs aligned with the UKRI research priorities
     •   Strategically appoint 3 new academic staff (20% increase in FTEs) in key
         interdisciplinary priority areas: functional materials, energy, healthcare technologies,
         and catalysis.
     •   Infrastructure investment in particular in the broad area of materials chemistry, applied
         to energy and healthcare; committed investment is in line with this: e.g. a Nanofrazor
         Explore (Heidelberg Instruments, £250k) nanolithography system was purchased in
         2021, only the third of its kind to be set-up in England (third in the UK).
     •   Strengthen our interactions across the Faculty, in particular with the School of Physics
         and Astronomy in the aforementioned priority areas. Increase collaboration with the
         Schools of Engineering and Materials Science, and of Medicine and Dentistry, will help
         the development of multimillion interdisciplinary research bids: we will also organise
         institution-wide sandpits for this.
     •   Support current research addressing strategic societal needs such as biodegradable
         plastics (see REF3), CO2 transformation into added-value materials, and
         nanotechnologies for biomedical applications.
     •   Link the synthetic chemistry in the Department to recent developments in machine
         learning and artificial intelligence, with the potential to streamline and automate chemical
         synthesis.
  Enhanced collaborative research with industry and diversification of research income.
     •   Appoint an Industrial Engagement Board composed of both academics and industry
         members to identify new industrial collaborative links with the Department, (involving
         Queen Mary Innovation).
     •   Host roundtables with industrial partners to encourage industry/academia collaborative
         funding opportunities inviting them to our annual PhD symposia and for guest lectures.
     •   Increasing industrial secondments for PhD students.
     •   Increase our portfolio of Innovate UK grants and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (in
         line with the recent KTP awarded to Chromosol, spin-out company from work in
         Chemistry that has hired a recent Chemistry PhD graduate, Dr Parr).
     •   Through the School’s joint degree programme with Nanchang University (China),
         develop even closer ties with China and opportunities to secure China Scholarship
         Council PhD studentships.
     •   Develop a CDT scheme in “Functional Materials with Atomistic Precision”.
     •   Establish an International Research & Development Group comprising academics and
         representatives from QMI and QMUL Business Development Office to identify potential
         partnerships & establish links in developing nations; in this regard global development
         opportunities (e.g. GCRF) will be developed for example building on the recent seed
         funding obtained for nanoscale biosensors (infectious diseases, Palma).
     •   National funding will be directed at our traditional schemes bodies as Leverhulme Trust,
         Royal Society and Royal Society of Chemistry, as well as exploiting existing and future
         collaborations to access more diverse organisations such as charities (e.g. BHF,
         Alzheimer’s Research UK, Parkinson’s Trust).



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Impact-driven research and educational activities
      •   From 2021 the Department will create an impact-database designed to collate
          information about all impact-potential activities.
      •   Dedicated impact-driven workshops for all researchers.
      •   1:1 meetings with members of the Faculty impact team.
      •   Time allocated in workload model for pursuing impact-generating activities, which could
          result in lower teaching/administrative load.
      •   Dedicated support for teaching staff in the development of impact-generation
          educational activities.
  Diversity of staff and research students
      •   From 2021 the Faculty has committed to provide PhD scholarship to academically
          deserving BAME students, encouraging our diverse undergraduate cohort to continue
          postgraduate studies at QMUL.
      •   Advertise positions on targeted (e.g. BAME, WISE) platforms: we have made good
          progress with gender equality and plan to improve BAME representation.
      •   Enhance existing policies for unbiased recruitment of PhDs and staff.
      •   Introduce mentors for under-represented students, PDRAs and junior staff to enhance
          progression rates to higher levels.
      •   Work closely with EDI committee to regularly assess and update policies and
          procedures.
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Recruitment
 The recruitment strategy has been based around the consolidation of distinctive clusters of
 research excellence in the Department based in the three areas of strength. New academic staff
 recruited during the REF period include Dimitrov, Giordano, Lu and Nielsen in the area of Materials
 and Physical Chemistry; Arseniyadis and Cambeiro in Synthesis and Catalysis; and Crespo-Otero
 and Fornili in Computational Chemistry, while Di Tommaso, Jones and Palma were recruited in
 September/October 2013. Two of the appointments, Arseniyadis and Giordano, are outstanding
 international scientists (France and Germany) recruited at Reader level, to provide leadership in
 their areas of expertise. The Department now has a T&R academic staff composition as follows:
 2 Full Professors, 4 Readers (one at 0.5 FTE), 7 Senior Lecturers and 3 Lecturers.

 Staff development
 We continue to carefully mentor our staff so they develop as strong, independent researchers.
     • The University hosts the Centre for Academic and Professional Development that
         offers support and a variety of opportunities to staff at all levels;
     • There is a mentorship scheme targeting researchers at the early stage of their careers
         in particular (postdoc, fellows and lecturers).
     • Research active staff are required to attend training courses on PhD supervision and a
         refresher every two years.
     • Residential writing retreats led by specialists are offered to staff, to support grant and
         papers writings.
     • Leadership courses for staff (in particular courses developed by the Aurora Leadership
         Foundation).
     • The Department supported staff development to promotion: 50% of the submitted FTEs
         have been promoted since the last REF period, and two staff members were granted
         sabbaticals.
     • Staff have been supported to achieve impact with specific funding schemes: Impact
         Acceleration and Proof of Concept funds: Section 1.3

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Personal Research Fellowships
 During the REF period we have hosted a number of outstanding research fellows who have
 performed well in securing subsequent funding and producing high quality outputs, resulting in
 their appointment.
      •   Fornili held an Intermediate Basic Science Research Fellowship (“Nanomechanics of
          heart disease”) by the British Heart Foundation: 2012-2016 (£319,395). 1-year
          extension to PDRA support by the British Heart Foundation: 2016-2017. Additionally, Dr
          Fornili is a PI on a BBSRC Research Grant. Her work resulted in more than a dozen
          publications and the hiring of two PDRAs.
      •   Jones was awarded an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship entitled “Catalytic generation
          and harnessing of reactive intermediates” (2015 to 2020, £675,133 fEC, 80% salary,
          36-month PDRA, one PhD studentship levied from QMUL), leading to 5 publications so
          far. Prior to this, Jones held a Ramsay Memorial Fellowship (10/2013 to 09/2015, 50%
          salary). He secured PDRA funding as Co-I on a CAMS-IES grant.

      •   Di Tommaso held a Royal Society Industry Fellowship (2011-2015) on the development
          of atomistic simulation techniques for molecular crystal polymorphism during solution
          crystallization. This was conducted in collaboration with AstraZeneca (Macclesfield),
          resulting in 9 publications. He was awarded an EU grant in 2019, through the ACT
          funding scheme (“Accelerating CO2 Capture and Storage Technologies”: €878k, €517k
          to QMUL), leading the five partners from across Europe, including SME Cambridge
          Carbon Capture Ltd. Di Tommaso has been awarded funding from the Impact
          Acceleration Account, the Royal Society and Tohoku University.

      •   Nielsen was awarded an academic fellowship (2016-2019) sponsored by the Materials
          Research Institute which included start-up funds and a PhD studentship. Nielsen is a PI
          on a Springboard grant from the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Wellcome Trust
          (SBF002/1158), a PI on a grant from the Royal Society and a Co-I within the Centre for
          Advanced Materials for Integrated Energy Systems (CAM-IES), a £2M EPSRC funded
          network (EP/P007767/1) bringing together researchers at University of Cambridge,
          QMUL, Newcastle and UCL (£162k to QMUL). He obtained an EPSRC grant on
          Additive-Stabilized Polymer Electronics Manufacturing (£570k, of which £211k to QMUL
          2018-2021).

 2.2 Equality and Diversity
 There is a strong culture supporting equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) within the Department,
 which is fully supported by the University. The main objectives are to create and maintain a
 community in which all people can learn, work and interact freely without fear of discrimination,
 prejudice or harassment. There is a drive to ensure that all staff and students are treated equitably
 and that age, marital/civil partnership status, gender, gender identity, disability, race, colour, ethnic
 or national origin, sexual & gender orientation, family circumstances, religious or political beliefs
 and transgender status does not have any impact. SBCS holds the Athena SWAN Silver Award
 (2020) for excellence in recruiting and advancing the careers of women in science, engineering
 and technology, marking the progress made in equal opportunities during the REF period
 (https://www.qmul.ac.uk/sbcs/about-us/athenaswan/). In support of the strategy, recruitment
 panels are trained on ‘fair interview skills’ and since 2016 all academic staff have received training
 on ‘Unconscious Bias’. Of the appointed academic staff since 2014, over 37% are females which
 demonstrates commitment to addressing the gender imbalance in the discipline of chemical
 sciences and our provision of a supporting environment. Since the last REF, we have significantly
 increased submitted female T&R staff, from 14% to 25%, against a 17% Russell Universities
 (20% sector) national benchmark. Moreover, our PDRA/Marie Curie Fellows are 42% and 87%
 female respectively, while our PhD student population is 35% female.
 Flexible and remote working is supported for new parents returning to work or for health/disability
 issues (all requests were approved in the past three years). We have a least one woman on each

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointment panel and committee, and are working towards 50% representation on all
 committees. EDI is included in every committee agenda, exemplified by 40% female external
 seminar speakers throughout the period. A fully-funded research assistant is provided for 12
 months to allow T&R staff to maintain research vibrancy during periods of single or shared parental
 leave (called upon by 2 staff in the past 3 years). We have recently written and adopted
 menopause guidelines and revised the PhD recruitment guidelines to reflect EDI principles.
 Additionally, the Head of Department, Prof Resmini, is a Trustee of the Royal Society of
 Chemistry and Chair of its Inclusion and Diversity committee. She ensures that best practice
 and ‘inclusion and diversity’ culture is implemented throughout the Department, and was
 furthermore directly involved in the research in the publication of the RSC’s ‘Breaking the barriers’
 report (2019), and a PhD focus group was held in the Chemistry Department.

 2.3. Research Students and Postdocs

 2.3.1 Postdocs
 Within the REF period the Department employed 35 PDRAs of which 43% were to female
 candidates, and 8 Marie Curie fellows of which 87% are female: total post-doc researchers
 of 2.7 per submitted FTE. This was done from a diverse source of funding such as the EPSRC,
 EU, US Air Force, Leverhulme, and the BHF: see Section 3. Each PDRA has an academic
 mentor and formal progress meetings are held every six months

 2.3.2 Research Students
  The priority of the Department of Chemistry is to promote excellence in research and ensure
 outstanding career progression for the PhD research students it recruits. Taking into
 consideration the size of the Department (15.5 FTEs) significant efforts have been devoted to
 ensuring a growth in the number of PhD studentships awarded. As Table 1 below shows,
 compared to last REF we have more than tripled PhD completion numbers with an on-time
 completion of 95% and 40% female PhD student population.

                  REF 2014     REF        ’13     ’14     ’15     ’16     ’17     ’18     ’19
                               2021       ’14     ’15     ‘16     ‘17     ‘18     ‘19     ‘20

   PhD            <25>         <35.5>     40      27      32      43      36      37      34
   Students       average      average
   enrolled       p.a.         p.a.


   PhD            16.5         54.8       4.3     7.8     13.6    4       6.4     8.6     10.1
   Students
   completed
  Average PhD awarded per submitted FTE during current REF period                         3.5
  Average PhD annual completion per submitted FTE during current REF period               0.5
 Table 1: PhD students’ enrolment and completion

 Research students have been recruited through a diverse range of funding strategies, (EU UK
 and international governments, Industry and university contribution). The Department contributes
 to the BBSRC-Lido PhD funding scheme in collaboration with KCL and UCL, is involved with the
 Plastic Electronics CDT (ICL), and successfully recruited PhD students via different competitive
 allocation processes in interdepartmental and inter-faculty initiatives at QMUL (10 studentships).
 PhD graduates from the Department of Chemistry have pursued successful and diverse career
 paths, from academia [postdocs at national (e.g. Imperial, Cambridge) and international (e.g.
 Lund) universities] to industry, e.g. Dr McMorrow cofounded “Clean-Kit” (Unilever); Dr Saito
 (Senior Scientist, GSK); Dr Mirata (Project Manager & Co-Founder of Shoreditch-son Co. Ltd); Dr
 Attanzio (Cambridge Display Technology); Dr Gaines (Ingénieur R&D at Arkema, France); Dr Sun

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Biosostere , China); Dr Katsina (Domainex, UK); Dr Duchemin (Idille, France), Dr Idris
 (Pharmaron,UK) Dr Dommett (Heetch, France); Dr Parr (staff scientist in QMUL’s spin-out
 company Chromosol).
 International Recruitment
 The majority of PhD students in the Department are international students, both EU and non-EU,
 highlighting the international nature of our outreach recruitment strategies. We recruit through
 different means, including senior academics visiting overseas institutions (e.g. China): we have
 secured 20 PhD students though CSC studentships. We have established co-funded projects with
 the University of Munster (Germany), the Austrian Institute of Technology, the University of Trieste
 (IT), Lilly and Servier, that allowed us to recruit PhD research students. The coordination of Marie
 Curie ITNs further allowed us to recruit 9 students.
 Training and support
 The supervision and progression of research students is overseen by the Director of Graduate
 Studies. Training support for PhD students is provided by the QMUL Doctoral College. Research
 students have access to QMUL's development programme via Queen Mary Academy, where a
 points-based training system supports the delivery of the research students training strategy. This
 also supports PhD students in a range of activities, from scientific and thesis writing, to career
 planning and advice. Research students have opportunities to undertake laboratory teaching and
 demonstrating, after specific training from academics and technicians; this represents further
 support to their career development. The Department, via the Materials Research Institute,
 organises specific training courses for PhD students in a diverse range of topics and research
 instrumentation, such as: electrical transport, X-ray methods, chromatography, NMR, EPR,
 electrochemistry, spectroscopic methods, thin film growth, and scientific publishing.
 The Department further promotes and requires the involvement of PhD students in the research
 seminars that are held weekly during term time, with a substantial presence of prominent national
 and international speakers, from both academia and industry Recent speakers include: Anderson
 FRS, Howard FRS, Aggarwal FRS, Leigh FRS, Brimble FRS, Price FRS, Nuckolls (Columbia
 University), Hoye (University of Minnesota), Ackermann (Goettingen University), Hardouin
 (Servier), Vors (Bayer CropScience), Demont (GSK), Gallou (Novartis), Davies (Pharmaron),
 Whiting (GSK), and Samori’s RSC award lecture 2018.
 Progress Monitoring
 In addition to the primary supervisor, each PhD student is paired with a second member of staff
 and a senior academic that follow the student’s progression through formal panel meetings held
 at 2, 7, 19, 30 and 36 months, with a formal progression point at 7 months. This further ensures
 overall timely submission of the thesis. Moreover, an online progression monitoring system is in
 place with formal supervision summaries uploaded by the students and approved by the
 supervisor. These progression monitoring systems have assured a high rate of PhD thesis
 completion within the four-year deadline, with an on-time submission rate of 95%.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Compared to REF2014, we doubled central facility funding and achieved a 25% increase in
 research grant income (see Figure 1). In this REF period the overall income of the Department
 has been ca £13.8M equivalent to ca. £127k per submitted FTE/year: £7.9M from research grant
 income and ca. £5.9M from in-kind awards at central facilities (national and international),
 reflecting the composition and area of expertise of the department.
 The research funding through the REF period is closely aligned to the strategy of increasing and
 diversifying external funding. Specific initiatives have been established during the REF period to
 support this, including:



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    Research support fund – a structured approach to provide institutional support for large,
         strategic or early career funding bids where researchers can request institutional support
         equivalent to 40% of residual overhead on a grant to be invested in equipment, PhD
         studentships etc.
    •    Research enabling fund – QMUL provides Principal Investigators with flexible funding
         from institutional sources equivalent to 10% of residual overheads to support pump
         priming/ preliminary studies that enhance the likelihood of a successful grant application.
    •    Internal peer review of grant proposals and grant writing workshops/retreats.
 The Department obtained external research funds from a wide variety of sources including: the
 UKRI, the EU, the Leverhulme trust, the Royal Society, the US Airforce, the Welcome trust, the
 Nuffield foundation, the British Heart Foundation, the Science and Technology Facilities Council,
 and universities in Europe. Overall, the grant funding breakdown was: 38% from UKRI, 42% from
 the EU, 6 % from UK Charities, 5% from other overseas funders (e.g. US), 3% from Industry, 2%
 from UK government and 4% from other sources, (see Figure 1 for comparison with last REF).
 Notably, the Department has coordinated 3 Marie Curie ITNs and 1 Marie Curie IAPP (Industry-
 Academia Partnerships and Pathways), with another ITN awarded in the REF period and due to
 start imminently.




 Figure 1 Research grant income and its diversification: REF 2014 vs REF2021

 The Department has further significant income in-kind from UK and International central facilities,
 from ISIS neutron and muon source beam time, to TRIUMF (Canada’s particle accelerator
 centre): Table 2.

        VALUE                        DESCRIPTION

        £3.8M                        ISIS neutron & muon source beam time, STFC

        £1.42M                       The Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL) (neutron reflectometry), STFC

        £36k                         CLF, central laser facility, STFC
        £410k                        Diamond Light Source, STFC

        £238k (11days/experiments)   Muon source at TRIUMF, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada

        £9.4k                        Thomas High Performance Computing

        Total £5.9M


 Table 2 Income-in-kind from access to research council supported and international facilities.




                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities:
 The Department is housed in a state-of-the-art building that was built in 2004; there was a further
 expansion with the development of a new 10 fumehoods lab in 2014 to support an increase in
 staff numbers (£175k). The current spend in maintaining the infrastructure to date is >£375k;
 this is supported by 5 dedicated technicians (and 4.5 shared with the School).
 Investment during this REF2021 period include:
     •   high-definition Synapt Mass Spectrometer (>£350k) used across faculty and the medical
         school;
     •   state-of-the-art Scanning Probe Microscope (Bruker Dimension ICON-PT; £170k) to
         perform nanoscale topographical and electrical investigations, including Atomic Force
         Microscopy (AFM), Conductive-AFM, Liquid-AFM, and piezoresponse AFM;
     •   PANalytical CUBIX-3 X-ray diffractometer (£150k);
     •   new electrical and microfluidic (Kleindieck) coupled probe system that allows for real-
         time biosensing measurements in flow (£50k);
     •   Infiniband computing nodes on QMUL supercomputer Apocrita (£100k); a gel
         permeation chromatography (£41k);
     •   Upgrade of the NMR (£550k) and X-ray facilities (£190k);
     •   State of the art dynamic light scattering instrument from Malvern (zetasizer) (£60k)
         loaned as acting as Demo Lab for London.
  The investments in this REF2021 period allowed the newly and recently hired staff to
  explore new research lines and all staff to generate impactful research. The new mass
  spectrometer (MS) has been of benefit across all the different research themes of the
  department; the NMR investment has been particularly pivotal to the generation of outputs by
  the “synthesis and catalysis” group; the X-ray upgrade has been key for the functional materials
  research groups; the AFM has allowed the characterisation of the novel nanomaterials
  assembled and explored by the members of the Functional Materials and Nanoscience theme;
  and the computing nodes have underpinned the expansion of the computational research in
  the department.
  Additional support is provided by a series of research facilities, each in the charge of a skilled
  technician/experimental officer: Analytical Laboratory; Bioinformatics Clusters; Confocal and
  Epifluorescence Microscopy; NMR spectroscopy; EPR spectroscopy; Protein Purification; X-ray
  diffraction. Computational chemistry is well supported by QMUL’s Apocrita HPC cluster, while
  members of the department have access to Tier-1 (Archer) and Tier-2 (Thomas) supercomputer
  through the EPSRC-funded HPC Materials Chemistry Consortium and the Materials and
  Molecular Modelling Hub (Crespo-Otero Co-I). Additional new departmental facilities include a
  new Cary300 UV-Vis spectrophotometer, and a new Shimadzu FT-IR with ATR accessory for
  the study of plastic and environmental contaminants (see REF3).
  3.2.1 Structures to support interdisciplinary research
  Outstanding infrastructures within QMUL allow opportunities for networking and new
  interactions, encouraging staff in the Chemistry Department to undertake interdisciplinary
  research. In particular, two virtual institutes at QMUL contribute to foster interdisciplinary
  research efforts between researchers from different departments, schools, and faculties.
  Materials Research Institute (MRI)
  A centre of excellence created in 2013, spanning several schools and expertise covering
  materials science, chemistry, processing, characterisation and modelling and applications in
  energy, light weighting, sensors, optoelectronics and healthcare. It provides the ideal platform
  to support inter-disciplinary materials research, in collaboration with academia, research
  councils and industry professionals. Three members of the Department (Crespo-Otero, Nielsen
  and Palma) are part of the Leadership Team. The MRI offers a dedicated seminar series and
  organises workshops on a regular basis, designed to promote interdisciplinary research. Its
  financial budget has allowed the funding of 7 joint PhD studentships with the Department of

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Chemistry (collaborative between at least two schools) and in 2016 the funding of five research
  fellowships, two of which were awarded to Chemistry.
  Institute of Bioengineering (IoB)
  This is a cross-faculty initiative bringing together more than 50 academics from the faculties of
  Science & Engineering and Medicine & Dentistry. The Institute provides a focus for ground-
  breaking research aimed at the development of new medical technologies to meet the key
  healthcare challenges of the 21st century. Palma was a co-director of research strategy (2015-
  2019) for the Institute.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
  Interdisciplinary links are encouraged by the award of inter-departmental co-supervised PhD
  studentships (10 during the REF period). The Department has further close links with London-
  based doctoral training initiatives (BBSRC-LIDO with KCL and UCL, and ICL’s Plastic
  Electronics CDT), as demonstrated by shared studentships. Moreover, strong links with the
  CSC led to the award of 20 PhD studentships over this REF period.
  The Department has established new links with numerous world-class research
  institutions (Table 3 and Figure 2) in the UK [e.g. University of Cambridge £2.1M EPSRC
  Network Grant, BP Institute, Europe (e.g. ESPCI Paris 3 co-supervised PhDs, the University of
  Munster and AIT Vienna co-funded studentships), China (Chass Honorary Professorship,
  University of Hong Kong), the U.S.A. (California Institute of Technology, the Air Force Research
  Laboratory at Wright-Patterson), South-Africa and Mexico through a Global Challenges
  Research Fund award.
  Staff in Chemistry are engaged in a significant number of multidisciplinary projects and have
  developed a very strong network of collaborations with both large international companies
  and SMEs (Table 3 and Figure 2): Illy caffè and MJR PharmJet (www.ipcos.qmul.ac.uk), Sanofi
  (ITN project www.nanodrug.qmul.ac.uk; £100k towards studentship), BP International (joint
  studentship,10% Zarbakhsh’s salary), Cambridge Display Technology (partners EPSRC First
  Grant), Astra Zeneca (partners Royal Society Industrial Fellowship), Lilly and Servier (joint
  studentships); SME on Horizon-2020 award (Accelerating CCUS Technology). ONO
  Pharmaceutical Company provided our Mass Spectroscopy lab £131k for the analysis of sterol
  lipids in 200 individuals affected by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
  Additionally, staff hold professional consultancies with Syngenta, Servier, Novartis, Solvay,
  Sanofi and Minakem (Arseniyadis), as well as BP (Zarbakhsh), and has further links with
  charities such as the medical charity LifeArc, supporting an Impact Acceleration Project on
  nanoscale biosensors (Palma).




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 3: Worldwide collaborations of the Chemistry Department at QMUL




 Figure 2: map of worldwide collaborations of the Chemistry Department at QMUL

  Strong contributions towards the discipline is evidenced by participation in a variety of activities:
  Member of the RSC Board of Trustees and Chair of the RSC Inclusion and Diversity Committee
  (Resmini); Chair of the SCI Young Chemists Panel (Jones); Member of the RSC Faraday
  Council (Zarbakhsh); Chair of the Neutron Scattering Group (Zarbakhsh)’ Thieme Chemistry
  Journals (Award: Arseniyadis 2014, Jones 2017); CNRS Bronze Medal 2015 for outstanding
  research (Arseniyadis).


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Invited/Keynote lecture and conference organisation: During the REF period staff in
  Chemistry have engaged significantly with the scientific community, attending conferences and
  delivering invited and keynote lectures worldwide. Notable examples include: plenary speaker
  Amer. Cer. Soc. (Chass); keynote speaker at European Congress on Advanced Materials
  (Palma); plenary talk at Frontiers in Nanomaterials for healthcare (Resmini); keynote speaker
  MIP2016 International conference on imprinting (Resmini); Invited speaker Photo4Future
  workshop (Giordano); invited speaker at a Gordon Research conference, Telluride Research
  Center conference, and 2nd Frontiers in Photochemistry conference (Vlcek); invited speaker at
  the IEEE Research and Applications of Photonics in Defense conference U.S.A. (Palma);
  invited speaker at Organic Electronics Workshop in China, and Macro2020 in South Korea
  (Nielsen).

  Journal Editorships: J. Chem. Res. (Abrahams), Mater. Res. Bull. (Abrahams), Mater. Today
  Nano (Giordano), Sci. Rep. (Giordano and Crespo-Otero), Coord. Chem. Rev. (Vlcek), Inorg.
  Chim. Acta, (Vlcek), Letters in Organic Chemistry, (Arseniyadis), Springer Nature Applied
  Sciences (Nielsen) Coord. Chem. Rev. (Vlcek, 2017 Guest Editor), Acc. Chem. Res. (Vlcek,
  2015 Guest Editor), Molecules (Arseniyadis, 2020 Guest Editor).

 4.2 Supporting collaboration with organisations beyond higher education

  The Department of Chemistry has a dedicated Director of Outreach and Public engagement
  who oversees the delivery of activities; a number of staff are actively engaged in outreach and
  public                                   engagement                                     activities
  (http://www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/schoolliaison/chemistryactivities/). Activities are
  supported by QMUL’s Centre for Public Engagement. QMUL holds an Engagement Watermark
  Gold Award (awarded by the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement),
  demonstrating that QMUL is a beacon of excellence in public engagement. The outreach and
  public engagement activities offered by the Department of Chemistry are logged centrally and
  amount to >200 hr per year.
  4.2.1 Outreach and Public Engagement
  QMUL’s diverse student population (90% home students from state schools, 59% BME and
  42% first in their families in HE), has over 30% coming from households with annual income
  <£15,000. The Department’s engagement and outreach activities with schools and colleges in
  London and the South East have increased over the past REF period, building a database of
  more than 100 teachers/schools with whom we regularly communicate with.
  We work with Institutions and Professional Bodies such as The Salters Institute and the Royal
  Society of Chemistry (RSC) to host events such as the Salters’ Festival of Chemistry (Y7/8 and
  Y9, 80 students per year) and the Schools’ Analysts Competition (Y12). We offer Spectroscopy
  Masterclasses - theory and demonstration of IR, NMR and GC/LC-MS (Y12/13), University
  Taster Days (Y8-11), Lecture/Demonstrations-Chemistry is Kool! (Y3-Y13), UCAS, careers and
  research talks (a combined total of 500 students per year for these events). We draw on
  current research from the department to create content for these events.
  We hosted Nuffield Research Placement students (Y12) and Work Experience students in our
  laboratories, some subsequently joined the Department as undergraduates. We visited schools
  and colleges in the UK to deliver talks, workshops in continental Europe (Spain) and engaged
  with government officials in Bulgaria including the British Ambassador and the Deputy Science
  and Education Minister of Bulgaria (2019).
  The Department partnered with the Charity In2Science UK to provide young people from
  low-income/disadvantaged backgrounds opportunities of practical experiences within STEM
  (2020). Furthermore, Prof. Resmini was a panellist at an event organised by the charity
  focused on “promoting diversity in STEM” (2020).
  Over the current REF period the Department has engaged annually with 600+ participants,
  with an upward trajectory in engagement (Figure 3).

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                        900
                                        850
                                        800




                  Number of Attendees
                                        750
                                        700
                                        650
                                        600
                                        550
                                        500
                                        450
                                        400
                                           2014   2015   2016    2017   2018   2019   2020


                                                                Year

              Figure 3: number of attendees at outreach events in the REF period

  In 2016, the Department received an award of £17,525 from QMUL’s Access Agreement grant
  to purchase an infra-red instrument and maintenance grants to support UG students to make
  3D models of a bombardier beetle self-defence mechanism; the Spectroscopy Masterclasses
  attract >200 A-level students per year.
  We successfully bid to become a provider of the RSC’s Spectroscopy in a Suitcase Program
  (engaging with >150 Y12/13 students); PhD students help with the delivery. Furthermore, the
  RSC Inclusion & Diversity Fund was awarded (£5000) for ‘Student generated teaching
  resources as a tool to enhance inclusivity and diversity’ to highlight role models from under-
  represented minorities within the scientific community.
  The Department obtained further funding from the RSC: £1750 to run “Bringing Chemistry
  Alive - Lotions, Potions, Murders and Slime!” (REF: 54961664); £1800 for “Promoting the Study
  of Chemistry Amongst Y9/10 Students” (REF: 90471125); £1685 to organise a “Year 12
  Chemistry in Higher Education Conference” (REF: 122783643).
  The Department hosted its first International Summer School (2019, 11 students) and Chemistry
  Residential Summer School (30 students). We draw on one of our strengths–functional
  materials– focusing on novel methods in chemistry, nanotechnology, green and flow chemistry:
  a combination of lectures, workshops, practicals and scientific programming linked to the
  Department’s research.
  Additional activities include the annual Festival of Communities created by QMUL in
  collaboration with our local community in Tower Hamlets, giving 3500 local residents the
  opportunity to try hands-on experiments/demonstrations linked to our research. We participated
  in the Swansea Science Festival and the Sofia Science Festival (2017-19) where activities
  included solar cell making workshops. Further demonstrations on photochemistry have been
  carried out in the London Science Museum Skills Fair (2019).
  We hosted professional development courses for (20) secondary school teachers and
  technicians in collaboration with the RSC. We further organized ‘twilight courses’, targeted
  at teachers in London whose schools are not able to fund overnight stay.




                                                                                             Page 17
