Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: UOA11: Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and Structure

 UoA11 includes the School of Computer Science (SoCS) and elements of the Lincoln Institute of
 Agrifood Technology (LIAT). SoCS has the strategic aim to curate and advance the field of
 computer science from both theoretical and application points of view, with a particular focus on
 cutting-edge research on robotics and agri-food, medical imaging and computer vision, human-
 centric interaction and interactive technologies, empowered by machine learning and artificial
 intelligence. The Global Centre of Excellence in Agri-robotics research (Lincoln Agri-Robotics,
 LAR) is a major new research Centre, funded by the UK Government's Expanding Excellence in
 England (E3) Fund through Research England with £6.3m in 2019 for a three year period. It is a
 joint centre that has been spun out of the complementary research excellence of the Lincoln
 Centre for Autonomous Systems Research (L-CAS) of SoCS and LIAT.

 UoA11 fully embraces the vision put forward in the University of Lincoln (UoL) Strategic Plan
 2016-21: “We will work closely with our communities to ensure valuable impact from our
 research to make a meaningful contribution to our world”. Accordingly, our research is both
 global-to-local (bringing worldwide significant topics into our research agenda), as well as local-
 to-global (bringing local research issues to national and international levels), through
 collaborations with relevant stakeholders. It primarily focuses on Grand Challenges identified by
 the UKRI, including agri-robotics and smart agriculture, healthcare and precision medicine,
 artificial intelligence, also keeping the human at the centre of human computer interaction and
 design.

 The University’s Strategic Plan emphasises the academic freedom of individual researchers to
 choose their field of research but encourages the organisation of research into focused areas. In
 SoCs, researchers are principally organized into four research groupings: Lincoln Centre for
 Autonomous Systems (L-CAS), Laboratory of Vision Engineering (LoVE), Machine Learning
 Group (mlearn) and Interactive Technologies Lab (intLab). Within LIAT, the LAR group pools the
 UoA11-relevant expertise in agri-robotics.

 L-CAS, a member of the UKRAS network of leading robotics labs and led by Duckett,
 specialises in perception, learning, decision-making and control for autonomous systems, such
 as robots, and the integration of these capabilities in applications including agri-food (Esfahani,
 Cielniak, Fox, Millard, Hanheide, Duckett), healthcare and social interaction (Baxter, Cuayáhuitl),
 intelligent transportation (Yue, Duckett), nuclear robotics (Esfahani, Hanheide) and service
 robotics (Bellotto, Hanheide). It collaborates closely with LIAT, the National Centre for Food
 Manufacturing (NCFM) and Lincoln Institute of Health, around interdisciplinary research in
 applications of robotics and AI to the food industry and health, respectively. L-CAS builds
 complete autonomous systems, including mobile robotics and robotic manipulation, particularly
 focusing on long-term autonomy.

 LoVE, led by Allinson (who is submitted under UoA09), has a unique capability within the UK
 research landscape - namely the expertise and resources to develop new imaging modalities
 and systems from sensor design and provision (Allinson) to medical image analysis/computer-
 aided detection and quantification of abnormalities in different organs, including the eyes
 (Hunter, Al-Diri), the brain/lungs/colon/esophagus (Ye, Lambrou, Bidaut who is submitted under
 UoA3, Brown) and breast (Janan), to assist with the full clinical workflow and personal long-term
 healthcare management (Ye, Lambrou), as well as the general computer vision area, e.g. agri-
 food, animal tracking and behaviour analysis (Ye, Duan, AI-Diri, Zhang, Brown). LoVE
 collaborates with major hospitals across the NHS and abroad, leading national and commercial
 research facilities and industries.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mlearn, led by Kollias, in collaboration with Parsons, undertakes innovative research and
 development in the field of machine learning and artificial intelligence. The aim is the creation of
 machines with intelligent behavior (Cutsuridis), which are able to reason, predict and adapt to
 changing environments, assisting humans in both their everyday and professional lives. The
 related activities focus on big data and multimedia information analysis, abnormality detection in
 industrial, agri-food, social environments and healthcare (Yu), optimization (Jiang), all relying on
 and contributing to the University’s strengths in agri-food, computer vision, culture and creativity.

 IntLab specializes in both theoretical and applied research around user engagement and social
 impact with interactive, social and mobile digital systems. IntLab’s work is cross-disciplinary,
 largely underpinned by experience-centred Human Computer Interaction (HCI) design
 (Holopainen, Dickinson, Maior). IntLab focuses on applications (Bachour, Hicks) including
 entertainment, games, cultural heritage and citizen engagement.

 LAR brings together large expertise in robotics, artificial intelligence and agriculture (Sklar, who
 is Research Director, Bosilj). Its research foci encompass both foundations and real-world
 applications, including autonomous agri-robots that can efficiently tend, harvest and quality-
 control high-value crops with reduced human intervention, improving agricultural productivity and
 environmental sustainability, and addressing the demands of a growing population.

 1.2 Achievement of Research Strategy

 The research strategy of UoA11 in REF 2014 was to pursue quality research spanning
 theoretical studies to transformative applications in both scientific and commercial/social
 domains, whilst remaining open to developments and needs across the existing disciplines and
 beyond.

 This strategy has been the basis for our developments in the current period. In addition, UoA11
 has significantly expanded its research activity over the census period, reflecting growth and
 recruitment. In particular, there are 28.8 FTE academic staff returned in REF 2021, compared to
 14.5 in REF2014 (98.6% increase). The research income of SoCS was £10.27m over the
 census period, compared to £1.85 m in REF 2014 (455% increase). There were 27 Ph.D
 completions, compared to 12 in REF 2014 (125% increase). In particular, UoA11 has kept
 developing on all fronts since its submission to REF2014, being proactive to new Challenges
 and emerging disciplines. A new area, Machine Learning and Data Science (with the mlean
 Group), was added to existing School's portfolio, by recruiting five new academics at both
 established and early career levels. In parallel, new staff were also appointed to supplement and
 strengthen the other research areas (3 new academics in L-CAS, 3 in LoVE and 3 in intLab).

 Since the economy of Greater Lincolnshire region is heavily weighted towards agri-food
 production (primary agriculture and food manufacturing), support for the agri-food sector has
 been a main UoA11 strategic priority. Since 2016 when LIAT was established, L-CAS has
 provided LIAT with advanced and basic robotics expertise to handle key agri-food challenges,
 which led to creation of LAR. L-CAS, in collaboration with Universities of Cambridge and East
 Anglia created the world’s first Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in agri-food robotics which
 provides training for 50 doctoral students, supported by major industry partners.
 Moreover:

 L-CAS evolved to gain 8 major EU-funded consortium awards (Horizon 2020 and FP7 projects),
 as well as many EPSRC, BBSRC and Innovate UK projects in agri-robotics. It has expanded to
 possess complementary expertise covering all major computer science components required to
 build complete long-term autonomous systems, including mobile robotics and robotic
 manipulation, in dynamic real-world environments.

 LoVE managed to advance proton imaging and develop PRaVDA, which is one of the two
 operational proton imaging systems in the world. It also produced the first direct comparison of
 calibrated x-ray and proton CT in biological samples, and 5 published - 4 awarded patents on

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 system design concepts and CT reconstruction methods. LoVE coordinated the REVAMMAD
 EU Marie Curie Initial Training Network program aiming at combatting chronic medical
 conditions including diabetes and hypertension through retinal imaging, and also successfully
 developed several novel applications related to healthcare (computer-aided diagnosis of
 abnormalities using multimodality medical images) and computer vision (in the areas of agri-
 food, animal tracking and behaviour analysis) from many funded projects, including EPSRC,
 FP7, BBSRC, CRUK, NC3Rs.

 IntLab focused its research on design, development and evaluation of interactive technologies
 for human use in social contexts, engaging diverse stakeholders (students, citizens,
 associations, public authorities and researchers). It established quality of life and democracy as
 its central concerns, aiming to promote a more equitable society through, and with, technology.

 Mlearn has produced outstanding research results, developing novel deep neural networks
 architectures and applying them to significant sectors, including anomaly prediction in nuclear
 power plants, as well as in gas turbines (Siemens), plant growth prediction (agricultural), food
 supply chain safety and reduction of energy consumption, neurodegenerative disease diagnosis
 through medical imaging, cultural content analysis and creative reuse. High quality papers
 appeared in NeurIPS, AAAI, NCAA, IJCV, IEEE Transactions and other journals.

 1.3 Achievement of Impact Strategy

 The impact strategy set up in REF 2014 by the existing Laboratories focused on: (i) expanding in
 real-world applications and establishing stronger links to national and global industries in agri-
 food technology; (ii) providing clinically-approved software platforms and contributing to disease
 diagnosis and screening; (iii) addressing societal and personal good.

 The achieved impact strategy has mainly focused on: autonomous solutions and AI-enabled
 agri-food technology; long-term autonomy for robots in-the-wild; personalised healthcare and
 people’s well-being. In particular:

 L-CAS produced robotic solutions throughout the food supply chain “from farm to fork”,
 underpinning the UoA11 Impact Case Study on “Autonomous Systems for Agriculture” through
 its long-term autonomous navigation solutions. It created robotic facilities on three sites,
 including a new robotics centre at UoL’s agriculture campus at Riseholme, the NCFM at
 Holbeach and laboratories in the Isaac Newton Building. L-CAS is part of the National Centre for
 Nuclear Robotics EPSRC RAI Hub and partners with industry partners through various innovate
 UK and ISCF projects, delivering high-TRL solutions into the UK markets. It deployed systems in
 real-world settings, including a specialist mobile robot at the Natural History Museum, and
 fielded the highest ranked UK team in the RoboCup Worldcup competition 2017. It also
 developed integrated Active Assisted Living solutions for the elderly people at home and in
 institutional care in the UK and Europe.

 LoVE installed, for the first time, a proton CT system in the NHS Christie Proton Beam Therapy
 Centre, Manchester, to form part of the national research infrastructure, moving closer to
 commercialisation and worldwide adoption for the benefit of cancer patients. It conducted a
 major longitudinal study of hundreds of participants to provide a reference set to monitor the
 earliest signs of retinal change as a disease indicator. It also set up quantification of focal breast
 density as a reliable imaging risk biomarker, developed systems for ultrasound fetal
 measurement, detection and quantification of brain tumour in MRI, and personalized health
 monitoring systems.

 IntLab collaborated with Royal Air Force, contributing to the RAF100 public engagement
 campaign with a freely downloadable Augmented Reality app for Android and iOS devices; with
 Frequency Digital Culture Festival, since 2017; with the Finnish Museum of Games, contributing
 to game archival activities; with the UoL School of Psychology, in the development of the
 ‘Eyelander’ game for children with homonymous visual field loss.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mlearn developed strong collaborations with industrial companies and end-users, testing
 research developments in real-life environments. The UoA11 impact cases ‘AI-enabled safe and
 efficient food supply chain’ is based on R&D produced by Mlearn and LoVE academics in
 collaboration with LAR/LIAT, NCFM and industrial users, including Tesco, IMS, OAL.

 1.4 Research Strategy for the next 5 years

 SoCS research has historically contributed to the fields of Computer Vision / Medical Informatics,
 Robotics / Autonomous Systems and HCI / Games Computing. During the current REF period,
 the School has also expanded its establishment in the field of Machine Learning, which spans
 and assists the existing research fields. SoCS’ vision for the future builds upon current research,
 bringing in new and exciting research, both at national and international level, through our close
 collaborations with European and Chinese academia and industries. The research strategy
 targets expansion of expertise in each of the four research groups, whilst monitoring and being
 proactive towards future scientific and technological innovations.
 The research strategy of LAR is based on the vision to become the UK HEI’s first significant and
 coherent basic research group that secures the delivery of Robotics, Autonomy and Artificial
 Intelligence (RAAI) across the agri-food sector. The aim is to provide the UK with a unique
 research pipeline flowing from concept inception through to application, thus providing a base to
 consolidate this new discipline. Expansion will be around three specific themes, i.e., Agri-food
 Robotics, AI and Machine Learning for Agri-food systems and navigation and autonomy in field
 environments.

 Both SoCS and LAR plan the expansion and focus of their research efforts to meet the most
 challenging problems in the respective fields, including:
     • Advancement of autonomous robotic systems; generating robots and systems that move,
         operate, or offer services in an autonomous way is an ongoing research challenge in the
         robotics area. L-CAS will extend their innovative, theoretical and experimental research
         in the area, and in collaboration with LAR and LIAT, they will fully exploit the potential of
         RAAI in agri-food systems, by fusing robotics and AI expertise with that from agriculture,
         food technology, engineering and supply chain analysis.
     • Precision medicine & personalized healthcare monitoring and prescriptive systems; LoVE
         targets the next generation instrument for installation on the treatment gantry in state-of-
         the-art delivery systems. By further analysis and understanding of medical needs and
         workflows, it targets to provide clinical-quality imagery in real time and assist in selecting
         optimal adaptive treatments. LoVE will continue to focus on image reconstruction, AI-
         empowered computer-aided abnormality early detection, segmentation and quantification
         for trusted medical diagnosis and prognosis.
     • Generation of intelligent human assistants; SoCS will contribute towards the new
         generation of intelligent human assistants, based on robots and other physical or virtual
         systems able to sense and adapt to specific environments, to understand human
         behaviours and needs, to reason and effectively assist humans, including elderly and
         other people in need in their homes, or other social environments.
     • Interpretable deep learning and generation of AI-based industrial and social systems;
         Mlearn, in collaboration with the recently appointed Global Professor (Parsons), will
         extend high level research in machine and deep learning, reasoning, knowledge
         adaptation and explainable AI, tackling the Challenge of 3rd Wave AI and its applications,
         particularly linked to big data analysis, mobile robotics, RAAI, healthcare, social and
         creative environments.
 All of our key areas of research fit with UKRI and other major funders’ priority areas, aligning
 especially well with current grand challenges.
 Our approach will be to demonstrate excellence and inspire new generations of researchers into
 the sectors, whilst expanding our human resources, attracting and supporting early career
 researchers (ECRs), who are UoA11’s strength towards sustaining and contributing to emerging
 and evolving disciplines.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In this framework we will target a variety of aims:
     i.   To continue PGR expansion, by doubling our PGR and particularly our Ph.D. students;
          this will provide a clear add-on to the richness and diversity of our research. Current
          Ph.D. completions (27 vs 12 in former period) are expected to surpass 45 in the
          forthcoming period.
    ii.   To gain new CDTs in the above-mentioned fields. The acquired CDT is our first step
          towards this goal.
   iii.   To submit 45 FTE in the next period (an increase of about 150%), especially hiring
          ECRs, who will be the driving force for novel research and impact generation.
   iv.    To increase SoCS research income from £10.27m currently to more than £15m;
          generating a similar income by LAR.

 Furthermore, it is well known that ethical issues can be met in all these targets and require
 careful and expert consideration. Both SoCS and LAR will devote specific manpower to consider
 ethical and democratic issues related to development and use of new AI technologies
 (transparency, trust, fairness, responsibility).

 1.5 Impact Strategy for the next 5 years

 In line with UoL’s research strategy, UoA11 considers research with impact, as well as industrial
 and public engagement with research, central points of its mission. Impact is viewed to include
 measurable economic and health benefits, development of solutions to real world problems,
 changing perceptions and attitudes in non-academic audiences.

 There is a focus of UoA11 on RAAI applications that are prioritised in the Industrial Strategy
 Grand Challenges (Artificial Intelligence and Data) and can have a transformational impact on
 agri-food labour and non-labour productivity. RAAI technologies provide a novel and timely
 opportunity to step change agricultural productivity, whilst reducing environmental impact. The
 related agri-food industry is immense, both at national and international level, with an impact to
 increase sector productivity, reduce food waste, optimise supply chains, increase consumer
 safety via optimised supply chains, new skills and export market opportunities for RAAI
 companies.

 L-CAS prepared, in collaboration with EPSRC UK Robotics and Autonomous Systems Network,
 a White Paper on the future of agricultural robotics, influencing research funders, especially
 concerning the UK government’s recent £90m Industrial Challenge Fund Investment
 (“Transforming Food Production: from Farm to Fork”). Generating similar contributions in all
 related fields is a main target in UoA11 impact strategy. L-CAS and LAR joint impact strategy is
 to have a leading role in the agri-robotics field and developments. This is expected to increase
 the generated income and to improve sector’s productivity, by involving new processes and
 technologies in agri-food prediction, management and production and by spreading them
 through nationwide network of collaborators and companies, including spin-outs.

 LoVE’s major focus is on providing complete solutions that fit with clinical workflows, cost
 implications and regulatory needs, including various imaging modalities and protocols, in
 collaboration with major hospitals across the NHS and abroad. The overall impact goal in the
 healthcare research is to ultimately bring positive change and improvements to existing medical
 practice; all studies will be driven by clinical needs, with very close involvement of clinical and
 other professionals. Healthcare, especially early disease detection, diagnosis and treatment
 selection, will be a main topic in LoVE’s strategy, involving the large network of collaborating
 central and local NHS healthcare centres and units, so as to achieve high impact of developed
 technologies.

 Mlearn focuses on developing novel ML/AI technologies. It will extend its current developments
 on agricultural data analysis; contribute to the Confederation of Laboratories for AI Research in
 Europe (CLAIRE) Network on Trustworthy and Human-Centred AI; further extend its R&D


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration with the ‘Europeana’ Digital Library on semantic enrichment and creative re-use of
 data by museums, libraries, archives, audiovisual archives and creative industries.

 IntLab’s approach is theory-driven and practice-led, with main focus on the user, to design
 interfaces to fit human requirements, needs and values at the micro-level (human-factor), the
 meso-level (social actor) and the macro-level (political actor). It experiments with public activism,
 active ageing, media analysis, education/training and gameplay; older and younger citizens with
 different skills; various computational artefacts with a distinctive focus on Virtual and Augmented
 Reality and game engines. Impact will be obtained through Lincoln Game Research Network
 and Digital Game Research Association.

 To achieve these goals, all Staff in UoA11 will be involved in public engagement and
 participation activities, conferences, public events, exhibitions and festivals.

 1.6 Approach to Interdisciplinary Research

 All Research Groups in SoCS perform inherently interdisciplinary research and generate many
 conference and journal contributions from across Computer Science, Engineering, Healthcare,
 Life Sciences, Arts, History and Culture, Neuroscience and Psychology. Almost all of our
 external funded projects are collaborative and involve working together with a range of
 disciplines and sectors. We promote collaboration within University groups and Schools through
 provision of time for research co-investigators for funded research activity, as well as through
 financial support for strategically important collaborations and networking activities.

 We have created an internal procedure, through which we were able to provide 5 new Ph.D.
 posts, especially to ECRs in SoCS, whilst requesting interdisciplinarity of supervising teams and
 Ph.D. topics. This approach has achieved many goals, such as assisting the best ECR research
 with Ph.D. students and prioritising interdisciplinary research between UoA11 and other Schools.
 Moreover, the creation of the University of Lincoln Medical School, in collaboration with the
 University of Nottingham, provides a great new opportunity for increasing the multidisciplinary
 aspect of our research. Especially in the health diagnosis domain and in generation of novel
 healthcare applications and services, targeting both the East Midlands and other nearby rural
 areas, as well as global research developments.

 UoA11 closely works with all UoL entities that are industry and sector facing, i.e., LIAT, NCFM,
 LIH, and through them to external non-academic partners. Moreover, Mlearn and Intlab have
 collaborated in co-organising with UoL’s Centre for Culture and Creativity, School of Arts &
 History, and the Media Archive of Central England, the Heritage Dot Conference, bringing
 together researchers and practitioners and involving cultural, creative and technology
 disciplines. This collaboration resulted in a 3-year Creative Europe project which UoL
 coordinates, in which mlearn provides metadata semantic analysis and enrichment. Moreover,
 Kollias was selected member of European Commission Expert Group on Cultural Heritage in
 2019.

 1.7 Progress towards Open Research Environment

 SoCS targets continuous interaction and dissemination of research results, possessing a
 professional software development and research paper repositories.

 We have a policy of putting our research code and datasets online for open access, for use by
 other researchers, thus following the University of Lincoln’s central policy on open access. We
 created https://lcas.lincoln.ac.uk/wp/research/data-sets-software/ as an open research
 environment on robotics, also publishing several related datasets. We also created public
 datasets of Proton imaging data (over 10 TBs) to the worldwide research community, together
 with widely used retinal dataset (http://www.aldiri.info/Image%20Datasets/Review.aspx) and
 other computer vision datasets (https://www.visioneng.org.uk/datasets/).


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 http://mlearn.lincoln.ac.uk/ provides a database on Parkinson’s, with thousands of MRIs and
 DaT Scans.
 In addition, both SoCS and LAR are promoting the use of open research for RAAI, actively
 supporting the development of the Robot Operating System (ROS), the architecture adopted by
 international academia for robotics research.

 1.8 Support for Research Integrity

 Coherence of vision and interaction of academics across all groups is a key School strategic
 target under oversight of the School's Research Steering Group (RSG). RSG naturally
 encourages open and constructive dialogue across all academics in the School, supporting
 research integrity. This strategy and strong multidisciplinary research culture also nurture junior
 staff who receive personal support and mentoring towards producing high quality collaborative
 research, whilst also contributing to all School educational and organizational targets. RSG
 follows the University’s Code of Practice for Research, as well as the University’s Ethics Policy,
 as the main instruments for the creation of a comprehensive framework for good research
 conduct.

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy

 The staffing strategy of UoA11 is in accordance with the targeted expansion described in
 Section 1 of this Statement. This includes the increase by 98.7% of the staff FTEs submitted in
 REF 2021 compared to REF 2014 (28.8 versus 14.5), as well as the expansion of the research
 groups (from 3 to 4 in this submission) and the members of each research group (ranging from
 9-10 FTE for L-CAS and LoVE, and to 4-5 FTE for mlearn and intLab).

 In SoCS, new research areas are determined by RSG, chaired by the School Director of
 Research, involving the Head of School (HoS), Professors and Heads of the research groups.
 For example, in 2016, we decided to create a fourth research group, to complement our existing
 groups in robotics, vision and human-computer interaction, and concluded that a group in
 Machine Learning (ML) would best complement our existing research portfolio. We proceeded
 with recruiting the Head of the Group (at Professorial level), providing also a Ph.D. studentship,
 and in the first semester of 2017 we recruited four Lecturers/Senior Lecturers in ML & related
 fields, i.e., as data science, reasoning, signal/image analysis, brain-inspired AI. The Mlearn
 Academics have attracted 3 RAs and & Ph.D. students, funded by projects that the Group has
 managed to acquire.

 In LAR, the three specified research themes are underpinned by new appointments, targeting a
 critical mass of 18 members that has been defined as necessary, for performing research and
 seeking collaborative projects with industry and other HEIs.

 Our staffing strategy targets the strengthening of the research and impact creation capabilities of
 UoA11, in the context of our overall research strategy and those of the specific Groups. As an
 evidence of the effectiveness of our policy, it should be mentioned that in the referenced period,
 15 new members have been recruited and added to the academics of SoCS, including 4
 Professors (Parsons, Kollias, Bidaut, Sklar), 5 Senior Lectures (Holopainen, Cutsuridis, Jiang,
 Fox, Millard) and 7 Lecturers (Bachour, Yu, Esfahani, Brown, Hicks, Maior, and Zhang). The
 average h-index (e.g., in Google Scholar) of the new Professors has been about 40; in the case
 of Senior lecturers it was 16; in the case of Lecturers it was about 9. These have been added to
 the existing Staff of the School of Computer Science, creating a Field Weighted Citation Impact
 (FWCI) in the census period of 1.82, an International Collaboration Rate of 60.2% and a National
 Collaboration Rate of 17.1%, which are higher than the respective sector means.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The following can be mentioned regarding the characteristics of the UoA11 staff:
    • Our staff includes a rather high number of young academics: 20.8% are 25 - 34 years
         old; this indicates the dynamic composition of our staff and our ability to attract young
         ECRs for facing new challenges and evolving research directions.
    • There is a large number of SoCS staff that have been for many years with us and
         constitute the backbone of our R&D efforts: 39.9% of our staff are 45-54 years old.
    • There is a high number of international staff members in SoCS, reaching 56.9% of the
         total: this provides our UoA with a great extroversion, leading to many collaborations both
         at national and at international level.
    • There is large proportion of BAME staff members, in particular, 41.1% of our staff: this is
         the reason of many collaborations with Asian countries.

 Staff promotion is a continuous procedure supported by the University. During the assessment
 period two of our Readers were promoted to the Professor level (Hanheide,Ye) and two Senior
 Lecturers were promoted to Associate Professors (Bellotto, Cielniak, Al-Diri), following an
 application and evaluation procedure at School and University level. It should be added that
 senior BAME members have reached a 17.1% of the total staff.

 2.2 Staff Development

 Staff development has been a main target of the School of Computer Science; LAR is sharing
 the same target as well. We recognize that development is of key importance for our Early
 Career Researchers (ECRs) to form and implement their own research and to participate in
 International Conferences and fora. Support for ECRs includes:
     • The appointment of ECR Leads for the School.
     • Training for ECRs, study review meetings with more experienced staff members, or
         among themselves in e-research seminars, to discuss journal articles and research bids
         prior to submission.
     • In SoCS, all new members of academic staff are provided with a mentor, who is a senior
         member of staff, encouraging them to have regular meetings, so that they can surpass
         any problem or difficulty they may face. Research Group leaders also provide mentoring
         to staff, usually focusing on the research aspects of the role.
     • Annual appraisals and individual research plan reviews with a senior member of staff, as
         an opportunity to review progress, identify needs, discuss career plans, targeting career
         progression and continuing professional development through the appraisal process;
         these are part of ECR’s progress evaluation.
     • Annual research planning meeting with SoCS research group leads, to discuss all
         aspects of research, such as outputs, income and impact, as well as a three-year
         research plan envisioning future goals and practices. We are using the Individual
         Research Planning (IRP) process, which serves two purposes: Developmental – it
         provides ECRs with a structured opportunity to annually review their research
         attainments, to set research goals and plans with the advice and critique of an
         experienced reviewer, and to set a strategy for attaining research objectives; IRP data
         feed into UoL’s overall planning for research, development of REF profile and income
         generation, and is used as part of the process to identify individual contributions to REF.
     • Training and development, at Institutional and College of Science level, for personal and
         professional development. UoL provides Continuing Personal and Professional
         Development (CPPD) scheme which was designed as a holistic and inclusive framework
         to enable all staff members to plan their careers.
     • Reduced teaching load for ECRs, especially in their entry year(s) to the School, to
         provide them with more time to focus on research.
 ECRs are encouraged to participate, as Co-Is in submission of proposals together with more
 experienced researchers, so as to obtain the necessary expertise and then submit their own
 proposals; they are also active members of the research groups, acting first as second
 supervisors of Ph.D. students and then as first supervisors. An example of ECR success in the
 mlearn group is Jiang, who is a new ECR with an excellent publication record: 5 papers in IEEE
 Transactions on Evolutionary Computation, 3 papers in IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics and 2

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 papers in Soft Computing; whilst being Co-I in the European ‘Smartgreen’ project, leading the
 data prediction and optimization task, being 2nd supervisor of a Ph.D. student and collaborating
 with Parsons and Kollias on blending ML and AI.

 Recognition and reward of every staff member achieving excellent research results and impact
 is provided by SoCS, in terms of: balancing other duties, providing some part of the indirect
 costs back to PIs to use for equipment, or travel; providing resources, e.g., Ph.D. studentships to
 boost research and impact. We assist all Academics to increase their networking and
 research/impact potential, facilitate exchanges between academia and businesses, and provide
 sabbatical leaves to Staff who bring such a request to Head of School. Cuayáhuitl spent a six
 months period at Samsung, with a leave of absence from SoCS. Bellotto spent three weeks in
 China, presenting research seminars on machine perception of human in robotics, collaborating
 with Science University of Science and Technology, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Tsinghua
 Universities. We encourage close collaboration of UoA11 Academics with European and
 International Academia (for example, Cielniak with Norwegian University, Yue with many
 Chinese Universities).

 UoA11 assists its academics with travelling, participating in international conferences, organising
 workshop and publishing papers. Expenses are covered, either at individual level, through direct
 requests to Head of School, or at research group level, providing the groups with budget for
 covering such expenses. Consequently, UoA11 Academics are very active in participating and
 presenting papers at national and international conferences, in organising workshops and
 serving as conference program chairs and session organisers (as mentioned in Section 4).

 2.3 Support for PGR students

 In UoA11 we are nurturing a research culture, which includes opportunities for training PGR
 students, post-doctoral staff and fellows. Especially towards PGRs, we target to support them
 by:
     • Generating an inclusive, friendly, professional and supportive research environment that
        encourages collaboration, engagement with stakeholders and nurtures ambition,
        creativity and innovation in both fundamental and applied research; all PGRs, including
        those of the CDT, get involved, as active members, in some projects and collaborations.
        SoCS runs monthly seminar series and PGR meetings, to provide forums for PGRs to
        network.
     • Creating individual and collective minds that are open to new ideas, responsive and
        flexible; all PGRs get involved in research tasks, seminars, collaboration-across-group
        events and publications.
     • inspiring them to become knowledgeable and enquiry-driven scientists; from their
        entering UoA11 they are in close collaboration with their mentors, supervisors and
        research colleagues.

 UoA11 is committed to the development and support of PGRs. The success of our CDT
 Programme will assist PGR linking with external bodies, industrial and social partners, by visiting
 and working in their environments; this will help improving PGRs’ understanding of real-life
 problems and related career prospects.

 Moreover, and following UoL’s Institutional Environment Statement:
    • UoA11 seeks funding from major funding bodies, obtained directly, or through project
       development, at both national and international level. The CDT, together with the large
       networking capabilities of LAR, provide further opportunities for engaging more PGR
       students in R&D collaborations with industry. CDT students are treated as a cohort
       getting support from a wide selection of supervisors. Also, UoL recently obtained EPSRC
       Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) award, through project proposal assessment, three
       ECRs in SoCS have received studentships to become 1st supervisors of new Ph.D.
       students on interdisciplinary topics.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    PGR students, both at M.Sc. and Ph.D. levels, participate in:
 * weekly meetings and presentations at Group / Laboratory level
 * monthly research presentations at School / Centre level
 * monthly journal club at Group / Laboratory level
 * seminars and open days across UoA11
 * talks by Academics in events organised by Lincoln Institute of Advanced Studies
 * combined meetings between different research groups (e.g., L-CAS and Mlearn).
     • Progress of PGR students is discussed with their 1st and 2nd supervisors in monthly
         meetings and respective reports are produced and monitored by SoCS / LAR. Yearly
         progress reports are completed and evaluated and important dates, e.g., of viva, or
         transfer to Ph.D. status, are respected, being considered necessary for successful
         completion of postgraduate/Ph.D. degrees.
     • Organisation of the research seminar series is rotated among UoA11 groups to ensure a
         variety of invited external speakers (about 6 seminars per year), which, as we have
         found, increases cross-fertilization of ideas and approaches to research.
     • Organisation of meetings and events with industrial partners and other institutions
         happens, where dissemination of achieved research results and investigation of possible
         future collaborations, as well as discussion on opportunities for PGRs to work. We could
         also mention the 'Life Beyond the PhD' event, which has run in conjunction with the
         Doctoral School, for supporting postgrads in this framework.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 UoA11 supports and encourages all under-represented groups, promotes an inclusive culture
 and values diversity. Our approach to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) is informed by UoL’s
 Policy. The Eleanor Glanville Centre leads the equality work, providing centralised support
 around the Athena Swan Gender and race Equality Charters and disseminating best practice
 (see Institutional Environment Statement). We also ensure that all our staff attend EDI training.

 SoCS’s Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team was set up in April 2014. After an open call for
 expressions of interest, the team was put together ensuring that its membership represented a
 range of career levels and different work-life experience. The team has held regular meetings
 since then. Our Athena SWAN preparations have included staff-wide consultations and meetings
 on gender diversity, developing our appreciation of the role of positive action in this regard. As a
 result, the School achieved the Bronze Athena SWAN Award in 2015 and identified many areas
 of good practice.

 With reference to recruitment of Ph.D. students, UoA11 has adopted a transparent procedure,
 according to which each potential student submits an application, describing their intended area
 of research, which reaches all Academics; the ones who declare their interest can further
 discuss with the student, who makes the final suggestion and then inserts the postgraduate
 programme. The selection procedure does not pay attention to any protection characteristics of
 the student. Our aim is to attract students of high quality that are able to work and produce
 innovative research.

 Our cohort of PGR students is rather young in age, with 64.0% being younger than 30 years of
 age. This shows the dynamic nature of our PGR cohort. Moreover, 61.3% are international
 students; this is a characteristic of our PGR cohort, which attracts our close attention, so as to
 provide equality and inclusion to all our PGRs.

 UoA11 supports broader attitudes and approaches to flexible ways of working, e.g., part time
 working, compressed working hours, and working from home. We promote “core hours” of 10am
 – 4pm in consideration of staff or research students who have caring responsibilities. Meetings
 are always held within these hours, being arranged using ‘Doodlepoll’. Remote working has also
 been adopted throughout UoA 11 during the Covid-19 pandemic.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The wellbeing of our staff and students is considered of primary importance for UoA11
 objectives’ achievement. We strongly believe that our organisational performance is linked to the
 well-being of our members and that this is much more efficient when our members are satisfied,
 participating, and contributing to a peaceful and participative working environment.

 The Head of School, assisted by specific members of School’s Administration Unit, is
 responsible for the smooth operation of SoCA activities. Our organizational approach turns away
 from the usual hierarchy-based management to an agile network of interconnected Groups. The
 Groups have been empowered to take decisions and actions without constant referral to higher
 levels. This is only achieved by creating a UoA11 environment where members have the right
 soft skills in communication and alignment towards our common goals.

 The key variables that are considered to achieve this, at individual UoA11 level, are: i) personal
 satisfaction; obtained when our collaboration is in line with everyone’s personal values, ii)
 personal and working life well-being, iii) own motivation; each one acting to successfully achieve
 their objectives in accordance with UoL’s ones, iv) trust; relying upon UoA11 management,
 group leaders and colleagues.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research Income

 UoA11 has facilitated and embedded an environment where creation of high-quality research
 and recognition of research income sit at its very core. Recognising that generation of research
 income requires strong research teams and dedicated support, we are driving this forward
 centrally, so as to meet the needs of the growing cohort of researchers within SoCS and LAR.

 Generation of research income is enabled by university structures and processes, strong
 engagement with service users and companies. A specific focus on promoting outcomes to
 society and industry. In particular, to enable income generation, SoCS and LAR work closely
 with their diverse network of industrial partners, including end-users and technology providers.
 There is also close collaboration with UoL’s Research & Enterprise Entity, which provides
 support for research income generation activities, including research grants and contracts,
 KTPs, IP and academic enterprises.

 UoA11 research income has been £10,273.977 in the census period, with a 455% increase over
 the respective research income, £1,854,987, reported in REF 2014. There have been 207 bids
 submitted for funding, with a success rate of 33.0%.

 Classified by funder type: 46.9% were funded in UK; 17.9% by Research Councils; 25.6% by
 European Union; 9.2% were funded by Industry. It is noted that funding at European level has
 been a significant proportion of the total funding; this shows our large collaboration and
 networking with groups leading research at European level.

 It should be further mentioned that 21.3% of the bids were in collaboration with one or more
 different UoAs of UoL; indicating the significant interdisciplinary work done in UoA11.

 In particular:
 L-CAS has run a variety of projects, including: Advanced Robotic Breast Examination Intelligent
 System (Cancer Research UK, 2020-21); Haptic-guided Mobile Manipulation (NCNR, 2020-21);
 Co-manipulated Robotic Training and Skill Assistance for Telemanipulation in Nuclear Settings
 (NCNR, 2020-21); Human-Guided Learning and Benchmarking of Robotic Heap Sorting (ERA-
 NET CHIST-ERA, 2019-22); Intra-Logistics with Integrated Automatic Deployment: safe and
 scalable fleets in shared spaces (Horizon 2020, 2017-20); Spatial-temporal information
 processing for collision detection in dynamic environments (Horizon 2020, 2016-20), National
 Centre for Nuclear Robotics (EPSRC, 2020-21); Synthesis of remote sensing and novel ground
 truth sensors to develop high-resolution soil moisture forecasts in China and the UK (STFC,
 2016-19); Robotics and Autonomous Systems for Berry Production (IUK, 2017-19); 3D Vision-

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 based Crop-Weed Discrimination for Automated Weeding Operations (BBSRC and IUK, 2016-
 18); Structured Deep Learning for Autonomous Driving (Toyota Europe, 2017-18); Application of
 machine learning and high speed 3D vision algorithms for real time detection of fruit (BBSRC,
 2017-21); Autonomous Field Rover for Agricultural Research (BBSRC Seeding Catalyst, 2017-
 18); Autonomous Field Rover for Agricultural Research (Horizon 2020, 2015-18); Enable Robot
 and Assisted Living Environment for Independent Care and Health Monitoring for the Elderly
 (Horizon 2020, 2015-18); Spatio-temporal Representations and Activities for Cognitive Control in
 Long-term Scenarios (EU FP7, 2014-17).

 Focusing on agri-food robotics, RAAI and related technologies has been a major decision of
 SoCS and UoL towards income generation. Creating LAR and obtaining the CDT for agri-food
 robotics, in collaboration with the University of Cambridge and the University of East Anglia,
 have been major pillars for generating income and for boosting research collaboration with all
 participating companies, thus providing more future potential income. In total, this collaboration
 led to winning 24m of collaborative funding (to all partners) in agri-food research.

 LoVE research income mainly comes from the healthcare sector, i.e., early diagnosis,
 quantification and prognosis of various diseases, proton imaging work, by engaging with
 clinicians, entering into clinical trials, pursuing regulatory approval and cooperating with
 healthcare industries. Related projects are: OPTIma: Optimising Proton Therapy through
 Imaging (EPSRC, 2018-2022); Predicting the location of lung nodule occurrence from low-dose
 CT using convolutional time-to-event networks (Cancer Research UK, 2019-2020); Computer-
 aided detection (CAD) for Robotic Colonoscopy (Cancer Research UK, 2016-17); Assessment of
 retinal vascular geometry in patients with age related macular degeneration (Fight for Sight,
 2015); Interoperability Hub for Aggregating Lifelogging Data from Heterogeneous Sensors and
 its Applications in Ophthalmic Care (EPSRC, 2014-16); Proton Radiotherapy Verification and
 Dosimetry Application (Wellcome Trust, 2013-16); Retinal Vascular Modelling, Measurement
 and Diagnosis (EU FP7 Marie Curie, Coordinator, 2013-16); Demonstration of 4D Digital Avatar
 Infrastructure for Access of Complete Patient Information (EU, FP7, 2013-16).

 LoVE has also actively worked in intelligent vision, e.g., animal tracking/ behavior analysis and
 agri-food projects: PIGSustain: Predicting the Impacts of Intensification and Future Changes on
 UK Pig Industry Resilience (BBSRC, 2017-2021); Smart Systems Approaches for Climate
 Resilient Livestock Production (NERC, 2019-2020); Towards an open-source, equipment-
 agnostic framework for automated welfare monitoring in the home cage (National Centre for the
 Replacement Refinement & Reduction of Animals in Research, 2020-23); Mushroom Robo- Pict-
 Development of an autonomous mushroom picking robot (IUK, 2017-2019).

 IntLab research income generation came through: the RAF 100 Ceremony project, where intLab
 created and widely spread an App for young audiences, realistically recreating RAF100 flypast
 using Augmented Reality; the Eylander project, coordinated by WESC Foundation (funded by
 Comic Relief and Paul Hamlyn Foundation, 2015-18) for development of the ‘Eyelander’ game
 for children with homonymous visual field loss; a project with Chordata to develop software for
 their motion capture hardware; the H2020 PieNews project and the COST action Sharing and
 Caring, in collaboration with the University of Trento in Italy; project in games for wheelchair
 user, in collaboration with Back Up Trust and WheelPower UK.

 Mlearn has run ML/AI projects: Nuclear Power Core Monitoring Techniques and Experimental
 Validation and Demonstration (Horizon 2020, 2017-21); SmartGreen: Smart agri-food using
 Machine & Deep Learning (EU Interreg North Sea, 2017-21); WeHope: Semantic Metadata
 Interoperability for Cultural Content (Creative Europe, 2019-22); Deep Learning for Optical
 Character Verification of Food Packaging Images (OAL/IUK, 2017-19); Intelligent Refrigeration
 Systems (Tesco and IMS-Evolve, IUK, 2017-19) for optimising defrosting cycles that account for
 thermal inertia pertaining to food, thus cutting energy costs down; Engineering Transformation
 for Integration of Sensor Networks (CEH and Oxford University; NERC/UKRI, 2019-20) for soil
 moisture monitoring, prediction and enhancement of environmental observations.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 UoA11 has achieved large support from UoL in infrastructure and facilities in the census period,
 with which we supported staff and PGRs in their research and development activities.
 In particular, a new building of £28m has been created for SoCS in 2017, under the name of
 Isaac Newton Building (INB), bringing together all laboratories, staff and postgraduate students,
 with co-located state-of-the-art facilities and research infrastructure. A variety of events have
 been organized in INB to bring UoA11 developments closer to our industrial, societal and
 educational audiences. Bellotto and Lambrou organised twice (2017, 2019) the BMVA
 Computer Vision Summer School in INB, using rooms, laboratories and social interaction areas.
 Many demonstrations of the L-CAS achievements, including sections with autonomous robots
 and food manufacturing demonstrations were organized in INB L-CAS Laboratory and free
 space areas.

 L-CAS joint facilities include dedicated robotics research labs, demonstration farm, experimental
 food factory, fleet of diverse mobile and social robots, advanced compliant robotic manipulators,
 swarm of micro robots and state-of-the-art agricultural robots. The CDT for agri-food robotics
 also constitutes a scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact in UoA11. Moreover,
 L-CAS and LIAT, through E3 award, set up the LAR infrastructure at UoL’s Riseholme Campus,
 whilst UoL provided the LAR building, as in-kind contribution.

 LoVE facilities provide a unique capability within UK universities, namely the design of custom
 CMOS sensors, up to the level where out-sourced fabrication is possible; this boasts full CAD
 platforms, both academic and commercial, and advanced characterisation systems for imagers.
 IntLab has the capability to develop Virtual, Augmented and Mixed Reality environments; this
 was used for development of Apps for games, education and entertainment environments.

 Mlearn possesses a research and development infrastructure for state-of-the-art machine and
 deep learning and big data analysis, including servers with GPUs and associated memory
 availability, used for research and project development.

 On top, SoCS provides research students and visiting research staff with required equipment,
 whilst using, if necessary, major research facilities in nearby UK institutes. Everyday operation
 and predictive maintenance is supported by SoCS technical and support staff.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 In the current census period, UoA11 academics have developed a large variety of research
 collaborations, networking and partnerships with academic colleagues from other Universities
 and Research institutes in UK and internationally. Almost all of our external funded projects are
 collaborative and involve working together with different disciplines and sectors. Our research
 collaborations are reflected both in the co-authorships in our research publications and in the
 joint research projects with academic colleagues in other institutions.

 Publications
 It can, indicatively, be mentioned that in 87 publications of our staff in international journals and
 conferences in 2018, 73 (84%) were co-authored with one, or more, academics from other
 Institutions. In particular, 33 articles (34% of this category) had co-authors from other UK
 Universities, 33 articles (34% of this category) had co-authors from European Universities and
 29 articles (32% of this category) had co-authors from international Universities (mostly from
 China, USA, Australia). This is an evidence that SoCS has a strong presence in research both at
 national and at European and international level. Many publications originate from participation
 of our Academics in international projects. We are especially expanding to Asian markets,
 working closely with UoL’s Department on International Collaborations.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Networking
 UoA11, through L-CAS is member of EPSRC Robotics and Autonomous System Network, and
 euRobotics AISBL, a non-profit association for all stakeholders in European robotics. It has a
 large network of collaborations, including: ABB, major UK-based robotic supplier; Stelram,
 small specialist UK developer of robotic solutions; Saga Robotics, CBS Ltd.; National Centre for
 Nuclear Robotics; University of Sydney’s Australian Centre for field Robotics; HMV Catapult.

 L-CAS and LAR have a large collaboration network: Littleport Mushroom Farms, a major UK
 mushroom supplier; Berry Gardens Growers and Ekeberg Myhrene; Collaborative Training
 Partnership for Fruit Crop Research; NIAB EMR; NERC centre for Ecology and Hydrology;
 Chinese Academy of Meteorological Sciences; Punjab Agricultural University; UK Agri-EPI
 Centre; ASDA; Food and Drink Federation, OAL Group; National farmers Union; Environment
 Agency. L-CAS leads the EPSRC network on Internet of Food Things

 Through LoVE, UoA11 collaborates with major hospitals in NHS and abroad: Christie NHS
 Foundation Trust, UCL Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS
 Foundation Trust, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, St George's Hospital, Churchill Hospital
 Oxford, Karolinska University Hospital, Sweden, Center for Proton Therapy, Paul Scherrer
 Institute, Switzerland, Breast Cancer Screening and Prevention Center, Julies Bordet Institute,
 Brussels, also with Cancer Research UK.

 UoA11, through Mlearn, is a member of many European AI Initiatives: Confederation of
 Laboratories for AI Research in Europe (Claire); ‘Europeana’ ecosystem on Digital Libraries; UK
 Computational Statistics and Machine Learning Network.

 IntLab is leading the Lincoln Game Research Network and is linked to the Digital Game
 Research Association.

 UoA11 has also developed strong collaborations with other UK Academia, e.g. Universities of
 Cambridge, Cranfield, Surrey, Liverpool, Manchester, Leeds.

 Partnerships
 UoA11 groups and individuals have created key partnerships with Universities and Research
 Centres at international level, such as: with Norway in the robotics and agricultural field; with
 China in medical imaging and machine learning field; with Greece in machine learning and
 medical image analysis. These have been the basis for collaborating in joint projects, for
 developing common research outputs and for reaching greater impact.

 We are also in partnership with the KDU Penang University College in Malaysia, which has led
 to common publications, research exchanges and new research collaboration possibilities,
 focusing on machine learning and robotics.

 4.2 Relationships with Users, Beneficiaries and Society

 UoA11 consistently collaborates with organisations beyond Higher Education, including users
 and beneficiaries of the developed research outcomes and the society.

 Examples of implementation of this strategy include various robotics projects that L-CAS used to
 engage children in STEM: for example, in the 2016 and 2017 EU-funded LiGHTS festivals,
 brought hundreds of children onto UoL campus, to meet and interact with SOCS robots. One
 specific initiative was a collaboration with the Johnson and Mukherjee Brothers Trust to run an
 activity for about 200 primary school children across 14 schools in Lincolnshire specifically
 focused on AI and Robotics, intended to widen participation and raise aspirations for
 disadvantaged children.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SoCS has strong links with the University’s Autism Research and Innovation Centre, where
 there are specific efforts to employ autonomous robots and affective assistants in the support of
 educational and therapeutic activities for both children and adults with autism.

 LoVE has a long standing collaboration with NHS Trusts, Health Charities and patient groups.
 There were presentations, e.g., in Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition, in Science
 Festivals such as Gravity Fields, and others to leading manufacturers under NDAs, towards
 translation of technologies into commercial and practical healthcare environments, and to
 diverse groups such as charities and patient groups.

 Mlearn has a close collaboration with Europeana, the European Digital Library and its network of
 Cultural Institutions all over Europe, as well as with the Michael Culture Association. Through
 these relationships the developments on cultural data enrichment and creative reuse reach
 researchers in the educational, cultural and creative sectors.

 LAR targets developing RAAI technologies for agri-food and boosting agricultural productivity,
 with great impact on persons working in the agriculture or the food supply chain. LAR aims at
 using existing networks of farms for validation and adoption of the developed technologies, as a
 first step towards spreading the results towards the whole agricultural field.

 4.3 Wider Contributions to Research Base

 The Academics of the School of Computer Science greatly contribute to the Computer Science
 and Informatics discipline and the research fields of UoA11.
 In particular:

 Prof. T. Duckett is Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and full EPSRC College member. He is
 leading the EPSRC CDT and is Joint Director of LAR. He chaired the 7th European Conference
 on Mobile Robots, Sept. 2-4, 2015 at Lincoln and the UKRAS conference, April 17, 2020.
 Prof. M. Hanheide was the Lead of the STRANDS Project Summer School on “Long-Term
 Autonomy for Mobile Robots”, Aug. 27 – 31, 2015.
 Prof. S. Yue co-organized INNS-BigData Conference in San Francisco, Aug. 8-10, 2015, and
 gave keynote speeches at i-Create, 14-18 July, Shanghai China and ICAMechS, 28 Aug. - 02
 Sept 2018, Zhengzhou China.
 Prof. E. Sklar, Research Director of LAR, has been Head of the Centre of Robotics research at
 King’s College London 2017-19, having spent more than 10 years in industry in USA. She is
 Founder Trustee of the RoboCup Federation. Her research was funded by US NSF, US
 Department of Education, US Army Research Lab, EPSRC and ESRC.
 Prof. X. Ye has been a panel member of EPSRC Peer Review full College, and received
 recognition for an outstanding contribution to EPSRC Peer Review in 2018; she is also a panel
 Member of British Council Peer Review and the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships Peer Review
 College.
 Prof. S. Kollias is Fellow of the IEEE (since 2015) and has been a member of the Executive
 Committee of the European Neural Network Society (2007-2016), General Co-Chair of 5
 Conferences, Programme Committee Member in 40 Conferences and Associate Editor in 20
 Journals. He is member of recent EU AI initiatives (AI Alliance, Claire NoE, Europeana Pro).
 Prof. S. Parsons, Global Professor in Machine Learning, has held academic positions at Queen
 Mary and Westfield College, Massachusets Institute of Technology, City University NY,
 University of Liverpool and King’s College London. He has been leading application of AI in
 agriculture and medicine, focusing on complex decision making and explainability.
 Dr. T. Lambrou has many journal editorships and board memberships, e.g., in Informatics in
 Medicine, Radiology of Infectious Diseases and Computers in Biology and Medicine. Together
 with Dr. N. Bellotto, they organized the BMVA Computer Vision Summer School, in 2017 and
 2019. Dr T. Lambrou and Prof X. Ye collaboratively organized the 19th Medical Image
 Understanding and Analysis Conference (MIUA) at the University of Lincoln in July 15-17, 2015.
 They are both members of the Steering Committee of MIUA Conference.


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dr. P. Dickinson was General Co-chair of the 2015 British Human Computer Interaction
 Conference. Dr. J. Holopainen was a member of the Executive Board of the Digital Games
 Research Association (2014 – 2019), Program Chair of the 9th International Conference on
 Intelligent Technologies for Interactive Entertainment (2017), and Associate Chair for CHIPLAY
 Conference (2018-2019). Dr. J. Holopainen and Dr. C. Headleand are active in Higher Education
 Videogame Alliance and Game Development Educator Network.
 Dr. V. Cutsuridis has edited 5 books, including the ‘Hippocampal Microcircuits: A Computational
 Modeler’s Resource Book and the Perception-Action Cycle: Models, Architectures and
 Hardware’. He acts as an Associate Editor in several international journals including Cognitive
 Computation and Frontiers in Cognitive Science.




                                                                                        Page 16
