Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 04: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Who Are We?
 All staff submitted for UoA4 (32.1 FTE) are members of a vibrant, collegiate and world-leading
 School of Psychology and Neuroscience (P&N). We consider ourselves distinctively inter-
 disciplinary. The School delivers wide-reaching advances in research and teaching across the
 breadth of psychology and neuroscience. This is made possible by our unique ability to
                                                         genuinely bridge fields; from cells to
                                                         minds to crowds. We believe that the
                                                         most important and impactful progress
                                                         in these fields results from a ‘joined up’
                                                         approach. We achieve this by
                                                         maintaining and developing four
                                                         distinct, focused, yet interlinked
                                                         strategic areas for research (see figure
                                                         1): Social and Group Processes
                                                         (‘Social’); Perception, Cognition and
                                                         Action (‘Cogact’); Origins of Mind
                                                         (‘Origins’); and Cellular and
                                                         Behavioural Neuroscience (‘Neuro’).
                                                         Our key research strategy is to deliver
                                                         depth by focussed activity in selected
                                                         areas, whilst offering breadth by
                                                         collaboration: across disciplines within
                                                         the School, across the University, and
                                                         with the very best scientists and
                                                         scholars across the world.

 Research Groupings (appointments in REF period in italics, ECR in bold, * partial FTE)
 Our research is hosted via 4 groupings, within each grouping there are several research foci.
 Groups provide a basis for staff to interact to develop and share research ideas, combine
 techniques and know-how, and provide a rich environment to enable world-class research.

 Origins of Mind (‘Origins’): Brown, Call, Carpenter, Cross, Gomez, Hobaiter, Perrett*,
 Robbins, Schweinfurth, Seed, Zuberbuhler*
 We are an internationally renowned cohort of researchers studying the comparative cognition of
 non-human animals, as well as developmental and evolutionary psychology in humans. Our
 research on primates is enabled by key collaborations with the best zoos and field stations in the
 world (e.g. Budongo, Uganda; Chimfunshi, Tai Forest, Ivory Coast, Zambia). We benefit from
 hosting our own field station at Edinburgh Zoo (Institution-Level Environment Statement, ILES,
 4.3), we have a dedicated child psychology laboratory, as well as links to local schools and
 nurseries.
 Publication highlights:
     • ‘Great apes anticipate that other individuals will act according to false beliefs’. Krupenye,
        et al 2016, Science. 354, 6308, p. 110-114 [PI Call] This is a novel demonstration that
        apes predict the actions of an individual based on her false beliefs.
     • ‘Social network analysis shows direct evidence for social transmission of tool use in wild
        chimpanzees’. Hobaiter, et al, 2014, PLoS Biology. 12, 9, 12 p., e1001960 [PI’s Hobaiter
        & Zuberbuehler] First ever evidence for the emergence of a new cultural behaviour in
        wild chimpanzees and of its spread in the group by social learning.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Social and Group Processes (‘Social’): Carpenter, Cross, Dritschel, Mavor, Pehrson, Reicher,
 Robbins, Sprengelmeyer, Tausch
 Our work spans group processes (radicalisation, patriotism, collective action, leadership and
 social influence, social identity), morality and associated emotions, and social cognition and its
 links to psychopathology/emotional disorders. Our group benefits from a large ‘social
 immersion’ lab facility to conduct experimental work using groups of participants. We have
 extensive national and international collaborations which give us access to diverse populations
 (e.g. in India, Chile, China, Pacific Islands) and also special populations not available in our local
 rural environment (e.g. neurological disorders at Dundee, Ulm; mental health disorders, Yale).
 We also have excellent links with the UK and Scottish Governments which facilitate our research
 impact.
 Publication highlights:
     • ‘Resistance in Repressive Contexts: A Comprehensive Test of Psychological
          Predictors’. Ayanian, Tausch, et al. (2020). Journal of Personality and Social Psychology
          [PI Tausch] This is novel both conceptually and empirically, introducing the concept of
          disidentification, of considerable importance but hitherto ignored in the literature. It
          produces both a deeper understanding of the structure of disidentification and a validated
          measure.
     • ‘Core disgust is attenuated by ingroup relations’. Reicher, et al, 2016, PNAS, USA. 113,
          10, p. 2631-2635. [PI Reicher] This is a significant advance, using the empirically
          measured emotion of disgust to show that emotion can be attenuated by membership of
          social group.

 Perception, Cognition and Action (‘Cogact’): Ainge, Ales, Balslev, Bowman, Donaldson,
 Dritschel, Gomez, Harris*, Jentzsch, O’Connor, Otto, Perrett*, Vishwanath
 Our research expertise delivers a system-level understanding of behaviour and cognition, linking
 topics from low-level perception, through cognitive processes, to behaviour and action,
 and species from drosophila, through mammals, to humans. We benefit from a suite of cognitive
 testing labs, facilities for EEG, TMS, eye tracking, immersive VR, and fMRI (at Ninewells
 Hospital, Dundee). A new investment in the development of mobile EEG has just got underway.
 Publication highlights:
     • ‘From self to social cognition: Theory of Mind mechanisms and their relation to Executive
         Functioning’. Bradford, et al 2015, Cognition. 138, p. 21-34 [PIs Jentzsch, Gomez].
         Introduced a new experimental paradigm in Theory of Mind area to test perspective
         shifting. Task has proven very influential (> 100 citations), also extended to finding neural
         correlates of effect, reliability across cultures and neurologically diverse participant
         samples.
     • ‘Flies and humans share a motion estimation strategy that exploits natural scene
         statistics’. Clark, et al, 2014, Nature Neuroscience. 17, 2, p. 296-303 [PI Ales] This work
         bridged multiple experimental methods to demonstrate that both humans and fruit flies
         utilize a shared computational strategy for interpreting natural scene motion. Reveals a
         deeper understanding of how the natural environment shapes the way neural systems
         process information.

 Cellular and Behavioural Neuroscience (‘Neuro’): Ainge, Bowman, Brown, Doherty, Li, Miles,
 Pulver, Sillar, Spencer, Zwart
 We study the neural circuits that control locomotion, the brain nuclei involved in spatial cognition,
 the effects of early life conditions and hormone exposure on the development of the brain and
 behaviour, and the molecular mechanisms involved in cell death and neurodegeneration. Our
 facilities include use of the St. Mary’s Animal facility (rodents, birds), and state of the art labs for
 studying zebrafish and drosophila.
 Publication highlights:
     • ‘Selective inhibition mediates the sequential recruitment of motor pools’ Zwart, et al 2016,
          Neuron. 91, 4, p. 944 [PIs Zwart, Pulver]. This study shows how movements are
          generated as a function of the modular organization of locomotor networks through
          segregation of inhibition, offering a potentially general mechanism to generate a motor
          pattern fundamental to behaviour.

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   ‘Human iPSC-derived motoneurons harbouring TARDBP or C9ORF72 ALS mutations
        are dysfunctional despite maintaining viability’. Devlin, et al, 2015, Nature
        Communications. 6, 12 p., 5999. [PI Miles]. This study revealed novel functional deficits
        in human motoneurons derived from stem cells from ALS/MND patients. These findings
        resolved controversy within the field regarding ALS/MND pathophysiology and
        highlighted ion channels as important new targets for future ALS/MND therapeutics.”

 Our Global Reach
 We work internationally to develop and nurture the best international collaborations and facilities.
 Large scale collaboration highlights:
    • ‘Contextual effects of positive intergroup contact on outgroup prejudice’. Christ, et al
        2014, PNAS, 11, p. 3996-4000 [PI Tausch] A multi-context, multi-level investigation that
        demonstrates that cross-group contact has a positive impact on outgroup attitudes even
        among those who have no direct contact experiences with the outgroup. Strong evidence
        across a variety of intergroup settings that contact effects reach beyond individual-level
        outgroup attitudes by shaping supportive social norms and thus reducing prejudice at the
        macro-level.
    • ‘The evolution of self-control’. MacLean, et al 2014, PNAS. 111, 20, p. E2140- E2148 [PIs
        Call, Seed] A unique, multi-lab, multi-country comparison of cognitive ability versus brain
        volume across 36 different species. These findings provide a significant first step toward
        quantifying the primate cognitive phenome and explaining the process of cognitive
        evolution.
    • ‘Large-scale replication study reveals a limit on probabilistic prediction in language
        comprehension’. Nieuwland, et al, 2018, eLife. 7, 24 p., e33468 [PI Donaldson]. This was
        a multi-lab replication study that raises serious questions about a seminal finding in
        language comprehension.

 Evidence of Achievement of REF2014 aims
 Our aims as stated for REF2014 were three-fold: (1) strengthen and consolidate our research
 groupings, (2) enhance our research environment, and (3) develop our impact environment.

 (1) Strengthen and consolidate our research groupings
 New appointments have allowed us to both deepen and broaden our research expertise. We
 have experienced some PI turnover and retirement, allowing us to appoint 7 new PI’s: 2 from
 fixed term to standard contracts, 1 Professor and 4 early career researchers. New appointments
 have been made across all 4 research groupings, to complement existing strengths and open up
 new and cutting-edge lines of research. Each research group has diversified its expertise and
 expanded its range of study species or population. For example, the Origins and Social groups
 have extended into significant cross-cultural studies of cognition and moral judgement, mental
 health and national identity, sex differences and decision making (Cross, Pehrson, Robbins,
 Schweinfurth). New appointments in the Neuro group have delivered novel cutting-edge
 techniques including optogenetics and computational connectomics, with potential for new
 connections with CogAct (Pulver, Zwart). A new Professorial appointment in CogAct has brought
 an exciting new expertise in mobile EEG (Donaldson). These appointments serve to enhance
 the research diversity of each group, and the School as a whole, ensuring our work remains at
 the leading edge of the disciplines.

 (2) Enhance our research environment
 Infrastructure In this REF period we have been awarded extra physical space for offices and
 labs (Bute Building) and received significant investment in research infrastructure (from both
 internal and external funding) totalling over £1M. This has allowed us to refurbish our child
 development ‘ABC laboratory’. We continue to develop both the ‘Living Links to Human
 Evolution Research Centre’ and the unique ‘Budongo Research Unit’ at Edinburgh Zoo (ILES
 4.3), providing facilities for studying non-human primate cognition. New wet lab facilities for
 Neuro include the creation of integrative labs for drosophila and zebrafish. Enhancements to the
 St Mary’s Animal Unit have broadened facilities for rodent and avian research. We recently
 installed a 10Gb network connectivity for our data intensive research.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Collaboration & Interdisciplinarity We are proud of our inclusive and collaborative
 environment, which has delivered demonstrable added value to our research productivity. We
 collaborate across the School, within the University, as well as nationally and internationally (e.g.
 >60% of outputs in REF period have international co-authors). Local strategic prioritisation of
 cross-disciplinary engagement is further strengthened via Institutes and Centres that link minds
 from diverse disciplines. For example, our staff have been involved in the leadership of 3 cross-
 University initiatives: Institute for Behavioural and Brain Sciences (IBANS), the Centre for
 Biophotonics (bridging physics and biology) and the Centre for Social Learning and Cognitive
 Evolution (SLaCE). We have taken advantage of interdisciplinary PGR opportunities including
 St. Leonards Interdisciplinary PhD scholarships (ILES 3.3) and a new research initiative
 (SHARE) with the Royal Conservatoire of Music, Scotland. We have also been heavily involved
 in the setting up and leadership of the University’s Centre for Higher Education Research
 (CHER).

 (3) Develop our Impact environment
 Since REF 2014 we have taken a structured approach to co-creating and maximising impact.
 The addition of a Director of Impact (DoI) to the School Management team (2018) has reinforced
 the strategic importance of the impact agenda. Impact is considered an essential element of
 research; thus, both are explored during annual individual meetings with academic staff
 (including temporary and Teaching-focused), with the Director of Research (DoR) and DoI.
 These meetings help identify and support impact at all stages from fledgling ideas through to
 current REF impact cases: from embedding impact in funding applications, applying for specific
 impact funding, to valuing impact in promotion and research leave applications. The importance
 of impact activity is also evident in appointments. In 2018 two early career academics were
 appointed to permanent contracts in part recognising their contributions in Impact and
 Knowledge Exchange (Cross, Ellis). To facilitate engagement networks, we include practitioners
 as speakers in our flagship weekly seminar program and we support science fairs and diverse
 outreach events to engage with a wide range of users from children and their parents to
 dementia sufferers and carers.

 Our Future Aims
 Our ethos is to play to our strengths by acting locally (in the School and wider University and
 community), but also to stretch ourselves intellectually by thinking globally, reaching out to
 collaborate across international boundaries. The School’s current key strategic research aims
 are:

 Diversify our research expertise: Our appointment strategy will maintain focus on excellence
 within groups, whilst providing breadth to stretch between and beyond our current strengths. In
 early 2021 we seek to replace a recent senior departure from CogAct/Neuro with a PI who will
 broaden our behavioural neuroscience interests. Additionally, a further appointment will be made
 in the growing field of behavioural economics and decision making, with the specific aim of
 spanning CogAct/Origins and linking with interests in the School of Economics and with a major
 University collaboration in behavioural economics with the University of Bonn. These
 appointments not only further consolidate our groupings, but also allow us to broaden our
 research base, facilitating further new and interdisciplinary research.

 Investment in PIs: We will free up research time and capacity for research by appointing two
 new R&T academics (2021) and we have just appointed an additional standard-contract
 Education-focused lecturer (Autumn 2020). We have invested in multiple new types of shared
 microscopes that enable live imaging of neural activity and which will come online in 2021 (e.g.
 light sheet, spinning disc confocal, multi-photon). Additionally, we plan to further invest in
 infrastructure to deliver dedicated lab facilities for the new R&T appointments and high-end
 computing access for a range of colleagues across all groups. We are about to undertake major
 refurbishments that will enable development of mobile EEG human brain imaging, a significant
 new initiative for the School.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Enable inter- and multi-disciplinary research and impact: The University has recently (2018)
 placed inter-disciplinary research at the heart of its strategy (ILES section 2.5). We are at the
 forefront of this endeavour to realise ‘Inter-disciplinary St Andrews’, whose goal is to foster new
 collaborations that add value to expertise and interests across Schools. We will play a major
 part in the development of the Evolution, Behaviour and Environment priority (CogAct,
 Origins, Neuro). We also have PI’s working on diverse projects within, and across, 4 of the other
 5 themes, for example, Sustainability (Origins, Neuro and Social). We plan to develop
 engagement with impact in very early career psychologists and neuroscientists via new teaching
 modules for 4th year and postgraduate students.

 Section 2. People
 The School of Psychology and Neuroscience consists of a productive mixture of early career
 staff and more senior researchers and teachers, which provides a vibrant and inclusive research
 atmosphere (see figure 2, red/grey regions show women/men respectively). Over the REF
 period, we have been supported
 by 5 teaching focused                                 Figure 2: Ratio Male:Female Staff
 academics and 14 professional           16
 services staff, who service both
                                         14
 our research and teaching
 remits. The proportion of               12

 Professors in the School that are       10
                                         Number




 female has increased from 22%            8
 to 30% since REF 2014. We are
                                          6
 mindful of equality, diversity and
 inclusion in all that we do and          4

 are proud to have been awarded           2
 Athena SWAN Silver in                    0
 recognition of this in May 2018.             Lecturer        Professor         Reader   Senior Lecturer
                                                                    Female     Male
 Details of our EDI ethos and
 achievements are highlighted in
 a specific section below.

 Strategy for Strengthening Research with New Appointments
 The University requests updates to our School Strategy each year, which enables us to be
 nimble in targeting recruitment in areas that enhance and extend our research. In this REF
 period we have recruited 7 new academic staff, to strengthen and maintain our 4 research
 groupings. We pride ourselves on growing talent, making 6/7 of our REF period appointments
 junior, with the exception being one senior position to maintain group strength in Cogact
 (replaces a retirement). We have made new appointments across all groups. Each person
 brings new expertise (Cross: sex differences in social behaviour; Donaldson: real-world cognitive
 neuroimaging; Pehrson: group processes and national identity; Pulver: drosophila locomotion,
 from genetics to animal behaviour; Robbins: development of fairness across cultures;
 Schweinfurth: origins of cooperation; Zwart: movement generation, from whole brain imaging to
 connectomics). The broader success of this recruitment strategy is evidenced by the progression
 of staff recruited during the previous REF period: 2 R&T academics have moved from temporary
 to standard contracts (Cross, Robbins), and 11 have progressed via promotion (2014-2019
 rounds). We currently have plans for making 2 further appointments and are aiming to recruit
 people at the interfaces of groupings to facilitate further collaboration.

 Supporting People to Enable Research and Impact
 Supporting people is the heart of our approach in the School of Psychology and Neuroscience
 (P&N). We provide an environment that fosters our thriving academic culture, encourages
 creativity and provides time for thought, which is critical for the long-term sustainability of our
 research culture. This is evidenced through our management structures and specific support,
 including tailored activities for contract researchers (CR), postgraduate students and a specific
 EDI strategy.


                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Management Structures
 Committees and representation: The P&N Research Committee promotes, manages and
 supports research and impact and is chaired by the Director of Research (DoR). Membership
 includes the Director of Impact (DoI), representatives from each research grouping, School
 administration, contract research staff, and research postgraduates. The DoR and DoI both sit
 on the School Management Group and attend regular University Research and Impact meetings,
 chaired by the Vice-Principal for Research.

 Workload model (WLM): Our School ethos is that all R&T and Education-focused academics
 have time to engage in research, impact and scholarship. To enable this, the WLM is used to
 deliver an equitable teaching and administration workload, with probationary staff carrying out a
 half-load. The WLM quantifies and aims to balance i) Teaching, ii) Administration, and iii) PhD
 Supervision, with the purpose of giving staff equal opportunity to use the remainder of their time
 for research, impact and scholarship. The WLM takes into account individual circumstances,
 such as secondments, disabilities and partial FTE, and specific load changes, including Covid-
 19 teaching arrangements. In 2021 we are developing an online interface with WLM to enhance
 transparency.

 Research/Impact Leave and seasonal research: PIs are encouraged to apply to the Head of
 School for a one-semester sabbatical per eight semesters of regular teaching and
 administration. This leave can allow staff to focus on research or impact activities. The School
 has introduced a new, transparent process for applying for research/impact leave, which has
 been shared with other science Schools as an example of University best practice. We actively
 encourage staff to apply for funded research ‘leave’ by way of individual fellowships (e.g.
 Spencer and Zwart awarded Royal Society Edinburgh Fellowships for a year’s research leave;
 Ainge awarded Durham Institute of Advanced Study Fellowship). In addition, we offer flexibility
 for staff whose research requires specific periods in the field, allowing them to work remotely for
 several months a year so that they can better conduct seasonal research and supervise
 fieldwork.

 Specific Support for Research
 Financial support: The School invests around £50k per year in supporting PIs via a research
 fund allocation for basic research support. Each PI is awarded a base rate, with enhancement
 for each PhD student or RA supervised (average in 2019-20 was £1.7k). This covers baseline
 consumables and/or conference travel for the PI’s group. The HoS additionally holds a
 contingency fund for exceptional items (e.g. equipment breakdown, critical consumables). The
 School also core funds participant reimbursement for behavioural and pilot fMRI studies
 (including licences for Gorilla, Qualtrics and Pavlovia online research platforms); supports core
 consumables for neuroscience (e.g. autoclave, microscope maintenance), and a dedicated
 neuroscience laboratory technician. Both the School and University encourage undergraduate
 vacation scholars by providing internal funding and supporting applications for external
 scholarship funding (e.g. Laidlaw, Nuffield).

 Research and impact events: Our Friday Seminar Series includes talks from national and
 international researchers and discipline practitioners. Lunch for postgrads and ECRs is provided
 at each of these to facilitate interaction with speakers. Under Covid-19 restrictions we instead
 host a Teams meeting for ECR to discuss careers with each speaker. The annual Jeeves
 Lecture (named after the School’s founder, Prof. Malcolm Jeeves) is given by a world-leading
 researcher. The School also runs weekly postgraduate talks. In addition, research groupings
 organise journal clubs (e.g. Hormones and Behaviour, ABC lab, Perception, Spinal Cord and
 Movement). Beyond the School, we are actively involved in inter- and multi-disciplinary Institutes
 - the Institute for Behavioural and Neural Sciences (IBANS), the interdisciplinary Behavioural
 Discussion Group (co-hosted with Biology), and the Centre for Biophotonics (co-hosted with
 Chemistry, Biology, Physics).

 Research Culture: One member of our staff (Harris) is a member of the University’s new
 Research Culture Group, aimed at developing policy and practise to improve research culture

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 across all disciplines. She has also recently won inter-disciplinary University funding to conduct
 a staff survey on current Research Culture that will directly feed into this group.

 Interaction with University Resources: The University allocates us a dedicated ‘Business
 Development Manager’, Prabs Dehal, to advise on funding opportunities. As well as Prabs
 sending us regular information and updates and delivering grant writing training, we invite her to
 run monthly ‘research clinics’ in the School to meet individual PIs, CRs and PGRs. The School
 holds regular ’lunchtime update’ meetings. We regularly invite expert administrators from around
 the University to update us on the latest developments and support (e.g. Open Data, Risk
 Assessments, Attracting Funding and Best Practise for PhD Supervision).

 Bespoke training courses: Through the annual academic review process, staff are
 encouraged to develop skills by taking courses offered at the University’s Centre for Academic,
 Professional and Organisational Development (CEED). We have dedicated budgets for
 professional services staff and contract researcher external training.

 Dedicated support for Contract researchers (CR): All CR staff have an Annual Review and
 Development meeting with their line manager and are encouraged to engage with appropriate
 Centre for Educational Enhancement & Development (CEED) courses, including the ‘Passport to
 Research Futures’ programme. CRs are fully integrated into the School’s life, they have
 representation on the Research Committee and the School Council. Regular networking lunch
 events are organised, where one (or more) PI’s discuss life as an academic (example topics:
 work-life balance, social media, what is REF?). If CR staff have funding gaps, the School is able
 to access University bridging funds (for up to six months) to maintain salary and contract
 continuity. We support early career scientists by encouraging fellowship and grant applications.
 Recent grant successes include Marie Curie Research Fellowships, a Royal Society Newton
 International Fellowship, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council Canada (NSERC)
 funding, two Carnegie Research Incentive Grants, 2 H2020 MSCA research fellowships, a
 Santander small grant award and one grant from the Swiss National Science Foundation.

 Mentoring schemes: Development of an individual scientist requires insider-knowledge on how
 and where to focus one’s efforts. To guide staff and broaden equality and diversity of
 opportunity, we encourage mentoring (formal and informal) at all career levels. Probationary
 academic staff members are assigned a local mentor. We encourage participation in a variety of
 mentoring schemes offered at different career levels: (a) cross-institutional scheme for early
 career researchers (including CR and ECR PI’s) (b) mid-career Aurora leadership scheme for
 women and (c) Elizabeth Garrett scheme for senior women. Many staff within the School
 participate as both mentors and mentees (feedback and monitoring is via Annual Review
 meetings).

 Facilitating Interdisciplinarity: We engage with a number of cross-School collaborations (e.g.
 with Computer Science on human-computer interaction, Biology on animal behaviour,
 Economics on decision making, Medicine on medical education and health psychology, Music
 on cross-modal perception and psychoacoustics). Many of these collaborations have been
 initiated via cross-School seminars and journal clubs. The University-wide St. Leonards
 Graduate School encourages interdisciplinary work via PhD funding, as does the Scottish
 Graduate School for Social Sciences (has led to productive collaborations with the Schools of
 English, Physics, and Medicine). Funding support for inter-disciplinary projects has been
 obtained from some of the above institutes. 29% of our 2019-20 PhD students are supervised
 across subfields within the School or across Schools. For example, Cross hosts a PhD student
 (Whitefield) to work on thematic analyses of domestic violence co-supervised by Raychaudhuri
 (English); Donaldson and P Miles host an ESRC student (Porter) to work on enhancing teaching
 in schools (collaboration with Education and Computer Science).

 Covid-19 adaptation: most items above were pre-Covid-19. During Covid-19 restrictions we
 have continued key meetings virtually (Management Group, Research Committee, informal daily
 Staff Coffee and weekly Staff Info) and set up several working groups to address key issues: (1)

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supporting postgraduates, (2) developing new research tools to enable online human research,
 (3) developing protocols, risk assessments and ethics procedures to restart human research, (4)
 building re-opening as soon as University allowed for essential (non-human facing) research, (5)
 re-opening of zoo-based field site, (6) School Friday seminars and Psycholoquia moved online
 for 2020, (7) Dehal has run several virtual workshops for early career researchers to develop
 their grant writing skills.

 Research Students
 Postgraduate student numbers: Our current cohort of 71 research postgraduates (2020-21
 academic year: 65 PhD, 5 masters by research) is diverse: 75% women, 20 countries of origin
 (40% non-EU), and were
                                                        Figure 3: PhDs completed
 admitted with excellent first
 degrees and masters                 25
 qualifications. Competition for
                                      Number of PhDs awarded
                                     20
 funded places is very strong.
 Numbers of students registered      15
 on both these degree routes
 have steadily risen over the        10
 current REF period. Our PhD
 completion numbers are               5

 holding steady over the REF
                                      0
 period (see figure 3, 19-20 is          2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20
 part-year).

 Supervision structures and progression: Research students form a vital part of our academic
 community, with representation on the School Council, Research Committee, EDI Committee
 and Staff-Student Consultative Committee. All students are allocated a Principal Supervisor, a
 Second Supervisor (primarily a pastoral role) and some students have science-focused Co-
 Supervisors. Student progress is monitored via reports at the end of the 1st year and a viva is
 undertaken at this point to determine progression to the second year by the Second Supervisor
 and another PI with relevant experience. Written annual progress reports from the student and
 supervisors are assessed by the Postgraduate Committee, chaired by the Director of
 Postgraduates. All information is made available for students in the School’s Postgraduate
 Handbook (subsequently adopted by other Schools, e.g. Physics, as a ‘best practise’ approach)
 and students are able to access their own annual reports and discuss these with their
 supervisors. Additional pastoral support is provided by our School Wellbeing Officer, who is
 available for individual meetings with postgraduate students.

 Student training and skill development: We provide full access to a comprehensive
 Postgraduate Training Programme consisting of subject-specific skills, professional skills
 courses and other training events. Each year postgraduates give a 30-minute ‘Psycholoquium’
 talk and produce a poster for the annual Postgraduate Research Session, an event open to all
 members of the School. Specific training programmes for individual students are agreed
 annually via a comprehensive Training Needs Analysis with supervisors, and students keep a
 record of all their training activities in a Postgraduate Logbook. Postgraduates also participate in
 the student-run Psychological Society and the Neuroscience Society who host both research
 and career development events.

 Facilities: All postgraduate research students are provided with a desk and computer, and
 supervisors receive £1k per student per annum to support basic expenses and conference
 attendance. The School’s Research Student Travel Fund provides support (up to £1k over 3
 years) for attendance at international conferences.

 Beyond the School: The University GRADSkills programme includes training sessions on
 topics such as managing a PhD, communication with your supervisor, thesis writing and
 interview skills. Our students are encouraged to engage with this and other external training
 programmes, utilising the Logbook (see above) to advise and monitor on progress. Supervisors

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also encourage students to take advantage of the Student Support Service, Mathematics
 Support Centre, and the Careers Centre. Our active involvement in UKRI DTPs (BBSRC
 EASTBio, NERC SUPER, ESRC Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences) affords many
 PGRs access to discipline-specific training. Our PhD students also regularly present at annual
 conferences, e.g., Scottish Neuroscience Group, Scottish Vision Group, Scottish Primate Group,
 IBANS ECR Symposium, and regularly receive external funding to present at international
 conferences.

 Equal Opportunities and Diversity
 The School is committed to creating an inclusive environment that supports equality of
 opportunity and fairness for all.

 University-level and national-level actions: Our staff have made significant contributions at
 University and national levels; for example:
 • a former staff member (V. Brown) chaired the University’s Athena SWAN Self-Assessment
   Team in her role as Vice-Principal for Enterprise and Engagement (2015-16),
 • a staff member (Harris) founded (2018) and led (2018-2020) the Senior Women in St.
   Andrews network, to share knowledge and best practise around gender related issues.
 • the School’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Officer (G. Brown) was a member of the
   University’s Statistical Analysis working group for its Athena SWAN Bronze award (2018),
 • the EDI Officer has been appointed as the University’s first Science & Medicine EDI Faculty
   Lead (2020-22) and sits on the University’s Central EDI Committee,
 • the University made changes to the Academic Promotions processes in response to our
   lobbying, and has adopted The School’s revised Academic Review and Development Form,
 • our gender bias research has been presented to the Scottish Government (Cross), and
 • our staff engage annually in widening access programmes, including First Chances, Lift-off 2
   Success and REACH programmes and Sutton Trust Summer Schools.

 School-level actions: The School EDI Officer is a member of Management Group and chairs
 the School’s EDI Committee, which consists of academic/professional staff and UG/PG student
 representatives. This Committee delivers relevant actions and initiatives, for example:
   • an annual School ‘Wellbeing Day’ with events for UGs, PGs and staff,
   • an ‘Out Thinkers’ event (2019), in association with Pride in STEM, which involved a set of
     research talks LGBT+ STEM researchers from our staff and PG community,
   • a School round-table discussion on Racism in Academia and a resulting action plan,
   • a Silver Athena SWAN award (2018), with key actions including the transfer of three fixed-
     term, female lecturers onto standard contracts, gender parity among seminar speakers,
     introduction of ‘core meeting hours’, and a ‘Planning for Leave’ checklist.

 REF-related practices: The School has followed the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice,
 our HoS, DoR, Deputy DoR and EDI Officer undertook ‘E&D in the REF’ training. The School
 panel that assessed REF outputs was gender-balanced, the gender balance of scored outputs
 was monitored throughout (both locally, and centrally). As in REF2014, the gender balance of
 scored research outputs was monitored during the scoring process and data interrogated to
 check for bias in choice of outputs for submission. No bias was found.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The School’s funding strategy is to attract support from a diverse range of sources and has
 broadened that diversity since the last REF (see figure 4). Some research across our broad
 research remit is more expensive than that in other research areas. We support staff in applying
 for the funds that they require, no matter how small, and we do not measure success or set
 goals in purely financial terms. Facilitated by University level support from Business
 Development, the DoR facilitates staff engagement with local expertise in supporting application
 to particular funders.


                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Major Research Income
 During the REF period, the School has been awarded around £10M in competitive grant funding
 from a broad range of sources. We have improved overall compared to the last REF period.
 Figure 4 compares our research income in this REF period (2014-2020), with
  comparable years in the previous period (2008-2013), based on University financial year (e.g.
 2014 is equivalent to August 14 – July 15).

                             Figure 4a: Research Income by Source (Nov 2020)                                         Fig 4b: Average Funding/Year
                                                                                                                     16
                  60                                                                                                 14
   Grant Amount




                  50
    (£100,000)




                                                                                                                     12




                                                                                                 Amount (£100,000)
                  40
                                                                                                                     10
                  30
                                                                                                                      8
                  20
                  10                                                                                                  6

                   0                                                                                                  4
                        European Union          UKRI         UK Charitable     UK Government &
                                                                Bodies             Industry                           2

                       Total Sum of Awarded 2014-2020    Total Sum Awarded 2008-2013                                  0
                                                                                                                          2014-2020   2008-2013


 Although the School has not grown in terms of research FTE since REF 2014, our total grant
 income is considerably higher (~£10M) than in the previous period (£8.6M). Notably, our EU
 funding has increased dramatically. This funding includes 3 highly prestigious ERC-funded
 grants (Investigator and Starter grants to Call, Hobaiter, Seed). Our UKRI funding maps to our
 diverse research portfolio: we have secured funds from the EPSRC, ESRC, NERC and BBSRC.
 We have improved, compared to previous performance, from UKRI and also on funding from UK
 charities (including the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Royal Society of London, Wellcome Trust,
 Cunningham Trust, Academy of Medical Sciences, Alzheimer’s UK, and the Leverhulme Trust).
 We have also received impact-related research funding from the University’s EPSRC Pathways
 to Impact Fund, Knowledge Exchange program and Wellcome Trust ISSF fund.

 Postgraduate Students
 During the REF period the School has received PhD studentship funding from a wide range of
 sources. UK and European core funding: EASTBio BBSRC DTP, Scottish Graduate School of
 Social Science ESRC DTC, University EPSRC DTG, NERC, ERC. Charities: AD Links
 Foundation, Cunningham Trust, MND Association, SPRINT-MND/MS. International: BECAS
 Chile, Indonesian Endowment Fund for Education, JASSO Student Exchange Support
 Programme, Japan, DAAD Germany. University: Jonathan and Hazel Sparey Scholarship, China
 Scholarship Council, St Leonards Graduate School: International Doctoral Fee, Interdisciplinary,
 European Inter-University, World Class doctoral scholarships. Industry: Santander 600
 Postgraduate Research Scholarship; British Trust for Ornithology, Boehringer Ingelheim, Cairn
 Instruments, Kaunas Industrial Water Supply. When possible, the School directly funds PhD
 studentships each year from its annual budget. Funding for MPhil students is obtained via close
 links with Emory University in the USA, and through the University-led Bobby Jones Fellowship
 scheme. Around 18% of our PhD students are self-funded.

 Research Infrastructure and Facilities
 The School provides and supports a wide range of research facilities. During the REF period,
 £1M investment has been made in our research infrastructure. Each of these facilities allows
 research groups to deliver world-class research output. In addition, some provide a focus for
 significant non-academic interaction with stakeholders such as the public, NGOs and
 governmental agencies (see below for details).

 1) Experimental neuroscience facilities (supporting Neuro and Cogact). The University hosts a
 secure animal facility, which supports research on rodents, birds, amphibians, and fish (in a
 dedicated facility at the new Scottish Oceans Institute, ILES 4.2). The main facility comprises
 animal holding rooms, an outdoor aviary facility, a surgical suite, and behavioural testing rooms.

                                                                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 It is staffed by a dedicated manager and 6 animal technicians. During the REF period over
 £270k has been invested by the University to boost these cross-School facilities. The School
 also boasts state-of-the-art wet-lab and histology facilities, equipped to undertake up-to-date
 molecular and protein analyses. A University investment of £350k has created two integrative
 laboratories equipped with specialist molecular and imaging equipment, which expand our
 species range and live imaging techniques significantly (Drosophila, zebra fish). These augment
 an existing Imaging Suite, housing advanced multi-photon and fluorescent microscopes.

 2) Human behavioural and imaging facilities (supporting Cogact and Social). Our researchers
 conduct fMRI and simultaneous EEG-fMRI experiments using facilities at Ninewells Hospital,
 Dundee, through the cross-university Scottish Imaging Network: A Platform for Scientific
 Excellence (SINAPSE) pooling initiative. The School also hosts dedicated EEG laboratories, and
 a £30k Trans-cranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) system. Specialised equipment for vision
 research includes stereoscopic displays, eye-movement trackers, limb-trackers, a 3-D scanner,
 hyperspectral camera, spectrophotometers and thermal imagers, and computing facilities with
 software for studying face perception. We have individual and group testing areas, including
 computer clusters and a Social Immersion Laboratory. The human experimental laboratories
 have undergone refurbishment at a total cost of over £30k during the REF period.

 3) Primate behavioural observation facilities (supporting Origins): The ‘Living Links to Human
 Evolution Research Centre’, opened in 2008. This is a University of St Andrews primate
 research centre, housed in Edinburgh Zoo. Living Links was created through a £1.6M research
 grant from the Scottish Funding Council and provides excellent facilities for studying primate
 behaviour and cognition. During the REF period University funds have also significantly invested
 in another resource at the Zoo, the Budongo Research Unit, facilitating research on
 chimpanzees (£500k to Living Links/Budongo, ILES 4.3). We also study primate behaviour at the
 Keeling Center, Texas and Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig.

 4) Developmental Psychology facilities (supporting Origins and Social): The School houses a
 dedicated Child Development laboratory (investment £78k). The ABC (St Andrews Baby and
 Child) Lab is supported by a School-funded lab manager and is utilised by 6 PIs. The facility
 enables researchers to study a wide range of topics in child social and cognitive development,
 including prosocial behaviour, tool use, episodic memory development and theory of mind. Due
 to its close links with the community through participant recruitment, the lab also hosts several
 public engagement activities throughout the year. Research in this area is also carried out at
 sites such as the Dundee Science Centre, St. Andrews Aquarium and several local schools and
 nurseries.

 5) Field work networks and facilities (all groups): Our fieldwork site portfolio is diverse and spans
 developmental psychology, primate behaviour and experimental neuroscience. The School
 offers flexible working opportunities for PI’s who need season-specific access to field sites.
 Research on primates takes place in: Chimfunshi chimpanzee sanctuary, Zambia (the oldest
 and largest sanctuary of its kind in the world); Budongo Conservation Field Station, Uganda (14
 year-long School commitment at this site); Bugoma Primate Conservation Project, Uganda;
 Bwindi Mountain gorilla project, Uganda; Bossou-Nimba Chimpanzee research project, Guinea.
 Our developmental psychology field work is centred in schools and educational institutions in
 Samoa, including sites on the islands of Upolu and Savai’i. We utilise seabird breeding sites in
 the UK (Isle of May National Nature Reserve; Fidra Island, Firth of Forth) and in Belgium and the
 Netherlands.

 6) School professional services support: Our research in the REF period has been facilitated by
 a team of 15 Professional Services staff: a School Manager, an IT Manager, 4
 mechatronics/mechanical engineering technicians, 1 laboratory technician, 2 ITC technicians,
 and 1 software developer. The School has also been supported by 5 members of administrative
 professional staff. Support offered by the School Workshop is wide ranging, including the design
 and development of software applications, digital and analogue electronic and microcontroller-
 based equipment and bespoke and highly specialised hardware and software for projects used

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in research, teaching and public engagement. The administrative team has a varied and
 expansive remit including: support for teaching programmes, research administration for PGR
 students, research and impact project management for staff, financial planning and funding
 administration for staff and students.

 7) Ethics, Integrity and Culture: The School’s Ethics Committee approves ethical applications for
 human experimental and non-licenced animal research, overseen and supported by the
 University Teaching and Research Ethics Committee and the Animal Welfare and Ethics
 Committee. The School influences University level policy through staff involvement on University
 level committees that work to enhance and streamline ethical review and policy. Licenced animal
 research takes place in the separately managed St. Mary’s Animal Unit. The DoR contributes
 to development of University policy on research integrity and research culture, and School
 Research Committee are responsible for developing best practise in these rapidly changing
 areas. DoR will sit on University’s new Research Culture Group in 2021.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 As a School, we have an outward facing research ethos and a global reach. A key strand of our
 research strategy is to maintain international links and develop new ones, to enable world-class
 research. We use a light touch, via annual staff review, to encourage international collaboration
 in research and impact. This approach fosters drive, from the bottom-up, to find the very best
 connections and networks. Using this approach, we have a large number of ongoing
 international collaborations. Our researcher and PGR community are highly international (e.g.,
 40% of our current PGR are from outside the UK or EU). Much of our research funding involves
 international collaborators, and many of our outputs have international authors (60% in REF
 period). Highlights of activity include: (i) a long-term collaboration with the Max-Planck Institute
 for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany on topics from life-history to social cognition
 in great apes. (Hobaiter), (ii) a collaboration with 3 universities in India to conduct a series of
 unique studies on crowds and identity at the Magh Mela religious festival (Reicher), (iii)
 collaboration with Jenelia Research Campus, one of the top biomedical science institutes in the
 world, bringing novel technical tools to neuroscience research (Pulver, Zwart).

 Research Collaborations Networks and Partnerships
 International Research Collaborations: In the REF period, we have produced outputs with
 collaborators from over 500 different institutions, from 46 countries. The graphs and tables in
 Figures 5 (Europe) and 6 (rest of the world) highlight the countries and some of our major
 collaborating universities.

 Local and National Collaboration: The School’s research is embedded within several active
 research centres and institutes within the University and nationally. Our broad scope allows us to
 contribute to 5/6 of the University’s collaborative research priority areas (a: Evolution, Behaviour




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Environment, b: Cultural Understanding, c: Sustainability, d: Health, Infectious Disease and
 Wellbeing, e: Peace, Conflict and Security ILES, 2.5).




 We also actively participate in a number of other Research Centres including:
 The Institute of Behavioural and Neural Sciences (IBANS), a cross-disciplinary centre, which we
 co-direct, that brings together 80 PIs across Psychology & Neuroscience, Biology, Medicine,
 Chemistry, Computer Science, Economics, Maths & Statistics and Physics, who share an
 interest in the neural underpinning of behaviour. IBANS pump primes collaborative partnerships,
 provides ECR training and co-ordinates events to stimulate interdisciplinary research.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Centre for Social Learning and Cognitive Evolution brings together PIs from Psychology &
 Neuroscience with those from Biology, who share common interests in the evolution of cognition
 and culture. This has facilitated significant cross-school funding (e.g. Templeton Foundation,
 BBSRC).
 The Centre for Biophotonics promotes interdisciplinary research and training at the interface
 between advanced optical imaging, photonics and biomedical sciences. It builds on existing
 strengths in the development and application of light-based technologies (Physics) to investigate
 biological processes at molecular, cellular and tissue level.
 The St Andrews Bioinformatics Unit (StABU) provides cross-University support to large sequence
 analysis and functional genomics projects. The Unit works with researchers in running analyses
 and providing training as well as supporting in grant applications and publication writing.
 The Scottish Universities Life Science Alliance (SULSA) is a strategic alliance between eleven
 Scottish Universities whose aim is to advance Scotland’s research and innovation in the life
 sciences. The Scientific Advisor for Development and Regulation theme is based within the School
 (Spencer).
 The Scottish Imaging Network a Platform for Scientific Excellence (SINAPSE): is a world-class
 consortium of 6 Scottish Universities, providing a collaborative network for strategic research
 development in human brain imaging. We chaired the annual conference for this group in 2020
 (Donaldson).
 Scottish Primate Research Group (SPRG) provides a forum for primate researchers and has led
 to joint research ventures, such as grants, publications and PhD supervision.

 Interdisciplinary research
 The School boasts a truly inter-disciplinary environment (ILES, 2.5). We aspire for our
 researchers to achieve real strength and depth in their areas of expertise, as well as a real
 willingness to reach out and work broadly to ensure collaborations in areas where we might have
 less depth. This combination of breadth and depth fosters a fertile exchange of ideas. Our ability
 to do this is facilitated by our School structure, our world class facilities and the collegiality of
 staff. In addition, we undertake research with academics across a variety of disciplines beyond
 the School, including optometry and sports sciences (BBSRC), clinical medicine (NC3Rs, Pfizer
 Neusentis and Grünenthal), biomedical science (Alzheimer’s Research UK), philosophy (AHRC),
 biology (Templeton Foundation, BBSRC), education, theology (Leverhulme Trust) and ecology
 (Leverhulme Trust, Royal Society of Edinburgh). Our ability to undertake such integrative work
 has attracted visiting scholars from a range of disciplines. During the REF period the School has
 also hosted over 30 scholars for research visits from Australia, Austria, China, Denmark, France,
 Germany, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, South Africa,
 Switzerland, Turkey, UK and USA. Visits have resulted in ongoing collaboration and publications
 (e.g. Acar visited and published with Social, Zhang with Cogact), and with new training initiatives
 (e.g. Johnson visited Neuro, and initiated program for MRes Neuroscience students to submit
 and publish papers in Journal of Neuro. Undergrad Ed).

 Contributions to the research community
 Researchers from all four groups contribute at the highest level to the research base, as well as
 to service to the research community. Contribution highlights are detailed by category and
 research grouping below.

 1) Prizes, honours and fellowships
    Staff at all career levels have excelled in this category. Highlights include fellowships of the
    Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) Young Academy of Scotland and 3 British Academy
    Fellowship holders.

  origins       APA Distinguished Scientific Award for Early Career Contribution to Psychology
                2014 (Seed), UKRI Role Model in Environment 2019 (Hobaiter), British Academy
                Fellowship 2019 (Call), Royal Society of Edinburgh Fellowship 2016 (Call),
                Fellow, Cognitive Science Society 2015 (Call), RSE Young Academy of Scotland
                2018 (Seed), Aurora Leadership Fellow, Leadership Foundation for Higher


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
               Education 2016 (Robbins), National Institutes of Health (NIH) IMSD Fellow 2016
               (Robbins).
  neuro        Paulo Gontijo Award, International Symposium on ALS/MND 2015 (Miles),
               Macknight Educator Award 2016 (Pulver), RSE Sabbatical Research Grants,
               now starting 2021 (Spencer, Zwart), Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship
               2020 (Spencer)
  social       Harold Lasswell prize, International Society for Political Psychology 2018
               (Reicher), British Academy Fellowship 2017 (Reicher), Public Engagement with
               Research Award 2018 (Cross) Fellow, Royal Society of Edinburgh 2004
               (Reicher), Canadian Institute for Advanced Research (CIFAR) Fellowship 2019
               (Reicher), 2020 Wegner Prize for Theoretical Innovation: Society for Personality
               and Social Psychology (Reicher).
  cogact       Chercheur Invité Visiting Fellowship, Grenoble University 2018 (O’Connor),
               Institute of Advanced Study (Durham Univ) Fellowship, 2020 – postponed until
               21 (Ainge). British Academy Fellowship (Perrett), Royal Society of Edinburgh
               Fellowship (Perrett).

 2) Service to learned societies and funding bodies
    Academics from all groups give their time to organise and run major international societies
    (e.g. International Primate Society, European Society of Philosophy and Psychology) and
    take part in funding panels (e.g. BBSRC, Fondation Fyssen, Research Council of Norway,
    DFG Germany).

  origins   Vice-President of the International Primatological Society 2016 (Hobaiter), Vice-
            President of the European Human Behaviour & Evolution Association 2012-15
            (Brown), President of the European Society of Philosophy and Psychology 2014-17
            (Gomez), Fellows Committee Cognitive Science Society 2016 (Call), Member of
            Scientific Council, Fondation Fyssen 2011-18 (Call)
  neuro     Animal Welfare Research Network member 2018 (Spencer), BBSRC core panel
            member (Miles, Spencer), Alzheimer's Society Grant Review Panel 2018 (Doherty),
            MNDA Biomedical Research Advisory Panel 2016 (Miles), Chair of Neuroscience
            Panel, Research Council of Norway 2017 (Sillar), Royal Society Newton
            International Fellowship Panel 2013-18 (Li, Pulver)
  social    ESRC program on Governance after Brexit (Reicher), RSE Crucible selection panel
            (Reicher), RSE Fellows Selection Panel (Reicher)
  cogact    Experimental Psychology Society Committee Member 2013-15 (Jentzsch), Member
            of the Applied Vision Association Committee 2011-15 (Harris), BBSRC core panel
            member (Harris), BBSRC pool panel member (Otto), ESRC funding college
            (Harris), EPSRC funding college (Harris), UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Peer
            Review College 2018 (Harris), Carnegie Trust Research Panel 2017-20 (Harris),
            DFG grant review panel, Germany 2016-18 (Jentzsch), REF 2021 subpanel 4 panel
            member (Donaldson), Executive Committee Member, Association of Heads of
            Psychology Department (Donaldson from 2020, previously Chair).

     3) Service to conference organisation and journals
 We have organised a number of major conferences in the REF period (highlights include
 European Society for Philosophy and Psychology, International Symposium on ALS/MND), and
 our staff serve on editorial boards at major journals (a highlight is Editor in Chief, Journal of
 Comparative Psychology).

  origins   European Society for Philosophy and Psychology Conference, St. Andrews,2016
            (Gomez); Senior editorial: Editor in Chief, Journal of Comparative Psychology
            (Call); Editorial boards: Animal Cognition (Call), Child Development Perspectives
            (Carpenter), Ethology (Brown), Frontiers of Comparative Psychology (Call),
            International Journal of Comparative Psychology (Call), Hormones and Behaviour
            (Brown), International Journal of Primatology (Hobaiter), Learning and Behaviour
            (Call), Perspectives in Psychological Science (Call).

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  neuro      Alzheimer's Society Network Meeting 2014 (Doherty), 29th International
             Symposium on ALS/MND, Glasgow 2018, Alzheimer's Research UK Conference,
             Aberdeen 2017 (Doherty), Federation of European Neuroscience (FENS) Forum,
             Glasgow 2020 (Miles), Gordon Research Conference on Neuroethology,
             Switzerland 2017 (Sillar); International Symposium on Avian Endocrinology,
             Edinburgh 2020 (Spencer). Cold Spring Harbor laboratory postgraduate summer
             course 2015-2017 (Pulver). Editorial Board: Brain and Neurosciences Advances
             (Ainge) Frontiers in Neural Circuits (Li), Scientific Reports (Pulver)
  social     ISPP/EASP meeting on Boundaries Norms and Conflicts, Bratislava, 2018 (Reicher),
             Senior editorial: Associate Editor, European Journal of Social Psychology (Tausch),
             Associate Editor, Social Psychology (Tausch), Editorial boards: British Journal of
             Social Psychology (Mavor), PloS One (Cross, Dritschel)
  cogact     Workshop on Science of Experiential and Qualitative Spaces, CiMEC, Rovereto 2014
             (Vishwanath), SINAPSE Psychology Group Meeting 2017 (Ales), SINAPSE Annual
             Scientific Meeting 2016 (Ales), Scottish Vision Group Meeting 2018 (Ales, Otto,
             Vishwanath) Vision Sciences Society Nomination Committee 2016-20 (Harris).
             Editorial boards: Collabra (O’Connor), Journal of Vision (Harris), Memory (O’Connor),
             Psychology of Consciousness (Vishwanath), Quarterly Journal of Experimental
             Psychology (Jentzsch), Vision (Harris), Vision Research (Harris).

 Plenaries and major research talks: PIs within the School have delivered over 160 talks or
 seminars at national and international conferences during the REF period, over 35 of these have
 been plenaries. These include conferences that reach substantial international audiences held in
 countries across Asia, N. America, Africa Australasia and Europe (e.g. Carpenter, 2016,
 International Society for Human Ethology; Call, 2016, International Congress of Psychology;
 Zwart, Cosyne USA, 2018; Reicher, 2017, International Conference on Mass Gatherings
 Medicine). Importantly several plenaries have been given at interdisciplinary meetings,
 facilitating contributions to not only furthering the PIs research field, but also other related fields.
 For example, presentations at the International Conference on Mass Gatherings Medicine in
 Riyadh, 2017 (Reicher) brought together social psychologists and clinical researchers. Work
 presented at the XXVIII Symposium of the Spanish Society of the History of Psychology, Spain
 2015 (Gomez) integrated work from psychologists and historians.

 Wider Activities and Contributions to Economy and Society
 Examples of this impact can be found in our impact case studies (ICSs) which describe how our
 research has been used to fundamentally change how crowds are managed (Reicher),
 transform the care of end stage dementia patients (Ellis) and change UN conservation policy
 (Whiten). These ICSs are not isolated examples but rather part of a broad and varied impact
 portfolio across the School.

 Response to COVID-19
 Our PIs have redirected research and impact to respond specifically to COVID-19. Some
 projects have been reoriented, e.g. examining the effects of COVID-19 on teachers sense of
 agency; refocussing a project on experience of minorities to the experiences of COVID amongst
 Muslims in Scotland; measuring the quality of online interaction for social connectedness. A
 notable current impact highlight is in government policy in response to COVID-19. Reicher sits
 on SPI-B (the Behavioural Science Advisory group to the UK Government), the COVID advisory
 Group to the Scottish CMO, and Independent SAGE. He also sits on a number of specific
 groups which includes a strategic overview body including national and local government, the
 police and army, and also directly advises the police. Additionally, he has directly advised the
 Scottish Government on developing a public participation platform, on the messaging relating to
 COVID-19, on nosocomial infections and on vaccinations. Reicher has contributed to a book on
 the psychology of COVID-19 (Jetten, J., Reicher, S.D., Haslam, S.A. & Cruwys (2020) Together
 Apart: The Psychology of COVID-19. London: Sage), and several other review pieces aimed at
 academics, psychology practitioners, and policy makers (e.g. Van Bavel, et al. (2020). Using
 social and behavioural science to support COVID-19 pandemic response. Nature Human
 Behaviour, 1-12; COVID-19 pandemic and beyond: A call to action for psychological science

                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2020) British Journal of Psychology, e12468). Reicher has had major exposure on COVID-19
 via broadcast and social media including TV: Sky News, Channel 4 News, ITV Good Morning
 Britain, Peston Show, BBC News 24, BBC1 News. The School has also been involved in the
 production of an influential ‘statistics explainer’ around COVID-19 data (Cross), published in the
 Telegraph.

 Breadth of research impact
 Engagement with users and beneficiaries. By communicating with potential users and
 beneficiaries during the early stages of research, we have engaged with user groups in the
 development of projects and gained inspiration for research from user audiences. Impact has
 been facilitated by: (a) research fellowships and funding that has brought our researchers into
 direct contact with user groups (e.g. RSE Sabbatical Award; Wellcome Trust ISSF); (b)
 membership on boards and bodies of user groups (e.g. Expert Witness, Mental Health
 Foundation); (c) consultancy (e.g. Cabinet Office (Reicher), Independent SAGE COVID-19
 (Reicher), SPI-B advisory group to Scottish Government, COVID-19; UN environment
 programme (Whiten)); (d) events that bring together researchers and potential users Networking
 events for dementia sufferers and carers through Alzheimer Scotland and National Dementia
 Carers Action Network (Ellis).

 Implementation and outcomes. (a) spin-out and product design (e.g. Perrett has been
 instrumental in developing several products that have been utilised in health advocacy: face-
 morphing software used by anti-smoking campaigns in schools and to demonstrate the effect of
 a healthy diet for public demonstration and use by health educators); (b) consultancies and
 positions on policy boards and decision-making panels (e.g. Reicher regularly advises
 UK/international police forces and governments on public order policing; Whiten has worked with
 scientific advisory boards for the UN on international conservation policy); (c) designed training
 programmes for practitioners (e.g. Ellis: training courses for dementia care staff; postgraduate
 training courses for professionals working with adults with learning disabilities (Campbell,
 retired), Donaldson currently works with SportScotland (national agency for sport), EEG
 research with elite sports professionals, coaches and performance management teams: golf,
 pistol shooting, curling and rugby).

 Public engagement: Our PE activities are diverse. We have taken part in or organised over 100
 different PE-related projects during the REF period. These include large, externally funded
 interdisciplinary projects, such as the ‘What kind of Mind’ project, bringing Philosophy,
 Psychology and Evolution into schools (AHRC, collaboration with Philosophy, Gomez); the
 launch of ‘Dementia Friendly St Andrews’ training and awareness program (Ellis); the Big Brain
 Box (Wellcome Trust ISSF, Doherty); and the development of an Early Years area and Living
 Lab exhibit with the Dundee Science Centre (Inspiring Science Fund, Carpenter, Robbins,
 Seed).

 Our engagement activities also include utilising a variety of media to disseminate our research:
 a) exhibitions at local and national festivals- Each year multiple researchers form the school take
 part in Explorathon, European Researchers Night; Medical Research Scotland ‘Meet the
 Researchers’; Science Discovery Day, St Andrews; Dundee Science Festival; ARUK Parkrun;
 Fife Schools Fair; Edinburgh International Science Festival; Grey Matter Festival and Cell Block
 Science. Occasional participation in British Academy Summer Research Showcase; Manchester
 and Media City Science Festivals and the European Science Fair.
 b) Media/TV programs- Our research has been the main focus of the following TV programs:
 BBC Natural History: Primates (2020); BBC R4: The Life Scientific (2 PI’s featured separately:
 Reicher, Hobaiter); Netflix: Babies (2020).
 c) Major public talks- Royal Institution Christmas Lecture (2018); Royal Society of Biology Public
 Lecture (2015); Special Lecture at Neuro Global (NPG) Summer School, Tohoku University,
 Japan (2018); University of St Andrews Open Association (2016; 2017); Memories and
 Microscopes - An evening of free talks on dementia and Alzheimer's Disease (2017); ‘How
 Dementia Helps us Understand our Common Humanity’ - Public Lecture (2014); Fife Parkinson's


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society (2017); Café Scientifique); ‘Brexit means?...for identity' - Panel member for public
 discussion (2018).
 d) Training and widening access summer schools- For High Schools: REACH project (300
 pupils); Sutton Trust Summer School (100 pupils); Lift Off to Success (500 pupils); Science:
 Fiction: Make: Believe Essay Competition (in collaboration with the Royal Society of Edinburgh –
 8000 pupils); Oxbridge Summer School, Diverse Intelligences Summer School, St Andrews and
 ELT Science Summer School. International summer schools, e.g. Summer School on Shared
 Experiences: The Boundaries of the Social Brain, Aegina, Greece, and have organised several
 training/information courses, e.g. PHASE1; ABC Baby Bee.
 e) Use of social media- Our staff utilise social media to promote their research and research
 within their discipline. One excellent example of this was the launch of the Great Ape Dictionary,
 which was promoted via several social media outlets (primarily Twitter) and resulted in one of
 the largest online citizen science studies with over 20,000 participants worldwide (2018).
 Another example is a recent article in the Conversation: Bowman has reached over 1M readers
 of his article about addiction.

 Interaction with Industry/NGO/Governmental Stakeholders
 We regularly give presentations to participant groups, which range from clinical organisations to
 animal production companies. For example, researchers working within the Neuro grouping
 regularly interact with the NHS and medical charities: NHS - From risk factor to drug target –
 finding new ways to combat Alzheimer’s Disease (2014); MND Scotland open day and AGM
 (2017). We also regularly supervise CASE students together with industry. For example, we
 have partnered on BBSRC CASE studentships with optoelectronics company Cairn Research,
 with the British trust for Ornithology, and with pharma company Boehringer Ingelheim. In
 addition, recent connections have led to our expertise in animal welfare being showcased in a
 commercial setting (Stonegate Poultry Science Advisory Board, 2018/19). Members of this
 grouping are also actively involved in the Animal Welfare Research Network, funded by the
 BBSRC and Universities Federation for Animal Welfare (UFAW). This network brings together
 researchers with a range of stakeholders with the aim of innovating and maximising the impact
 of animal welfare research. Our pioneering research into dementia and care for those affected
 by this disease has also led to multiple invitations to act as an expert witness (e.g. Mental Health
 Foundation: Expert witness to the Dementia Truth Inquiry Panel 2014). Our expertise in this area
 is utilised in training relevant user groups, e.g. HSC Clinical Education Centre Belfast;
 Balnacarron Care, St Andrews; The University of Toronto; The University of Edinburgh, School
 of Health in Social Science-student nurse training; Alzheimer’s Society – Train the trainer
 package; Alzheimer’s Scotland Dementia Helpline workshop; South Ayrshire Dementia Support
 Association (SADSA); Scottish Speciality and Associate Specialist Psychiatric Doctors’
 Conference.




                                                                                             Page 18
