Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA30 Philosophy

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy
 a. Vision
 The unit’s vision is to be at the cutting edge of philosophical thinking, shaping understandings of
 human beings and the world, contributing to the knowledge economy, and adding distinctive
 philosophical expertise to addressing global challenges.

 b. Unit Structure
 Unit researchers are members of the University of Birmingham (UoB)’s Department of
 Philosophy. The Department is one of two in the School of Philosophy, Theology, and Religion
 (PTR), itself one of five Schools within the College of Arts and Law (CAL). Unit members are
 active within these higher-level structures, occupying leadership roles within the School
 (Effingham, Spener and Sullivan-Bissett) and University (Widdows as Deputy Pro-Vice
 Chancellor (Research Impact)).

 c. Areas of Excellence
 The unit’s sustainability is underpinned by its research focus on four key areas of philosophical
 enquiry that are central to the discipline, nationally and internationally.

 The unit’s four areas are:

 Mind, Psychology, & Psychiatry (MPP)
 MPP engages with work in psychology, psychiatry, and neuroscience to address three sub-
 areas: the nature of mental health; the nature of perceptual psychology; metaphysical
 understanding of the nature of the mind.
 Members: Bortolotti; Nagasawa; Spener; Sturgeon; Sullivan-Bissett; Taylor. Associated
 Projects: PERFECT (Bortolotti ERC £1m).

 Ethics & Global Ethics (EGE)
 EGE brings together researchers from applied ethics, political philosophy, and moral philosophy.
 Key issues include gender justice, bioethics, climate change, conflict and security, democracy,
 distributive justice, and health. EGE staff frequently collaborate with policymakers, practitioners
 and the broader public.
 Members: Marway; Peeters; Reglitz; Silk; Suikkanen; Widdows; Williams.
 Associated Centres: The Centre for the Study of Global Ethics.
 Associated Projects: Context-Sensitivity in Natural Language (Silk Leverhulme £27k); Building
 Bridges in Ethics (Suikkanen AHRC £107k); Beauty Demands (Widdows AHRC £23k); Perfect
 Me! (Widdows Leverhulme £98k).

 Logic, Language & Metaphysics (LLM)
 LLM investigates the underlying nature of reality and how it connects with the way in which we
 talk about the world in three key areas: (i) philosophical logic, ranging from the purely theoretical
 to practical its deployment in, and relevance to, industry; (ii) the metaphysics of physics, time,
 biology, religion, mind and perception; (iii) the philosophy of language, investigating the
 foundations of semantics, pragmatics, and the nature of vagueness.
 Members: Effingham; Florio; Jones; Silk; Sturgeon; Taylor; Wilson.
 Associated Projects: Higher-order Metaphysics (Jones AHRC £90k); Silk’s Context-Sensitivity in
 Natural Language (as above); FraMEPhys (Wilson ERC £1.2m).

 Philosophy of Religion & Philosophical Theology (PRPT)
 PRPT explores fundamental religious concepts, beliefs and practice, including the existence and
 nature of deities, evil and suffering in the world, and death and the possibility of immortality.
 Members: Effingham and Nagasawa. Also includes colleagues from the Department of
 Theology and Religion (Adams, Cheetham, Kidwell).

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Associated Centre: Birmingham Centre for Philosophy of Religion (né John Hick Centre).
 Associated Projects: Pantheism and Panentheism (Nagasawa Templeton £125k); Global
 Philosophy of Religion (Nagasawa Templeton £1.7m).

 In each of these areas, the unit has made distinctive contributions, through both individual and
 collaborative research programmes.

            In MPP, Bortolotti and Sullivan-Bissett have reshaped how we think about the nature
             of delusion; Sturgeon’s cutting-edge views have changed understandings of rationality.
             Spener’s research gives new insights to understanding introspection; Taylor’s work has
             done likewise on attention and perception.

            In EGE, the unit grapples with pressing global issues as well as fundamental ethical
             notions. Widdows’ work on beauty has challenged previous views, changing the
             philosophical debate and engaging with popular culture, for example, Vogue. Research
             by Marway, Peeters and Reglitz has tackled contemporary challenges, including genetic
             selection based on skin colour, climate sustainability, and the right to internet access.
             Williams has invigorated the debate in consensus liberalism, as Suikkanen has done in
             contractualism and contextualism.

            In LLM, Wilson has introduced a new theory of modality grounded in quantum physics.
             Florio and Jones have made leading contributions to higher-order metaphysics, Silk to
             context sensitivity and language, and Effingham to time travel.

            In PRPT, Nagasawa has broken new ground in the ontological argument.

 These areas have developed since REF2014 to consolidate and expand the unit’s distinctive
 areas of excellence. Global Ethics has built on Widdows’ reputation as a leader in the field, with
 new hires of Reglitz and Peeters. Philosophy of Mind, in which Bortolotti is preeminent, has
 expanded (new hires include Sullivan-Bissett and Taylor), extending expertise in philosophy of
 psychology and psychiatry. Logic was added to Language and Metaphysics after a critical mass
 was achieved by the addition of Florio and Jones (and, earlier, Rumfitt). Finally, Nagasawa’s
 international reputation in philosophy of religion has led to growth in, and prioritisation of, this
 area in the unit.

 d. Success of 2014 Research Strategy
 2014’s aims were to:

 (i)         Complement the unit’s existing strengths;
 (ii)        Develop a critical mass in core areas of philosophy;
 (iii)       Become a fully-mature department with staff working across a wide range of areas in
             interconnected ways;
 (iv)        Retain junior staff;
 (v)         Become a centre of excellence across the spectrum of philosophical subject areas;
 (vi)        Strategically appoint new staff to enhance research areas;
 (vii)       Continue the upward trajectory of Birmingham’s research environment at all levels;
 (viii)      Improve recruitment of PhDs;
 (ix)        Extend and expand the unit’s ‘Distinguished Research Professor’ 0.2 FTE appointments.

 Vis-à-vis (i)-(iv): The unit hit a high of 22 members before receding to 17, yet always remaining
 above 2014’s total of 16 (as well as retaining the majority of its 2014 permanent staff). The unit
 maintains a comparable placement within the Philosophical Gourmet Report (9th compared to
 2014’s 8th).

 Vis-à-vis (i)-(vi): The unit has produced a ‘Statement on Aims, Values, and Principles on Equality
 and Diversity’. The unit’s hiring procedures reflect current best practice (§2b). The Department
 follows the ‘UK Society for Women in Philosophy’s Good Practice Scheme’, with robust

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 procedures in place to ensure they are met. The School is on course to submit its Athena SWAN
 Bronze Award application by the end of 2021.

 Vis-à-vis (v): The unit has: an excellent grant capture record, enabling the sustained production
 of high-quality research outputs and outcomes; moved from 151-200 to 101-150 in the QS
 Subject Rankings; and now appears in Group 4 in the Philosophical Gourmet Report (having not
 ranked previously) for Philosophy of Mind; Metaethics & Moral Psychology; Philosophical Logic;
 Epistemology; and Applied Ethics.

 Vis-à-vis (vi)/(viii): The unit consolidated its strengths by intentionally appointing solely in its core
 research areas, as indicated above.

 Vis-à-vis (vii)/(viii): The unit has attracted increased numbers of PhD students (§2f).

 Vis-à-vis (ix): The Department reconsidered this aim, choosing in fact to reduce the number of
 0.2 FTE professors. By 2020, none had a substantive connection with the unit’s research
 activities.

 e. 2021 Research Aims & Strategy
 To meet its vision, the unit’s aims are as follows, each of which is underpinned by clear targets:

 (i)     Empower researchers to produce ambitious and innovative philosophical research that
         pushes at the boundaries of philosophical debate.
         The unit will support its staff in producing world-leading research that opens and drives
         debates. The unit will achieve this via School meetings, one-to-one meetings, and its
         rigorous mentoring system (§2c), in tandem with a policy of supporting every staff
         researcher to write at least one major long-form output (e.g. a monograph) during the
         next REF cycle, thereby ensuring the production of discipline-shaping research. PGR
         researchers will continue to receive the highest standards of supervision (§2g). Further,
         innovative research by staff will lead to grants that include doctoral funding (§2f),
         ensuring that PGRs in the unit are at the forefront of transformational research.

         Measures of success will include the number of major longer-form outputs produced;
         increasing the number of grants with attached PGR funding; increasing post-doctoral
         placements in academic (and academic-related) posts.

 (ii)    Maximise the recognition and esteem of researchers in order to sustain the researchers,
         the unit and the discipline.
         This will be achieved by maximising excellent research, leading on grant applications and
         delivery, research dissemination, and promotion. The unit supports research by hiring
         world-leading staff (§2b) and then supporting co-operation through regular discussion
         fora (§2c). Focussing on major long-form outputs will maximise the reach of that
         research. Regular grant applications from staff at all levels are encouraged via Five Year
         Plans, School meetings, and PDRs (§3a). Researchers—staff and PGR alike—are
         encouraged and supported in disseminating research at conferences worldwide (§3c), as
         well as sharing their research openly (§1h) with academics and with the public (§4f). The
         School deploys a successful strategy for encouraging promotion to senior positions
         (§2c).

         Indicators of esteem will include increased value per grant application, diversified
         sources of funding, increased quality and quantity of PGRs recruited, maintenance of the
         unit’s Group 4 positions in the Philosophical Gourmet Report, improved ranking among
         UK Philosophy faculties, continuing success in staff promotion (§2c), and evenly-
         distributed success among researchers within the unit. This indicator of success will be
         achieved through the consistent application of ED&I principles to all aspects of staffing
         and staffing strategy (§2d).


                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (iii)   Support researchers at all levels in engaging in exciting, dynamic collaborations (in
         research and impact) with philosophers, other academics, and non-academic publics and
         stakeholders.
         Through staff development (e.g. PDRs, research mentoring, reading groups) and the
         supervisory process (for PGRs), all researchers are encouraged to collaborate. The unit
         is custom-built to support interdisciplinary collaborations (§4b): it is home to both the
         Centre for the Study of Global Ethics and Birmingham Centre for Philosophy of Religion.
         These centres also facilitate non-academic collaborations, with NGOs, practitioners and
         policy-makers (§4c). By pooling their knowledge and connections, researchers in the unit
         will contribute to deepening and extending the cultivation of future collaborations and
         networks.

         Measures of success will include increasing total value of external grant capture, the
         proportion of grants with interdisciplinary/non-academic partners, the number of
         collaborative and interdisciplinary research outputs, the number of PGR supervisory
         teams that are multidisciplinary and include non-academic partners, and maximising
         global footprint (measured by being in the top 100 in the QS rankings).

 f. Success of 2014 Impact Aims & Strategy
 The prior aims were:

 (i)     To expand and enrich the unit’s relationships with key stakeholders, to ensure reach and
         significance of future impact.
 (ii)    To embed impact expectations into the research agendas of all researchers, as befits
         their areas of expertise.

 Vis-à-vis (i) the unit successfully cultivated its stakeholder base. In its Impact Case Studies,
 Bortolotti has connected with mental health organisations and Widdows has reached a diverse
 section of public via her media engagements, as well as policy-makers and NGOs. Staff outside
 of case studies have developed connections grounding impactful research (§4a-c, f) maximising
 the pipeline of future impact.

 Vis-à-vis (ii), impact has been successfully embedded. Staff are invited, during Five Year Plans,
 to consider their contribution to the unit’s impact profile. Impact features at CPD workshops and
 School/Department meetings. Impact activity is taken into account in promotion and study leave
 applications. The University grants ‘Outstanding Impact Awards’, recognising the hard work and
 dedication of researchers committed to impact (REF5a, 2.1.3).

 g. 2021 Impact Aims & Strategy
 The unit’s impact plays a role in addressing global challenges and contributing to the knowledge
 economy. The unit’s aims are as follows, underpinned by clear targets:

 (i)     Grow competence for, and collaborative ownership of, impact amongst all researchers.
         The unit will encourage skills-sharing with researchers with existing excellence in impact
         (e.g. Bortolotti, Widdows, and—from within the School—Jhutti-Johal and Brown).
         School-level management by Heads of Research and School Impact Leads will ensure
         that impactful research programmes are collaboratively owned, rather than being
         attached to a single researcher.

         Measures of success will include the number of staff applying for promotion on the
         grounds of impact, and impactful research programmes featuring the research of more
         than one permanent staff researcher.

 (ii)    Support researchers in identifying and maximising the impact potential in their research.
         The unit has given a workload allowance to staff involved in developing impact. This
         workload allowance will be further honed in the future and allocated on a ‘sliding scale’.
         This will allow for a greater number of embryonic impactful research projects, and for

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         support to be ‘dialled up’ when there are opportunities to scale up impact and bring
         projects to fruition. The School will encourage staff to develop existing inter-disciplinary
         connections (§4b) and build new ones. The school will ensure that ‘engagement and
         impact’, one of six pillars in the University’s new strategic framework, is central to the
         School’s activity going forward, also informed by KEF and Knowledge Exchange
         Concordat measures, particularly around public engagement. Staff will be asked to
         embed engagement and impact in how they plan and enact their research, and they will
         be encouraged to take advantage of the University’s expertise and support for impact.
         Support available includes the School’s Research Development Officer (Green) (§3e); a
         School Impact Lead; one-to-one sessions with the College Impact Lead; extensive
         support and expertise at University level, including, but not limited to, central public
         engagement, public affairs, business engagement and press and communications teams.

         Indicators of success will include an increased number and diversity of staff participating
         in impact and engagement across impact types (§4c).

 (iii)   Maximise the unit’s positive impact on making society inclusive.
         During the current cycle, the unit’s impact has contributed to a more inclusive society:
         Bortolotti’s research changes public perceptions of mental illness, while Widdows’
         work on beauty has positively influenced the debate about lookism and structural
         injustice. The unit will continue to encourage staff with research of similar potential to
         pursue such impact. Extra support, on the sliding scale described above, will be given to
         impactful research projects with inclusive elements.

 h. Open Research Aims & Strategy
 To best contribute to the knowledge economy, the unit has the following aims concerning open
 research:

 (i)     Researchers should maximise the proportion of their research that is openly accessible.
         Led by a School Open Access Champion (S. Jones), staff are pointed towards—and
         currently make extensive use of—relevant funds for making research open access.
         PERFECT and FraMEPhys are notable; these projects have produced 47 open access
         outputs, including a book (Bortolotti’s Delusions in Context). PGRs all make their theses
         available via the University’s online open access repository (REF5a, 4.5).

 (ii)    Research should be promulgated in the public sphere.
         To achieve this aim, researchers routinely share research via social media.
         BeautyDemands, PERFECT and FraMEPhys operate blogs (respectively: 150,000
         unique views since 2018, 1m unique views since 2013, and 8,000 unique views since
         2019). Researchers are encouraged to disseminate research in public fora; §4f details
         this cycle’s extensive successes. Increased participation in public engagement will be the
         result of meeting aim (ii) of our impact strategy.

 (iii)   We aim to shape discipline’s open research efforts.
         Wilson is a Managing Editor at Ergo: An Open Access Journal of Philosophy;
         Suikkanen (and, previously, Nagasawa) is an area editor. Nagasawa instituted the open
         access ‘Religious Studies Archives’ for Religious Studies. Suikkanen and Wilson curate
         open access PhilPapers bibliographies. The unit seeks to maintain and extend these
         efforts.

 i. Research Integrity
 The unit’s strength in ethics exemplifies its commitment to research integrity, which informs not
 only the unit but also the University’s approach. Law, a Senior Lecturer in the Department, is co-
 chair of the University’s Humanities & Social Sciences (HaSS) Research Ethics Committee, of
 which Suikkanen is also a member. As a result, all researchers in the unit, staff and PGRs,
 benefit from excellent ethics support throughout the life-cycle of each research project.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit rigorously follows the University’s Codes of Practice for both Research and Ethics,
 ensuring that research practices are in line with the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 (REF5a, 2.2).

 2. People
 a. Staff Overview
 The unit currently consists of 17 researchers, with a good balance from early career researcher
 to professor:

 Full Professors: Bortolotti, Nagasawa, Sturgeon, Widdows, Wilson.
 Readers: Effingham, Florio, Jones, Suikkanen.
 Senior Lecturers: Silk, Sullivan-Bissett.
 Lecturers: Marway, Peeters, Reglitz, Spener.
 Birmingham Research Fellows: Taylor, Williams.

 The unit’s gender ratio (12 men to 5 women) is slightly less balanced than similar UK units—
 although the unit has a notably better ratio at the professorial level (3 men to 2 women). The
 ratio of non-BAME to BAME is 2:15, roughly mirroring the UK ratio of 13:87. On both
 characteristics, gender and ethnicity, the unit aspires to improve significantly by paying rigorous
 attention to following current best practice in its hiring procedures (see below).

 b. Staffing Strategy
 In the previous REF period, Birmingham grew significantly, becoming one of the larger
 Philosophy departments in the UK. In this period, we have sustained and consolidated that level
 of growth, with ambitions to continue to grow our distinctive core areas (see §1), making
 Birmingham a ‘destination of choice’. The unit’s aims are to:

 (i)     Hire world-leading researchers, with a focus on its core areas.
         Capitalising on the high quality of junior researchers in the global market, the unit
         recruited mainly junior staff since 2014, ensuring a vital and sustainable body of scholars
         in the unit’s core areas.

 (ii)    Take advantage of opportunities to attract world-leading researchers and grant winners.
         The unit has been successful in hiring via the University’s Birmingham Research Fellows
         programme (REF5a, 3.4.1) (Jones, Taylor, Wilson and Williams and, previously,
         Clarke-Doane and Parrott), as well as via Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships
         (Williams). The unit will, in future, also pursue the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships.

 (iii)   Use open-area and closed-area searches as context dictates.
         To maximise open searches and global recruitment, the unit advertises in line with the
         American autumn schedule. For open-area searches, whilst considering candidates in
         subjects currently unrepresented (e.g. aesthetics and history of philosophy), the unit
         appropriately weights candidates’ expertise in the unit’s areas of excellence. This
         resulted in hires to our core areas. Specific area searches have also been used.
         Recognising the importance of inter-disciplinary collaboration to address global
         challenges and of sustaining and embedding impact, the unit specifically expanded EGE,
         hiring Marway, Peeters and Reglitz.

 (iv)    When we have to employ on temporary contracts, we aim to ensure that staff are on
         Research and Teaching contracts (not Teaching only) in order to bolster the unit’s vitality
         and the sustainability of the discipline.
         Barn, Pepper, and (prior to becoming permanent), Marway were hired on such contracts.

 (v)     Operate rigorous and inclusive hiring procedures.
         Job adverts are completed by Head of Department and the Equality and Diversity Officer
         and advertised in multiple venues (e.g. jobs.ac.uk, PHILOS-L, Philjobs). Staff are urged
         to make specific efforts to encourage applications by world-leading researchers from

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         underrepresented groups. The hiring committee is drawn from across the Department
         and all hiring committee members undergo equality and diversity training; indeed,
         Sullivan-Bissett (an expert in implicit bias) has, in liaison with the College, developed
         new resources so that training is in-line with current thinking.

 c. Staff Development Strategy
 Ensuring that staff development is embedded and routine is central to the unit’s research
 strategy (§1e). The aim is to ensure that staff feel supported and empowered to undertake
 research over the short-, medium- and long-term which will deliver individual, unit and
 institutional success. The unit’s aims are to:

 (i)     Ensure that communication is open; staff feel supported by, and identify with, the
         University, College and unit; are aware of relevant targets/goals; and feel confident and
         comfortable communicating with others (especially line managers).
         Numerous points of contact are in place to facilitate communication and research
         planning, all clearly marked as distinct exercises with distinct aims (as per the Concordat
         to Support the Career Development of Researchers):
         o Personal Development Reviews: Meeting at least annually with a senior member of
             staff to assess career progress, and set objectives (REF5a, 3.4.3).
         o Five Year Plans: Held annually with Head of School and Head of Research to discuss
             plans concerning outputs, impact, grant applications, and public engagement.
         o Mandatory CPD sessions: Research components covered include grant capture,
             open research, and the REF. Every year, there are 2-3 meetings plus a one-day
             away day.
 (ii)    Facilitate regular contact between researchers.
         Achieved in three ways:
         o Mentoring: All staff have a mentor whose primary role is career progression advice.
             The mentor is not always in the Department; some are external to UoB, most often in
             the case of senior staff. Mentoring arrangements are checked annually in Five Year
             Plans.
         o Groups of readers: The unit ensures every staff member has a group of (possibly
             external) individuals to read and comment on their research-in-progress. The
             presence of such readers is written into Five Year Plans; where staff cannot source
             appropriate readers, the School assists them in doing so.
         o Regular Department Research Events:
                  A bi-weekly seminar series, divided equally into ‘Philosophy Society’ seminars
                      aimed at all areas of philosophy and ‘Global Ethics Tea Seminars’ aimed
                      specifically at Global Ethics staff. Past speakers have been drawn from the
                      UK, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, China, Canada, the Middle East
                      and USA. In future, the aim is to achieve programmes comprising 50%
                      women speakers and a substantial proportion of speakers from otherwise
                      under-represented groups.
                  A fortnightly ‘work in progress’ by unit researchers, delivered to Department
                      staff and postgraduate students.
                  Reading groups, including on women in philosophy, feminist philosophy,
                      metaphysics, explanation, implicit bias, philosophy of psychology, and current
                      staff research projects.
                  Unit researchers also participate in seminars in other Departments in the
                      University, reflecting the unit’s emphasis on interdisciplinarity.
 (iii)   Provide institutional research/impact leave.
         Every non-probationary staff member (15 researchers) is eligible to apply for up to two
         semesters of study leave (to generate outputs, write grant applications, and focus on
         impact) every seventh semester. Nagasawa, Sturgeon, Widdows have all been
         awarded two semesters of College-funded leave.
 (iv)    To sustain the unit’s research by strongly encouraging promotion applications.
         The promotions process is transparent and well-advertised via internal communications,
         PDRs, and one-on-one advisory sessions with the Head of School. Evidence of past

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         success upon which the unit can build, and in particular speed of promotion, includes
         Wilson’s progression to Senior Birmingham Fellow, then to Reader, then to Professor
         over a seven-year period; Effingham and Suikkanen’s progression to Reader; Sullivan-
         Bissett and Silk’s promotion from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer; Florio and Jones’s
         progression to Senior Lecturer and then to Reader.
 (v)     Encourage staff to make appropriate use of training programmes.
         Including the UoB Emerging Leaders Programme (Effingham, Wilson), Research
         Leaders Programme (Wilson), Academic Team Leader Training (Jones), UBIAS
         Intercontinental Academia exchange between Singapore/Birmingham (Wilson), Early
         Career Researchers Workshops (Reglitz) and the College Early Careers and Research
         Staff team (Marway, who also sits on the Early Career and Research Staff Committee
         (ECARS)) (REF5a, 3.3).
 (vi)    Support temporary staff appropriately.
         We offer the same career support to temporary academic staff (both fixed-term lecturers
         and Category C postdoctoral researchers) as we do permanent staff. The efficacy of our
         support is evidenced by the number of temporary staff who have gone on to prestigious
         posts elsewhere: Barn (KCL), Crosilla (Oslo), Devine (Swansea), Downey (Sussex),
         Jefferson (Cardiff), Miyazono (Hiroshima), Pinder (Open University), Pepper
         (Roehampton), Puddifoot (Durham), and Smart (Johannesburg). Most of these positions
         are permanent.
 (vii)   Focus on the support of early career permanent staff.
         Early career permanent staff benefit from bespoke training programmes and reduced
         workload (a reduction of one-third FTE in the first year, and one-fifth FTE second and
         third years of probation). In addition to a mentor, they can also pair up with an ECR from
         in another School; this ‘Buddy System’ is run by the ECARS group. Birmingham Fellows
         receive further dispensation, starting on contracts exclusively dedicated to research
         before slowly increasing to include teaching/administrative responsibilities over five
         years. Fellows have annual funding of £5k for research expenses and teaching relief,
         and are appointed high on the salary scale. Post-fellowship, fellows become permanent
         lecturers/senior lecturers (REF5a, 3.4.1).

 d. Equality and Diversity
 UoB’s Philosophy Department has long been passionate about Equality and Diversity. This
 began when Helen Beebee, one of the founders of Women in Philosophy and an Athena Swan
 Patron, was Head of Department. It has been continued in particular by Bortolotti, Sullivan-
 Bissett and Widdows, all of whom champion inclusion and gender justice in their research and
 leadership roles, through their co-authorship and support for women RAs and PGR students.
 The unit has consistently sought to recruit and promote female researchers, and ensure that
 research leadership is not the preserve of senior men. The unit’s aims are to:

 (i)     Ensure practices create inclusive research environment.
         The School has an Equality and Diversity officer (Williams), who sits on the School
         Executive and School Research Committee. Williams, with Sullivan-Bissett, led on
         producing the Department’s Statement on Aims, Values, and Principles; Sullivan-
         Bissett’s research on implicit bias fed directly into this statement. Both staff members
         play key roles in developing the School in preparation for its 2021 Athena SWAN
         application.
         The Equality and Diversity Officer actively considers workload distribution, alongside the
         Head of Department. The unit has also aimed for, and achieved, a gender balance in
         filling School and University roles (§1a).
         The REF 2021 Output Selection Group was chaired by the Head of School and had
         majority female membership. In adherence with UoB’s REF Code of Practice, it
         considered EIA data to ensure that the profile of our selected publications appropriately
         reflected our staff cohort. Concerning age and ethnicity, the selection was in line with the
         distributions of both across the unit’s staff. With regard to gender, women accounted for
         a slightly smaller share of selected outputs (23%) than of the staff cohort (29%). This was
         due largely to the impact of personal circumstances on research productivity for some

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         members of staff over the REF period. The disproportionate nature of this impact on the
         unit resulted in a REF6b request for unit reduction in the number of outputs required.
 (ii)    Ensure researchers are fully informed of relevant equality and diversity issues.
         All staff undergo training in equality and diversity awareness, delivered both at the
         mandatory CPD days as well as via on-line courses (REF5a, 3.4.2).
 (iii)   Make appropriate adjustments to ensure an inclusive environment.
         The Department consults extensively on central timetabling decisions to ensure
         favourable working hours. Department-focussed social events take place at lunch, rather
         than in the evening, to avoid disadvantaging those with child-care commitments. Social
         events connected to research activities (e.g. conference dinners/meals) are a mixture of
         evening and afternoon events, to accommodate different staff circumstances.
         Staff returning from periods of leave because of, e.g., ill health or parental leave, have
         the option of a phased return.
         The School has also made efforts to accommodate remote working requests, allowing
         staff more flexibility by working away from the office at least two days a week.

 e. Postgraduate Research Student Overview
 Over the review period, the unit supervised 30 PhD students to completion. At 31 July 2020, 67
 PhD students and 7 MRes students were enrolled with the unit. It operates a successful PGR
 distance-learning scheme, with 5 completions since 2014 and 26 students on the programme.
 Supervisions are held via Skype/Zoom. Distance-learning students spend two weeks/year in
 Birmingham, with travel and accommodation covered as part of their tuition. They are
 considered full members of the PGR community and the unit works hard to integrate them by
 ensuring that they have the opportunity to present their work when visiting.

  PGR Recruitment                 f. PGR Recruitment
  Year       FTE                  The unit’s reputation in its areas of excellence has secured a
  14/15      4.5                  growing, sustainable flow of research students constituting a
  15/16      9.0                  strong PhD community, the quality of which is evidenced by their
  16/17      10.5                 promising publication records (see §2.g (ii) below).
  17/18      4.5
  18/19      16.0                 The unit encourages PGR recruitment in two ways.
  19/20      15.5
                                 First, staff include doctoral funding as part of grant applications;
 this is actively encouraged in Department meetings, and part of the peer-reviewing process of
 applications (§3a).

 Second, the unit’s highest-quality students come from the AHRC Midlands4Cities DTP. The unit
 has robust procedures to ensure the maximum recruitment through the M4C. Two members of
 the Department’s staff dedicate 10% of their time identifying promising candidates for M4C
 scholarships (basing their decision on academic track record, references, and interview
 performance). They then provide extensive feedback to applicants prior to submission for
 funding, as well as dedicated one-on-one support to supervisors, helping to craft the best
 institutional support statements. The unit is awarded 3-4 M4C scholarships a year.

 g. PGR Development
 The Philosophy Department has been innovative in PGR development and provision, developing
 annual progress panels and introducing some of the first distance-learning PhD programmes in
 the arts and humanities.

 The unit’s aims for PGR development are to:

 (i)     Operate the highest standards of supervision.
         Supervisory teams have at least two supervisors, including, in the M4C DTP, supervisors
         from other universities in the consortium (especially Nottingham and Nottingham Trent).
         Further, PGRs have an ‘advisor’ external to the supervisory team.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         All supervisions are recorded electronically and include explicit written requirements of
         the PGR for the next meeting. The frequency of meetings is monitored by the School;
         low-level attendance triggers a Progress Review Panel to determine the root cause.
         Progress panels with academics outside the supervisory team are mandatory after one
         year, and additional panels may be held at any point at the request of students or
         supervisors. Panels are an opportunity for students to discuss, in confidence, any issues
         they are experiencing with their supervisory arrangements.

 (ii)    Encourage PGR research, develop PGR research profiles, and support the academic
         credentials of PGRs.
         The most important thing is encouraging PGRs to publish. Sometimes PGRs sole author,
         with articles appearing in Philosophy Compass, Religious Studies, Mind & Language,
         Topoi, and the Journal of Medical Ethics. Supervisors are encouraged, where possible,
         to co-publish with PGR students. Bortolotti (sometimes alongside Sullivan-Bissett) has
         co-authored with Antrobus (two OUP collections, Filosofia Unisinos), Bongiorno
         (Routledge collection), Gunn (Routledge Encyclopedia, Phenomenology and the
         Cognitive Sciences, a Legenda collection), and Lancellotta (WIREs Cognitive Science).
         Nagasawa has co-authored with Wager in an OUP collection. Widdows, with Marway,
         co-edited a Palgrave-Macmillan book and wrote two papers, including on in Public Health
         Ethics, and one book chapter, and, with West-Oram, one paper published in Journal of
         Global Ethics and two book chapters.
         PGRs can apply for financial support to attend and organise conferences/workshops to
         the School, College and University-level funds.
         Training is assessed annually with the ‘Development Needs Analysis’ process at every
         PGR’s annual review. A wide range of training programmes and on-line courses are
         offered by both the University Graduate School and the College Graduate School. Many
         of the on-campus PGR training courses are run at the Westmere Hub (REF5a, 3.2). The
         Department offers bespoke training; for instance, interview preparation is offered in both
         group and one-to-one formats. PGRs can apply for Teaching Assistantships, which
         include mandatory teaching training. Sullivan-Bissett made available School-level
         Beacon workshops (delivered by herself and UoB’s Higher Education Futures Institute
         staff) to enable PGRs to qualify as Associate Fellows of the HE Academy, increasing
         their competitiveness on the academic job market.

 (iii)   Ensure the involvement of PGRs in all aspects of research culture.
         PGRs are involved in the full range of Department research activities (§3c). Transport to
         speaker dinners is paid for by the unit, and the food is always affordable. Where
         possible, no costs fall on the PGR. Further, there are PGR-specific activities:
         o Most external speakers at the Department seminar give ‘pre-seminar talks’ aimed at
            postgraduate students. They introduce their research, outlining difficult material, and
            seek to make topics accessible and show openness.
         o The unit arranges weekly postgraduate seminars, led by PGRs. All on-campus
            postgraduates are expected to attend; distance learning students present at the
            seminar during their annual visit. Feedback is given by both peers and members of
            staff. Some students attend, and present at, seminars in other departments (e.g. Law,
            Computer Science).
         o As part of the M4C DTP, the unit co-organises an annual postgraduate conference
            with Warwick and Nottingham.

 That we successfully equipped PhD students for success is shown by the significant number
 who have been appointed to academic posts: Alsamaani (Qassim), Betenson (Bangor), Dew
 (New Orleans Baptist), Eck (Mount San Jacinto), Intelisano (Ruhr-Universität Bochum), Leland
 (Siena Heights), Marway (Birmingham), Miller-Tate (KCL), Owen (Gonzaga), Thompson
 (Southampton), Traczykowski (Aston), Wareham (Warwick), West-Oram (Brighton and Sussex
 Medical School).

 h. PGR Equality and Diversity

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School E&D strategy (§3d) is embedded in all Department activity and applies across all
 activity of staff and students. The unit aims for diversity in PGR recruitment, welcoming new
 students into an inclusive graduate community. Between 2016 and 2020, the unit increased
 recruitment of PGRs with various protected characteristics (see table).

         Year      Female     Disabled    BAME      Not Heterosexual      TOTAL PGRs

         16/17     10         5           6         2                     21
         17/18     7          4           6         1                     28
         18/19     13         3           8         6                     33
         19/20     14         9           11        9                     34
 PGRs operate a very successful ‘Women and Non-Binary People in Philosophy’ (‘W*iP’) student
 group, which has hosted both social and research events. Most significantly, in 2018,
 Birmingham students successfully bid to host the BPPA Annual Conference and Careers Day on
 the topic of ‘Women* in Philosophy’. W*iP receives financial and professional services support
 from the School.

 In 2019, a ‘Minorities and Philosophy’ student group was launched, with School support. It has
 delivered a conference on ‘Micro-aggression’ at UoB’s European Hub in Belgium; delivered
 health and well-being seminars for students; organised a student-led podcast, an ‘ask-a-
 philosopher’ pop up booth; and panel discussions on EDI.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities
 a. Grant Aims & Strategy
 Successful grant capture is key to the unit’s future success: it is crucial for enabling individual
 researchers to pursue the world-leading research that they are passionate about, for the unit’s
 reputation and resilience, and to ensure that Birmingham remains an exciting destination of
 choice for aspiring and ambitious philosophical researchers. The unit’s aims are to:

 (i)     Achieve an average of one grant application per unit member per year.
         The unit expects all staff to apply for grants at a rate of at least one per two years. Across
         the unit, this has yielded an average of one application per researcher per year.
 (ii)    Maximise success rates by (a) sharing best practice and (b) utilising University
         infrastructure.
      a)     Researchers share knowledge within and beyond the unit. All applications are peer-
             reviewed, to capitalise on existing knowledge of successful grant-getters, and PIs
             across the School meet on a regular basis. In the future, the unit aims to diversify its
             income streams and respond to challenge-led calls for funding. Elsdon-Baker
             (Theology and Religion) provides bespoke advice within the School, particularly
             regarding Templeton Foundation funding. Bortolotti, Nagasawa, Widdows and
             Wilson mentor staff to maximise grant capture opportunities.
      b)     Staff are supported by the College’s Research and Knowledge Transfer Office, with a
             Research Facilitator dedicated to the School. The Research Facilitator provides one-
             on-one advice on applications and on the research funding landscape. Plans for grant
             capture is explored with mentors, and (via Five Year Plans) with the Head of School
             and Head of Research. Successful applications are shared across the College. Mock
             interviews are held to prepare colleagues for funder interviews (ERC, Leverhulme).

 b. Grant Income
 The success of the unit’s strategy is reflected in its excellent grant capture (and research
 income) profile, which underpins the sustainability of research within the unit. Over the REF
 period, the unit won research income of £3,082,711.

 The majority of funding comes from Bortolotti’s (£1.1m) and Wilson’s (£1.2m) ERC Grants,
 and Nagasawa’s Global Templeton Grant (£1.7m). The remainder comes from smaller awards


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from a number of scholars in LLM (e.g. Jones £90k; Silk £110k; Suikkanen £107k), as well as
 Widdows (£150k) in EGE. The unit’s main funders are the ERC (£2.3m) and AHRC (£479k),
 with future efforts aiming to diversify beyond those two funders. The unit received three
 Leverhulme Fellowships (Jefferson £90k; Florio £26k; Taylor £26k) and one Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie Fellow (Kalmykova €195k).

 c. Infrastructure
 Grant development and capture is supported by academic and professional services colleagues,
 including an Operations Manager and Operations Assistant, who support the School across the
 breadth of its activities. A School Research Development Officer (RDO) provides dedicated
 support for research and impact development, including social media support, consultation and
 policy-briefing scoping and delivery, and public engagement organisation and evaluation.

 All core-funded research-active staff are entitled to an annual personal research allowance
 (PRA) of up to £1k. Staff also can make termly applications to the College Impact and Research
 Fund (CIRF). Further funds are available for both research and impact activity, including:

 o   School discretionary funds: The School’s annual budget of c. £30k can be spent on anything
     that does not result in a recurring charge. Researchers and PGRs have received allocations
     of funds from this source.
 o   College Undergraduate Research Scholarships: Staff may apply each year for an
     Undergraduate Research Scholar to work as a research assistant for five weeks over the
     summer. The Department has had five UGR scholars over the cycle; two working on time
     travel, and the other three on climate change, the fine-tuning argument for God, and
     counterfactual scepticism, respectively.
 o   PGRs can apply to the College Postgraduate Research Development Fund to support
     conference attendance, fees, travel expenses etc.
 o   The University’s Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS) and Institute for Global Innovation (IGI)
     both provide funding (REF5a, 2.3). Wilson received such funds to collaborate abroad
     (Singapore, Princeton, Marseille), while Bortolotti received IAS funding for a workshop.

 The Department and School Head of Research encourage all staff and PGRs to pursue relevant
 available funds.

 d. Facilities
 The School of Philosophy, Theology, and Religion is housed in a single building, the ‘European
 Research Institute’ (ERI). The ERI is located on UoB’s main Edgbaston campus, and the School
 occupies two of its four floors. Co-location of all staff (including research fellows) maximises
 opportunities for collaboration, co-working, and knowledge exchange within the unit. At the same
 time, most unit members have their own individual offices, enabling concentrated working.

 PGRs have their own dedicated desk (rather than a ‘hot desk’), situated in a shared open-plan
 space alongside PGRs from a variety of disciplines; this fosters academic interactions,
 interdisciplinary exchange, and a communal, collegiate atmosphere. Much of this desk space is
 located in the ERI, giving most research students ready access to academics. The remainder
 are located within the Westmere Hub, run by the University Graduate School, a recently-
 redeveloped building dedicated to PGR students (REF5a, 3.2). Students also have access to a
 dedicated PG Study Space within the new Main Library.

 School researchers have access to the newly-built Library and electronic access to books and
 journals, which is of particular importance to the Department’s distance-learning PGRs. Access
 to journals is covered by University-level funds (REF5a, 4.3). The School has a budget of c.
 £55k/year with which to purchase library resources, managed by two academic members of
 staff, one for each department.

 IT support is on hand from the College and University. Staff can access information off-campus
 using the University VPN, BearShare and Onedrive (REF5a, 4.5).

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 a. Academic Collaborations (Intra-disciplinary)
 The unit’s collaborations within philosophy—particularly international collaborations—play a key
 role in furthering the unit’s vision of leading philosophical debates and contributing to the vitality
 of the discipline.

 The University’s International Relations Team engages with units and fosters collaborative
 projects. Working with that team, Nagasawa has collaborated and organised conferences with
 the University of Tokyo. Further, Nagasawa also collaborates with Rutgers and Marist College
 as part of his ‘Pantheism and Panentheism’ project.

 Wilson is named as a Co-I on grants in both Sydney and Lisbon. Some staff have made
 contributions to PGR communities elsewhere—Effingham gave sessions at Sydney and Belfast,
 while Sullivan-Bissett taught classes in Princeton. Unit members have given papers and talks
 across the UK and across the globe. Talks have been delivered in North America (Auburn,
 Boston, Harvard, Caltech, University of California, Colorado, Duke, Mexico City, Rutgers,
 Western Institute), Europe (in over 30 locations), Asia (Hong Kong, Tokyo), and Australia
 (Monash, Queensland, Sydney, Western Australia).

 There have also been numerous fellowships during this period: Effingham was Anderson
 Visiting Fellow at Sydney (2017); Jones was a Visiting Fellow at both the University of Oslo and
 MIT (2018); Suikkanen was Visiting Scholar at Brown University (2016); Sullivan-Bissett was
 Visiting Scholar at Macquarie University (2014); and Wilson has been a Visiting Fellow at the
 University of Sydney (2014).

 b. Academic Collaborations (Inter-disciplinary)
 The unit’s numerous interdisciplinary collaborations cross over into psychology, law, politics,
 sociology, and epidemiology.

 Sometimes the unit collaborates with organisations. Sullivan-Bissett collaborates with
 Macquarie’s Centre of Excellence in Cognition and Its Disorders; Widdows has long been
 involved with the Nuffield Council; Wilson worked on the Intercontinental Academic Programme
 in association with the Nanyang Technical University. Parry was a research associate with the
 Stockholm Centre for the Ethics of War and Peace (Stockholm), ELAC (Oxford), and was part of
 the Core Research Group for an AHRC Cultural Heritage in War project, a collaboration between
 the Open University and Stockholm.

 Researchers also collaborate with individuals on interdisciplinary research. Bortolotti, Sullivan-
 Bissett, and Taylor all co-publish with psychologists at UoB; Taylor, working with Bilge Sayam
 (Bern), discovered a new perceptual illusion (published in Psychological Science). Effingham
 collaborated with a colleague in UoB’s Institute of Applied Health Research to produce an output
 on the philosophy of epidemiology. Peeters works with Bell and Swaffield (Newcastle University,
 Department of Politics). Widdows works with psychologists at Warwick and lawyers in both
 Birmingham and Manchester, co-supervises with a sociologist, Shelley Budgeon, in Birmingham,
 and is on the advisory board of the mHealth project led from Munich. These interdisciplinary
 collaborations not only foster the leading of debates, but also contribute to the knowledge base
 and meet the unit’s goal of maximising interdisciplinary connections in order to best meet global
 challenges.

 c. Non-academic Collaborations
 The unit’s vision includes addressing global challenges from a philosophical perspective, which
 necessitates delivering impact and working closely with a diverse range of non-academic
 publics. Bortolotti collaborates with both the Mental Health Foundation and the mental health
 charity Mind, as well as with organisations like SureSearch, the National Service User Network,
 the Mental Health Foundation, Mind in Camden, and Inside Out (Australia). Marway and Law

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are both on the Ethics Advisory Group for the Birmingham Women’s and Children’s Hospitals.
 Marway is founding chairperson of the Surrogacy UK Ethics Committee. Florio, via the BORO
 Academia-Industry Collaboration Programme, was seconded at 100% FTE for 12 months to
 work with BORO Solutions Limited, bringing formal ontology to bear on various technology
 problems. Parry worked with ForcesWatch UK on army recruitment and Barn collaborated with
 the BBC when she was named one of their New Generation Thinkers 2018. Widdows
 collaborates with various NGOs, including the Anti-bullying Alliance, Ditch the Label, Face
 Equality and the Mental Health Foundation, as well as with key social-media influencers and
 policy-makers.

 The unit encourages and supports such engagements, through mentoring, Five Year Plans,
 RDO support and workload allocation which makes it possible to give time to such
 collaborations.

 d. Conferences/Workshops
 The vitality of the unit’s research environment is supported by regular conferences and
 workshops. Since 2014, the unit has arranged over 60 workshops and conferences, such as
 ‘Belief, Imagination, and Delusion’, ‘The Demands of Beauty’, and ‘Probability and Time Travel’.
 There is also a regular annual conference associated with the Centre for the Study of Global
 Ethics. Conferences arranged by the unit have taken place internationally, in Milan, Gothenburg,
 and Sydney.

 e. Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 The Unit’s Role in Professional Subject Associations, Learned Societies, and Grant Funding
 Bodies
 Jones is a member of the Advisory Board for the Aristotelian Society. Nagasawa has just
 completed his term as President of the British Society for Philosophy of Religion. Suikkanen is
 on the Analysis Committee. Wilson served both as President of the Society for Metaphysics of
 Science and Secretary for BSPS.

 Wilson is currently a member of the AHRC Peer Review College, as was Widdows previously.
 Further, unit members are active in grant application reviewing. The unit has an international
 reach, having reviewed grants not only for domestic organisations like the AHRC, but also for
 the Austrian Science Fund; Belgian and Netherlands’ Organization for Scientific Research;
 Brazilian Association for the Philosophy of Religion; Fund for Scientific Research, Research
 Foundation Flanders; German Research Foundation; Killam Trust (Canada); National Science
 Foundation of the United States of America; National Science Centre (Poland); South African
 National Research Foundation; Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada;
 and the Swiss National Science Foundation.

 Journals/Book Series
 Editing responsibilities are crucial to the sustainability of the discipline, and the unit ensures that
 those responsibilities are met. Further to the unit’s engagement with Ergo (§1i), Bortolotti is
 series editor for OUP’s Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Philosophy and Psychiatry, as well as
 sitting on the editorial board of Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, Topoi, Frontiers in Theoretical
 and Philosophical Psychology, International Journal of Wellbeing, and RIFAJ – Rivista Italiana di
 Filosofia Analitica; she is also an Advisory Board member of philinq – Philosophical Inquiries.
 Nagasawa is Editor of Religious Studies, Philosophy of Religion Editor for Philosophy Compass,
 Series Editor for both CUP’s Elements in Philosophy of Religion series and Palgrave’s Frontier
 in Philosophy of Religion series, and is on the Advisory Board of Routledge’s BSPR Book
 Series. He sits on the editorial board for both International Journal for Philosophy of Religion and
 European Journal for Philosophy of Religion (the latter of which he served as Editor during this
 REF period). In addition to being on the board of Ergo, Suikkanen is on the editorial board of
 Thought. Williams is on the editorial board of Bioethics.

 Unit members are also active in refereeing for all major journals and publishers.


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 f. Public Engagement
 The unit is committed to engagement beyond academia, contributing to the knowledge economy
 and changing public understanding. In particular, to engage with key debates of public and
 social interest which shape how we understand human beings and the world. Our open research
 strategy (§1h) promotes and encourages academics to actively engage in public spaces and
 with different audiences.

 Media Engagement
 Unit members frequently appear on radio and TV, give newspaper interviews, and write blog
 posts (some with views in excess of 340,000). There have been two TedX talks: Bortolotti on
 mental health stigma and Effingham on the philosophy of time travel. Widdows featured in the
 Royal Institute Christmas Lectures (2018).

 Events
 Many of the unit’s events embed a public-facing aspect; Bortolotti, Widdows, and Wilson have
 all given public lectures alongside unit-organised academic conferences/workshops. The unit
 has hosted public-facing events as part of conferences/workshops programmes, bringing
 academic debate into the public sphere. Speakers at public events include Jonathan Wolff
 (Blavatnik School of Government), Leif Wenar (KCL), Carl Hart (Columbia), Daniel Stoljar
 (ANU), Jeff McMahan (Rutgers), John O’Dea (Tokyo), Jerry Walls (Houston Baptist), Eric
 Steinhart (William Patterson), and William Lane Craig (2015). Lane Craig participated in the
 week long ‘Cadbury Lectures’, arranged by the School. Further, the unit arranges dedicated
 public events: in addition to Royal Institute of Philosophy workshops (including ‘Philosophy of
 sport’ and ‘Well-being and Time’), Sullivan-Bissett arranged a (British Academy-funded) one-
 day series of public lectures at the Birmingham Science Museum.

 Unit members frequently speak at external public events. Engagements at larger events include
 the Hay Festival (Bortolotti, Widdows), Cheltenham Literature Festival (Nagasawa), Oxford
 Literary Festival (Nagasawa, Widdows), British Science Festival (Widdows) and Belfast
 Festival of Ideals (Widdows). Academics routinely speak at the University’s Arts and Science
 Festival, held in both the city centre and University (Bortolotti, Effingham, Sullivan-Bissett,
 Widdows). Academics contribute to smaller events, giving diversity to unit interactions.
 Nagasawa presented to the Google London Office, Sullivan-Bissett at Pint of Science events
 and Cardiff BookTalk, and Effingham to Flat Earth groups in London. Unit staff also speak at
 theatre and cinema events, giving talks before and after performances: Bortolotti arranged a
 screening of ‘Red Hands’ (2019), followed by a panel discussion; Effingham often speaks at
 time-travel movie screenings in Birmingham and London; Marway spoke in both Birmingham
 and Nottingham; Nagasawa gave a talk to the Headlong Theatre Company; and Widdows led
 discussions at Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery on Body Image.

 Schools
 The unit contributes to the knowledge economy through working with schools, both locally
 (Birmingham, Worcester, Malvern) and farther afield (Wokingham, Petersfield), and academics
 deliver regular sessions at the University of Birmingham. Effingham served as a judge for a
 national debating competition, Debating Matters.




                                                                                          Page 15
