Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sunderland

 Unit of Assessment: 3 – Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA3 is situated within the Faculty of Health Sciences and Wellbeing, which launched in 2016
 and brings together academic staff and research capability in the Schools of Pharmacy and
 Pharmaceutical Sciences, Nursing and Health Sciences, and Psychology. In 2019 the School of
 Medicine was established and is now a key component of the Faculty. Development of a
 sustainable research environment in contemporary health sciences is evidenced in this REF
 period through continued strategic investment in infrastructure, facilities and staff, and research
 impact is demonstrated through a focus on high quality applied research, partnership working
 and commercial activity. The submission has expanded to return 30 staff (including 17 new
 appointments) compared to 25 staff in REF2014. Significant investment in buildings and facilities
 at the University’s city campus (£18.2M since 2014), has brought together researchers in basic
 and applied science, allied health professions, nursing, pharmacy and psychology with access to
 excellent laboratory and allied healthcare research facilities. A key driver of our research
 strategy is to foster research that aims to ‘make a real difference’, with applied research and
 practice delivering contributions to the knowledge base that informs our knowledge exchange
 and impact agendas. We collaborate with local, national and international partners in industry,
 academia, and health services, ensuring that our outputs and products are both locally relevant
 and have international reach, and that they address the translational challenges of getting
 science into products and evidence into practice.

 To maximise the quality and impact of our research, and in alignment with the University
 Research and Innovation Strategy, our research objectives aim to:

    -   Enhance health and wellbeing through development of treatments and interventions, and
        improved quality, equity and delivery of healthcare services
    -   Work collaboratively with scientific, public sector, healthcare, charitable and industry
        networks and organisations to address regional, national and international health
        priorities
    -   Conduct national and international multidisciplinary research that maximises
        opportunities to produce high-quality research outputs
    -   Integrate the research specialisms and professional expertise of academic staff into the
        taught curriculum
    -   Continue to develop a research culture and infrastructure that is supportive and
        sustainable

 Our strong collaborative and multidisciplinary research profile spans a range of disciplines
 including biomedical and pharmaceutical sciences, public health, primary care, pharmacy
 practice, health policy, health and social care and psychological health. Building on the areas of
 research strength identified in REF2014 (Mental Health and Health Behaviours, and
 Pharmaceutical and Biological Sciences), we have sought to expand key specialisms and to
 establish new core areas of research, for example, drug discovery and pharmaceutical sciences,
 health inequalities, health services research, and psychology. Our research aims to address
 issues of local, national and international importance, and our well-established areas of research
 excellence are recognised by funding bodies, with successful awards in excess of £6.5M over
 the assessment period. Demonstrable impact is evidenced from our research conducted in


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partnership with key stakeholders, including industry, health practitioners, health organisations
 and service users. Our work with industry addressing drug stability issues during the formulation
 process has led to increased industrial manufacturing efficiency (see impact case study,
 Dodou). In response to a regional health priority, our work on the interprofessional management
 of oral health has led to a change in policy and pharmacy practice (see impact case study,
 Sturrock). In a further example of work which started by focussing on a regional health issue,
 our work on the lived experience of bariatric patients after surgery has changed clinical practice
 and increased patient wellbeing worldwide (see impact case study, Graham).

 Our strategy of investment in academic staff is foundational: building research capacity;
 providing research funding; supporting networking (e.g. Conference attendance); reducing
 teaching and associated activity; and mentoring Early Career Researchers (ECRs). Our success
 in developing future research leaders is evidenced by our impact case studies which are all led
 by staff who completed their PhD at the University. Our staffing strategy was commended in
 REF2014 and we have continued to attract high quality researchers during the REF census
 period, evidenced by recent appointments (e.g. Ahmed and Petrie) which has helped secure
 our critical mass of established researchers. We anticipate that staff recruited to deliver new
 provision, but who are not currently eligible for REF, will develop their research activity over the
 forthcoming REF period. The breadth and depth of our research (evidenced by >1000 research
 outputs over the REF census period) demonstrates the sustainability of the University’s health
 research portfolio.

 We are able to attract high quality PhD students from outside the University and support them
 with external funding, evidenced through collaboration with industry and participation in regional
 partnerships that increase engagement of health professionals with research and/or provide
 access to funding; for example, the HEE-funded GP Integrated Training Posts (GP School,
 North East and North Cumbria) and Fuse (a UKCRC Centre of Excellence for Translational
 Research in Public Health). We are developing strategic relationships with regional NHS Trusts
 which are essential to our future research strategy; a priority area for future growth is evidenced
 by establishment of the Helen McArdle Nursing and Care Research Institute (2019) to increase
 research capacity and capability among Nurses, Midwives and Allied Health Professionals
 (NMAHPs). Capacity building and alignment of research with national priorities is further
 demonstrated by our partnership in the Applied Research Collaboration North East and North
 Cumbria (ARC NENC), launched in 2019. As a partner the University benefits from a joint-
 funded ARC Research Fellow (2020-24), based in the Helen McArdle Nursing and Care
 Research Institute and two full-time funded PhD students in the School of Psychology and the
 School of Medicine (2021-24). The three posts are aligned to the Multi-Morbidity, Ageing and
 Frailty Theme, although the remit of the ARC Research Fellow encourages collaborative working
 across the other six ARC themes, to increase opportunities for the University to be involved in
 other areas of ARC research.

 Our innovative research developing new medicines for the treatment of rare inherited metabolic
 diseases (Anderson, Newell) is an example of how our work complements the strategic
 priorities of the North East Health, Life Sciences and Medicines Manufacturing Strategy. We will
 continue to support laboratory-based research and strengthen our focus on product
 development through collaboration with the life sciences and pharmaceutical industry, while our
 newly established Medical School will promote further integration with clinical research and drive
 future development of a clinical academic research portfolio.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our activities and achievements in relation to the objectives and in accordance with the research
 themes, are summarised below.

 Drug discovery and pharmaceutical sciences
 Research in this area aims to translate fundamental science to impactful patient benefit and
 provides a platform to develop and encourage internal and external collaboration in molecular
 and cellular biology, analytical and medicinal chemistry, and pharmaceutics, for the diagnosis
 and therapy of human diseases. By positioning our research towards the translation of basic
 scientific findings into novel biomarkers or pharmaceutical interventions, we have attracted
 funding from charities (Cystinosis Foundation UK, Northern Counties Kidney Research Fund,
 Cambridge Cancer Research Fund), the MRC, Innovate UK and industry partners (bioMérieux,
 UCB Pharma). Working in collaboration with both national and international universities as well
 as industry, research undertaken within this core area is focussed into two sub-themes:

      1) Molecular medicine and drug discovery
 Research focusses on understanding pathological processes underlying disease and the
 biological rationale for biomarker and target selection, across a spectrum of metabolic disease,
 cancer, autoimmune disease and infection (Ahmed, Anderson, Armstrong, Barrow, Bingle,
 Darby, Hill, O’Boyle, Petrie). Further work on translating basic research findings includes target
 validation studies and the design and characterisation of small molecule inhibitors or prodrugs
 (Anderson, Myers, Nathubhai, Newell), as well as the development of approaches to deliver
 stratified and personalised medicines (Armstrong, Newell, Petrie). We have been successful in
 closing the gap in ‘bench to bedside’ communication. The bringing together of molecular and
 cellular biologists with medical chemistry expertise has facilitated the translation of basic
 laboratory findings into pre-clinical development. For example, an MRC-funded project (2017-)
 has supported the pre-clinical development of a new treatment for patients with the incurable
 genetic disease cystinosis (Anderson, Newell). Our experience in facilitation of knowledge
 exchange across disciplines has led to a long-term multidisciplinary, industry (bioMérieux)-
 clinical (Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne) collaboration building on a REF2014 impact
 case study, focused on the development of diagnostic tools to detect pathogenic bacteria
 (Anderson, Gray). Furthermore, our strategy to develop the commercial potential of our
 research has resulted in a Northern Accelerator Connecting Capability Fund (NA-CCF) award to
 develop new treatments for metabolic disorders (Myers).

     2) Pharmaceutical formulation and drug delivery strategies
 Research under this theme is directed towards development of technologies and approaches
 designed to improve pharmaceutical manufacturing processes, such as cost or ease of
 production (Dodou, Elkordy). Working with an industry partner (UCB Pharma), we have
 developed a novel industrial protocol to optimise drug stability during the pre-formulation stage,
 which will have global impact (see Dodou’s impact case study). Further work is focussed on
 overcoming the challenges faced with the formulation of both small and large drug molecules
 into suitable, patient compliant dosage forms for patient benefit (Elkordy), as well as improved
 insulin stability and delivery (Faheem). We are also able to offer unique expertise to industry,
 evidenced by a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (2018-21) with Fontus Health Limited which
 aims to develop new emollient formulations for dry skin conditions (Dodou).

 Health inequalities and health services research
 The University is committed to supporting the regional health improvement agenda (Strategic
 Plan 2016-21). Research in this area falls into two themes: health inequalities (a key issue in the
 North East), and health services research. Research expertise from nursing, general practice,


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pharmacy, applications of psychology and public health is brought together to inform an
 evidence base for decision-making in policy and practice. This group has excellent links with the
 NHS, clinical research networks, Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs), patient groups and
 service users. Capability in research methodology (clinical trials, qualitative/quantitative
 research, and systematic review) as well as multidisciplinary expertise from professional practice
 has led to successful funding bids from a range of bodies including the Academic Health
 Science Network (AHSN), MRC, NIHR, and Public Health England. Professional Practitioners
 are included as applicants on funding bids, for example an AHSN-funded project to explore the
 impact of the Pharmacist Independent Prescriber in community learning disabilities services
 involved Nurses and Pharmacists from the Cumbria, Northumberland, Tyne and Wear NHS
 Foundation Trust as co-applicants (Graham), facilitating adoption of research outcomes into
 practice. Furthermore, service users are at the centre of our research, not only as research
 participants but also during the research process, ensuring our research is designed and carried
 out with the perspective of service users at every stage. An example of patient involvement in
 the research design phase, including ethics and development of participant information, is
 provided in research on oral healthcare which has led to a demonstrable impact through the
 improved management of oral health within general healthcare settings in the North of England
 (see impact case study, Sturrock).

 Fuse is a founding member of the NIHR School for Public Health Research, with renewal of its
 membership in 2017 of strategic importance to public health research in the North East;
 Crosland and Ling are former and current Associate Directors respectively. We have conducted
 research into social and economic factors affecting people’s health which aims to translate to
 changes in policy and health outcomes at a national and international level. Our extensive
 expertise in this area has led to the proposal of new ways to analyse complex public health data
 (Ling), and we have a critical mass of capability focused on informing public health policy on
 alcohol use, with research on alcohol consumption patterns, licencing policies, and evaluation of
 interventions to reduce alcohol-related harm (Crosland, Mooney). We also work with regional,
 European and international universities, professional networks and healthcare organisations to
 improve the understanding of health behaviours relating to childhood obesity and the impact of
 austerity measures as drivers of health inequalities (Ling, Wilkes).

 Our health services research focuses on the views and experiences of patients and
 professionals, and how these impact the use of health interventions, as well as the effectiveness
 of new health interventions or technologies. For example, we have worked with patients to
 identify strategies to avoid unplanned hospital admission and evaluated health technology and
 digital solutions to inform clinical practice and healthcare provision (Wilkes, Ling). We have a
 strong relationship with the NIHR Clinical Research Network North East and North Cumbria and
 in alignment with the regional Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health Professions (NMAHPs)
 Strategy (2017-20), we established the Helen McArdle Nursing and Care Research Institute in
 2019. The research institute promotes a vibrant, inclusive and sustained research environment
 that is key to developing NMAHPs’ ability to carry out research. In response to a specific
 regional priority and in collaboration with the Sunderland Royal Hospital, we have pioneered
 research investigating the social challenges of patients following bariatric surgery. Working
 collaboratively with patients to reach a consensus on research questions of importance and
 significance has embedded patients as partners in the research process, from design to
 dissemination, and has led to changes in pre- and post-operative care and improved patient
 health and wellbeing (see impact case study, Graham).




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Psychology
 Research in this area includes cognitive neuroscience, forensic psychology, environmental and
 health psychology and online behaviour. Research is often multidisciplinary; for example,
 integration of the study of health behaviours and environmental psychology has led to successful
 funding bids to Public Health England (Wilkie). Specialisms include working with the criminal
 justice system where research focusses on the ways in which the Police Force and other
 security organisations conduct interviews (Farrugia). The underpinning research has now been
 applied to the current COVID-19 pandemic landscape and is influencing protocols which would
 allow interviewing to take place online, in collaboration with Northumbria Police.

 Work in the area of neuropsychology and cognitive behaviour has focused on the effects of
 hormones on behaviour, such as the evaluation of the neuroprotective properties of oestrogen
 on schizophrenic spectrum related symptoms (Hodgetts). Further research is focussed on
 decision making and social communication in psychopathologies (Knight, Pearson), and
 strategies to improve cognitive impairment (Ennaceur). Researchers have worked extensively
 on identifying how emotional states impact upon our cognitive styles; for example, investigation
 of the role humour and our humour style has upon our day-to-day living has led to a greater
 understanding of gelotophobia (Platt). Further research has focused on the way in which
 cognitive styles interact with postpartum mental and physical health; this research has informed
 guidelines for healthcare professionals (Sands, Stillbirth and neonatal death charity; Pregnancy
 Loss and the Death of a Baby, 4th Edition) (Wilkie, Crawley).

 The University policy on research integrity follows the concordat to support research integrity in
 the UK and is set out in the Code of Practice for Research. All staff and students engaged in
 research are expected to comply with the ethical, legal and professional obligations and
 standards as required by statutory and regulatory authorities, and by employers, funders and
 other stakeholders. Staff are able to identify training and development opportunities through
 annual appraisal and the Individual Research Plan process, such as training on use of University
 research systems (Ethics, pFACT, VV Impact Tracker), creating and planning for impact,
 securing external funding, publication and dissemination of research, and project management,
 as well as allocation of a research mentor. Staff are also supported to undertake relevant
 external courses (e.g. research methods) and several staff have Good Clinical Practice
 certification. Adherence to the Code of Practice ensures research is conducted to appropriate
 ethical standards, with a single auditable online review and management process with
 embedded records storage and data security. Applications for Research Ethics are considered
 by the University Research Ethics Group (members include expert reviewers with a range of
 expertise in applied health research and working with vulnerable groups) who will either
 approve, request more information, or escalate to review by an NHS Research Ethics
 Committee. As well as informing the research design process, this procedure also aids
 compliance with relevant legislation, such as the Data Protection Act or Human Tissue Act.

 Researchers specify a data management plan at the early stages of the research process.
 Where appropriate, research data relating to personal information are subject to the University
 Data Protection policy which complies with GDPR; all staff are required to take mandatory Cyber
 Security and Data Protection training. Good research practice is supported by internal peer
 review and dissemination of research outputs is in-line with the University’s commitment to open
 access. All staff are required to submit their research outputs to the Sunderland Repository
 (SURE), including peer-reviewed research articles within 3 months of acceptance. Staff can also
 apply for Research Office funds to publish work in appropriate open-access journals (such as
 BMJ Open). Open access to data is facilitated through depositing data in public repositories (for


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example, the Center for Open Science (Williams)). Research outputs are published in
 accordance with journal editorial policy, with data conforming to appropriate guidelines and
 reporting standards for improved transparency and reproducibility. Examples of reporting
 guidelines used include the Reporting Recommendations for Tumor Marker Prognostic Studies
 (REMARK), the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA)
 and the Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research (COREQ). The RATULS
 clinical trial is registered with the ISRCTN registry and research reported in line with CONSORT
 guidelines, including publication of the study protocol (Wilkes).

 Within the Faculty there are numerous opportunities for staff to present their research outputs as
 well as research ideas, under which circumstances support can be given to enable non-research
 productive staff (as measured in publications) to become active. An example of this is the
 Psychology Tree day where all colleagues within the discipline, including international and TNE
 staff, present their research enabling potential collaborations and support to be identified. There
 are also regular reading groups organised where recent publications of staff are discussed. This
 approach has been extended to grant writing groups in which researchers who have submitted
 successful external research bids lead a discussion of their bid and mentor more junior
 colleagues through the process.


 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The Faculty is supported by the University’s People Strategy 2016, as well as the recently
 retained HR Excellence in Research Award (first awarded in 2013) evidencing commitment of
 the University (as a member of Vitae) to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. During this REF period, several strategic initiatives identified following internal and
 external analysis have been implemented in four areas: recruitment and selection, recognition
 and value, support and career development, and equality and diversity.

 In accordance with the recruitment process for academic staff, the Faculty follows the University
 Recruitment and Selection Policy. All staff involved in recruitment and selection undergo training
 to ensure compliance with the policy and fairness. Periodic refresher training is mandatory. The
 policy requires candidates to remain anonymous in the shortlisting process. Selection panels are
 usually drawn from a School Management Team, but male and female representation is always
 required in line with University policy. The Chair role is rotated so the Chair is not always male.
 To support the strategic aims, a new recruitment policy supports Academic Deans to make
 strategic appointments where new staff demonstrate an internationally recognised research
 profile at entry which is complementary to our research themes. During the REF census period,
 the Faculty have appointed 17 research-active staff as Lecturers, Senior Lecturers, or Principal
 Lecturers. The present submission includes 6 early career researchers, 11 mid-career
 researchers, 4 Principal Lecturers and 9 Associate Professors/Professors, demonstrating a
 strong profile of experienced researchers alongside researchers at various stages of
 development.

 In line with the Research and Innovation Strategy 2016-2021, all academic staff can engage with
 research activity as part of their agreed workload. A range of training programmes are available
 within the University or regionally such as ‘How to be an Effective Researcher’ hosted by
 Sunderland and ‘Leading and Managing Research Excellence’ run jointly with Teesside
 University (2011-17). Staff are able to request additional institutional support (time and/or


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources) for research and impact activities via the annual Individual Research Plan (IRP)
 process; applications are considered on a competitive basis by a joint Research Office and
 Faculty review panel to ensure resource is allocated equitably and strategically, informing annual
 investment of University research funds. Between 2017-2020 the IRP process has supported on
 average 32 staff each year with a success rate of 54% and 59% for female and male staff
 respectively. The IRP process also provides a framework for staff to identify development needs,
 undertake a research degree or request mentoring support (in addition to the annual appraisal
 process and mentoring scheme for new academic staff); 7 members of staff in the Faculty are
 registered PhD students (with further support provided by the Staff Undertaking Qualifications
 policy). The institutional IRP process is not the only mechanism through which research is
 supported. Colleagues who do not have measurable outcomes also have a Faculty-led initiative
 to present their case to their line managers for support to develop their own research profile.
 Staff are also supported to seek external research degree funding, for example, a member of
 staff was awarded an NIHR Doctoral Research Fellowship (2016), supervised by Wilkes.

 In line with the staff development strategy, staff are encouraged and supported to become
 supervisors of Postgraduate Research (PGR) students early in their academic careers. Faculty
 management are instrumental in the creation of supervisory teams of at least two internal
 supervisors consisting of staff new to research and early career researchers alongside
 experienced supervisors to provide mentorship and personal development. Staff are required to
 take mandatory training in PGR student supervision, and to update their knowledge annually.

 The researcher development offer supports career progression within research, with clearly
 defined roles at Associate Professorial and Professorial level. As part of the revised procedure
 for merit promotion, 5 staff in the submitting unit were appointed to Associate Professorial
 (Carter, Dodou, Graham, Wilkie) or Professorial (Elkordy) roles in 2018. The role profiles
 included in the merit promotion process are disseminated prior to, and discussed during, the
 annual appraisal meeting and targets and performance measures are agreed in line with these
 profiles. In this way the Faculty is clearly identifying and supporting staff in their career
 progression in a measured, supportive and inclusive manner.

 As part of the Northern Accelerator (partnership between Durham, Newcastle, Northumbria and
 Sunderland universities), staff have access to training courses ‘ACTION for Impact’ and ‘Future
 Founder’ (4 staff from the submitting unit have attended) to develop impact from their research
 and build entrepreneurial capability respectively. Working with a dedicated Business
 Development Manager (Enterprise and Innovation, funded centrally by the University), staff can
 apply for pre-incorporation funding to realise the commercial potential of their work.

 The Visiting Professor and Fellow scheme is employed strategically within the submitting unit.
 This scheme allows staff to work collaboratively with researchers; there are currently 25 Visiting
 Professors and 5 visiting research fellows mainly drawn from the NHS, clinical practice and the
 wider care sector. These staff are invaluable to the development of research culture and
 capacity through provision of clinical expertise on projects as well as training and supervision of
 PhD students. For example, the appointment of Michael Norton (Community Cardiologist and
 North East Ambulance Service Deputy Medical Director) has advanced the development of pre-
 hospital research with the North East Ambulance Service (Wilkes). Furthermore, Graham has
 led the appointment of a number of clinical researchers who have been instrumental in the
 development of the Nursing and Care Research Institute, and who are members of the External
 Advisory Board, co-authors on over 30 research outputs, and co-applicants/co-investigators on
 successful funding bids (from both the NHS and commercial funders) for studies subsequently
 adopted onto the NIHR portfolio (PROACT, VITAMINS, Exploring the role of the specialist

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bariatric pharmacist in pre-surgical assessment). Examples include Kamal Mahawar (Consultant
 General and Bariatric Surgeon, Sunderland Royal Hospital), Ann Fox (Executive Director of
 Nursing, Quality and Safety, Sunderland Clinical Commissioning Group), Jeanette Scott-Thomas
 (Executive Director of Nursing, Quality and Safety, South Tyneside Clinical Commissioning
 Group) and Melanie Johnson (Director of Nursing, Midwifery, and Allied Health Professionals,
 South Tyneside and Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust). This expertise is central to the creation
 of a sustainable research culture within the Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health Professions
 (NMAHPs) by encouraging staff to become research active and provide experienced mentors to
 support the successful delivery of studies and peer-reviewed publications.

 Research students
 The University aims to ensure that our Postgraduate Research (PGR) students enjoy an
 excellent student experience. Reporting to the Postgraduate Research Student Sub-committee,
 PGR is managed at Faculty level by Research Student Managers (RSM; Bingle, Ahmed,
 Wilkie, Petrie) and the Faculty Postgraduate Research Degrees Sub-committee (FPRDSC;
 Chair, Elkordy). Student representation on the FPRDSC ensures students’ views and concerns
 are raised formally, and feedback is also collated via PGR surveys and by the RSMs. The
 Graduate Research Support (GRS) office provides administrative support for PGR students,
 their supervisors and procedural requirements.

 The current submission provides evidence of a successful postgraduate research environment,
 with 96 students currently registered on research degrees (compared to 77 at the time of
 submission to REF2014) and 52 doctoral awards made during the REF census period. Students
 are engaged on a wide range of projects from basic scientific research to applied health and
 social care. PhD positions are advertised via the University website or FindAPhd.com, and
 prospective students apply via the University Postgraduate Research website. Applications are
 invited for funded PhD studentships as well as the opportunity to self-fund. The admissions
 process ensures students are appropriately prepared for their studies and that the Faculty has
 sufficient resources and infrastructure to support the proposed projects. Externally funded PhD
 studentships have been obtained from the NIHR ARC NENC, Fuse/MRC and the Northern
 Counties Kidney Research Fund, as well as through industry sponsorship (bioMérieux, UCB
 Pharma). Graduates are successful in progression to post-doctoral research positions or senior
 roles in industry or healthcare organisations (e.g. University of Sydney, Kings College London,
 University of Cambridge, MDNA Life Sciences). The unit also has expertise of supervision of
 individuals working within industry and healthcare professions, with students undertaking
 research degrees part time and in relation to their professional practice (e.g. Hart Biologicals,
 NHS Blood and Transplant, General Practice). We also participate in collaborative activities that
 increase engagement of health professionals with research. Establishment of the School of
 Medicine will further integrate clinical researchers; 6 general practitioners are currently
 undertaking post-graduate study as part of the HEE-North East Integrated Training Programme
 (ITP) for academic GPs. This is now an established pipeline and the School will have between 4-
 6 academic training GPs at any one time. The School will be appointing a significant number of
 joint clinical academic posts including at professorial level with our neighbouring trust, South
 Tyneside and Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust over the forthcoming REF period as the School
 becomes fully established with its first cohort graduating in 2024.

 The PGR offer includes a comprehensive support package, including a four day induction
 programme, research skills workshops and courses (such as the ‘Central Research Student
 Development Programme’), and a dedicated space on CANVAS (the University’s Virtual
 Learning Environment) where students are able to access online training and the Vitae


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources. In addition to this general research training, the Faculty offers discipline-specific
 training in techniques and equipment, as well as the opportunity to gain teaching experience and
 achieve HEA Associate Fellow status. To promote a research community culture, the Faculty
 has invested in postgraduate infrastructure, including dedicated laboratories, fully equipped
 office space, free printing facilities, and access to kitchen areas and social spaces. Regular
 research seminars allow PGR students to present their work alongside academics and external
 speakers from international research groups or industry (e.g. Newcastle University, Glasgow
 University, Memorial University Newfoundland, Pfizer). Further opportunities to present research
 findings and network are provided at annual PGR research and Faculty conferences, as well as
 external national and international conferences. Faculty funding is available to support
 conference attendance, with applications reviewed and assessed by the FPRDSC. We also
 have a strong relationship with pharmaceutical industry, and the Faculty (Gray, Myers, Lough)
 host the Newcastle upon Tyne and North East Coast division of the Royal Society of Chemistry
 seminar series and events (e.g. North East Industrial Symposium), providing a valuable
 opportunity for students to network with leading scientists from a range of careers,
 encompassing basic science through to identification of intellectual property, product
 development, and marketing (e.g. Astra Zeneca).

 Students are supported and monitored through their studies according to University policies, and
 students meet formally with their supervisors at least once a month where discussions are
 recorded, and actions agreed by both supervisor and student. The annual monitoring process,
 where students submit evidence of their research progress, permits formal progression
 decisions by an independent panel. This process also considers the student’s personal
 development plan and attainment of appropriate skills and knowledge, demonstrating our
 comprehensive 360/holistic approach to support and management of PGR.

 Equality and diversity
 As set out in the Code of Practice for REF2021, the unit operates according to a set of principles
 and policies of inclusiveness. Staff identified research outputs were graded via an annual audit
 process and reviewed by a Quality Review Panel, with selection of outputs based solely on
 quality. Members of the Quality Review Panel received Equality and Diversity and Unconscious
 Bias training. The University provides mandatory Equality and Diversity training for academic
 staff and provides staff awareness sessions on the REF2021 Code of Practice, ensuring
 principles of inclusiveness were embedded during development.

 The University is committed to supporting progression of women’s careers. 11 women (37%) are
 included in this submission, accounting for 34% of the submitted research outputs; additionally,
 women occupy 6 out of 13 leadership roles (Principal Lecturer/Team Leader, Associate
 Professor, Professor) in this submission. The University currently holds a Bronze Athena Swan
 award and the School of Psychology submitted the first application to Athena Swan (Silver
 Award, 2020) since the institutional award for bronze was reconfirmed. A key strategic aim for
 our new Medical School is to apply for an individual award for the School, to demonstrate its
 commitment to those values and to succeed with NIHR bids. There is also a policy in place
 which supports the return of staff from maternity/paternity leave. While on such leave colleagues
 are encouraged, but not required, to use insert days to keep in contact with co-researchers
 which facilitates their continued familiarity with advances in their field of research. Upon a return
 to work, every effort is made to ensure that the colleague will be given fewer teaching
 responsibilities at the outset so that they can re-integrate themselves with their research
 community. The School of Psychology is piloting this as a formal strategy to promote
 reengagement with research post-maternity, with adjusted workloads with greater time allocated
 to research for the first year after returning. The Faculty also adopts a flexible working approach

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 so that members of staff who have caring responsibilities are not disadvantaged. This can be
 arranged either formally through the HR Flexible Working procedure when long term adjustment
 to work patterns are needed, or locally with line managers when more flexibility is required.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The value of grants awarded from over 150 research and knowledge exchange awards
 within the 2014-20 period exceeds £6.5M. To attract funding, our research maps to the funding
 priorities and programmes of Public Health England and the National Institute for Health
 Research. Additionally, there is a focus on industrial collaboration as well as translational
 research in areas of unmet clinical need (such as rare diseases) funded by charities and the
 Medical Research Council. We have a long-standing collaboration with bioMérieux (Anderson,
 Gray, funding totaling £239K) and an Innovate UK KTP award with Fontus Health was
 ranked 5th in the UK in 2018 (Dodou, £171K). Establishment of the Northern Accelerator
 through an award from the Connecting Capability Fund to Durham, Newcastle, Northumbria and
 Sunderland Universities, has supported exploration of the commercial potential of our research
 (Myers). MRC funding was awarded to Anderson and Newell (£1.5M) and Anderson was
 principle investigator on two awards from the Cystinosis Foundation (£128K). Our continued
 collaboration with North East Universities is evidenced by our partnership in Fuse, which has
 led to MRC funding awarded to Crosland (£319K from three awards). Furthermore, as
 members of the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration North East and North Cumbria, we have
 obtained funding to support capacity building in health prevention and health inequality research.
 The reach and breadth of our funders further reflects our core strengths of applied research and
 partnership working, with funding from the Academic Health Science Network (Crosland,
 £100K), the Northern Cancer Alliance (Graham, £111K) and a collaborative award from
 Yorkshire Cancer Research (Cancer Patients Needs Assessment in Primary Care, Wilkes,
 £161K).

 The physical infrastructure for health science research at the University and has undergone
 further redesign and renovation since REF2014. Significant recent investment to create a
 Health Campus has enhanced the University estate and enriched the experience of both staff
 and students. It demonstrates the University’s continued commitment to health-related research
 activity. Academic, social, teaching and research spaces have been equipped to the very
 highest sector standards and include all modern facilities necessary to deliver contemporary
 pharmaceutical, biomedical and health sciences teaching, research and external engagement.
 As part of the £18.2M investment since 2014, the University completed a phased development
 programme (in 2016 and 2018) at the City Campus to create new infrastructure to support and
 enhance teaching, learning and research in STEM aligned with the structure of regional, national
 and international healthcare systems and agendas. As a result of this investment, dedicated
 research laboratories have been fully refurbished and fitted with state-of-the-art equipment,
 expanding facilities for molecular and cellular biology, mass spectrometry and pharmaceutical
 sciences research. We have also created a number of clinical simulation facilities based on the
 patient journey from home to pharmacy, GP practice to hospital and back again. These include
 the ‘Living Lab’, a unique environment incorporating advanced hi-fidelity simulation equipment
 with mock wards, as well as a mental health ward, therapy suite, behavioural observation room
 and neuropsychological assessment suite. These new facilities promote partnership working and
 external engagement with healthcare and life sciences partners. The dedicated research
 facilities in the School of Psychology facilitate the integration of staff research into the taught
 curriculum as students also access these facilities for their own learning journey. Areas of

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research include online behaviour, the use of eye tracking equipment in areas such as deception
 and attention and the measurement of brain activity during cognitive tasks, the use of virtual
 environments (simulation suites) to investigate observational and behavioural responses, and
 observational suites (two way mirrors) where group behaviour can be observed and recorded. A
 further £4.8M investment will see provision of a dedicated Anatomy Centre, due for completion
 in 2021, with future plans focused on refurbishment of additional laboratory facilities for
 molecular and cellular biosciences and laboratory medicine research activities. In addition,
 University Library Services support research and researchers through the provision of high-
 quality library environment and facilities, appropriate print and electronic information resources
 and support from professional staff. The Library subscribes to over 25,000 print and electronic
 journal titles, where usage is monitored and the portfolio of titles is continuously reviewed.

 A £2.5M donation by Helen McArdle in 2019 led to the University’s Shackleton House building
 being re-named as Helen McArdle House. Creation of The Helen McArdle Nursing and Care
 Research Institute in 2019, led by Graham, is facilitating collaboration with academic and clinical
 colleagues across higher education and the NHS and has become a regional/national hub for
 impactful research into patient care. Research themes reflect staff expertise and support
 regional, national and international collaborations: Health Services Research, Nursing, Out of
 Hospital Care, Bariatric Surgical Care, Military and Veteran Health and Wellbeing. These themes
 are underpinned by the ethos of improving care through ensuring avoidance of unintended or
 unexpected harm to patients/people during the provision of health care, by promoting the
 adoption and integration of evidence-based practices, interventions and policies into routine
 health care. Participation in the NIHR ARC NENC is supporting the costs of a Research Fellow
 and PhD student within the Institute, further aligning research with the ARC Multi-Morbidity,
 Ageing and Frailty Theme to create impact at regional, national and international level.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Drug discovery and pharmaceutical sciences
 Research in this area is focused towards translating scientific discovery into new medicines
 or product development and addresses issues encountered by pharmaceutical industry for
 patient benefit. Staff aligned to this research theme work with several universities within the
 UK, including Newcastle, Durham, Northumbria, Bath, Bradford, Ulster, Glasgow and Cardiff,
 as well as internationally with Complutense University (Madrid), Tor Vergata University of
 Rome, University of California San Diego (UCSD), New York University (NYU), Tanta University
 (Egypt) and the Universities of Queensland, Sydney, and Melbourne (Australia).

 Our research expertise in drug discovery is particularly relevant to industry. Pioneering research
 on development of a new treatment for the life-threatening genetic disease cystinosis using
 prodrug delivery technology (CF10) demonstrates our potential to translate basic research
 findings into clinical utility (Anderson). Collaboration between the University of Sunderland, High
 Force Research, NewChem Technologies, Fine Organics/Lianhetech, Northumbria Pharma,
 Covance, HGF Ltd and University Hospitals Birmingham is aimed at progressing to a CF10
 Phase I trial and Pharmacology and Logistics Study (PALS) in cystinosis patients. Building on
 our critical mass of expertise focussing on new medicine discovery, the prodrug technology
 established for cystinosis is being expanded for investigation in other therapeutic areas in
 collaboration with Newchem Technologies and Covance (Myers, Newell). We are increasingly
 focused on commercialisation of research; staff are named inventors on patents (P207153WO
 (Hill), GB1607593.9 (Faheem), WO/2019/058074 (Anderson, Gray), GB2015/052707 (Myers),
 and spin-out Sundara Pharmaceuticals has been established to commercialise CF10,


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 WO/2020/165601 (Anderson). Our formulation science expertise has led to industrial
 collaboration with UCB Pharma (see impact case study, Dodou) and an Innovate KTP award
 with Fontus Health (Dodou).

 Our research expertise in pharmaceutics and formulation science has a wider contribution to
 society. For example, we are a partner in the EPSRC-funded Electro Hydro Dynamics
 Atomisation (EHDA) Network, which brings together specialists from academia and industry to
 advance the manufacturing of biopharmaceutical drug delivery (Elkordy). We are responsive to
 industry demands to develop the technical and research skills of the workforce: working with
 regional, national and international employers we recognised a skills shortage and addressed
 this through collaborative development and introduction of BSc and MSc programmes in
 Cosmetic Science which will produce job-ready graduates for a thriving industry. Led by Dodou,
 a member of the Society of Cosmetic Scientists Council (2019-), we also hosted the 3rd Skin
 Metabolism meeting (2017) co-organised by LEO Pharma, L’Oréal, and Charles River.

 Our recently appointed staff bring additional expertise and significant contribution to the research
 environment in line with our research strategy in key strategic areas. For example, collaborative
 research with the University of Bath, NYU, and UCSD alongside AstraZeneca aims to develop
 novel reagents to synthesise pancreatic beta cells to replace the use of donor tissue for islet
 transplantation therapy (Nathubhai). Enhancing our expertise in biomarkers and target
 identification, collaborative research with Newcastle University and the Melbourne Collaborative
 Cohort Study is examining genetic changes in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and potential
 utilisation for diagnostic testing (Barrow), collaborative research with James Cook University
 Hospital and Northumbria University aims to identify metabolomic signatures in glioblastoma
 tumours to aid therapeutic design (Ahmed), and Petrie is an associate partner of the DECIDE
 Marie Curie ITN Consortium focused on development of differentiation therapy for cancer.

 Current projects not yet published continue to embed the core objectives of our research
 strategy. For example, in response to a national priority identified by the UK Translational
 Research Network in Dermatology (TREND), development of biomarkers for personalised
 therapy in melanoma is extended to non-melanoma skin cancer in collaboration with Newcastle
 University and AMLo Biosciences (Armstrong). Research in collaboration with the Children’s
 Hospital of Eastern Ontario aims to identify compounds to treat neuromuscular disorders and
 cancer (Gray), and long-standing collaboration with the Freeman Hospital (Newcastle) is
 aimed at increasing the availability of organs for donation, a key NHS priority (Carter). Sundara
 Pharmaceuticals is established for commercial exploitation of CF10 in cystinosis as well as
 CF10 and associated pro-drug technology for other therapeutic categories.

 Staff in this group regularly review for over 50 high quality international journals as well as
 funding bodies (e.g. MRC, BBSRC, British Skin Foundation, Royal Society Leverhulme Trust
 Senior Research Fellowship, EPSRC, Saudi Arabian Ministry of Higher Education). High-level
 contribution to the peer review process is evidenced by editorial board memberships and guest
 editor roles for journals such as Cells (2019-, Armstrong), OncoTargets and Therapy (2017-,
 Ahmed), Frontiers in Genetics (Special Edition Editor 2019-21, Barrow), Cancer Reports
 (Associate Editor, 2017-, Petrie), Journal of Applied Microbiology (2017-, Bingle), Molecules
 (2020-, Gray), Pharmaceutics (2020-, Dodou), and Frontiers in Pharmacology (Special Edition
 Editor 2015, Elkordy). National and regional research leadership is also evidenced by staff with
 elected roles with relevant learned societies or committee membership. For example, staff take
 part in mentoring, funding decisions or event organisation through their roles with the British
 Society of Immunology (2014-, O’Boyle), the Royal Society of Chemistry (Member Networks


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Committee 2018-, Gray) and the UK Research and Innovation Future Leaders Fellowships
 (UKRIFLF) programme Peer Review College (2018-, Dodou). Staff have also served on
 organising committees for conferences {e.g. the Future Leaders in Dermatology satellite
 symposium at the European Society of Dermatological Research annual conference (2015)
 (Hill)}, have chaired conference sessions {e.g. at the Energy, Materials and Nanotechnology
 meeting on Hydrogel Materials (2017, Netherlands) (Elkordy)}, or delivered keynote
 speeches {e.g. at the International Pharma Research and Drug Delivery Summit (Belgium,
 2019), 2nd International Conference on Nanotechnology based Formulations: Nano
 Pharmaceuticals (India, 2015) (Faheem), and 4th World Congress and Expo on Pharmaceutics
 and Drug Delivery Systems (Italy, 2019) (Elkordy)}.

 Other indicators of wider influence and contribution to the research base include: staff acting as
 external examiners for doctoral students across a range of institutions (including University
 College London, University Del Piemonte Orientale (Italy), Newcastle, Ulster, Bradford,
 Strathclyde, Sussex, Central Lancashire, Kingston, and Reading universities); Hill was awarded
 the British Society for Investigative Dermatology Young Investigator Award in 2015; invited
 contribution of a research methods article (Journal of Investigative Dermatology) to bridge the
 gap between clinical and academic dermatology (Hill, Armstrong); Dodou was a winner of the
 10th Anniversary Award given to the best research article published in Pharmaceutics between
 2009-18.

 Health inequalities and health services research
 Research in this theme has a strong foundation in multidisciplinary collaboration between the
 health professions and the NHS, clinical research networks, Clinical Commissioning Groups
 (CCGs), patient groups and service users. Members of this group have extensive reach via
 clinical networks enabling relevant, applied and impactful research. Networks include; Ling:
 Mental Health Integrated Care System for North East England: Evidence and Evaluation
 Subgroup (2018-); Graham: (i) Specialty Group Lead for Health Service Research, NIHR North
 East and North Cumbria Clinical Research Network (2015 -), (ii) National Deputy Lead for Public
 Health (2018 -), (iii) Strategic NMAHP Research Lead, Sunderland Clinical Commissioning
 Group (2017-), (iv) Vice Chair, Research and Evidence Group, South Tyneside CCG and
 Sunderland CCG (2018-), and (v) Honorary Speciality Lead, Health Services Research, South
 Tyneside and Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust (2015-); Wilkes: Primary Care Speciality
 Group Lead, NIHR North East and North Cumbria Clinical Research Network (2014-18). We are
 partners in two NIHR-funded networks; Fuse (Centre for Translational Research in Public
 Health) and the Applied Research Collaboration North East and North Cumbria, which aim to
 deliver world-class research to improve health and tackle inequalities. We also created the
 Health and Care Workforce Interdisciplinary Research Network (2017) which works with health
 and care providers and the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries to explore the intersectionality
 between arts and science via the exploration of the role of arts in wellbeing (for example, how
 the arts can be used to give voice to stigmatised health conditions, decrease social isolation and
 build community cohesion). The Time for Tea project, funded by the Armed Forces Covenant
 Local Grant Scheme, was carried out in collaboration with Veterans in Crisis Sunderland and
 Sunderland Clinical Commissioning Group (Graham) and focused on veterans who are a known
 marginalised population (2018-20). Further funding has been granted to carry on this work with
 the National Glass Centre, with a funded full-time PhD student carrying out further research into
 veteran health.

 Our research is regionally important and has national and international reach. In an example of
 our approach to partnership working in applied health research, collaboration with Durham


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 County Council Public Health Team, County Durham and Darlington Local Pharmaceutical
 Committee, County Durham and Darlington Foundation Trust and the National University of
 Singapore has led to improved interprofessional management of oral health using a pharmacy-
 based intervention (see impact case study, Sturrock). Our research into the patient
 experiences of the stigma of obesity and bariatric surgery has led to a greater understanding of
 the social aspects of surgery on patients’ lives nationally and internationally (see impact case
 study, Graham). Graham is the National Research Lead for the British Obesity and Metabolic
 Surgery Society (2018-), and the impact of the research findings led to Graham being awarded
 Faculty status on the Advanced Bariatric Nutrition Course for Healthcare professionals (Mumbai,
 2020), recognition as an Honorary Lifetime Member, Mexican College of Surgery for Obesity and
 Metabolic Illnesses (2019) and an Honorary Visiting Professorship, University of Anahuac,
 Mexico (2019-). We are also co-investigators on NIHR-funded multi-centre clinical research
 projects; Robot Assisted Training for the Upper Limb after Stroke (RATULS), Innovative
 photoplethysmography technology for rapid non-invasive assessment of peripheral arterial
 disease in primary care (NOTEPAD), and the National Trial of Tonsillectomy IN Adults
 (NATTINA) (Wilkes). Where our research informs practice, this is embedded into curricular
 across our range of healthcare programmes; work in the area of pharmacy practice led to the
 award of a National Teaching Fellowship (Sturrock, 2019), and establishment of the Medical
 School has facilitated interdisciplinary research in medical education, in collaboration with the
 University of Central Lancashire.

 Our expertise in public health research is particularly valued. Members of this group sit on
 committees for PHE (Health Education England (North East) Public Health Subgroup (2016-17,
 Ling), the UK Public Health Practitioner Registration Scheme (Regional Coordinator 2016-17,
 Ling)) and Government (Westminster Alcohol Strategy consultation group (Mooney)). Our work
 on alcohol licencing policies and health outcomes has led to demonstrable impact both within
 the region and nationally. In collaboration with the University of Bristol, we were
 commissioned to lead evaluation of a public health tool in alcohol licensing. Working with 8
 local authorities this research led to new PHE guidance to promote effective public health
 engagement with the Licensing Act (Guidance: Findings from the pilot of the analytical
 support package for alcohol licensing, 2017) (Mooney). Related research was highlighted in
 two NIHR Signal Alerts and was the focus of an Editorial in the British Medical Journal (2019,
 Mooney), and Mooney was awarded the President’s Medal by the Faculty of Public Health
 in 2020 for his work on alcohol harm reduction interventions and policies.

 Members act as editors or are editorial board members for a range of journals including
 Frontiers in Public Health (Ling, Associate Editor), Frontiers in Psychiatry (Review Editor,
 Ling), Integrated Pharmacy Research and Practice (Editor-in-Chief, Ling), BMC Public
 Health (Associate Editor, Mooney), Obesity Surgery (Graham), Obesity Science and
 Practice (Graham), BMC Medical Research Methodology (Associate Editor, Graham),
 Clinical Radiology (Associate Editor, Graham), Journal of Family Planning & Reproductive
 Health Care (Associate Editor, Wilkes), review for over 30 high-quality journals within clinical
 and applied health research and for funding bodies including the NIHR Health Services &
 Delivery Research Programme, School for Public Health Research, ESRC, The Leverhulme
 Trust, Diabetes UK, and NIHR Health Services Research Portfolio studies. Our influence on
 regional and national funding decisions is evidenced through grant committee membership, for
 example the NIHR Research for Patient Benefit Committee, North East and Yorkshire (2012-17)
 (Chair, Wilkes), and the National School for Primary Care Research funding Committee (Deputy
 Chair 2014, panel member 2020, Wilkes). Members have also delivered keynote speeches at a
 range of events, including the 7th International Pharmaceutical Conference (Jordan, 2019)
 (Ling), APPG Conference on Obesity Stigma (Houses of Parliament, 2020), the 24th

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Federation for the Surgery of Obesity and Metabolic Disorders (Madrid, 2019) and
 at the XXI Congreso Scientifico del Colegio Mexicano para la obesidad y enfermedades
 metabolicas (Mexico, 2019) and IFSO EC Scientific Congress (Prague, 2020) (Graham).

 Psychology
 Multidisciplinary collaboration aims to enhance the quality of life across society. This group
 works with national and international Universities, including Newcastle, Durham, Edinburgh,
 Wolverhampton, Imperial College, Abertay, Dundee, University of Zurich, Martin-Luther
 University Halle-Wittenberg, Duke University and Vanderbilt University. We work with colleagues
 across disciplines both within the University (such as the Vulnerability and Criminal Justice
 Research Network) and externally, for example the Vulnerable Accused Work in Progress
 network (Cardiff University, Pearson) and the Psychological Science Accelerator, a collaborative
 network which supports inclusive, transparent, rigorous and open access research (Williams).

 Our work is of wider benefit to the research community and society. Collaborative
 multidisciplinary research with Durham University aims to understand the impact of loneliness in
 stroke survivors (in response to the Loneliness Strategy, 2018) and stroke charities and stroke
 survivors are participants in our research on visual impairment (Dunne). Our current and future
 work in collaboration with Abertay University on literacy acquisition will likely impact educational
 policy (Williams) and it is anticipated that stakeholder collaboration on forensic interviewing will
 produce a Forensic Interview Tool which can be licenced to police forces in England, Wales and
 international security agencies (Farrugia). Work in collaboration with Newcastle University and
 the National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Centre (Osaka) applies cognitive tests in pre-clinical
 animal research on neurological disease (Ennaceur). Our work on environmental psychology
 aims to address the impact of built and natural environments on human health, wellbeing, and
 social interaction. Partnership working with colleagues in urban design, architecture, landscape
 architecture and public health has led to impactful interdisciplinary research evidenced by invited
 presentations at national meetings (Healthy Streets Summit in Glasgow, 2019) and a
 commissioned review of the health impact of pollution funded by regional local authorities
 (Wilkie).

 Social media is used extensively, one example is the BLOG site established by the School of
 Psychology. Staff are encouraged to provide a short, easily accessible outline of research
 outputs which are intended to be written from the perspective of a non-expert. This form of
 dissemination has led to several invitations for staff to give talks and attend discussions outside
 of the normal academic delivery channels. An example is the invitation to lead a discussion
 focusing on addiction in the Psychology in the Pub events in the North East. Staff regularly raise
 awareness of our work to external audiences by taking part in podcasts, radio interviews and
 via news media; for example, ‘What’s the point of laughter? (BBC radio, 2018) and ‘Why
 laughter is key during coronavirus lockdown’ (ChronicleLive, 2020) (Platt), as well as
 contributions featured in Health & Fitness, Marie Claire, and Grazia magazines (Wilkie).

 Members review for over 30 journals within psychology, and act as editorial board members
 and guest editors, such as for AIMS Neuroscience (2017-, Ennaceur), Sustainability (Special
 Issue Editor, 2019, Wilkie), Frontiers in Developmental Psychology (Special Issue Editor 2020,
 Pearson), Current Psychology (Associate Editor 2016-, Platt), International Journal of Applied
 Positive Psychology (Special Edition Editor, 2020-, Platt), Frontiers in Psychology (Topic Editor
 2016-18, Platt) and HUMOR: International Journal of Humor Studies (Consulting Editor 2016-,
 Platt). Members have also delivered keynote speeches such as at the British Society
 Environmental Psychology Society (2018, Wilkie) and the 4th International Gelological


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Congress (Saint Petersburg 2017, Platt), or delivered guest lectures e.g. Humour Summer
 School (Purdue University, Platt). Staff review for funding bodies such as Leverhulme Trust,
 MRC, NIHR, the Nordic Programme for Interdisciplinary Research, ESRC, DFG German
 research council, and Dunne is a member of the Scientific Advisory Panel of the Animal Free
 Research UK charity.

 We have also engaged extensively with both private and public sector organisations in the form
 of consultative and research collaborations. We are developing research relating to building
 resilience and safety within the workforce, consultative action research with several
 organisations (e.g. Vantec and Leiber) and have produced protocols for the respective
 workforces in relation to Health and Safety training and psychological wellbeing within a shift
 pattern context. This approach has currently been extended to work in partnership with
 Northumbria Police, investigating factors influencing psychological resilience within their
 workforce. Our developing work in occupational psychology and wellbeing is contributing to the
 development of new policy initiatives within the field of clinical embryology and professional
 practice.




                                                                                          Page 16
