Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Keele University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA9 Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context, structure and strategy
 The University of Keele is a broad-based research-intensive university delivering excellent
 research across its three faculties. Physics is part of the School of Chemical and Physical
 Sciences (SCPS), within the Faculty of Natural Sciences. Keele’s mission contains both global
 and regional elements. At a global scale, Keele’s mission is to make world-leading contributions
 to fundamental research, to answer some of humanity’s key questions (e.g., “is there life outside
 our solar system?”) and to tackle key societal challenges. Regionally, Keele's mission is to be an
 engine of development and regeneration in the economically and socially challenged region
 around Stoke-on-Trent via the Keele Deals (the new Keele Deals represent a £70m+ programme
 of research-based co-investment and impact planning with the LEP, the NHS, local authorities
 and regional partners).

 Physics research and impact strategy/vision
 Strategy review and development:
 During the last two REF cycles, research in Physics has been concentrated into a single, focused
 research theme, Astrophysics, in order to ensure critical mass and an internationally competitive
 environment. Following REF2014, Keele reviewed its research structure and strategy, in order to
 better address modern societal challenges and to improve research delivery. The review resulted
 in the creation of three major challenge-focused pan-institutional interdisciplinary institutes: the
 Institute for Social Inclusion (ISI), the Institute for Sustainable Futures (ISF) and the Institute for
 Global Health (IGH).

 The review also led to the formation of SCPS in 2016 and the appointment of a new research-
 focused Head of School (Watkinson) and the creation of the role of School Director of Research
 in 2018 (currently Hirschi). This new role has provided the leadership needed to review and
 develop the School research strategy and structure, and to drive its implementation. A School
 Research Committee, chaired by Hirschi, was set-up to oversee research strategy and
 implementation. It is composed of representatives from each research area: Astrophysics (9 staff),
 Chemical Materials Science (8 staff), Synthetic Chemistry (7 staff) and Forensic/Analytical
 Science (7 staff) as well as representatives for early career researchers, equality, diversity &
 inclusion (EDI), postgraduate research and education research.

 The key strategic decision following a review of School areas of research strength was that
 alongside further strengthening Astrophysics, it was the right time to establish a new
 interdisciplinary research group in “Materials Science and Renewable Energy”, to capitalise on
 potential synergies between Physics and Chemistry research (building upon the Chemical
 Materials Science group) and between Physics and the Institute for Sustainable Futures, thus
 enhancing the vitality and sustainability of Physics research at Keele.

 Current strategy and structure for Physics:
 The current research groups and their aims are:
 • The aim of the Astrophysics group (9 staff: Hellier, Hirschi, Jeffries, Maxted, Oliveira, Smalley,
    Taylor, van Loon, Wright) is to better understand planets, stars and their environments, our
    place in the Universe and our origins.
 • The aim of the new Materials Science and Renewable Energy group (11 staff: 3 from Physics:
    Heckl, Morbec, Balakrishnan, 8 from Chemistry: Darton, Greenwood, Hawes, Hollamby,
    Jackson, Matthews, Ormerod, Radu, Zholobenko) is to develop world class research that
    enables better and sustainable materials and energy production methods.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Given the interdisciplinary nature of the Materials research, the 3 Physics (and 8 Chemistry) staff
 from this group are returned to the Engineering UoA 12 in REF2021. They are nevertheless an
 integral part of the Physics research environment and strategy.

 To best achieve the above aims and enhance the vitality and sustainability of Physics research,
 our research strategy/vision is as follows:
 • Continue to establish and lead or play a key role in international collaborations to pursue
     forefront research in Astrophysics.
 • Support these collaborations with a range of research income streams for staff, PDRAs and
     PGR students and by winning competitive access to national and international research
     facilities.
 • Recruit and attract the best people (staff, fellows, PDRAs and PGR students), via a robust
     EDI-aware recruitment process with research excellence at its core.
 • Provide state-of-the-art physical infrastructure, research environment and support structure for
     staff, PDRAs and PGR students.
 • Encourage and support staff at all career stages to take up leadership positions in their
     research disciplines.
 • Develop partnerships with non-academic partners to enhance our research and its impact.
 • Promote and improve research integrity, reproducibility and open science.

 Interdisciplinary Research Strategy:
 School-level Directors of Research meet regularly via the Faculty Research Committee and a
 University-wide Research Leaders’ Network to review and improve the University Research
 Strategy, its implementation and interdisciplinary research opportunities. Using these platforms,
 Hirschi led the establishment of a faculty-wide interdisciplinary Materials Science and Renewable
 Energy theme to exploit opportunities on sustainability. The theme includes 4 researchers from
 the School of Computing and Mathematics and 3 from the School of Geography, Geology and the
 Environment. Furthermore, Hirschi and Wright, along with Polack (Director of Research for the
 School of Computing and Mathematics), led the establishment of a University-wide “Data Science
 Network” which includes more than 70 staff members across all 3 faculties and aims to develop
 inter-disciplinary research synergies in Data Science. The network will coordinate the academic
 research supported by a new Digital Innovation Centre (IC7), which is currently being built as part
 of the Keele Deal.

 1.2 Achievements made during the REF2021 cycle and objectives for next REF cycle in
 relation to REF2014 and current strategies

 The research strategy set out in REF2014 was to establish and lead, or play a key role in,
 international collaborations to pursue forefront research in (1) stellar hydrodynamics, evolution
 and nucleosynthesis (ERC-SHYNE, Nugrid), (2) star formation, clustering and environments
 (Gaia-ESO, ESA Gaia), (3) galactic and extra-galactic environments (VISTA survey) and (4) binary
 stars (TESS, Plato). This has been successfully implemented (as detailed below) and has led to
 publication of over 500 refereed papers during the REF2021 cycle (over 55 per academic staff
 FTE returned), which have been cited more than 12,000 times (>1,300 per FTE; citation data in
 this statement have been obtained from the NASA ADS platform). This research was underpinned
 by a range of diversified income streams (including STFC, Leverhulme, EU) and by gaining
 competitive access to national and international research facilities (e.g. ESO telescopes, PRACE
 HPC). Keele provided support for these efforts in a range of ways, including ring-fencing staff time
 for research and match-funding STFC PhD studentships (for more details, see Sect. 2 for support
 for people and Sect. 3 for the research income).

 (1) Massive stars and their impact with SHYNE, NuGrid, BRIDGCE UK, COST ChETEC, NSF
 IReNA, ChETEC-INFRA (Hirschi):
 Hirschi led the SHYNE ERC project (2012-2017) which aimed to to develop synergy between
 three-dimensional (3D) and 1D stellar models, computing the first 3D simulations of carbon
 burning in massive stars and improving the modelling of convection in stars. This project also
 delivered priority lists for nuclear physics experiments (guiding one experiment at nToF@CERN).

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hirschi’s key role (PI for several years) in the NuGrid international collaboration (23 institutions in
 10 countries) enabled comprehensive nucleosynthesis predictions (Pignatari+Hirschi+, ApJ,
 2016). Within the BRIDGCE (.ac.uk) network (15 UK institutions), Hirschi is leading research on
 the evolution and fate of very massive stars towards black holes, pair-instability supernovae and
 Gravitational Waves (Belczynski+Hirschi+, A&A, 2020). Since 2017, Hirschi has been chairing a
 COST Action entitled “Chemical Elements as Tracers of the Evolution of the Cosmos”
 (ChETEC.eu; CA16117; 2017-2021). ChETEC coordinates research between 200+ researchers
 from across 30 European Countries (leading to more than 100 refereed papers, 24 with Hirschi as
 co-author). In 2019, Hirschi was appointed to the steering committee of the world-wide US-led
 NSF AccelNet IReNA network of networks (2019-2023) to represent the ChETEC community. This
 will enable Hirschi to continue his international coordinating role in the next REF cycle. The
 ChETEC community successfully applied for a €5m EU infrastructure grant, which will start in 2021
 (ChETEC-INFRA.eu). Hirschi will lead nucleosynthesis software tools development within this
 project. The research foci in the coming years will continue to be synergy between 3D and 1D
 stellar modelling of the progenitors of supernovae and gravitational wave emitting black holes.

 (2) Comprehensive picture of star formation, clustering and their environments with Gaia-ESO,
 Gaia, WEAVE (Jeffries, Wright):
 The Gaia-ESO survey (Smiljanic+, A&A, 2014) is the world’s largest high spectral resolution
 survey using 350 nights on one of ESO’s 8-m Very Large Telescopes, measuring the line-of-sight
 kinematics and chemical abundances of galactic populations as a complement to ESA’s Gaia
 astrometry satellite. Jeffries is a co-I and steering group member and has been leading efforts to
 understand the dynamics and chemistry of young clusters and star forming regions, with
 continuous PDRA support from STFC during the REF2021 cycle. Keele expertise in spectroscopy,
 kinematics and age determination in young stars has led to significant and rapid exploitation of the
 ESA Gaia satellite DR1+2 data (Wright & Mamajek, MNRAS, 2018) and leading roles in new,
 massive spectroscopic surveys with e.g. WEAVE. WEAVE (first light in 2021) is a next-generation
 multi-object (~1000 targets) spectrograph recently installed on the William-Herschel Telescope.
 Wright is co-I on a major WEAVE survey of stars in short-lived evolutionary phases across the
 northern Galactic Plane and is leading the young stars component of this survey. In the next REF
 cycle, Wright will combine WEAVE spectroscopy with Gaia astrometry for young stars in and
 around multiple star forming regions, star clusters and OB associations, to study the dynamics of
 these systems and address questions regarding their formation, evolution and dispersal into the
 field. Wright and Jeffries will both play leading roles in developing community surveys featuring
 many European collaborators, with ESO’s new 4MOST multi-object spectrograph in Chile.

 (3) Galactic and extragalactic environments with the VISTA survey of the Magellanic Clouds, SKA
 Pathfinders, EDIBLES, EMU (Oliveira, van Loon):
 The VISTA survey of the Magellanic Clouds (VMC) obtained multi-epoch YJKs images of
 the Magellanic System of unprecedented quality. Oliveira and van Loon are members of the core
 team, leading the star formation and 3-D galactic structure analyses, respectively. This enabled,
 for example, the determination of the 3D structure of the Small Magellanic Cloud from Classical
 Cepheids (Ripepi+Oliveira+van Loon+, MNRAS, 2017). Oliveira and van Loon also exploited data
 obtained from other satellites, telescopes and surveys (Herschel, SPIRE, VLT Flames Tarantula
 Survey) to gain new understanding about the MC and other extra-galactic environments: e.g. mass
 loss (PGR Goldman+van Loon, MNRAS, 2017) and star formation (Schneider+van Loon+ 2018,
 Science). In the next REF cycle, Oliveira will develop and apply the machine learning (ML)
 methodologies to star formation in external galaxies. van Loon will continue taking part in the ESO
 Large Programme EDIBLES studying Galactic interstellar sightlines and coordinating ISM studies
 within the ULLYSES HST-UV initiative. Keele’s GASKAP involvement (van Loon leads the
 Magellanic OH masers component, Oliveira YSOs) using new technology and new analytical
 approaches is generating new discoveries (AGN dust at redshift one, stellar OH masers at low
 metallicity) and will place Keele in a front-row position to capitalise on SKA, JWST and LSST.

 (4) Exploiting eclipsing binaries from TESS, CHEOPS and PLATO surveys to map out
 fundamental parameters of stars (Maxted, Smalley, Hellier and Taylor [publishing under
 Southworth]):

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Building upon the expertise and dataset from the Keele-led time-variability sky-survey (WASP),
 Keele developed software tools to characterise the host star in these planetary systems (e.g.
 mass; Maxted+ A&A 2015-2020) and for analysing light and velocity curves of detached eclipsing
 binaries and transiting planets (Taylor’s open-source JKTEBOP code has been used in over 300
 papers led by over 50 authors so far). These have enabled the Keele team to play a key role in
 the current generation of transiting planet surveys. Maxted is a member of the CHEOPS Science
 Team (ESA’s S-Class mission led by 2019 Nobel Prize winner Didier Queloz) and develops the
 pycheops software delivering an order of magnitude improvement in accuracy and is developing
 synergies between exoplanet and binary star research. In the next REF cycle, Keele will be
 contributing to preparations for the PLATO mission. In particular, Taylor and Maxted both lead
 PLATO work packages related to improving models of planet host stars (“Binary & Multiple stars”
 and “Benchmark stars”). Taylor will be responsible for selecting targets, allocating bandwidth and
 organising the analysis and follow-up observations for all science cases using these objects.

 Establishment of a new “Materials Science and Renewable Energy” group and objectives for the
 next REF cycle: This new group was established in 2018-2019 with investment in infrastructure
 (Section 3.3) and new staff (Balakrishnan, Morbec) to harness the new opportunities opened by
 the reorganisation of the University research structure and strategy. In the next REF cycle, Morbec
 will lead the design and characterisation of novel 2D materials with state-of-the-art quantum
 mechanics simulations. Balakrishnan will lead the development and application of these novel 2D
 materials for applications in wearable technology, spintronics and pollutant sensors. In addition,
 Heckl, who transferred from the School of Computing and Mathematics in 2016, leads research in
 thermo-acoustics and applies it to the combustion of hydrogen. In particular, she will continue to
 lead the €4m EU POLKA MSC ITN (2019-2022), which builds upon her €3.7m EU TANGO MSC
 ITN (2012-2016). Combustion of hydrogen from renewable sources is an emerging technology
 that can replace fossil fuels and so provide carbon-neutral energy. This group will develop and
 exploit synergies with other scientists within the faculty and Institute for Sustainable Futures (ISF)
 (e.g. building upon Keele’s hydrogen energy, HyDeploy, and smart energy network demonstrator,
 SEND, projects developing new low-carbon technologies).

 1.3 Impact
 Fulfilling Keele’s global mission to answer some of humanity’s key questions, Astrophysics
 research has impacted world-wide audiences and changed their awareness and understanding of
 our place in the universe via media reporting, the creation of documentaries and social media
 content based on our research results (see Exoplanet ICS).

 Regionally, Keele's mission is to be an anchor institution and an engine of development and
 regeneration in the economically and socially challenged region around Stoke-on-Trent and North
 Staffordshire, an area that is significantly under-represented within higher education. The
 Astrophysics group’s regional impact strategy is therefore to improve opportunity and performance
 by engaging, encouraging and enthusing children to go on to further study in STEM disciplines.
 This aim was achieved by our continuous commitment to public engagement with Stellar
 Astrophysics research at Keele, through our mobile planetarium, the Stardome. During the
 REF2021 cycle, groups that have visited the Stardome include 100 primary and 44 secondary
 schools, 4 Further Education providers and 2 other universities. The impact of the Stardome upon
 Widening Participation in HE was recognised when it was awarded Times Higher Education Award
 for Widening Participation or Outreach Initiative of the Year in 2015. The university has supported
 the running of the Stardome throughout the REF cycle through integration of the Stardome into
 one of the key workhorses of the government-funded Higher Horizons+ (HH+) Uni Connect
 consortium, which geographically covers Staffordshire, Stoke-on-Trent, Shropshire and Cheshire,
 and is led by Keele University. The Head of HH+, Ant Sutcliffe, was named the widening access
 practitioner of the year at the 2020 NEON Awards, further demonstrating the success of our
 engagement programme. In order to further support Stardome activity, Keele has also hired an
 outreach officer, Scott Walker, funded by The Ogden Trust (a charitable trust that promotes the
 teaching and learning of physics), who has contributed significantly to the delivery of the Stardome
 impact.


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Stardome will continue to be a major vehicle for local engagement with children in an under-
 privileged area of the UK. New content drawing upon our current research will be developed for
 the next REF cycle (e.g., nucleosynthesis and gravitational wave progenitors). Further school
 engagement will be developed as “Masterclasses” in Nuclear Astrophysics in the context of the
 ChETEC-INFRA EU project. The Astrophysics group will also explore other avenues for
 knowledge transfer via the Data Science network set up by Hirschi and Wright.

 For the newly created “Materials Science and Renewable Energy” group, the main targeted
 impacts will be economical and environmental, and targeted beneficiaries are local, national and
 international companies. There is strong potential for application of 2D materials in wearable
 technology, spintronics as well as sustainability (pollutant sensors) linked to the POLKA, HyDeploy
 and SEND projects. Keele staff will in particular explore the potential of heterogeneous structures
 based on 2D materials (graphene, MoS2) for photovoltaics, gas sensors and spintronics.

 The Materials Science group will benefit from the Keele impact facilitation framework, established
 in recognition of the value and necessity of impact facilitation. Keele established the Research
 and Innovation Support Enhancement (RaISE) team in 2017 to support and manage research
 achievements and to maximise their societal potential. Local initiatives such as the annual Impact
 Acceleration Fund and the Celebrating Impact conference ensure that impact is a clear and
 realisable goal for our research community. At the individual level, specific impact is identified and
 nurtured through the annual staff performance review and enhancement process (which includes
 an embedded research planning process) and is supported by our School Director of Research.

 The Keele Impact Acceleration Fund has been established to provide financial support for the
 development of impact by providing resources to prototype, engage industry, and maximise public
 awareness. Further support will come via the partnership and impact accelerator team, which
 helps identify and align research priorities to prospective impact by tracking key academic outputs
 and providing strategies for the identification, gathering, synthesis and linkage of evidence from
 this research to potential stakeholders. Direct business engagement will be further promoted by
 Keele’s knowledge exchange programme, which includes the ERDF-funded Keele Research
 Innovation and Support Programme (KRISP), Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) and
 Business Bridge (ERDF). These schemes present business and industry-led challenges to Keele
 staff, providing new opportunities for impact development while simultaneously creating a
 sustainable route for further growth of Keele’s research programme.

 1.4 Open research, research integrity and Reproducibility
 This unit is at the forefront of developing an open research environment; research outputs continue
 to be made openly available (via internal and external repositories), which began in advance of
 the current REF policy and is reflected in its 100% open access compliance for REF 2021. The
 Unit is committed to the principles of open research and research integrity for all aspects of our
 research: software, data and outputs. Concerning software, open-source codes are used and
 developed (e.g., pycheops by Maxted and MESA code by Hirschi) and the group has led several
 code comparison projects (e.g., Jones+Hirschi+, MNRAS, 2015) and benchmarking exercises
 (Taylor and Maxted roles in PLATO). We also make use of, and train our PGR students to use,
 open-source software (e.g., Python) and version control platforms such as git, to improve software
 development and reproducibility. Research data is also made accessible via dedicated discipline-
 specific websites and databases (e.g., ESO archive and international astronomical database:
 https://cdsweb.u-strasbg.fr/ for observational data, www.ChETEC.eu knowledge hubs for nuclear
 astrophysics expertise, facilities, datasets and software tools). Furthermore, all Astrophysics staff
 use the ArXiv e-print archive to make our outputs freely accessible. These efforts will be further
 supported and enhanced by the data science network activities during the next REF cycle.
 The university has also developed a robust Research Misconduct Procedure that provides a fair
 and transparent process that protects all those involved, including the complainant. In order to
 embed research integrity within the research culture at Keele, as well as providing professional
 support, resources and training via RaISE, the University has also established an Academic Lead
 for Research Integrity and has appointed Faculty Research Integrity Champions.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Our staffing and recruitment strategy is aligned to Keele’s People Strategy (2015-20) and driven
 by our strategic research aims as well as by the goal of attracting the most talented scientists to
 our school. This strategy commits the UoA to principles of equality, diversity and transparency. It
 aims at both ensuring vitality and sustainability research in Astrophysics and developing the new
 interdisciplinary research group in Materials Science and Renewable Energy. Recruitment is also
 used to maintain a good balance between young ambitious staff and experienced colleagues to
 mentor them. Finally, our aim is to improve the gender balance and provide equal opportunities to
 all staff.

 Recruitment processes of our staff and PGR students follow high standards overseen by Keele’s
 Human Resources (HR) Directorate. Positions are advertised internationally, which enables us to
 recruit the best people from the UK and abroad. All short-listed candidates are interviewed by a
 diverse Equality & Diversity-aware panel (including at least one female) following a standardised
 process for all candidates (adjustments are made for applicants with disabilities). Panel members
 are required to undertake recruitment training (including unconscious bias) at least once every two
 years. Recruitment in the REF2021 cycle evidences the successful implementation of our strategy:
 • Prof Michael Watkinson, an experienced and internationally leading chemist, was recruited as
     the new head of SCPS in 2018 to improve the local research support structure (e.g. creation
     of a new school research committee and equality and diversity committee).
 • Prof Maria Heckl, an expert in thermo-acoustics and hydrogen combustion, joined SCPS from
     the School of Computing and Mathematics (in 2016) and is leading research on renewable
     energy. In 2019, she successfully started the Polka EU MSC ITN to develop safe low-carbon
     combustion technology.
 • Drs Nilanthy Balakrishnan (experimental material scientist) and Juliana Morbec (computational
     material scientist): Two new female junior lecturers working on 2D materials were strategically
     appointed in 2019 to develop Physics research in Materials Science.
 • Dr Nicholas Wright, Ernest Rutherford Fellow, was given a permanent lecturer’s position in
     2016 to consolidate the Astrophysics research group following the departure of Dr James
     Reeves who is now a Professor at the University of Maryland in the US (since we recruit
     excellent and ambitious researchers, we expect some to take on higher positions at other
     institutions abroad).

 Keele’s staff development strategy is to support and enhance the career of research staff
 throughout their entire research life cycle, from early career researchers (ECRs) to senior staff,
 including promotion and succession planning to ensure the vitality and sustainability of Physics at
 Keele. The university and the unit have full and active commitment to Vitae's Concordat for
 Promoting Excellence in Research. Transition from a pure research position, such as a PDRA, to
 a permanent academic position as lecturer is a major step in the life of ECRs. Keele and SCPS
 provide strong support for ECRs to ensure a smooth transition. A new Masters in Higher Education
 Practice (MAHEP), including modules on research, was developed for ECRs (which all our recent
 appointees benefited from). Additional training and development courses include, in particular,
 PhD supervision and recruitment.

 Mentoring is provided for all ECRs and probationary staff. Balakrishnan and Morbec are mentored
 by Hirschi and Watkinson. As part of this mentoring, research targets and the support needed to
 achieve these are initially set and then reviewed quarterly. Furthermore, new staff benefit from a
 reduced teaching load and no administrative duties, ensuring that they can establish a successful
 research portfolio. Balakrishnan and Morbec also received a start-up fund and a PhD student from
 school and Faculty research development funds to help establish independent research
 environments at Keele. This support is further complemented by a strong supportive culture and
 open-door policy within SCPS. The success of the extensive support for ECRs to set up an
 independent research group is evidenced by Wright securing a Leverhulme Trust grant in 2020
 for a 3-year PDRA.



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff at all career grades are supported via an annual appraisal process. This process identifies
 plans for both research and impact and the necessary support from the School to achieve these
 plans. In SCPS, staff are further supported by the newly established research committee and
 School Director of Research (support for grant writing, dissemination of funding opportunities).
 Once these plans are established, research-active staff are given teaching-load reductions (a
 flexible form of research leave/sabbaticals) to help them successfully drive active research
 projects and develop new projects. They can also access Faculty research development funds to
 develop new activities and initiatives. Hirschi was given several teaching-free semesters to lead
 his ERC project and to set-up his COST Action. Maxted received faculty funding to enable him to
 lead scientific preparations for the CHEOPS mission.

 The support described above enables staff to progress in their career and be rewarded for their
 performance with promotions. In the REF2021 cycle, Hirschi was promoted to Professor and
 Oliveira to Senior Lecturer (both in 2018). Previous Head of School and Astrophysics group Lead
 Prof Evans retired during the REF2021 cycle. His leadership roles were distributed to Profs Hellier
 (UoA 9 lead, STFC consolidator grant PI) and Hirschi (School Director of Research) as part of our
 succession planning. Transitioning to management and leadership positions also represents an
 important step in an academic career and scientists are generally not trained or prepared for it.
 Keele has realised this skills gap and developed a strategic research leadership training
 programme in collaboration with Advance HE. Hirschi joined this training to step into his new role
 of School Director of Research. The training also served him well in managing the ChETEC COST
 Action involving more than 200 scientists in over 30 countries. Emeritus staff retain an office space
 in SCPS and provide input at various levels (Jackson, ex-PDRA, contributing to star formation
 research; Evans guidance on management).

 Scientific research requires continuous academic knowledge development. This is supported via
 our vibrant programme of bi-weekly research seminars, which include a combination of
 Astrophysics, Materials Science and Renewable Energy topics. These are complemented by a
 seminar series in Chemical Sciences research. At University level, Keele’s three interdisciplinary
 institutes provide an overview of today’s grand challenges and the latest developments on the
 topic of sustainable futures. Keele’s RaISE team further supports and facilitates knowledge
 exchange and impact from research in various ways (Sect. 1.3).

 Thanks to our diverse funding streams (UK STFC and Leverhulme, EU ERC and international
 fellowships), more than 10 PDRAs in total (between 4 and 5 concurrently) were hosted over the
 REF2021 cycle, representing a slight increase over the REF2014 cycle. Many of these PDRAs
 came from abroad and benefited from the strong HR support (financial and practical help with
 visas and relocation packages). PDRAs have access to all development opportunities that staff
 have access to. They also participate in annual appraisal processes. They are given opportunities
 for supervision of PhD students and teaching-related opportunities to expand their CVs. This has
 enabled our PDRAs to successfully continue research careers in the UK, Japan, Switzerland and
 Germany.

 2.2 Research students
 The Astrophysics group has been a continuous recipient of STFC doctoral training partnership
 (DTP) grants (aka STFC Studentships) throughout the REF2021 cycle (match funded by Keele).
 The group also hosted students with overseas funding (ESO studentships, government grants like
 Iraqi MOHESR, Nigerian TETfund) or self-funding. This enabled 32 PGR awards during the 7-year
 REF2021 cycle (more than 3 per staff returned). This corresponds to a very significant 186%
 increase of the yearly average number of PGR awards compared to REF2014 and contributed
 greatly to the vitality and outputs (e.g. Goldman+van Loon, MNRAS, 2017) of the unit.

 Keele continuously improves its governance, support and training for PGR students. In 2020 the
 Keele Doctoral Academy (KDA) was launched to create a unified platform for PGR provision. PGR
 students are allocated a lead and a secondary supervisor, who must both undergo supervisor
 training. All PGR students develop a training plan as part of their Personal Development and
 Learning Plan. Keele provides excellent training and progression monitoring (including 6-monthly

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 progress reporting) in accordance with its PGR Code of Practice. At UoA level, we enhance PGR
 training via our Journal Club, in which students explain research articles to the group. Students
 then receive feedback from their supervisors and other group members. Students have the
 opportunity to develop their teaching and communication skills by acting as demonstrators for
 undergraduate labs and problem classes and contributing to the group’s public engagement
 activities (e.g. Stardome and observatory). The Faculty of Natural Sciences at Keele organises a
 yearly PGR Symposium that our students regularly attend and contribute to, providing an
 opportunity to present their work, practice communicating to different audiences, and exposing
 them to other research areas.

 PhD students at Keele appoint a representative each year who relays enquiries to academic staff,
 in addition to providing representation on the School’s Equality & Diversity and Sustainability
 committees. Many University committees, like the Sustainability Committee, have PGR
 representation, which gives citizenship opportunities to our PhD students. There is also a
 dedicated Physics PGR coordinator (currently Wright who created and maintains a ‘welcome
 pack’) who is responsible for the overall academic development of the PhD students and to ensure
 they are personally supported where needed, with particular attention paid to incoming
 international students.

 The excellent research and PGR support at Keele described above is key to our success with
 PGR students. The number of PhDs awarded during the REF2021 cycle nearly tripled and
 contributed greatly to the vitality and outputs of the unit. Keele PhD students have a strong record
 of timely submissions, publication of refereed-journal papers (average 2 to 3 lead-authored
 refereed papers from their time at Keele), presentations at international conferences and moving
 on to jobs in academia (PDRAs in the UK, Germany, Switzerland, Chile and US; tenure position
 in Iraq and Serbia) or industry (as data scientists or flood risk modellers). The overall satisfaction
 scores in PRES 2019 were 91%, higher than the university (86%) and sector (81%) averages, and
 supervision (92%) and research skills (93%) were also very highly rated.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity (and Inclusion, EDI)
 Keele is strongly committed to principles of equality, diversity and transparency (Disability
 confident employer, Institutional Athena SWAN bronze award, a Race Equality Charter (REC)
 Bronze Award (one of only 14 in the UK), Disability Confident Employer, Stonewall Champion,
 Aurora supporter, female staff promotion support, support for return from maternity, LGBTI Role
 Models, flexible working, part-time). Our school was awarded a Bronze Athena Swan award in
 2018. The Athena SWAN action plan and EDI matters in general are supported and overseen by
 our school EDI committee, set-up during this REF cycle and over 90% of the plan has already
 been implemented. Examples include an EDI representative on all school committees and EDI
 matters being a standing item on the agenda of these committees (including the research
 committee), a suggestion box to raise issues anonymously and dedicated space and facilities for
 nursing mothers. Feedback from staff indicates these facilities have been beneficial.

 One of the major goals is to improve the gender balance of the unit. Three of our latest recruits in
 Physics have been female. This has raised the percentage of research-active female staff in
 Physics from 11% to 33% over the REF2021 cycle, a very significant improvement. To further
 improve gender balance and other EDI areas and building upon our Athena awards, new recruit
 Balakrishnan led the efforts for our school to become a IOP Juno practitioner in 2020 and we are
 working towards Juno Champion status.

 Members of staff come from different backgrounds and countries, providing a diverse workforce.
 Three of the latest recruits are not only women but also come from three different continents
 (Europe, Asia and South America), further enhancing diversity in our School.

 All staff with REF responsibility received EDI training (e.g., on unconscious bias). The REF
 submission process for the unit was open and transparent. All research-active staff in Physics are
 returned to REF. Review of outputs was open to all returned staff. Drafts of the selected list of


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outputs and the environment statement were shared with all staff with multiple opportunities for
 input and comments.

 2.4 The physical infrastructure supporting staff is described in Sections 3.2 and 3.3.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Our core research income strategy in 2014 was and still is to generate income from 1) UK/EU
 research councils funding and 2) UK and international facilities time competitively obtained by our
 staff. The strategy for the next REF cycle for the new Materials group will include a broader and
 more diverse range of funding streams via interdisciplinary and intersectoral consortia, charities
 and industrial partners exploiting synergies within the faculty-wide Materials research theme, the
 University-wide sustainability projects (SEND, HyDeploy) and Data Science Network.

 3.1.1 Research Income
 In a very challenging funding landscape, we have successfully implemented our strategy by
 competitively winning UK and EU research grants (>£400k per staff member returned for the
 REF2021 cycle), which represents a 17% increase in income per FTE per year compared to
 REF2014. Three-year-long STFC consolidated grants provided continuous support (new grants in
 the REF2021 cycle provided £1,167,000 in 2014; £467k in 2017 plus top up of £150k in 2017-
 2018) for the exoplanets, star formation and extragalactic research themes. Hirschi’s stars and
 nucleosynthesis research was supported by an FP7 ERC starting grant (SHYNE project: 2012-
 2017 with circa £1m income during the REF2021 cycle). Wright was supported by an STFC Ernest
 Rutherford Fellowship: £414k (income during the REF2021 cycle) and was made permanent in
 2016. Keele’s strong support for ECRs (section 2.1) to enable them to set-up their independent
 research group is evidenced by Wright being awarded a Leverhulme Trust fellowship (£164k) in
 2020 for a 3-year PDRA to work on the structure and Dynamics of Star Clusters in 6D. These
 successes at obtaining PDRA funding also enabled the Astrophysics group to secure continuous
 support for PGRs via STFC doctoral training grants (aka DTPs) over the REF2021 cycle. Matched-
 funding support from Keele nearly tripled the number of PhDs awarded in the REF2021 cycle
 compared to REF2014.

 In addition to these UK and EU research project grants, our strategy is to build and join
 collaborative networks to lever external funds and expertise and diversify income streams to
 support our research. Hirschi is the chair of the ChETEC COST Action (CA16117, 2017-2021;
 £291k at Keele for 2017-2019, the grant had to move to Portugal because of BREXIT in 2019),
 which provides funding for scientific workshops, training schools and collaboration visits.
 Additional support was secured via several other international schemes (e.g., ESO fellowships,
 MOHESR, TET-fund for PhD students). All these grants along with Keele’s support enabled more
 than 500 research outputs gathering more than 12,000 citations.

 In the Materials Science and Renewable Energy group, Heckl was awarded €4m for her POLKA
 MSC ITN (2019-2023) successfully building upon her previous network TANGO (€3.7m, 2012-
 2016). While her income is allocated to UoA12, it shows that we are already securing funding for
 renewable energy research.

 3.1.2 Income-in-kind including national and international facilities time:

 Research Council Facilities
 A major additional source of income for Astrophysics is via facilities time competitively obtained
 by our staff. Over the REF2021 cycle, the total research council facilities time represents a value
 in excess of £4.9m and more than doubles our research income for this REF period. This includes
 time awarded as PI on the following Research Council supported facilities: Diamond, DiRAC,
 XMM-Newton, ALMA, ESO (VLT, NTT), ING (INT, WHT), LT. This is also thanks to Keele staff
 playing major roles in international collaborations working together on ESO large programmes.
 Indeed, Jeffries is a co-I and steering group member of the Gaia-ESO survey (PIs Randich, Italy

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Gilmore, UK), the world’s largest high spectral resolution survey using 350 nights on one of
 ESO’s 8-m Very Large Telescopes. Oliveira and van Loon are core team members of the VISTA
 survey of the Magellanic Clouds (VMC, PI Cioni), which is part of the public VISTA survey. van
 Loon is also part of the following surveys: EDIBLES (284 hours on ESO-VLT) and NESS (516
 hours on JCMT).

 International facilities time and other major in-kind benefits (not included in REF4/b/c)
 In addition to the STFC DiRAC computing time, Hirschi was awarded a total 55.3 million core-
 hours on the EU PRACE MareNostrum supercomputer in Barcelona to undertake his large-scale
 3D hydrodynamic simulations (PI ex-Keele-PDRA Georgy, Switzerland; 42 million-hours on
 MareNostrum4 for proposal 2017174145 in PRACE Call 16; 13.3 million-hours on MareNostrum3
 for proposal 2016143263 in PRACE Call 13) with a total estimated cash value in excess of €0.5m
 during the REF2021 cycle.

 Additional observing time was awarded on the following facilities: NASA-Chandra (Wright:
 87kiloseconds as PI= ~ $0.5m at $5k per kilosecond, 1000ks as co-I); SALT (South Africa, circa
 100 hrs); SAAO (1.9m telescope: 34 nights; 1.0m telescope: 7 nights); MMT/HectoSpec (SAO)
 (PI Wright: 2 nights); STFC-AAT (PI Wright’s PhD student Armstrong: 4 nights).

 For the future REF cycle, Physics staff will continue to seek UK and international funding, join and
 build collaborative networks to leverage external funds and expertise and win facilities time.
 Hirschi has already secured funding for a 2-year PDRA at Keele as part of the 5 M€ EU ChETEC-
 INFRA infrastructure project that he is co-I of. The project will run for 4 years starting in May 2021.
 In addition, Maxted leads a program within the CHEOPS GTO program “ID-037 Eclipsing binaries
 with very low mass stars” that is currently (July 2020) allocated 300 orbits. The total mission costs
 are approximately €100m and the mission lifetime is 3.5 years, so this represents ~€2m of in-kind
 contributions for the next REF cycle.

 3.2 Organisational support for research and impact
 A broad range of income streams necessitates strong institutional support. Across the university,
 research is now supported by the Research and Innovation Support Enhancement unit (RaISE),
 whose function is to support research funding applications and then subsequently support
 implementation and impact. The RaISE team is multi-functional and provides a holistic support
 hub for research and partnership development, project costing, contract and regulatory
 compliance. Administrative support for project delivery following contract signature and setup of
 financial codes is provided within the school. EU project support, from proposal preparations to
 monthly budget spend updates to best manage fluctuating exchange rates, has been key to
 successfully run large EU projects (ERC, COST Action, MSC ITN). The university also supports
 interactions with local business in Staffordshire (van Loon hosted a KRISP project for the AEON
 Engineering company based at the Keele Science and Innovation Park), and acceleration of local
 socio-economic developments via the Keele Deals.

 The school research committee has representatives for ECRs and EDI to ensure that ECRs and
 minority groups are fully supported and that EDI matters are addressed (see also Section 2.3).

 3.3 Research infrastructure and strategy
 The strategy for the Astrophysics group is to lead and play key roles in international collaborations
 (Section 1.2) and to exploit external computing and observing facilities nationally and world-wide.
 Key support from Keele is the provision and maintenance of the required dedicated IT facility for
 Astrophysics research to prepare, store and analyse large observational and theoretical datasets
 to maximise the scientific return on these large datasets as well as develop new software tools.
 The Astrophysics IT facility provides a total data storage capacity around 0.5PB (Peta-byte) hosted
 on fast many-CPU-cores and RAM-rich data analysis servers and comprises a heterogeneous
 computing architecture ranging from a large shared-memory node to nodes equipped with GPU
 acceleration cards via a standard distributed-memory computing cluster with 500+ CPU cores.
 The capital investment for this IT facility was funded by a mixture of STFC and ERC grants, whilst
 the hosting and running costs (comparable to purchase costs) are supported by Keele. Keele is

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 committed to further investment in computing facilities via its new Digital Innovation centre, which
 is at building stage.

 The strategy for the new Materials Science and Renewable Energy group is to develop a local
 experimental facility within the school for the development of new materials, as well as exploit
 facilities such as the SEND project at Keele and external facilities such as those at industrial
 partners. To this end, SCPS and Physics have received significant financial investment from Keele
 University during the census period. A £34 million investment in a new Central Science Laboratory
 attached to the Lennard-Jones building, in which SCPS is based, increased both teaching and
 research capacity. The building includes large, shared offices for PGR students to facilitate
 discussions, exchange of ideas and avoid isolation. Over £2m was invested in equipment and
 included NMR and XRD instruments. Extra equipment (Physical Vapour Deposition system to
 grow 2D materials) has been purchased with the help of the school start-up and faculty research
 development funds following the appointment of Balakrishnan and further investments will
 continue in the coming years to develop a 2D material production and analysis laboratory. Keele
 funding also enabled the purchase of the necessary software tools to undertake materials
 computation (led by Morbec) on the Astro/Physics dedicated IT facility. The HyDeploy and SEND
 infrastructure at Keele also provides the framework for new Physics research projects in
 Renewable Energy.

 Keele’s strong support and rapid response meant that laboratory work could resume in July 2020,
 less than 4 months after the Covid-19 outbreak, which demonstrates the quality and resilience of
 research support at Keele.

 The regional impact of Astrophysics research is supported by Keele via the Stardome and on
 campus Observatory, which enable a wide range of public engagement activities on and off
 campus and directly supported our Stardome impact case.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships including interdisciplinary research

 4.1.1 Support for collaborations, partnerships and interdisciplinary research
 During the REF2021 cycle, Keele reorganised its research structure and strategy to best support
 interdisciplinary research tackling global challenges (Section 1.1). Keele also re-structured its
 research and inter-sectoral collaboration support structure by creating the Directorate of
 Research, Innovation and Engagement (DRIE) who manage the RaISE team. At faculty level, the
 research development fund and PhD scholarships provide opportunities to develop new directions
 of research and new collaborations and partnerships between schools as well as with other
 institutions or non-academic partners. At the school level, support is provided to present results at
 conferences and to host conferences and visitors. This wide range of support enabled the
 establishment of the faculty-wide interdisciplinary research group in Materials Science and
 Renewable Energy and the University-wide Data Science network, which will both enhance the
 vitality and sustainability of Physics and interdisciplinary research in our Unit in the next REF cycle.

 4.1.2 Current and future national and international collaborations
 Leading and playing key roles in national and international collaborations is at the core of our
 research strategy. Keele’s wide-ranging support enables Astrophysicists at Keele to set-up, lead
 or play a key role in a wide-range of collaborations and surveys described in Section 1.2
 (CHEOPS, Gaia-ESO, ESA Gaia, ESO VMC, SHYNE ERC, NuGrid, BRIDGCE, ChETEC, IReNA,
 Tango ITN, Polka ITN). The large number of national and international collaborations is also
 reflected in the quality and co-authorship of our outputs.

 4.2 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
 Sustainable and cleaner energy generation as well as the development of 21st century materials
 (e.g. wearable technology, sensors, spintronics) are very high on the national and international
 priority lists. The re-organisation of Keele’s research structure and the range of support it provided

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (hiring of new staff, investment in new buildings, research development funds and PhD
 scholarships) will enable the new Physics research group to respond and play a key role in these
 grand challenges in the next REF cycle.

 4.3 Contributions to and recognition by the research base
 Leading or sitting on the steering committees of the international collaborations listed above, Keele
 Astrophysicists contribute substantially and in many ways to the research base. ChETEC COST
 Action Chair Hirschi has been coordinating interdisciplinary efforts, knowledge exchange via
 workshops, knowledge hubs (http://www.chetec.eu/knowledge-hubs) and an intersectoral working
 group and oversaw 1-2 training schools and around 5 workshops per year for the last 3 years. He
 will also contribute to coordination of research and training in Nuclear Astrophysics via the world-
 wide IReNA NSF network of networks. Taylor was awarded the Philip Leverhulme Prize for his
 work in 2017 and used this to support his “Homogeneous Studies of Transiting Planets” project.

 Over the REF2021 cycle, members of the Astrophysics group regularly delivered invited talks at
 conferences, as well as invited seminars at institutions, and several lectures at post-graduate
 training schools. Examples of invited reviews at conferences are: Taylor at “BRITE” conference,
 Vienna, 2019; Oliveira at “ESO Magellanic Clouds” workshop, Garching, 2019; Jeffries at
 “Progress in young cluster astrophysics” Cool Stars 20, Boston 2018; van Loon at “Feedback in
 the Magellanic Clouds”, STScI 2015; Hirschi at “Nuclei in the Cosmos XIII”, Debrecen, 2014.
 Examples of lecturing at post-graduate training schools are: Smalley SOC+lecturer at “The Aarhus
 Spectroscopy Workshop”, Aarhus, Denmark, 2014 and at the "Spectroscopic data analysis with
 iSpec", Wrocław, Poland, 2018. Hirschi’s 1-week graduate topical lecture series on “From Stars
 to Elements: Stellar Evolution and Nucleosynthesis” in Darmstadt, Germany, 2018 and lecture at
 the ChETEC training school: Software Tools for Simulations in Nuclear Astrophysics, Hull, UK in
 2018.

 Members of the Astrophysics group made a large number of contributions to the research base,
 which also indicates their national and international standing in the discipline: grant panel
 membership (van Loon STFC Astronomy grant; Oliveira Hubble Fellowship Program); time
 allocation committees (Oliveira chair of ALMA Star formation panel; Jeffries XMM-Newton; van
 Loon ESO, HST stellar Evolution/Physics panels; Taylor STFC ING and LT PATT; Hirschi UK
 DiRAC computing); proposals refereeing nationally (STFC, Leverhulme, Royal Society) and
 internationally (more than 10 countries); journal papers refereeing (Nature, MNRAS, A&A, AJ,
 ApJ), commissions and committees (Taylor secretary of IAU Commission G1 “Binary and Multiple
 Star Systems”; van Loon vice-President IAU Commission G3 “Stellar Evolution”, Chair of IAU
 Working Group on Red Giants and Supergiants, and SKA Science Working Group member “extra-
 galactic spectral line”; Oliveira member of the UK ELT Steering Committee; Smalley member of
 Kepler Asteroseismic Science Consortium and TESS Asteroseismic Science Consortium; Maxted
 and Taylor leading PLATO work packages “Benchmark stars” and “Binary & Multiple stars”; van
 Loon serving as editor-in-chief of the electronic AGB and Magellanic Clouds Newsletter with more
 than 1000 readers and as IAU Ombud set up in 2019).

 Astrophysics staff organised scientific events at Keele: transiting planets conference (Hellier,
 2017); COST Action kick-off meeting (Hirschi, 2017); SALT Board meeting (van Loon, 2018); van
 Loon and Oliveira organised the Mega-SAGE meeting and JWST Community Day (2017) and
 VMC meeting (2016); star formation and young stars in Cygnus meeting (Wright, 2018). Keele
 staff were SOC members of more than 15 international conferences.

 Keele hosted many visitors linked to their international collaborations. Hirschi hosted an SNF Early
 Postdoc Mobility Fellowship (18 months funding: 2016-2018) for PDRA Battino. Other examples
 include a 7-month visit by international fellow Nanni (2014), Germano Sacco’s visits (Gaia-
 ESO/4MOST 2015 & 2019) and Monika Petr-Gotzens’ visit (VMC, 2018).

 4.4 Relationships and engagement with beneficiaries, users and audiences including
 contributions to society and economy


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As explained in Section 1.3, our research has had a strong impact both globally (exoplanet ICS)
 and regionally (Stardome ICS) via our THE award-winning Stardome, which has now been
 integrated into the HigherHorizon+ Uni Connect consortium and receives external support from
 the Ogden Trust. Further intersectoral activities during the REF2021 cycle include Hirschi
 collaborating with Norwegian company Numascale as part of his ERC SHYNE project and van
 Loon hosting a KRISP project for AEON Engineering. Additional public engagement during the
 REF2021 cycle includes the following. Jeffries and Maxted hosted a yearly “Astrophysics
 Research Experience” week attended by 25-30 year 10-12 pupils (~40% female) since 2016 (2020
 was Covid-cancelled) and targets schools/colleges with a high free-school meal percentage. The
 Observatory on Keele campus hosted over 3000 visitors a year throughout the REF2021 cycle
 and now also a Science Art and Artificial Intelligence project. Taylor organised a “Holst Planets
 concert” intertwined with exoplanets research highlights in Keele Chapel (2017, 250 attendees)
 and a “planets day” (2017; 90 year-6 children). van Loon and PGR Pennock organised RAS/IAU-
 OAD and Newton-Bhabha funded public engagement activities in India, and SALT-based schools'
 liaison between South Africa and Stoke-on-Trent, both based on Keele research on AGN and
 machine learning application. Jeffries is a major contributor to Astronomy Stack Exchange (rated
 1st out of 22,000 worldwide users) and to Physics Stack Exchange (rated 7th most reputable
 contributor worldwide out of 180,000 users) and his questions/answers have been viewed 4.2
 million times. Keele Physicists also made appearances in the media (TV/radio: 5-10 per year
 each), wrote articles in The Conversation with over 88,000 reads, delivered public talks and took
 part in Pint of Science outreach events.




                                                                                          Page 13
