Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Derby

 Unit of Assessment: 23- Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 The environment for educational research at University of Derby (UoD) sustains academically
 rigorous, methodologically excellent, and innovative research, funded through strategic
 partnerships. This submission comprises the Institute of Education (IoE), its five Research
 Clusters, and the International Centre for Guidance Studies (iCeGS), (led by Neary) and includes
 staff from the Centre for Excellence in Learning and Teaching (CELT) and University of Derby
 Online Learning (UDOL) departments. The centrality of research and synergy between the IoE,
 CELT and UDOL is reflected in collaborative activity, bidding and movement between
 departments: e.g. Shelton (PGR) moved from IoE to lead CELT; Petronzi (UDOL) participates in
 the Childhood cluster and collaborates with McAllister (4.3).

 Research Clusters
  • Childhood Research Cluster, convened by Simmons and Delgado-Fuentes, supported by
      Robinson
  • Higher Education Research Network (HERN) convened by Hayes (Emeritus) and
      Mieschbuehler
  • Inclusion, Special Education Needs and Disability Research Cluster (iSEND) convened by
      Robinson and Codina
  • Teacher Education Research and Innovation Cluster (TERIC) convened by Poultney and
      Hardman supported by Atkins
  • Technical and Vocational Education and Training Research Cluster (TVET), convened by
      Esmond

 IoE staff, doctoral students and other UoD academics researching within UoA23 (e.g. Larcombe)
 are members of the research clusters, which provide fora for researcher development and
 undertake a wide range of research and scholarship activities, thus promoting interdisciplinary
 research and facilitating impact. Key strengths and projects are elaborated in 3.1. Since 2016, the
 work of the clusters has been supported by a dedicated team of professional and administrative
 staff (1.2).

 The clusters are at different stages of development. iCeGS has a 20-year history as an
 internationally respected research centre. TVET and iSEND were established in 2016 and over a
 short space of time they have become well recognised, attracting applied research funding,
 international scholars as Associates and a significant portfolio of doctoral students. TERIC and
 Childhood Research are nascently established and focus on evidence-informed practice and
 scholarship, reflected in the extensive range of practitioner publications produced by members of
 those clusters. HERN is an outward facing, high-profile cluster focused on promoting debate
 around education policy and academic freedom; its activities include the East Midlands Salon,
 hosted by Hayes (Emeritus). Clusters are led by a Professor/Associate Professor, supported by
 ECR’s thus contributing to researcher development and succession planning (see TERIC and
 Childhood leadership 1.1).

 Doctoral students are encouraged to align themselves with and actively participate in clusters.
 Within the TVET Cluster and iCeGS students are supported to lead meetings and recommend foci
 for discussion. Broader research mentorship by senior researchers is provided via cluster
 membership, including co-authoring, grant-application, reviewing draft papers, and addressing
 methodological, philosophic and ethical concerns.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1.2 Developments since 2014
    UoD first submitted Education outputs to REF2014. Following an internal restructure in March
    2016 education provision became the IoE, as part of the College of Arts, Humanities and
    Education (CAHE). The Institute sought to align educational research and scholarship within a
    clear institutional framework. This was facilitated through the development of the 2017/21
    Research Strategy which, building on the objectives articulated in our 2014 submission, has
    strengthened the research environment. The Strategy facilitated us to prioritise the development
    of research capacity through staff engagement with research, develop a thriving postgraduate
    community, and build on our key strengths in delivering funder-led applied research to sustain
    both academic knowledge production and problem-focused, policy-orientated research of high
    impact. Based on the applied research and scholarship described in this submission, the IoE has
    established a significant academic profile at national and international levels implemented through
    discipline focused research clusters (1.1). These were identified as an ongoing priority for
    development in 2014 and are now central to our research activity. The Clusters are co-located,
    facilitating interdisciplinary and cross-cluster work, in newly refurbished offices at the Kedleston
    Road site, which forms part of the ongoing capital investment in facilities by UoD (REF5a, 4.2).

    1.3 Evaluation of 2017-21 strategic objectives
    Success is evidenced by progress against five strategic objectives identified in the 2017-2021
    Research Strategy. Our 2017/21 objectives are outlined below (italicised). Progress is monitored
    annually by the Head of Institute and Professoriate, and objectives revised as appropriate. A new
    Research Strategy, looking forward to 2027 and building on developments outlined in this
    statement, was developed in 2020 for implementation from 2021 (1.4).

    1. The Institute has adopted the Frascati definition of research1 that places equal emphasis on
    scholarship and the application of knowledge to develop practice. Our research and scholarship
    aim to have impact on teachers, educationalists and policymakers within the East Midlands region
    and beyond.
    Research conducted within the IoE has had a significant impact nationally and internationally.
    Examples include the Gatsby Benchmarks, developed by iCeGS, which define good career
    guidance, are now adopted by all schools and colleges in England as part of the Career Strategy
    (see REF3, 23-1), and are being adapted for use in Wales, Spain, Norway and Hong Kong. This
    work together with research which established the role of careers leader in schools/colleges has
    impacted on over 3000 schools/colleges in England. Such projects led to iCeGS being shortlisted
    for the University Award for Outstanding Contribution to Research Excellence in 2016/2017 and
    winning the award in 2017/2018.

    A National Evaluation of Industry Placements for T Levels, conducted by TVET and iCeGS
    together with Institute of Employment Studies, contributed to the establishment of the principles
    underpinning placements and the better preparation of employers in engaging with T Levels. An
    ongoing iSEND Opportunities Area project in Derby, has resulted in the improvement of leadership
    of SEND within local schools (3).

    Colleagues have contributed to the education field through widely used works of scholarship, such
    as The Student Practitioner in Early Childhood Studies, (2nd edition), involving 12 staff, led by
    Oates, from the Childhood, TERIC, and iSEND research clusters. Many are first-time authors:
    others producing significant scholarly works in their field include PGR students Marshall (2018)
    and Valenzuela (2020).

    2. The development of research capacity and scholarship within the Institute will be based around
    iCeGS and our five research clusters focussing on expertise in careers education and guidance
    studies; teacher education, childhood, special educational needs and disability, technical and
    vocational education, and higher education policy.

1OECD (2002), Frascati Manual 2002: Proposed Standard Practice for Surveys on Research and
Experimental Development, The Measurement of Scientific and Technological Activities, OECD
Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/9789264199040-en.

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Investment in research within the IoE has included new posts; a Research Officer and a Research
 Administrator, enabling more strategic investment and direction of research and impact activity.
 Research capacity was increased through four professorial appointments (Atkins; Avis, Hooley,
 Robinson), six Associate Professor appointments (Neary; Robinson; Oates; Esmond; Burke;
 Vigurs) and a post-doctoral fellowship (Dimitrellou). Research income during the Assessment
 period totals £2,070,000 including eight significant (above 50k) grants e.g. Gatsby Benchmarks
 Evaluation (190k); Enrichment in FE Longitudinal study (116k); Process and Impact Inquiry into
 the Access and Inclusion Model (114k).

 Research outputs from each cluster feature in this submission. Work in each cluster has generated
 external research income, facilitating outputs and a vibrant environment to support doctoral
 candidates. Quality related research funding (QR) investment through small grants for staff,
 detailed in 2.4, has supported activities such as small research projects and conference
 attendances and facilitated research outputs. The establishment and monitoring of sustainable
 staffing for REF2027 and beyond will facilitate ongoing procurement and delivery of research
 contracts, promoting an intellectually vibrant environment for research.

 3. All academic staff will be supported and encouraged to engage in research and scholarship.
 Academics with doctorates can be further supported and have access to training to enable them
 to undertake doctoral supervision.
 All IoE staff engage with a research cluster (1.1). The impact of this has been to ‘mainstream’
 awareness of the range of research activity colleagues are engaged in and encourage more staff
 to undertake research and higher degrees. The Institute has invested significantly in doctoral
 training (2.3) as part of its strategy to develop research and scholarship. All academic staff without
 doctorates are encouraged to undertake a part-time EdD/PhD. Support includes time allocation
 for studies and a financial contribution by UoD; formal and informal support processes also exist
 at local level (see 3). Staff achieving doctorates are encouraged to undertake supervisor training,
 which includes observing, working alongside and mentoring by experienced supervisors.

 4. Building on our objectives and achievements in the Research Excellence Framework (REF)
 2014, the Institute will make a submission that is more substantial in terms of quantity and quality
 for REF 2021;
 The UoA25 submission in 2014 achieved a 2* grading overall based on the return of 6 Category
 A academics and a single Impact Case Study (ICS). Our strategic approach to developing
 Research and Scholarship within the Institute has enabled the return of 24 Category A academics
 in 2021 (an increase of 400%) and three ICS, from iCeGS, TVET and iSEND research clusters.
 Investment in the professoriate, with the strategic aim of improving quality as well as capacity, has
 facilitated, for example, collaborative work with Early Career Researchers (ECR) e.g. Dimitrellou
 (ECR) working with Robinson, Codina, Hanson and Ainscow, (forthcoming, 2021) whilst a
 strategic focus on conducting impactful research and engagement with leading scholars have all
 enabled incremental improvements in quality of research, confirmed by internal and external peer
 review.

 5. Creating a research and scholarship environment and culture for academics, and for
 undergraduate and postgraduate students, will be our priority.
 Each Research Cluster organises an annual programme of meetings and events (e.g. iCeGS has,
 for 23 years, hosted an annual lecture with a high-profile speaker such as David Andrews, OBE
 (2019), as well as regular meetings for internal and external members, whilst TVET hosts an
 International Seminar Series (2.5). Other activity includes the iCeGS quarterly research and policy
 event (iCeGS Associates) where all iCeGS MA and Doctoral students are invited to share their
 research. In addition, the IoE hosts an in-person Research and Scholarship Forum which provides
 opportunities for staff, students and external colleagues to share and discuss their research and
 scholarship (e.g. Panel Discussion (2018); Peutrell of Nottingham College launching his book
 Brokering Britain, Educating Citizens (2019)). The Forum normally meets monthly during term-
 time, but this was disrupted by the 2020 pandemic. During the University’s closure, the research
 culture of the UoA was maintained by offering a popular series of “pop-up’ online seminars with
 national and international speakers, from Leeds Beckett and Federation University Australia. Staff

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and students are both encouraged to participate and use these fora to share their research. The
 IoE also contributed significantly to the interdisciplinary UoD Global Research Challenges
 initiative, launched in 2019. Over a one- week period, publicly advertised events, open to UG and
 PG students, presented the work of IoE researchers and external speakers from KCL and
 Australian Catholic University.

 1.4 Strategic Objectives 2021-2027
 Moving forward, the new Research Strategy, aligning with the UoD Innovation and Research
 Strategic Priorities (REF5a, 2.3), focuses on five key strategic objectives which will enhance
 scholarship and interdisciplinarity in Education aiming to achieve a REF submission in 2027 which
 is more significant in size and scope. To achieve this, we retain a similar focus on development,
 but with more significant and ambitious targets.

 1. Research capacity and structure
 To develop capacity for sustainable research and innovation within the Institute, building on
 iCeGS and the established research clusters which form a nexus for our area's expertise.
 Interventions to achieve this will include:
     • iSEND and TVET clusters to develop as self-funding research centres during the next REF
       cycle.
     • 2021-27 staffing strategy to sustain and develop capacity more broadly and specifically
       around professional education (2.1).
     • Increase the number of interdisciplinary research projects through collaboration within UoD
       and the local community, establishing impactful outcomes consistent with the UoD Civic
       University Agreement (REF5a, 2.2).

 2. Research environment
 To systematically develop the contribution of Institute staff to research and innovation through a
 healthy research culture and a range of development opportunities at University, College and
 Institute level.
 Interventions to achieve this will include:
     • A more significant time allocation (equivalent to programme leadership) for cluster leads,
        who will hold the role on a rotational basis.
     • Research environment and its development to become responsibility of nominated member
        of professoriate (working closely with cluster leads) for next REF cycle.
     • IoE development opportunities to be more closely integrated with those at College and
        University level.

 3. Research outputs
 To increase the number of staff contributing at least 2.5 outputs to the 2027 REF at 3* and above,
 supported by at least 3 Impact Case Studies at 3* and above.
 Interventions to achieve this will include:
     • Co-ordinated integration of Individual Research Plans (REF5a, 3.2), as part of the annual
       development performance review (DPR), all linked to IoE strategy.
     • Ongoing mentoring from senior academics via research clusters and University Professorial
       Council (UPC) (REF5a, 3.4.2).

 4. Research-informed teaching and student research
  To disseminate our research culture among staff and students by sharing staff research,
 promoting research-informed teaching and providing research opportunities as part of our UG and
 professional programmes.
 Interventions to achieve this will include:
     • Reviewing UG and professional programmes to ensure that research is fully integrated into
       the curriculum, aligning with Institutional strategies.
     • Reviewing UG and professional programmes to facilitate a move from research-orientated
       to research-based and research-led teaching.

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5. Building professional postgraduate research routes
 To develop and enhance postgraduate research opportunities that enable education professionals
 to engage with contemporary issues within their field at the highest level of academic study.
 Interventions to achieve this will include:
     • To grow the seminar programmes both online and face to face to offer an enhanced lecture
       and seminar programme focusing on education theory and methodologies.
     • To enhance the existing PGT/PGR student culture and identity through promoting dedicated
       space and activities to create a defined community of practice.
     • To grow the PG programmes by focusing on EDI and increasing the doctoral opportunities
       for BAME students.

 6. Innovation and partnership
 Develop innovative educational practice through strong relationships with partners and
 stakeholders to address key regional, national and global priorities (REF5a, 2.3).
 Interventions to achieve this will include:
     • Building on existing partnerships and networks to develop these further.
     • Working within and across UoD to establish new interdisciplinary networks and
       partnerships.
     • Work within the local and regional area using impactful research to promote and embed the
       UN Sustainable Development Goals, addressing educational and sustainability issues, and
       reducing inequalities.

 1.5 Research standards
 UoA23 is committed to an inclusive research environment, maintaining academic standards and
 a culture of integrity through the internal quality control mechanisms below:

 Ethics and Integrity
 UoD is committed to promoting high ethical standards in research and to safeguarding the dignity,
 rights and welfare of all those involved in research and the implementation of its results, as a
 fundamental part of its principles of research integrity. Ethical standards are maintained through
 policies and procedures laid down by the University’s Research Ethics Committee (UREC), and
 these are regularly revised (most recently 2019) to comply with national legislation and standards
 of good practice (REF5a, 2.1). UoD’s Research Ethics Policy is a pillar of the University’s
 commitment to research integrity. Its recent revision reflects endorsement of and commitment to
 the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. The revised University Research Ethics Policy is
 supported by a separate University Research Ethics Procedures document. This separation
 enhances the profile of the Research Ethics Policy while allowing a more proactive and pragmatic
 implementation of procedures which utilises an integrated online system Ethics Monitor.

 All research proposals developed in education, from both staff and students, are subject to review
 by the College Research Ethics Committee, which operates under guidance from UREC.
 Processes are in accordance with agreed standards of good practice laid down in the GSRU
 (Government Social Research Unit) and the British Education Research Association (BERA). A
 risk assessment approach is followed to safeguard the well-being of participants and researchers.
 Hanson, Deputy Chair of the College Ethics Committee, leads this across UoA23.

 Responsible Metrics
 The University’s Academic Board approved the Responsible Metrics Statement in 2020 (based on
 the Leiden Manifesto for Responsible Metrics); and has implemented centrally funded green and
 gold access policies (REF5a, 2.1). The Responsible Metrics Statement guides and informs a
 responsible research culture across the institution, and incorporates 10 principles providing a
 framework accommodating arts, humanities and social sciences. It establishes best practice
 through incorporating recommendations from Metric Tide and the San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment (DORA). The University will sign up to DORA during academic year 2021-



                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2022. All colleges have a responsible metrics champion to support implementation and cultural
 embedding: Neary leads this across UoA23 and the wider CAHE.

 2. People

 2.1 Overview
 The staffing strategy and staff development strategy have focussed on the recruitment, retention,
 and development of academics within an inclusive and diverse environment. Within the UoA, there
 are 21.3 FTE / headcount 24 staff with significant responsibility for research. This includes seven
 professors (Atkins, Avis, Robinson, Hooley, Larcombe, Forman, Turner); four of these posts
 were strategically focussed on areas of research strength in order to facilitate further development.
 These include Hooley (iCeGS); Atkins and Avis (TVET) and Robinson (iSEND). ECR’s have
 increased from 1 in 2014 to 6 in 2020. The submission includes a further 15 doctorally qualified
 staff, 6 of whom are ECR. Within the IoE, including those studying for doctoral qualifications,
 approximately 38% of staff are research active, exceeding the University target of 30% of staff
 being research active by 2020. The staffing strategy for the next REF cycle has three key
 elements: moving temporary research staff (employed during this REF cycle) to permanent
 contracts; supporting the development of existing staff through internal promotion, and the
 recruitment of a high-calibre professor to develop research in professional education.

 2.2. Equality and Diversity
 UoA 23 supports and promotes equality and diversity as articulated within the UoD’s Equality and
 Diversity Policy, and according to its 2019 People Strategy (REF5a, 3.1; 3.2). Within UoA23, a
 diverse working environment advances gender equality at every opportunity and all colleagues
 are empowered to thrive and achieve their full potential. UoA23 actively seeks to encourage and
 support those from under-represented groups and ECRs to participate in the Research Excellence
 Framework. This approach (which also applies to the recruitment and support of research
 students) is reflected in staff data.

 Table 1: Proportion of UoD and UoA23 SRR staff by E&D Characteristic, REF2014 and
 REF2021 (% FTE)

                      REF2014            UoD REF2021           UoA 23 REF2021
  Characteristic
  Gender
  Male                69%                42%                   34%
  Female              31%                58%                   66%
  Race/Ethnicity
  BAME                22%
  Non-BAME            78%
  Arab                                   <5%
  Asian                                  10%
  Black                                  <5%
  Chinese                                5%
  Other/mixed                            <5%                   5%
  Refused                                <5%                   5%
  White                                  75%                   91%
  Disability
  Disabled            2.5%               ≤5%                   13%
  Non-Disabled        98%                97%                   87%
  Age
  25-35                                  17%                   9%
  35-44                                  35%                   31%
  45-54                                  29%                   24%
  55-64                                  17%                   34%
  65+                                    ≤5%                   ≤5%

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                       REF2014             UoD                    UoA 23
  Contract Type
  Fixed Term                               7%                     17%
  Permanent                                93%                    83%
  ECR
  ECR                                      18%                    26%
  Non-ECR                                  82%                    74%

 Data demonstrates that 18% of UoA23 staff have a declared disability, 12% above the national
 benchmark, but consistent with the general population. This includes staff working at professorial
 level and junior academics, reflecting extensive support for disabled staff within the Institute and
 wider University which enables needs to be met on an individual basis (REF5a, 3.1; 3.2). Valuing
 diversity is central to the ethos of the Institute and reflected in the recruitment of senior staff: 100%
 of full-time Professors, and 50% of all Professors in the Institute are female, against national level
 of 27%. In REF2021, 55% of staff returned are female and 4 (20%) work part-time; 70% of doctoral
 students are female. Within UoA23 the output portfolio has been selected based strictly on the
 Code of Practice determination of SRR. Flexible working is supported for colleagues with caring
 responsibilities as well as those with health problems or disabilities. UoD has begun working
 towards the Race Equality Charter and has participated in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index
 achieving a score of 77 and a position of 226/500+ in 2020. The UoA recognises that this
 submission lacks diversity in respect of race and ethnicity, and is working with emerging doctoral
 researchers (e.g. Byrd, Yusuf-Pridmore) to develop a more representative submission in 2027.
 This development forms part of a broader CAHE and University strategy. Valuing diversity is
 integral to support for career progression and researcher development within the UoA.

 2.3 Career and researcher development
 Career and researcher development are reviewed as part of the annual DPR process and
 implemented through mentorship schemes aligned to research clusters (1.1; 2.3). These
 processes support colleagues to develop their skills, experience, and knowledge. Internal
 promotions to Professor and Associate Professor are advertised annually (REF5a, 3.4.1). The
 University endorses the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, to which it becomes a signatory in 2022: these underpin institutional policies and
 practice concerning research staff. The IoE was awarded silver status by Investors in People
 (100774- G957B3, 2017) who commended the approach to researcher development, particularly
 “the Buy-Out’ of staff time off their teaching timetable to pursue research [thus contributing
 to REF targets]”, and the “strong expectations that staff will proactively drive their own CPD, seek
 academic qualifications, drive and role model teaching excellence (given the client group) and
 engage in research within their field of interest and expertise” (p.12). The financial investment in
 this activity is elaborated in 2.4.

 The University invests significantly in supporting staff and student micro research projects, to build
 student skills and support ECR staff. Fourteen staff from UoA23 have successfully bid for the
 University Research Scholarship Scheme (URSS), delivered projects and published the outputs
 (e.g. Hooley, Neary). Thirty-two students have been supported to gain experience of working with
 academics on these research projects.

 UoD provides comprehensive central support for career development through a Researcher
 Development Programme. This includes research cafes, grant application workshops, promotion
 workshops, mentorship, and an ECR Forum, organised through the University Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Office, supported by the University Professorial Council (REF5a, 3.4).
 UoA23 academics take an active role in the programme, participating in events to support their
 own development (e.g. Dimitrellou; Folasade), and in mentorship roles (e.g. Esmond, Atkins).
 In 2019 six staff, five of whom are returned with this submission, took part in promotion workshops
 led by the chair of UPC and supported by Atkins: five of these colleagues are currently supported
 by the UoD Mentoring programme (1.4; 2.1, see also REF5a, 3.4.2).



                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within UoA23 staff development and career progression are key planks of our strategy for a
 sustainable research base for the next REF cycle. Operationalising this encompasses:
     • Supporting more staff to engage with doctoral study.
     • Supporting timely doctoral completions.
     • Identifying and mentoring junior staff with potential for senior roles (Associate
        Professor/Professor) (1.4; 2.1).
     • Supporting ECR and junior staff to engage with research, writing for publication, and
        scholarship (e.g. through involvement in grant application and co-authorship) (1.3).

 This successful strategy is reflected in Doctoral completions: within the period 2013 – 2020, 15
 staff have completed doctorates within the IoE. Staff have 60% of their fees funded by their
 department, an investment of £108k over the current REF cycle. Staff may pursue an EdD, or a
 PhD via different routes (e.g. traditional, by publication). Research Mentorship is available from
 the UoA23 Professoriate through research clusters, in respect of both research and career
 progression. A minimum 200 hours’ time allocation is offered through the Academic Workload
 Planning (AWP) system to support part-time doctoral study, and staff are also able to apply for
 internal funding to support additional module buy-out. 15 full-time IoE academics are currently
 undertaking doctorates (5 currently enrolled on the independent research phase of the EdD
 programme and 10 on the PhD programme), reflecting a further investment of £129,000. Three
 staff have had funding approved to commence doctoral study in 2020/21. iCeGS was awarded
 QR GTA funding for a doctoral student in 2016, totalling an additional investment of over £42,300.

 Four promotions to Associate Professor (AP) (Esmond, Neary, Oates, Robinson) took place
 during the current REF period; five staff are currently being supported within the IoE in advance
 of 2021 applications for promotion to AP or Professor. In addition to the cross-university support
 and mentoring towards promotion (organised via UPC), the IoE offers open meetings to support
 future applications. As part of the DPR, line managers are asked to identify staff with potential for
 promotion. This approach has identified three individuals (all female, one with disabilities, one
 part-time, reflecting equality of opportunity in career and research pathways) with potential for
 senior roles who might not otherwise have considered promotion. Long-term plans are made with
 these individuals, their line managers and mentor to identify potential limitations in their profile and
 provide opportunities and support to address these. Research-related opportunities offered in
 2019/2020 include the co-authorship of an Impact Case Study (Codina) and co-convening a
 research cluster (Simmons) with support and mentorship from senior academics.

 As part of succession planning, funding for professorial posts has been committed to areas of
 strategic development, increasing capacity across the Research Clusters (1). QR income secured
 following the education submission to REF2014 has supported a small number of researchers
 with a view to increasing quality and impact for REF2021. Over the 2014-2021 period, a total of
 £61,954 was invested in staff development and additional research time, leading to high-quality
 outputs: ECRs Staunton and Dimitrellou both published 2018 outputs returned in this
 submission. All academic staff (including fractional and fixed-term contracts) have time allocated
 for research and scholarly activity. This investment also supported nascent scholarly outputs by
 staff not included in this submission (e.g. Bloor, PGR).

 2.4 Small research projects and module buy-out
 QR Investment was made as small grants supporting research and buy out. This investment led
 directly to several outputs for this return (e.g. Esmond, 2020), as well as underpinning work for
 future returns (e.g. Robinson, forthcoming, 2021; Esmond and Atkins, forthcoming, 2021). The
 investment supported research-led practice including a joint project with a partner primary school
 adopting continuous provision throughout KS1. This involved two teachers, four PGCE students
 and UoA23 staff (Byrd, PGR) all of whom presented at the 2018 TEAN conference with University
 financial support.

 2.5 Conference attendance and Seminars
 All staff, particularly ECRs, are encouraged to attend national and international research
 conferences, supported by QR and CPD funding (1.3). During the 2014-2021 REF Cycle,

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues have presented at international research conferences including BERA, ECER, and
 AERA. A financial investment totalling £434,908 (£61,954 QR and £311,000 CPD), supported
 conference attendance and researcher development. Funding requests are made through an
 internal application system and considered by a team of senior academics. Over 90% applications
 were successful during the 2014/2021 REF cycle.

 Public conferences and seminars offered by the Research Clusters have been an important aspect
 of the developing IoE research culture. During 2019, members of TVET, iCeGS, and the iSEND
 Clusters collaborated on the UoA23 offer to the successful UN Global Challenges Research Week
 (REF5a, 3.4.3). iCeGS annually hosts the Student conference on behalf of the Career
 Development Institute, international conferences, a flagship annual lecture and co-hosts the
 national Career Leader conference: this has become the major event for the dissemination of
 research and practice for this recently established school and college role. The Childhood Cluster
 hosted the TACTYC (Association for Professional Development in Early Years) 40th Anniversary
 conference in 2018, supported and attended by both students and staff; TVET established an
 International Seminar series (speakers included Wheelahan, Toronto and Pilz, Cologne). Building
 on these successful initiatives, in 2018/19 the IoE launched a successful public seminar series as
 part of the activity of the Research and Scholarship Forum. Speakers have included, for example,
 Colley (Manchester) and Carruthers-Thomas (BCU).

 Forum on writing/writing for publication
 Regular writing workshops were introduced in 2018 following successful QR-funded seminars for
 early career and aspiring researchers on writing effectively. Writing workshops operate on an opt-
 in basis and include structured input (e.g. Writing for Publication) as well as opportunities for
 facilitated writing supported by more experienced academics. These progressed in 2020 to
 preparation and development for REF 2027. To mitigate the impact of COVID-19, these activities
 (led by Avis), moved in April 2020 to a virtual forum, accessible to all UoA23 staff. Prior to COVID,
 two IoE residential writing retreats were attended by twenty staff, additional to writing retreats
 offered by the University.

 2.6 Output selection
 Consistent with the UoD Code of Practice, UoA23 has taken an inclusive approach to determining
 SRR and research independence with the output selection reflecting the synergy between
 research and teaching (1.1). This is illustrated in that some staff (e.g. Turner; Codina; Delgado-
 Fuentes) have focussed on disseminating their research in publicly accessible forms or as
 practitioner texts, thus producing fewer research outputs. Similarly, most UoA23 ECR’s (6
 headcount, 5.6 FTE, 28.2% of submission) have fewer outputs than the metric implies due to the
 recency with which they became independent researchers. We anticipate they will generate more
 significant potential returns over the next REF cycle. All outputs have been double peer-reviewed
 by the UoA Professoriate, and 50% of outputs have been subject to external peer review. All staff
 have received development feedback on their outputs following these processes.

 2.7 Research students
 The IoE runs successful PhD and EdD Programmes. The EdD was initially validated as a PGT
 programme and students enrolled prior to re-validation in 2013 continued on the PGT validated
 programme. After 2013, students pursued a PGR validated programme. The Programme has led
 to a total of 29 successful doctoral completions during this REF cycle (Table 2).

 Table 2: Doctoral completions within the REF2021 assessment period


            2013/14 2014/15 2015/16              2016/17     2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Total
  PhD               1.00                                             1.00    2.00    4
  DProf/EdD 3.00    5.00    2.00                 6.00        7.00    4.00    2.00    29



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Doctoral programmes
 The revalidated EdD programme was designed to enhance the research culture and its vitality
 within the UoA. Its success in promoting high-quality outcomes will be reported in full in the REF
 2027 submission. Engagement with the EdD programme supports a research-informed
 curriculum: staff can enrich their professional practice and develop as leaders of their own field.
 EdD graduate Neary (2014) has published extensively, becoming Head of iCeGS and Associate
 Professor; Charles (2017) became Head of IoE, leading teaching and research activities;
 Palgrave published a monograph based on Simmons (2019, now ECR) thesis in June 2020.

 The Programme is fiscally and intellectually healthy. There are currently 38 EdD students enrolled,
 21 on the Independent Research phase, and 17 on the ‘taught phase’ (8 in year 2, 9 in year 1).
 Fourteen current enrolments are UoD staff and 24 are external students, reflecting the positive
 reputation of the programme both internally and externally, particularly with providers across the
 Opportunities Area where much of our applied research is impacting. Similarly, the PhD, (23
 current enrolments) draws both international students and education professionals from the
 University's networks, studying a varied and richly theorised range of topics.

 2.8 Student support and progression
 Doctoral students are supported by supervisory teams of two, at least one of whom has specialist
 expertise in the area of focus of the study. Monitoring and support of students is consistent with
 university policy and processes through the College Research Committee (REF5a, 3.4).
 Development of both PhD and EdD programmes is led at UoA level by Esmond (PhD) and
 Tupling (EdD). A compendium of central research training opportunities is available to PGR
 students annually which they are expected to engage (REF5a, 3.4.5).

 PGR students also attend, present at, and occasionally lead UoA seminars offered through the
 clusters to which they are aligned, the IoE seminar series, and the Research and Scholarship
 Forum. For example, EdD students led a Research and Scholarship Forum on ‘Edgy Ethics’ in
 February 2020, and Folasade organised an international seminar Nigeria: The Educational
 Legacy of Colonialism, in 2018.

 Students have an Institutional entitlement to apply to the University Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Office for funding (up to £500 per PGR student per year) to support conference
 attendance, enabling Education students to attend both national (e.g. Alexander, paper & poster
 presentations) and international (e.g. Folasade, paper presentation) conferences. All PGR
 students are also encouraged to present at free annual conferences (e.g. annual internal PGR
 conference; East Midlands Doctoral network (EMDoc)). For example, Simmons (ECR, then
 PGR); Brooks; Murden, Bradbury (all PGR) have presented their research at UoA Cluster events
 and conferences.

 Students undertaking doctoral study with iCeGS also participate in the European Doctoral
 Programme for Career Guidance and Counselling (ECADOC) summer school programme, which
 offers doctoral students researching topics within career guidance and counselling opportunities
 to network with peers and scholars from other countries, present and discuss their research
 projects, and expand their knowledge of research methods. Four iCeGS doctoral students have
 attended the summer schools, and Hooley is a member of the organising committee. This
 Programme helps to locate iCeGS as a leading centre for doctoral study within the international
 career research community. The event moved online in 2020 due to COVID disruption and was
 attended by iCeGS PGR Galfalvi.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income generation
 Over the REF2021 assessment period, the UoA has secured £2,070,000 in research funding to
 support independent, applied and policy-related research. This work is undertaken primarily, but
 not exclusively, for UK central and local government, government agencies, the EU and charitable
 organisations (Table 3) and supported by project manager Challacombe and Research

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Administrator Boyce (1.3), both appointed during this REF cycle. Income streams map onto three
 overlapping areas of research interest and expertise, reflecting the foci of iCeGS, the TVET
 cluster, and the iSEND cluster. These three groups are the most research-active of the clusters
 within the UoA, and regularly collaborate on bids and projects which reflect shared expertise (e.g.T
 Level pilot; EHCP research). Smaller amounts of income have been generated by those clusters
 which have a greater focus on debate and scholarship.

 Table 3: Research income generation 2013-2020 (£, 000’s) (as submitted to REF4b)

  Source Number and           2013/ 2014/ 2015/ 2016/ 2017/ 2018/ 2019/
  Name                        14    15    16    17    18    19    20                   Totals
  2. UK-based charities
  (open competitive
  process)                    108            124     293      185             1        711
  3. UK-based charities
  (other)                     82     33                               60      29       204
  4. UK central
  government
  bodies/local authorities,
  health and hospital
  authorities                 22     64      31      81       38      3       22       261
  6. UK industry,
  commerce and public
  corporations                81     113     158     97       76      34      93       652
  7. UK other sources                                                         19       19
  8. EU government
  bodies                      5      15      23      26       13      15      45       142
  9. EU-based charities
  (open competitive
  process)                    26     17                                                43
  10. EU industry,
  commerce and public
  corporations                12     15                                                27
  14. Non-EU other                           1       4        6                        11
  Total                       336    257     337     505      318     112     209      2,070

 Illustrative examples are provided to demonstrate the scope of each discipline’s work.

 Careers Education and Guidance: iCeGS focuses on researching transitions into and through
 learning and work. Its portfolio comprises three main strands: developing careers guidance for
 young people, widening access, and lifelong guidance. These three areas have elicited several
 successful and long-term relationships with commissioning bodies. Work focusing on developing
 career guidance for young people has led to successful relationships with organisations such as
 the Gatsby Foundation (£233,500) to develop and evaluate the implementation of the Gatsby
 Benchmarks, and the Careers and Enterprise Company, who we collaborated with on a series of
 projects identifying best practice to support the benchmarks: 5 literature reviews at £16k each,
 one project to evaluate careers guidance in a primary setting at £32K and identifying what works
 in personal guidance, £26K and an evaluation of the personal guidance project, £49K (see also
 REF3, 23-1: Developing and Embedding Effective Careers Guidance for Young People in
 England). Additionally, the Centre has worked with the Edge Foundation on a series of projects to
 evaluate the impact of employer interventions in schools (£29K and Ford Next Generation Project
 £47K).




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The widening access research has focused on both evaluations of NCOP projects (£75K) but also
 undertaking novel research to explore influencers on young people’s HE choices (£76K). In
 addition to these, the team have contributed to a collaborative project for OFFA led by University
 of West of England (UWE) (£5K) and undertaken research for the Service Children Alliance (SCiP)
 exploring needs of Service Children (£28K). The Centre has maintained a long-term relationship
 with the National Careers Service in England identifying and disseminating best practice through
 research and an online CPD Platform since 2014 with funding totalling over £250K.

 Technical and Vocational Education: Projects for the DfE have included a project led by the
 Institute for Employment Studies to evaluate work placements for technical education (£28k). This
 project informed the “emerging principles’ for industry placements set out in the T Level Action
 Plan and supported post-16 providers and employers “to build their capability and capacity to
 deliver placements”. Projects for the Gatsby Foundation supported its policy work through studies
 of work placements at level 3 (£20k) and bridging provision supporting transitions into higher
 education and simultaneously across pathways (£20k). Projects supporting the work of the
 Education and Training Foundation (professional development body for further education) have
 included the evaluation and further development of resources and multi-media provision
 supporting assessors moving into training roles (£132k +£158k), teachers of higher education in
 colleges and workplaces (£58k), and technical teachers for the first round of T Levels (two projects
 totalling £94k). Other work, funded by Rothschild & co (£50k), supports the development of a
 reimagined further education curriculum at level 1. This project has informed education policy and
 practice in Guernsey and England, where it has contributed to the ongoing Review of
 Qualifications at Level 2 and Below. Directly leading from this project, in July 2020 we contracted
 for a four-year longitudinal study exploring the value of enrichment, which will be reported in 2027
 (value to UoD £116k, with AoC for NCFE). See REF3, 23-2: Diverging pathways and liminal
 practice in Further Education for discussion of the impact and beneficiaries of this cluster’s work.

 iSEND: iSEND focuses on both research and practice, reflected in REF3, 23-3: Ecologies for the
 enhancement of social and educational inclusion in England; policy and practice for Special
 Educational Needs and Disability (SEND). The Cluster has undertaken a range of Action Research
 projects during this REF cycle such as the 2018-21: Derby Opportunities Area project (part of a
 research and development programme of £245k with £66k to UoD). This project responds to the
 City’s relatively poor outcomes for SEND pupils and involves several elements, all of which
 combine to improve those outcomes. Similar work includes SEND Alumni Project (2019-2020,
 West Yorkshire Combined Authority, £8.8k) and a research study addressing transition
 programmes for young adults with SEND (2017, Careers and Enterprise Company, 16K). Since
 2017 iSEND colleagues have conducted four studies (combined value: £75.8 k to UoD) for the
 DfE into Education Health Care Plans for children/young people with special educational needs.
 Collectively, these have impacted on the efficacy of the EHCP process for families, children and
 young people. Other research projects, supporting and exploring different aspects of the
 educational experience for SEND pupils include work for BookTrust (2016, £24k); research and
 evaluation of the Splash! Programme (2018/19; Disability Arts, 22.5k to UoD), and two evaluations
 of the impact of the Young Enterprise Team project (2016, £18k; 2020, £25k). The latter project is
 led by ECR Dimitrellou as part of her researcher development, mentored by Robinson and
 Moore. The developing international profile of this research cluster led directly to the award of
 £114k for the Process and Impact inquiry into the Access and Inclusion Model (AIM), a social and
 educational policy for equity and inclusion in early education and care. This Project, commissioned
 by Department for Child and Youth Affairs, Eire, and led by Robinson is being delivered by a
 consortium including Mary Immaculate College (Ireland) and IFF Research (England).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations
 UoA23 has developed research collaborations over the REF cycle which have contributed to
 sustainability within the discipline. iCeGS work extensively with partner organisations within and
 outside the HE sector on applied research projects, including work with the Universities of UWE,
 Sheffield, and Sheffield Hallam to deliver an OFFA project on the evaluation of outreach

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interventions to widen access for under 16 year olds. This research has informed strategies for
 evaluating WP work with pre-16s.

 iCeGS regularly work with national and international colleagues on research projects and
 publications, including multiple Erasmus+ projects such as ‘Crucial Impacts on Career Choice’,
 currently exploring career decision-making by young people within partner countries (Neary,
 Moore, Blake, with colleagues from Czech Republic, Spain, Greece, Denmark). The Centre,
 together with the Career Development Institute (CDI) hosts an annual researcher practitioner
 conference which showcases research from the careers sector and that of the centre’s students.
 Facilitated by Hooley, iCeGS worked with Nordic colleagues to establish quality systems for the
 provision of careers support for young people in Norway. Staff have developed writing
 partnerships with colleagues in Ireland (Hearne, Neary, 2020), Australia (Hooley, Rice, 2019),
 Denmark (Hooley, Thomsen, 2019), Malta (Hooley, Sultana, 2018), and Pakistan (Zahid,
 Hooley, & Neary, 2020).

 TVET collaborations have included evaluating the Department for Education (DfE) national pilot
 of industry placements with the Institute of Employment Studies, a partnership developed that led
 to further joint bidding. This cluster collaborates with TVET researchers at the UK national
 UNEVOC centre, co-authoring and co-bidding: the two groups worked together to develop an
 awareness of the Sustainable Development Goals among Derby College staff and students from
 disadvantaged areas through research-based training sessions in 2018-19. TVET’s collaborative
 work engages with practitioners in further education: cluster members have led the East Midlands
 network of the Learning and Skills Research Network: a conference hosted at Nottingham College
 attracted participants from 9 FE Colleges and training providers.

 iSEND collaborated with IFF Research to deliver projects for the DfE. These included large scale
 surveys and contingent qualitative work on education, health and care plans. The cluster has also
 worked with the DfE to develop a reformed approach to statutory assessment for pupils who have
 profound and severe learning difficulties, and is currently collaborating with Mary Immaculate
 College (Ireland) and IFF Research (England) to deliver the AIM project (3.1)

 4.2 Relationships with key research users
 Collaboration between iSEND members and Local Authority, School Leaders and national policy
 experts in the Derby Opportunities Area has resulted in a range of research projects and the
 development of productive and ongoing relationships with key users including policymakers and
 practitioners. The project has involved the delivery of a school improvement programme for SEND
 and inclusion to reach 66 mainstream schools in the City; a city-wide conference for SEND
 practitioners (held at the University) informed by research findings, and which led to the award of
 £40k additional funding for SEND training for SENCos in instructional leadership approaches. The
 TVET cluster networks closely with policymakers and other primary users of research in further
 education nationally, illustrated by membership of the Edge Research Review Group (Esmond
 and Atkins), Edge Islands group (Atkins) and Ofsted FE Research Reference Group (Atkins and
 Avis). The Association of Colleges, Association of Employment and Learning Providers, and Edge
 have invited presentations at national events and provided support for research bids.

 Delgado-Fuentes (Childhood) has been named a member of the Scientific Advisory Group for
 the Development of Early Childhood Education in Mexico. The Group is part of the newly created
 National Council for the Continuous Improvement of Education (MEJOREDU), which aims to
 conduct research and diagnostic studies of the National Educational System, formulate
 requirements for funded educational research, and make recommendations to improve the
 National Educational System.

 4.3 Public outreach, social media and engaging with diverse communities
 Hooley maintains his own blog (over 7500 subscribers) and has recently launched a new website
 designed to build a social justice community around the ideas developed in his books Career
 Guidance for Social Justice and Career Guidance for Emancipation. These digital forms of
 communication create a global vehicle for outreach and dialogue with policy makers and

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professionals. Hooley is a leading commentator on careers and labour market issues, and a
 regular contributor to national media including appearances on television (e.g. Channel 5 News),
 radio (e.g. You and Yours), podcasts (e.g. the New Normal), newspapers (e.g. the Daily
 Telegraph) and online news services (e.g. Huffington Post). Hooley also has an extensive profile
 in the trade press (e.g. Times Higher, FE News & WONKHE), and is a regular contributor to
 careers practitioner focused publications (e.g. Luminate; Careers Matters)

 Turner (with Francis (Swansea) and Smith (SHU)) has produced #DryLabsRealScience which
 has now hosted five national seminars on remote teaching in the life sciences. It has attracted a
 mailing list of 250 HE professionals in bioscience and biomedicine. The seminars have attracted
 50-130 attendees, and the website has 12,500 hits from 32 countries. The work has been shared
 at the Bioscience Summit and Advance HE in the form of two blogs, and as an article for The
 Biologist, published October 2020. Additionally, dissemination by Turner at a seminar for the
 Chartered Society of Forensic Science led directly to the establishment of #RemoteForensicCSI
 (with Nichols-Drew (DMU) and Bolton-King (Staffs)). Turner has also made an extensive
 contribution to Advance HE and the HEA based on his research into Teaching and Learning.
 Examples include Assessment: The Game (May 2020) and Engaging Larger Audiences Toolkit
 (2015). He is also (with Robinson, UoD) co-developer of the Parklife Educational Boardgame
 (Adrenaline Brush Ltd).

 Both Neary and Atkins regularly provide input on projects to regional news and media outlets in
 relation to ongoing work. For example, Neary was interviewed by BBC Radio Scotland in relation
 to Career Management Skills (4.4) whilst Atkins has given radio interviews with BBC Radio
 Guernsey (01/07/2019) and IslandFM (January 2020) as well as interviews with local press (e.g.
 Guernsey Press) on her work with Guernsey College. Both also contribute input on their broader
 research interests to outlets such as The Conversation (e.g. 22/08/17); and Business Network
 (e.g. June, 2018).

 McAllister and Petronzi, have produced a series of successful children’s books based on
 Petronzi’s research and addressing issues such as resilience and maths anxiety; wider scholarly
 and research collaborations include work to bring books to children with severe and profound
 learning disabilities. To achieve this, iSEND have worked with BookTrust and developed a
 collaboration with the charity Openstorytellers and The University of Kent, to provide inclusive
 book clubs for people with learning disabilities. This latter collaboration (led by Dent at UoD) is
 working to produce adapted multi-sensory versions of contemporary fiction accessible to young
 people with severe learning difficulties.

 4.4 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline – interdisciplinarity, responsiveness to
 national/international priorities
 Interdisciplinary work features in this submission, specifically the Low-Carbon and Gatsby
 Benchmark projects, delivered collaboratively by iCeGS and UoD Business School, and work on
 Maths Anxiety (Petronzi) conducted collaboratively with colleagues in Psychology. This has
 provided opportunities for ECRs (Staunton; Petronzi) to develop their research profiles whilst
 working on collaborative and interdisciplinary projects. Within TVET, Esmond’s (2017, 2018,
 2020a, 2020b) work on the facilitation of learning and hybrid forms of professionalism at the
 boundaries of education and the workplace has directly addressed the highest priorities of English
 and international TVET policy, explaining how these have variously sustained, undermined and
 extended educational practice. Ongoing and interdisciplinary work also includes the UoD funded
 “Motherhood Diaries’ project, involving Simmons (ECR) from Education, and colleagues from four
 other UoD Academic Departments, as well as work with the Careers and Enterprise Company to
 create a paraprofession of career leaders. iCeGS portfolio provides multiple examples of impactful
 response to national priorities. Particularly noteworthy is a 2010 commission to develop a Career
 Management Skills (CMS) framework for Skills Development Scotland (SDS) (Hooley, Neary).
 The Framework was to offer an innovative approach to the delivery of careers services adopting
 an educative paradigm rather than a traditional counselling paradigm. The CMS framework would
 support all Scottish citizens to develop skills, knowledge and behaviour that would allow them to
 effectively navigate a changing world of work. The Framework is the centre point of SDS’ all age

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provision and is integrated within all modes of delivery, face to face, group and web. In 2020 SDS
 published a new careers strategy (SDS, 2020a) which maintains the central role of the CMS
 framework in their delivery model. Allied with this is research (SDS, 2020b) which demonstrates
 that young people who develop CMS competencies achieve positive destinations from school.

 4.5 Indicators of Wider Influence
 Editorial board memberships
 These reflect the expertise within each research cluster. For example, three members of the TVET
 cluster (Atkins, Avis, Esmond) sit on the Editorial Board of Journal of Vocational Education and
 Training, the most prestigious UK-based international journal in the field of vocational education;
 Esmond and Avis are also members of the Editorial Management Committee for this journal.
 Avis is a member of the editorial boards of 5 other prestigious journals and Atkins 2 others.
 Robinson (iSEND) is Executive Board Member and lead editor for Education and Employment
 for British Journal of Learning Disabilities, whilst Neary (iCeGS) is Book review editor for British
 Journal of Guidance and Counselling; Hooley also sits on the editorial board of the same journal.
 Forman (HERN) is a member of the editorial boards of Medical Teacher and Journal of
 Interprofessional Care amongst 3 others.

 Peer reviewing
 Colleagues within the UoA undertake peer-reviewing for a range of international research councils.
 These include ESRC College of Peer-reviewers (Avis, Esmond; Hooley); Swiss National Science
 Foundation (Atkins, Avis); Carnegie Research Assessors Scotland, National Science Center,
 Poland (Avis); Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (Dutch Research Council)
 (Esmond) and Network for Innovation in Career Guidance and Counselling in Europe (Neary).
 Colleagues forming part of this submission also review for in excess of 30 eminent peer-reviewed
 journals, including, for example, British Educational Research Journal, British Journal of
 Educational Studies, Oxford Review of Education; Journal of Curriculum Studies; Asia Pacific
 Education Review; Journal of Vocational Education and Training; International Journal for
 Research in Vocational Education and Training; International Studies in the Sociology of
 Education; Medical Education.

 Honorary Positions
 Hooley (Professor II at the Inland Norway University of Applied Sciences, Chair of the Adviza
 Board, and Visiting Professor at Canterbury Christ Church University); Avis (Professor Emeritus,
 University of Huddersfield); Bowers-Brown (Visiting Professor, London Metropolitan University,
 Centre for Equity and Inclusion), Forman (Adjunct Professor at Curtin University, and Auckland
 University of Technology) and Atkins (VRF, University of Huddersfield, 2014-2019) have all held
 honorary positions during the current REF cycle.

 Keynote Addresses and Public Lectures
 IoE staff are recognised experts in their fields, and as such regularly invited to contribute keynote
 addresses and other high-profile presentations to a wide range of audiences. For example,
 Hooley has given public lectures at, amongst others, the Hong Kong Baptist University (2019)
 and University of Melbourne Centre for Vocational and Educational Policy (2019). Avis is regularly
 invited to give high profile keynotes (e.g. Universität Rostock 2017; AVETRA 2015). Neary has
 given invited keynotes on a range of topics including continuing professional development,
 professional identity, career management skills and critical reflection globally. Selected examples
 include NOLOC Conference, Hertogenbosch. Netherlands (2019), Euroguidance Annual
 Conferences in Serbia (2019) and Copenhagen (2017), Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona
 (2016), Athens University of Economics and Business (2016). Similarly, Esmond has given an
 invited lecture and research seminar series at University of Cologne (2018), and a presentation at
 Westminster Education Forum (2017); Atkins has given Keynote addresses including “Higher
 Vocational Education in Times of Uncertainty’ in HIVE-PED ESRC Seminar Series, University of
 Greenwich (2016).



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 External Examiner appointments
 External examiner roles are encouraged as a means of personal development and sharing good
 practice. Hence a significant number of staff, representing all research clusters, and including
 those with and without SRR, hold external examiner positions for undergraduate and post-
 graduate taught programmes up to and including professional doctorate level. UoA staff are also
 in significant demand internationally and nationally to act as External Examiners for Doctoral
 candidates. International examples include Robinson (Rhodes University, South Africa, 2019);
 Esmond (Griffith University, Queensland, Australia, 2019; University of Fort Hare, Eastern Cape,
 South Africa, 2020); Neary (University of Southern Queensland, 2020) Atkins (Victoria University
 of Wellington, New Zealand, 2020, Federation University, Australia, 2018). National level
 indicative examples include Avis (Sheffield, 2019; Huddersfield, 2019; Lancaster, 2020;
 Worcester, 2020); Poultney (Northampton, 2018; Roehampton, 2018; Nottingham Trent, 2017;
 Brighton, 2015); Atkins (Sheffield, 2020; Durham 2019, University College London 2019);
 Radford (Roehampton University, 2018; Plymouth, 2017) Neary (Glasgow, 2016; Canterbury
 Christ Church, 2019; Salford, 2020) Robinson (Southampton, 2019; Worcester, 2019) and
 Esmond (Bedfordshire, 2017; Nottingham 2019; Roehampton, 2020).




                                                                                         Page 16
