Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of South Wales

 Unit of Assessment: 33B Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context

 The Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama (RWCMD/The College) is a conservatoire that
 has been recognised as a “powerhouse of innovation and collaboration across the performing
 arts,” 1 and was rated the number one drama school over several years during the assessment
 period in The Guardian UK league table. 2 However, this submission to the REF, which is the
 first the College has made in its own right, represents a critical moment in its evolution as it
 seeks to fully inhabit its role as a national conservatoire and grows to play a mature part in
 higher education. Part of the University of South Wales (USW) group, the College trains 800
 artists at undergraduate and postgraduate levels, preparing them to succeed in a wide range of
 disciplines including opera, musical theatre, design, stage management, and arts management.
 It is also a major arts centre, producing the largest number of annual theatre productions in
 Wales, and attracting over 40,000 visitors a year to its concerts, shows and plays. Through its
 pioneering programmes and world-class facilities, RWCMD serves students and audiences from
 around the world and produces interdisciplinary, collaborative and practice-based research that
 leads to impacts particularly on arts industries. As well as its global reach, it takes pride in
 serving the people of Wales, especially through its outward-facing approach, which enables it to
 meet the needs of the rapidly changing landscapes that demand new forms of professional
 practice, social engagement, and economic models. By providing critical infrastructure for the
 arts, and by embracing the civic mission embodied in its status as a national conservatoire, it is
 crucially aligned with USW by being committed to the Well-being of Future Generations (Wales)
 Act of 2015.

 Of the 18 RWCMD staff included in this submission – which is part of the USW D33 multiple
 offering – 15 are full-time. They work across the College’s departments, which include Design for
 Performance, Drama, Music and Stage Management. Most research outputs are practice-based,
 and the diverse approaches evidenced in the submission underline RWCMD’s interdisciplinary
 and collaborative strengths as well as its aim to effect positive change. Design for performance
 is represented by Brophy’s sculptures, Crowley’s large-scale exhibitions, Hall’s set design,
 Edge’s costumes, and Evans’s installations, demonstrating a range of impacts in the worlds of
 film, theatre and sculpture. The theatrical productions of Logue, Munby and Reeves engage
 with social and aesthetic issues and show a commitment to communicating with diverse,
 contemporary audiences. They also embrace critical thought on performance practice and the
 ethics of performance. The musical compositions and technological advances in Hardy and
 Marcenaro’s outputs, and Hardy’s impact case study, are evidence of new working practices
 that have changed the music industry. In particular, Hardy’s development of a team of
 composers, including RWCMD graduates, has enabled him to complete a significant number of
 projects over the assessment period. Through their focus on pedagogical practices, well-being
 and inclusive training in the performing arts, the projects of Gaunt, Gardiner, Sanderson and
 Price aim to evolve professional practice and improve the practical and educational experiences
 of the field’s students and professionals. Gaunt’s work, especially through her collaborative
 partnerships, has had a decisive impact on how conservatoires evolved their learning
 environments and pedagogies to open to the demands and opportunities of contemporary
 contexts. Rhys-Evans’s work is that of a musician with a committed social mission whose
 projects aim not only for outstanding artistic quality, but also involve strong curatorial and
 community engagement agendas. Through their archival studies, Smith and Phillippo are

1 Rupert Christiansen, The Telegraph, 11 September 2013


2 https://www.theguardian.com/education/ng-interactive/2018/may/29/university-guide-2019-league-table-for-

drama-dance

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
helping to reclaim important pieces by neglected composers. By furthering relationships with
archives across Wales, Smith’s work has provided a platform for original research by students,
allowing them to become immersed in the investigation of primary sources, and shining a much-
deserved spotlight on Welsh music.

During the REF 2014 audit period, the College was in the process of completing major
infrastructure projects and dealing with governance issues and an acutely challenging funding
environment. Consequently, while Crowley was included in the University of Glamorgan’s 2008
UOA 65 submission, RWCMD did not submit in 2014. The significant improvements to
infrastructure and facilities that have since been completed form the background of Crowley’s
impact case study, which focusses on the legacy of hosting World Stage Design at RWCMD in
2013. This event attracted 13,000 visitors, had 100 exhibitors and over 40 public performances,
and generated global media coverage.

 Following the 2018 appointment of Gaunt as Principal, RWCMD has moved beyond this earlier
 building phase by extending its established reputation through a more systematic approach to
 research supported by appropriate infrastructure. RWCMD’s ambition is to embed research as a
 fundamental part of professional training in a conservatoire, a goal articulated in the Ten-Year
 Vision and Strategic Plan adopted in Autumn 2019. Central to this goal is to establish a clear
 identity for RWCMD research and knowledge exchange for the creative industries with an
 emphasis on new artistic work and creative practice. RWCMD is committed to launching a
 doctoral programme, creating a structured environment for knowledge exchange, and funding
 the work of early career researchers (ECRs) as well as supporting research leadership. Further
 objectives include developing externally funded collaborative projects and implementing the
 fruits of these projects into the content of the various degree programmes. In addition, RWCMD
 aims to transform its programme for student-led projects, RepCo, into a more comprehensive
 ecology of creative research and start-up support, and to imagine new forms of public
 engagement.

 Research Strategy

 During the assessment period, research was undertaken primarily through research and
 scholarly activity days and agreed periods of leave for research active staff. Additional limited
 funds agreed by the College’s Research & Innovation Committee have supported in whole or in
 part several important projects, such as those included in this submission by Reeves and Smith.
 RWCMD will adopt a new Research Strategy in 2021 that articulates a thoroughgoing approach
 to supporting staff research, especially that of ECRs, and creating an environment in which staff
 consider themselves not only practitioners but part of an active research community. In addition
 to QR, RWCMD is exploring various income sources to fund new initiatives and establishing a
 structure to help staff bid for external grants and funds from end users through commissioned
 research contracts. An early success of this policy was securing funding for the Foyle Opera
 Rara Collection archive. The College plans to ring-fence funding for research, to aim resources
 towards research students, and to provide further support for special collections and information
 services.

The Principal enlarged the Research & Innovation Committee in Autumn 2019 and has begun
transforming it from an awarding body into one that directs RWCMD research strategically. The
Committee will more deeply embed research’s position at the College, as well as bolster its
relationship with innovation, a core strength of the institution. Raising the research profile of the
institution, its departments and staff – whose research endeavours and professional practice will
be more clearly highlighted – is a particular goal over the next five years. This includes
Committee oversight of undergraduate and postgraduate research projects, which have
increased greatly in number over the assessment period and been praised by external
examiners. The College will also support interdisciplinary work across departments with targeted
funds. The Research & Innovation Committee will be responsible for enhancing research
partnerships and networks for knowledge exchange. It will also keep abreast of the latest
developments in the sector, research councils and the arts generally – forming a bridge to other

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
higher education institutions and the wider world – and track and measure impact and oversee
research partnerships. A sub-committee will devise a more robust ethical framework for research
in line with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity.

Multidisciplinarity and diverse methodologies are central to RWCMD and build naturally on the
College’s strengths. The flagship David Seligman Opera School, inaugurated in 2017 in
collaboration with Welsh National Opera, provides training in all the operatic disciplines, as well
as design, stage management and arts management. New courses, such as the Master’s in
Opera Directing, developed and led by Constantine, whose book forms part of this submission,
is a strong example of practice as research. Meanwhile, the new BA in Musical Theatre will
provide another significant avenue to professional activity and research as practice. RWCMD
already has written significant research elements into all of its programmes, from undergraduate
level upwards, which should enable the smoother implementation of its research aims. The
College’s Master’s programmes have been streamlined to offer more specialist pathways, such
as for orchestral musicians, players/composers and opera directors, all of which will lead to more
specialist research study, as will the new MA in Collaborative Practice. The latter MA will be
introduced into the postgraduate curriculum to be validated in 2021 and will form a major source
of research interest into interdisciplinary activity.

 Students are given the opportunity to lead on major projects through the RepCo programme,
 which is expanding annually, and helps integrate students into the College’s wider research
 culture. The Kurt Weill performance projects undertaken by master’s student Jose Bustamante
 Eduardo have already resulted in his outstanding dissertation on Weill. Students also led the
 production of L’Histoire du soldat, which involved collaboration with members of the dance
 department at USW. Student and staff composers present work through the popular
 Atmospheres festival, and many also have their work premiered by the BBC National Orchestra
 of Wales through the BBC’s contemporary music programme.

 Impact

 Our vision, as articulated in the College Strategic Plan, is to inspire and change lives, to connect
 and transform communities through the arts, and to represent Wales as a distinctive cultural and
 creative force across the globe. Impact is prioritised and measured by connecting our research-
 active staff and early career researchers to the professional field and to supporting them to thrive
 and influence the direction of the wider arts professions.

 The College measures its impact through collaboration with industry partners and will deepen
 those relationships by strengthening the potential for collaborative research and innovation, and
 reach. Partners include Welsh National Opera, BBC National Orchestra of Wales, S4C, Theatr
 Clwyd, National Youth Arts, and the Sherman Theatre, as well as an international partnership
 with the Shanghai Theatre Academy in China. Student placements with these partners are
 central to RWCMD’s relationships with them. Partnering with the Central Academy of Drama in
 Beijing, China, the College has joined a research project on the educational role of drama in the
 development of children’s aesthetic psychology. This will eventually in £15,000, though delayed
 by Covid-19, evidencing the development of new avenues of research funding.

 The College is also aligning with the innovation and engagement framework USW has in place
 with funding from HEFCW. RWCMD is putting together a funding submission for a project in
 Drama with UCAN, a creative arts co-operative for blind and partially sighted young people. The
 College is a member of CUK, the Federation of Drama Schools, and the European Association
 of Conservatoires. It aims to explore further partnerships, particularly with European institutions
 that have similar strengths. One such idea is to build relationships with major European opera
 houses to develop a repository of teaching and research materials for the College. RWCMD has
 access to the Research Wales Innovation Fund and USW programmes such as the Knowledge
 Exchange & Innovation Fund.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Section 2. People

In keeping with the wider conservatoire sector, evolution is required to fully embrace a research
agenda. Because its primary focus is as an institution that trains practitioners for careers in the
performing arts, the RWCMD has not historically emphasised hiring staff with advanced
academic qualifications. But over the last 25 years, conservatoires have been joining the
research mainstream, becoming leading exponents of practice-based and artistic research.
Though the College is implementing a systematic research infrastructure at a relatively late
stage, it has learned from, and is building upon, the work of its partner institutions in the sector.
Recent hires, such as Rhys-Evans, Director of Music, and Munby, Director of Drama
Performance, both of whom are included in this submission, indicate the direction the College is
taking towards hiring research-active practitioners with an international profile who are engaged
with the arts and in society more broadly. These appointments represent the College’s first major
steps towards achieving greater impact through its research. Their leadership on the
collaborative and interdisciplinary agenda is evidenced by the films produced in Munby’s first full
term, which included scores written by RWCMD student composers. The College is also
initiating an artists-in-residence programme, which will enhance annually the College’s
understanding of the sector’s changing nature. The inaugural appointee is Chinonyerem
Odimba, an award-winning Bristol-based playwright, screenwriter and poet, who is Writer-in-
Residence for the 2020-21 academic year. In May 2020, the College appointed a Director of
External Affairs, Kate Stokes Davies, who will oversee partnerships and outreach, and offer
impact measurement support.

 The work of a considerable number of full-time research-active staff forms the core of this
 submission. Those with a significant responsibility for research are allocated 20% of their time to
 devote to research in accordance with the USW Academic Workload Model. Of the 18 staff
 included in this submission, 15 are full-time. In preparation for this REF submission, these staff
 members received mentoring through line management. However, the overall percentage of
 part-time staff at the College is high. This largely reflects the College’s aim to employ
 professionals who are leaders in their fields, and whose higher education work therefore forms
 only part of their portfolio. As part of its new Research Strategy, the College will encourage these
 part-time staff to become more fully involved in the research process through focussed research
 mentoring and support in applying for external grants and other funds. Senior staff will receive
 research leadership training so they can offer better guidance to part-time staff and ECRs.

 The College is introducing clearer routes to career progression for research-active staff
 according to the Concordat to Support Career Development for Researchers. This will include
 awards and promotion, and funding to attend conferences and join UK and international
 organisations devoted to their disciplines. All staff are currently invited to submit annual research
 and scholarly activity reports, but these will be extended to include a more formal submission of
 research plans. Annual appraisals will be expanded to emphasise research and its impact.
 Articulation of research objectives within appraisals will be expanded to connect with the
 Research Strategy, funding opportunities, training and career development, and pathways to
 impact. Staff are active in the research forums of Conservatoires UK, enabling the College to
 develop a tailored approach for staff progression in line with its sister institutions. To build an
 appropriate corpus of staff with doctorates and supervision experience, existing members of staff
 have been encouraged, and given the time and support, to pursue doctoral awards. The College
 also intends to introduce sabbatical leave for all researchers.

The validation of a doctoral programme is on the immediate agenda, with development of
collaborative doctoral awards an early priority. This programme will cement the place of research
as the third pillar of the College’s overall profile, alongside professional training and its role as a
national arts centre. The doctoral offering will build on the industry-facing Bachelor’s and
Master’s programmes that already deeply engage students in practice-based research. The
Master’s degree programmes are being developed to build a larger group of advanced students,
and to show a clear route of transfer between the postgraduate levels. Over the assessment
period, the number of Master’s students in all departments rose from 178 to 216, with a retention

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
rate close to 100%. The College’s links to industry provide undergraduate and postgraduate
students with highly valuable placements and contacts which integrate them into the various
professional cultures. During the assessment period, students have benefitted from placements
at the National Theatre’s scenic workshop and drafting department, the Royal Opera House in
costume and props, and the Royal Shakespeare Company across all departments. They have
also had placements with individuals such as Ray Holman, costume designer for Dr Who, and
puppetry artists such as Max Jones and Rachel Canning. The College’s close association with
Bad Wolf Productions enabled students to work in all departments on several major productions,
including the television adaptation of His Dark Materials. The relationship between RWCMD’s
Opera School and Welsh National Opera has meant that virtually every professional production
now involves the work of students, both onstage and backstage. The College will engage with
programmes such as Welsh Crucible to ensure that its researchers play a leading role in national
debates and are instigators in cross-disciplinary collaboration.

This professional environment has provided students with the platform for impressive
achievements. Many have become industry leaders following their graduation. Recent
successes and awards during the audit period include: [text removed for publication] Blaise
Kaumbu Malaba (MA Opera Performance) – named rising star in BBC Music Magazine,
September 2020; Tianyi Lu (Orchestral Conducting) – First Prize at the 9th Sir Georg Solti
International Conductors’ Competition, September 2020; Chanae Curtis (MA Opera
Performance) – Annie in Porgy and Bess, The Metropolitan Opera, Jan-Feb, 2020; Gareth
Treseder (PGDip Voice) – BBC Music Magazine’s Christmas Cover CD contains Gareth’s setting
of Wordsworth’s The Minstrels, commissioned and performed by the BBC Singers, December
2017; Andrew Wareham (MMus) – Young Composer in Residence, Black Dyke Band, April
2018; Teleri Hughes (MA Musical Theatre) – Nominated for The Stage Debut’s best actress in a
musical for Spring Awakening, Hope Mill Theatre, Manchester, September 2018; Chris Reilly
(MA Acting) – Best Actor Scottish BAFTAs for The Last Post, 2018; Rose Revitt (MA Design for
Performance) – Won The Stage Debut Award for Best Designer for her set and costume designs
for Dr Korczak’s Example, The Leeds Playhouse, September 2020; Andre Henriques (MA Opera
Performance) – title role in Don Giovanni, National Theatre of San Carlos, Lisbon, December
2019; Isaac Shieh (MMus) – finalist in the International Horn Society Natural Horn Competition,
November 2019; and Lauren O’Leary (MA Acting) – Best Actress in a Play at The Stage Debut
Awards, for The Awkward Years at The Other Room, Cardiff, September 2019.

The College already has a vigorous research training programme at Master’s level in Music,
which will serve as the foundation for the future doctoral offering. Students receive instruction on
methodologies, writing dissertations, and working with archives, such as the College’s own Foyle
Opera Rara Collection. Students can also take modules on presenting at conference and
delivering public talks on a range of topics. All students must complete modules that develop the
professional skills they need to thrive in their disciplines.

RWCMD will initiate a series of research events presented by invited guests as well as current
staff and students, which can also be linked to the College’s extensive creative programme. The
College’s venues and professional services enable it to host high-level conferences and
symposia.

Equality and Diversity

In November 2020, RWCMD intends to publish its Strategic Equality Plan – a historic step
forward in the College’s development as previously RWCMD had been covered by the USW
plan. This was preceded by the key appointment, in 2018, of the College’s first International
Chair of Diversity, Uzo Iwobi, followed by the appointment of its first Student Voice Officer,
Michael Lowe, in 2019. The Strategic Equality Plan covers eight key objectives: culture and
governance; collaboration, communication and public engagement; diversity of student body and
experience; attracting, retaining and developing staff; accessibility; inclusivity in professional
practice; equal pay; and data collection and monitoring. These objectives will be met through


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
specific targets monitored annually through Equality Action Plans. In the Strategic Equality Plan,
the College:

    •   Commits to creating an inclusive environment in which everyone treats each other with
        dignity and respect;
    •   Expects all working groups and committees to consider the diversity of their membership
        and the impact of their decisions on those with protected characteristics;
    •   Expects everyone to be aware of equality issues;
    •   Ensures that all learning and teaching is accessible and inclusive;
    •   Certifies that all policies, procedures and strategies reflect the College’s commitment to
        equality.

 RWCMD signed up to the Performing Rights Society Keychange Initiative, pledging to achieve:

    •   50:50 gender balance of headline artists appearing within the music visiting artists
        programme annually by 2022
    •   50:50 gender balance of artists appearing in bands and ensembles within the music
        visiting artists programme annually by 2022
    •   50:50 gender balance of students appearing in RWCMD performances and productions
        annually

The College has also targeted combined scholarship and bursary support for students from low-
income backgrounds, which will be ringfenced for incoming students from 2021. Equality,
diversity and inclusion objectives will be embedded within degree programme portfolio
development and annual monitoring from 2020/21, with equality impact assessments required
for all revalidations. The College will have increased diversity within the staff professional
support in Student Services in place for the academic year beginning in September 2020.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

In 2011, RWCMD completed £22.5 million of work on state-of-the-art facilities, which allow it to
engage in practice-based research across disciplines. These facilities included the Dora
Stoutzker Hall, Wales’ first purpose-built chamber music recital hall; the Richard Burton Theatre;
four state-of-the-art double-height rehearsal studios for drama, and the Linbury Gallery for
exhibitions. The new infrastructure attracts leading professional artists, such as those featuring
in the Steinway Recital Series and the Schubert Song Series, and provides students with
incomparable spaces in which they can learn their trades. The new additions complement
extensive existing facilities, such as the advanced technology studio for composition and
electronic music. The College also benefits from the Anthony Hopkins Centre, which has two
large recital galleries, the S4C Television Studio Theatre, a professional recording studio, and a
courtyard performance space. Since the completion of these projects, the College added in 2020
the Llanishen Studios, which will host the new Foundation Degree in Scenic Construction. This
programme will include five placements for every student in the film, television and theatre
industries with our industry partners. The College recently launched an online radio station,
which plays the compositions of staff and students and is part of the swift development of the
digital creative programme. The College’s facilities make it one of the country’s most versatile
arts centres, providing students with training while enabling them to have contact with real world
practice and work with diverse communities and top artists.

 In 2018-2019, the College hosted 384 ticketed performances, attended by 39,452 people, and
 65 non-ticketed performances, attended by 2,858. The wider community makes extensive use of
 the College’s facilities, with 22,716 people attending 167 external hires. These annual numbers
 have been constant throughout the assessment period, demonstrating the College’s ability to
 deliver consistently at near capacity. When required, such as when Crowley brought World
 Stage Design to RWCMD in 2013 (the subject of an impact case study), the College has the
 flexibility to meet the added demand and overall attendance reached nearly 45,000 that year.


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The College was the UK’s first all-Steinway conservatoire, beginning the relationship in 2009
with the delivery of 62 new pianos. 24 more Steinway pianos were delivered in summer 2020,
making RWCMD Europe’s first Steinway-exclusive conservatoire. The new additions include two
Spirio grand pianos. RWCMD is the first to adopt this new, industry-leading technology, which
makes remote recitals a reality. All of the instruments are maintained by Steinway & Sons to the
highest professional standards.

The College Library holds over 70,000 items covering a wide range of material in various
formats, as well as 11 special collections and archives. The Foyle Foundation provided RWCMD
with the largest grant it has ever made in Wales, allowing the College to acquire The Foyle
Opera Rara collection – over 5,000 pieces of archive material. The College secured funding for a
professionally qualified archivist to catalogue the Rara collection and make its contents available
online. The Library has also been awarded a National Manuscripts Conservation Trust grant,
enabling the conservation of 37 irreplaceable manuscripts from the Foyle Opera Rara collection,
including material by Donizetti and Bellini. The Library also houses the Drama Association of
Wales (DAW) collection. Comprising 40,000 individual plays, the DAW collection is the UK’s
largest lending repository of scripts in English. It also includes material in Welsh and eight boxes
of manuscripts from playwriting competitions, as well as other archival material relating to the
history of amateur theatre in Wales. There are collections of the Welsh composers Alun
Hoddinott, Melvyn Burtch and Graham Whettam. These collections highlight the College’s
distinct research potential. In addition to its collections, the College is partnering with various
archives in Wales, such as that of Tŷ Cerdd, to better facilitate research into the work of creative
practitioners throughout the country, both historical and present-day.

 The Library has several digital resources, including four full-text databases (Sage, JSTOR, the
 Times Digital Archive and RILM), as well as Drama Online, Digital Theatre Plus, Naxos, IPA
 Source, and Oxford Music Online. Reciprocal borrowing agreements with other local institutions
 (Cardiff University, Cardiff Metropolitan University and The University of South Wales), as well
 as the SCONUL access scheme, allow all RWCMD students to access items through this
 extended network. In line with USW, the College uses Pure to catalogue the work of research
 staff.

 The College has accelerated plans to increase resources for capturing performances and
 rehearsals to facilitate research into its primary disciplines. This includes an upgrade to state-of-
 the-art technology in all classrooms to further improve the blended learning approach the
 College has moved towards during the Covid-19 pandemic. RWCMD can now digitally broadcast
 live concerts, and has begun to build a library of material through the adoption of Planet E-
 Stream, which offers students access to BBC archives and other databases. There is a plan to
 build more library space to accommodate doctoral students, and the potential to utilise spaces
 offered by USW, as well as to share doctoral supervision.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations, Networks, and Partnerships

Staff members have been highly active in collaborations at local, national, and international
levels. Examples include: Constantine has collaborated with English National Opera to devise
and establish ENO Opera Works, a year-long programme focusing on the dramatic training of
opera singers, which, over the decade from 2010, has trained over 200 young artists, including
singers, directors, designers and sound designers for work at ENO and beyond. Gaunt has
worked extensively with international colleagues, serving as the Chair of Working Group 1, and
Chair of the Content Steering Group for the European Association of Conservatoires (AEC)
Strengthening Music in Society project, funded by Creative Europe (2018-20). She was also a
Lector at the Royal Conservatoire of the Hague, Netherlands (2017-18), and CERADA Visiting
Professor at the Sibelius Academy, University of the Arts, Helsinki, Finland (2014-18). Hall has
collaborated with Debbie Seymour on the LAMDA MA directing course. She worked with Race
Council Cymru on a project involving cleaning staff at RWCMD. She has also collaborated with

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the JMK South West Director’s Group, and has worked with Bristol Council as artist-in-residence
in Bristol children’s’ centres. Hardy collaborated closely with recent RWCMD graduate Tic
Ashfield on The Gathering for National Theatre Wales in 2014. This involved composing music
for an environment-based, site-specific theatre performance, including sound recordings
installed within the landscape across the south side of Eryri / Snowdon, and featuring the
extraordinary presence on the mountain of the local Deiniolen Brass Band. The autumn
performances, which also featured a team of professional shepherds and their sheepdogs, took
place, led by a cast of around 50 performers, crew and guides, across several square miles of
the steepest parts of Snowdonia National Park. With assistance from Benjie Talbott and Tic
Ashfield, Hardy also collaborated with the BBC National Orchestra of Wales to produce The
Hunchback in The Park for Aardman Animation and BBC Online. This project included music
composed, orchestrated and conducted by Hardy for an animated film around the poem by
Dylan Thomas, which was read by Michael Sheen. Hardy was commissioned to write the
soundtrack for the film Steel Country (2018), screened at the Dublin, Edinburgh and Canadian
film festivals, and with a further US and UK release. For National Theatre Wales, he recorded
actors' voices and other materials, and created scores for several projects including Storms 1
(performed in Pontrhydfendigaid), Storms 2, about the 1919 Cardiff Riots (performed in Cardiff),
and The Tide Whisperer (performed in Tenby, Pembrokeshire). Marcenaro has worked with the
National Museum Wales on the music for their “Tim Peake’s Spacecraft and virtual reality
experience” exhibition (2018-19). Price has collaborated with Dr Alan Watson (Reader in
Anatomy and Neuroscience, Cardiff University) on several studies on the physiology of brass
performance. Between 2013 and 2017, their work was supported by a multi-conservatoire AHRC
grant for “Music Impact”. Sanderson has formed a voice and guitar duo with Mark Wilde of the
Royal Academy of Music (2014-2020), and a guitar duo with Zoran Dukic of the Royal
Conservatoire, The Hague. Smith has collaborated with Tŷ Cerdd since 2016, working on
performances of music from its archives, both personally and with students from the RWCMD,
some of which were featured on the Carthen Cerdd and Welsh Impressions CDs.

Boards

Staff members have served on key academic and industry boards, evidencing the College’s
commitment and contribution to its partners’ strategic development. Crowley was Chair of the
Society of British Theatre Designers from 2011 to 2019 and is now a Director. Since 2003, he
has been UK Chair for the Education Committee of the Organisation of International
Scenographers, Theatre Architects and Technicians (OISTAT). Gardiner is an Advisory Panel
Member for the Review of Jazz in England, All Party Parliamentary Jazz Appreciation Group.
She is also on the Ivors Academy Jazz Committee (The British Academy of Songwriters,
Composers and Authors). Gaunt is a member of the Peer Review College, AHRC (2017-), and a
council member of the Royal Philharmonic Society (2019-). From 2015 to 2019, she was on the
International Advisory Board for the Queensland Conservatorium Research Centre, Griffith
University, Australia, and from 2014 to 2018 was on the Advisory Board for the Centre for
Excellence in Music Performance Education, Norwegian Academy of Music. She was the co-
editor from 2014 to 2018 of Music Performance Research. Hall is a panellist for Freelancers
Make Theatre Work on training opportunities in theatre. Price is a trustee of the Mavron String
Quartet, and on the Education Advisory Committee for The Benedetti Foundation. Smith is a
trustee for the Mervyn Burtch Foundation and was a member of the European Opera Academy
Artistic Council (2018-2020).

Invited lectures, performances, and other activities

Colleagues have given several lectures and performances over the assessment period.
Examples include: Crowley presented “Working Practice as a Designer” at the Budapest
October 2017 OISTAT Executive Committee meetings and Education Commission and was
Project Leader and Exhibition Designer for the OISTAT50 celebration in 2018. He was a guest
speaker at The United States Institute for Theatre Technology education commission and
conference, Fort Worth, in 2014. He has been the designer for 17 theatrical productions over the
assessment period for The Torch Theatre, the Black Rat Theatre, and Jagsthausen Festival,

                                                                                          Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
among others. He was the exhibition manager at the Victoria and Albert Museum “Make Space”
exhibition for the Society of British Theatre Designers (2015), and the coordinator for their
“Staging Places” exhibition (2019). Hall led a ten-day workshop for CYSTAT, The Cypriot Centre
for Technical Theatre Artists, which resulted in a public exhibition of research, drawings and
models. Gaunt delivered the keynote at the Diplom in der Tasche Symposium, University of
Music and the Arts, Vienna, Austria (November 2018); the ArtsEqual lecture generalis at the
Sibelius Academy, University of the Arts, Helsinki (February 2017); the conference keynote,
“Towards a framework for ensemble and collaborative learning”, at the CERM conference,
Norwegian Academy of Music (November 2016); and a presentation at the Shanghai Grand
Theatre Arts Group Arts Leader talks (December 2019). She was the Director of the Reflective
Conservatoire Conference “Creativity and Changing Cultures” (2015), and “Artists as Citizens”
(2018), at the Guildhall School of Music & Drama. She was the Director of the bi-annual ICON
seminars between 2014 and 2018, and a member of the organising committee for the AEC
Annual Congress in 2020. Hardy co-presented at The Association of British Orchestras
Conference (Cardiff, 2018). Logue was an invited speaker on “The Future of Postgraduate
Training” at the Federation of Drama Schools Conference (2019). Marcenaro has helped to
organise the Atmospheres Music Festival at RWCMD (2014-2020). Phillippo conducted
performances of Rossini’s Mosè in Egitto (2014), and Mozart’s Die Zauberflöte (2015) for Welsh
National Opera, and was the soloist in Mozart’s Piano Concerto No. 21, K. 467 at the Fishguard
Festival, St David’s Cathedral, with the orchestra of WNO, conducted by Carlo Rizzi (2016).
Price presented “Institutional Relevance” at the AEC Annual Congress and General Assembly,
Graz, Austria (2018). Sanderson has toured extensively throughout the assessment period,
giving notable performances across the US in 2014, and in Europe in 2019, from the Long Island
Guitar Festival (USA) to the Kutna Hora Guitar Festival (Czech Republic). Smith presented
“Making connections: using work-based learning to increase the confidence of conservatoire
music students” at the Association of European Conservatoires LATIMPE conference in Oslo,
Norway (October 2018).

Consultancies/External Examining

Crowley served as external consultant for the Royal Central School of Speech and Drama’s BA
Theatre Practice Periodic Review (2017). Gardiner conducted a review of the BA (Hons) Jazz
for Middlesex University in 2016, and is an external examiner for Leeds College of Music (2018).
Gaunt has served as consultant for music leadership and teacher development at Northwestern
University, Potchefstroom, South Africa (2018); on teacher development at the Norwegian
Academy of Music (2017) and at the University of Music and the Arts, Vienna (2016); on
curriculum renewal at the Danish Royal Academy (2018); on institutional leadership and teacher
development at the Queensland Conservatorium, Griffith University (2016 and 2017); and on
curriculum and teacher development at The Royal Conservatoire of the Hague (2015). Hardy
was invited to conduct a review of the composition courses at the National Film and TV School
[NFTS] at Beaconsfield, 2019, and has examined doctoral work for Royal Holloway University of
London, 2018-2019. Price is an ABRSM Diploma examiner (Conducting, Teaching and
Instrumental), and is also a Diploma Syllabus Advisor (2013-). He has served as external
examiner at Chetham’s School of Music and is the Brass Assessor for the Purcell School. He
has been the external brass examiner at the Birmingham Conservatoire (2017) and the Royal
Northern College of Music (2016). He is on the Advisory Committees for the National Youth
Brass Band of Wales (2012-), and the National Youth Orchestra of Wales (2009-). Sanderson
was a consultant for the Trinity College of Music Examination Board in 2019, and for the London
College of Music Examination Board in 2020. Smith is the External Examiner for Performance
Pathways, starting in Sept 2019 (four-year term), for the Guildhall School of Music and Drama:
Guildhall Artist Masters, and will be the BMus External Examiner for the Royal Marines Music
School beginning in September 2021.

Awards

Researchers at the College have received numerous industry awards. Constantine is co-Artistic
Director of the multi-award winning LIVEARTSHOW, a company making new work with
                                                                                          Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
music. The company won the MTN Award for Best New Musical for The Future for Beginners at
the Edinburgh Festival. Previous shows Rhinegold and Manga Sister (Time Out Critic's Choice /
Best Theatre of the Year) were at the centre of the 2017 season in which The Yard Theatre won
the Peter Brook Empty Space Award. Crowley received an honorary doctorate from Swansea
University in 2016. Munby directed King Lear (starring Ian McKellen) at the Duke of York’s
Theatre, West End, which was nominated for Best Revival at the 2019 Olivier Awards; directed
King Kong: Legend of a Boxer at the Fugard Theatre, Cape Town (2017), for which he won Best
Director at the South Africa Naledi Theatre Awards, and was nominated for Best Director at the
Fleur du Cap South Africa Theatre Awards; and directed Twelfth Night at Sheffield Theatres
(2014), which won Best Touring Production at the UK Theatre Awards. Rhys-Evans presented
the BBC1 documentary series, All in the Mind, which won a BAFTA Cymru Award for Best
Documentary. Sanderson received a Winston Churchill Fellowship in 2015.

Adjudication panels

Crowley was a Curatorial Panel Member for Design for Performance at World Stage Design
2017 in Taipei, Taiwan. Gardiner was a panellist for the British Composer Awards, BASCA
(2018), and for Eisteddfod Genedlaethol (2018). Marcenaro has served as an adjudicator for
Best Sound Design for Bafta Cymru (2013). Munby is Chief Panellist for the Michael Bryant
Award, as well as panellist for the Clarence Derwent Award. Price was on the panel for the
brass section for BBC Young Musician of the Year (2019-2020), and has been, throughout the
assessment period, an adjudicator for the Gregynog Young Musician Competition, the Richard
Fice Memorial Brass Award, the Young Musician of Gwent Competition, and the National Wind
Band Festival. Sanderson was a panellist for the BBC Young Musician of the Year in 2015,
2018, and 2019, as well as for the Sky Arts series Guitar Star in 2015. She has served on the
jury for guitar competitions at the Birmingham Conservatoire (2014), and the Royal College of
Music (2015), and also for the Koblenz International Guitar Competition, Germany (2016), the
London International Guitar Competition (2016), the Ida Presti Guitar Competition in Croatia
(2018, 2020), and the Guitar Foundation of America (2017, 2019). Smith was a panellist for the
piano category for BBC Young Musician of the Year in 2015, and for the Abertawe Festival for
Young Musicians in 2014, 2017 and 2019.




                                                                                        Page 10
