Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 26 Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 The context and structure of the unit has seen significant changes since 2013, which have been
 highly conducive to the reconfiguration of Modern Languages research at the University of
 Westminster. In 2013, the former Department of Modern and Applied Languages was split into
 two new departments: the Department of Modern Languages and Cultures (all degree
 programmes and research) and the Westminster Professional Language Centre (all non-credit
 bearing language programmes). Following a further University-wide reorganisation in summer
 2018, both units were incorporated into the School of Humanities within the College of Liberal
 Arts and Sciences. As a result, all research in the unit is now located in the School of Humanities
 The new School also contains researchers in English, History and Visual Culture, who
 collaborate closely with a number of staff included in this submission. This has provided a fertile
 environment to expand further the strong base of cross-cultural and interdisciplinary research
 established since 2014.

 At the census date, the subject area comprised 24 permanent members of staff with significant
 responsibility for research (21.9 FTE), and nine doctoral researchers. This is a significant
 increase from REF2014 when research activity was confined to a very small pool of staff in
 Chinese Studies and French Studies and only eight FTE (out of a total of 26) were submitted,
 split across two units of assessment. This is the result of a strategic decision taken in 2014 to
 establish a clear and coherent research management structure across the unit, resulting in one
 unified submission to UoA 26 Modern Languages in REF2021.

 The majority of research activities associated with the groups and centres relevant to this UoA
 work either across languages or with methodologies and collaborators from different disciplines.
 This has been complemented since 2018 by the involvement of various members of the unit
 within the cross-disciplinary Institute for Modern and Contemporary Culture (IMCC), based within
 the new School of Humanities and incorporating colleagues working across art, cultural studies,
 history, literature, and visual culture.

 Research in UoA 26 now falls into four main interconnecting research centres and clusters,
 some of which have only emerged and been supported over the current REF period:

    •   Contemporary China Centre
    •   HOMELandS (Hub on Migration, Exile, Languages and Spaces):
    •   Theories and Pedagogy of Translation
    •   Multilingual Cultural Studies

 1.2 Research Strategy 2013-2020

 The new REF period coincided with the appointment of new leadership in the unit which set out
 to fundamentally change the research culture and to achieve a wider, more intensive and more
 diverse research base, working towards a substantial Modern Languages submission in
 REF2021. Our aim was to produce high-quality, coherent, cross-language, and cross-cultural
 research that reflects our considerable strength and expertise as a post-1992 Modern
 Languages and Cultures department. We aim to be known for our internationally leading and
 impactful research in the field of multilingual cultural studies addressing contemporary global
 issues, alongside conceptual work in intercultural communication, multilingualism, and
 translation theory and pedagogy. One particular strategic aim was to develop research strengths


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in translation studies that would properly reflect the unit’s longstanding international reputation in
 the field of translation and interpreting teaching.

 Specifically, we set out to

    •   build on our existing areas of excellence in Chinese Studies and French Studies, while
        developing new research initiatives in Arabic, Spanish and Latin American Studies, and
        Translation Studies;
    •   change the staff base in Modern Languages through a carefully planned staffing strategy
        and the recruitment of early career researchers;
    •   fund regular sabbaticals and studentships;
    •   establish regular research-in-progress seminars and a research mentoring scheme;
    •   support conference attendance and training for staff and student researchers through
        equitable and transparent allocation of QR money;
    •   create new cross-cultural research hubs and cross-disciplinary projects;
    •   create an inclusive, friendly and supportive research environment that sets high
        expectations for all staff undertaking research.

 The University of Westminster has demonstrated its impressive commitment to investment in
 research in Modern Languages with sixteen new appointments across all areas within the unit
 since 2013, in what has been a difficult financial climate nationally for the subject area. The
 figure of 16 includes four two-year post-doctoral fellowships as well as a Professor of Languages
 and Interdisciplinary Pedagogy (Lamb). Two of the Post-Docs (Huertas-Barros, Lotem) were
 subsequently appointed to permanent lectureships.

 Following REF2014, the unit’s research director, Wielander (also Head of the Department from
 2013-2018 before taking up her current role as Associate Head of College), systematically set
 about revitalising the unit’s research culture. Instead of silo-ing research activities into areas like
 Chinese studies or French studies, the aim was to establish a truly interdisciplinary and cross-
 language/culture research environment, so as to develop a new sense of research identity
 across the unit, and research collaborations between colleagues working in different fields. This
 includes a project on translation pedagogy that forms one of our impact case studies for
 REF2021. As a result, in addition to the contribution of newly-appointed ECRs discussed below,
 several long-standing colleagues were encouraged and supported back into research and have
 contributed high-quality outputs in translation theory and pedagogy to this submission.

 An important factor in the revitalised research environment was the development of new and
 rigorous processes to allocate the unit’s QR money fairly and transparently, so as to ensure a
 level playing field for all. QR money was available to all those who were able to make a
 convincing case for support, based on their annual research plans and intended outputs or grant
 bids. All researchers were required to put in an annual application form outlining a rationale,
 justifying the cost, and including a report on previously funded activity. These applications were
 scrutinised by a small committee (which included junior as well as senior researchers), which in
 turn reported to the Faculty Research Committee and now (post-2018) to the School Research
 Committee. These new, more rigorous procedures meant that national and international
 conference attendance increased significantly and that far more colleagues received support for
 various research activities. QR money was also made available to fund travel for short periods of
 fieldwork (including for PhD students), as well as pump priming for the development of grant
 applications.

 Since joining the School of Humanities in 2018, the unit has additionally been able to draw upon
 increased and wider sources of internal funding from across the School, which administers QR
 money from all four UoAs in which Humanities submits. Planning and monitoring of all research
 within the subject area is now directly overseen by the School Research Committee (SRC),
 which is responsible for the day-to-day management of all research, including administration of
 QR funds, sabbaticals, staff research time and postgraduate bursaries, and of which both Wang
 CB and Wielander are members (the former as School Research Ethics Coordinator, the latter

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as UoA Lead). This has allowed the unit to further support its commitment to research through
 the continuing award of sabbaticals (following successful application) and new student
 scholarships, along with various researcher development activities. Such support has been
 further enhanced centrally by the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO),
 who provide dedicated staff to identify external funding opportunities and facilitate applications,
 as well as substantial financial and administrative support for postgraduate researchers provided
 through the Westminster Graduate School (see Section 2).

 1.3 Impact Strategy

 Impact activities have been supported by both a dedicated University Impact Officer and the
 School’s own full-time Research Development Partner based within the RKEO, who has
 responsibility for horizon scanning and bid preparation for external impact-related funding.
 Enhancing the structures and processes necessary for the realisation of impact has been an
 important focus of our work, particularly as most research in the submission is relatively “young”.

 Since 2015, all researchers have been encouraged to attend research impact training and
 development events provided centrally or by external bodies. All researchers are expected to
 build impact and public engagement into their annual research plans and to consider the
 potential impact of their research at the stage of conception and design. Much of this
 professionally-focused and public-facing work, including that detailed in the Impact Case
 Studies, exploits opportunities provided by our central London location.

 Targeted funding calls, at University and at Department/School level, have made strategic
 research funding available for public engagement and impact activities from QR monies, which
 are matched-funded by the Quintin Hogg Trust, the charitable organisation associated with the
 University of Westminster. The events organised by Wielander and Hird, Mazzara, Huertas-
 Barros and Vine, and Alshaer listed in Section 4 were, for example, all supported by these
 funds in the region of £25k in total.

 More recently, impact has been further supported by the RKEO through funding calls specifically
 aimed at enhancing potential case studies. Huc-Hepher, Huertas-Barros, and Mazzara have
 all received funding (totalling c.£13k) for impact activities along with advice from the RKEO on
 the development of our case studies, including funding of dedicated Research Assistants within
 the School specifically to capture, monitor and track impact to support Huc-Hepher and
 Mazzara, as well as support for a number of public and networking events with a clear pathway
 to impact for Huertas-Barros and Vine.

 The Case Studies selected for REF2021 exemplify the unit’s strategic approach to impact.
 Beneficiaries of Huc-Hepher’s research include organisations working closely with French
 residents such as the French Embassy/Consulate, media professionals and political party
 support workers. Mazzara’s work on the aesthetics of migration has had an impact on
 perceptions of the refugee crisis in the Mediterranean through her public engagement work and
 ground-breaking exhibition at P21. Huertas-Barros’ and Vine’s research shows impact in the
 way translation is taught and assessed both in our own and other institutions as well as the
 translation industry in the UK and Europe.

 As part of our strategic support for future impact, Bywood’s collaborative pilot project with the
 Chelsea Physic Garden was also, for example, recently funded (£9,250; 2019-20) to conduct a
 study on how heritage sites and museums can enhance and enrich their provision for both blind
 and partially-sighted individuals and sighted visitors. An online tour is in development and some
 of the work has led to an AHRC-funded collaborative doctoral award to begin in 2021.

 Researchers in the unit also regularly contribute to the College’s main public engagement event,
 the annual week-long Difference Festival. Researchers from Modern Languages have been
 strongly represented both on the organisational committee and as speakers. Kelly was chair of
 the College’s public engagement group for two years, with Wielander taking over this role in

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2020. Columbu, Harvey-Kattou, Hird, Huc-Hepher, Kehoe, Kwan, Mazzara, Wielander have
 all presented their research, some using the University’s Chinese poster collection, at these
 public events. More recently, we have successfully transferred our public engagement events
 online. For example, Racism and Orientalism: an online round table on racialised discourse on
 Covid-19 was attended by 250 people in April 2020.

 1.4 Support for Open Research Environment

 UKRI and REF open access requirements are met centrally through the University’s Virtual
 Research Environment (VRE) and institutional repository, WestminsterResearch, which is run by
 a dedicated Open Access team (see REF5a). Both the University and School have also adopted
 a policy of encouraging staff to go beyond the minimum REF requirements relating to journal
 articles and have supported them in making available other forms of output, including book
 chapters. Researchers are explicitly encouraged to submit their articles to Modern Languages
 Open (Liverpool University Press), and article production costs are covered by the School.
 Wielander is main editor of the British Journal of Chinese Studies (formerly Journal of the British
 Association for Chinese Studies) which is a fully open-access, peer-reviewed journal that does
 not charge article production fees. She has been involved in various open access initiatives
 calling for new models of publishing in Asian Studies and is one of the authors and signatories of
 an Open Access Manifesto which calls for freedom, integrity, and creativity in the Humanities
 and Interpretive Social Sciences. Kasstan was co-editor of Cahiers, the Journal of French
 Languages Studies’ sister Open Access journal. Bywood is deputy editor of the OA Journal of
 Specialised Translation.

 1.5 Research Strategy 2021-2026

 Our main priorities and objectives looking beyond REF2021 are to enhance and extend our
 internationally recognised research in Chinese studies, migration studies, translation theory and
 pedagogy, and multilingual cultural studies, including interdisciplinary research across cultures
 and regions. We will also continue to strengthen the promotion of efficient management of
 research planning and grant applications across the full range of research undertaken within the
 School, drawing on the expertise of those staff with an existing record of success in this area.

 While our policy is to support excellent research in whatever field it might be located, our plans
 and aspirations for the next REF period are specifically organised around producing world-
 leading research located within our four main research centres and clusters.

        Study of the social and cultural politics of contemporary China coalesces around the
        Contemporary China Centre, originally established in 2009 by Professor Harriet Evans
        (now a Professor Emerita in the unit), in the fields of gender, religion and cultural
        heritage. We will further broaden and internationalise our reach through the work of new
        and established researchers in the area (Evans, Kendall, Keogh, Ng, Wang CB,
        Wielander). The Centre now also includes researchers from the School of Architecture
        and Cities and the Westminster Business School and their PhD students. Central to the
        work of the Centre and its members is the university’s collection of propaganda posters
        and miscellanea from China, the entirety of which has now become available as a fully
        digitised, open-access resource, the China Visual Arts Project, under the stewardship of
        Westminster archivists. To support and further raise the profile of this unique online
        collection, we launched the Contemporary China Centre Blog in October 2019, firmly
        establishing our importance in the international arena as a virtual centre for
        interdisciplinary research on contemporary China from a cultural studies perspective. The
        Centre – whose activities are the result of collaborative, non-hierarchical work without a
        dedicated director – also runs regular public talks and organises 1-2 conferences per
        year, as well as closed door seminars to discuss research in progress. The 2021-26
        period will see the further consolidation of the CCC as a group known for its critical
        engagement with the contemporary Sinophone world in the field of cultural studies. Our
        focus will be on utilising our rich resource base to attract PhD students and put together

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        research funding applications which build on existing cross-cultural and cross-disciplinary
        work at whose centre stands engagement with regional languages and cultures. This
        includes a project on China in Uzbekistan as well as a project on Sinophone creative
        responses to Covid-19, racism and xenophobia involving Kehoe, Ng, and Wielander, as
        well as Kwan (a recently graduated PhD student).

        HOMELandS, our Hub on Migration, Exile, Languages and Spaces, provides an
        established collaborative base for research on migration, culture, and language. This
        includes researchers working across a number of different geographical, cultural and
        linguistic areas (including Huc-Hepher, Kasstan, Kelly, Lamb, Mazzara, Wang CB),
        and our ambition over the next REF period is to further raise its profile as a world-leading
        hub for migration and cultural studies. This will include work with researchers at
        Westminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT) on the impact of China’s Belt
        and Road Initiative in Uzbekistan, as well as collaboration with researchers in visual
        culture and sociology based in both Humanities and other Schools at Westminster.

        Theories and Pedagogy of Translation (Alfer, Bywood, Delistathi, Huertas-Barros,
        Tomozeiu, Vine, Wang CW) is a new and emerging field of research that has developed
        at Westminster since 2014; it now includes both conceptual research as well as
        translation pedagogy, translator training, and audio-visual translation. Our ambition
        through such work is to extend our reputation for internationally excellent research that is
        able to bridge the gap between translation theory and practice and to produce impactful
        research with ‘real-life’ application (like Bywood’s work for visually impaired audiences).
        This type of research links translation and cultural studies and points the way to new and
        innovative translation pedagogy.

        Multilingual Cultural Studies forms another important cluster of research activity across
        all areas of our research base, with a focus on languages, literatures, and films. This
        includes work by Alshaer, Columbu, Fenton, Fraser, Huc-Hepher, Kasstan, Kelly,
        Harvey-Kattou, Lamb, Lotem, Mazzara, Peate, and is connected to the work of the
        high-profile cross-School and cross-disciplinary Institute for Modern and Contemporary
        Culture. Our aim is to build on this expertise, as evidenced in the outputs in this cycle, to
        attract further PhD students, increase our external research fund generation and to foster
        cross-cultural collaboration on joint themes both within the university and with a range of
        external partners.

 2. People

 2.1 Academic staff

 A key part of our strategy over the current REF period has been to change the configuration of
 the staff group within Modern Languages from a largely non-research active staff base to a
 much more dynamic group of academics with significant responsibility for research. This has
 been achieved through diligently planned-out succession strategy and careful cases for new
 appointments presented to senior management, which were tied to the requirements of the new
 undergraduate and postgraduate curriculum that we have been teaching since 2014. 16 of the
 Category A submitted 24 staff, i.e. two-thirds of staff in this unit, have been appointed since
 2013; the majority early career researchers. This includes individuals who were originally
 appointed as Post-Docs (Huertas-Barros, Lotem) and subsequently appointed as full-time
 permanent Lecturers within the department. Alshaer was appointed as Lecturer in Arabic in
 2014, and Harvey-Kattou as Lecturer in Hispanic Studies in September 2016. Kasstan was
 appointed as Lecturer in French in 2019, Columbu as Lecturer in Arabic in 2019, and Peate as
 Lecturer in Spanish in 2020, while two full-time Senior Lecturers were appointed in intercultural
 communication and audio-visual translation respectively (Mazzara, Bywood) earlier in the REF
 period. Staff moving into senior management positions (Wielander) or retiring (Evans) allowed
 for the additional recruitment of a Lecturer (Kendall) and two further Post-Docs (Keogh, Ng) in
 2019 in strategically important areas in Chinese Studies.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The University’s support for research in language teaching is also apparent in our recruitment of
 a new Professor of Languages and Interdisciplinary Pedagogy (Lamb), as well as three
 additional members of staff in the University’s Centre for Education and Teaching Innovation
 (Delistathi, Fenton, Fraser) whose personal research also falls within the field of Modern
 Languages and who are being returned in UoA 26. Other colleagues had fractional posts
 extended into full-time positions (Huc-Hepher) during the period. In short, the staff base in
 Modern Languages at Westminster has been completely transformed during the current REF
 period.

 This influx of new staff with dynamic research agendas has transformed our research base in an
 extremely positive way. At the same time, the arrival of several ECRs gave impetus to the
 establishing of a more robust mentoring scheme within Modern Languages, including peer
 mentoring across disciplines. The move of the unit into the new School of Humanities has meant
 that we have been able to draw additionally for this, since 2018, on the support of senior and
 experienced colleagues in English and History.

 Secondly, our research strategy was underpinned by strategic implementation of the University’s
 newly adopted workload model. The research and scholarship tariffs for this new workload
 model have a three-tier structure. Scholarship hours are allocated to every member of staff (11%
 of total workload). Additional Level 1 research amounts to 250 hours or 27% of overall workload
 hours, while Level 2 research amounts to 350 hours or 34% of workload. The additional
 allocation for Readers and Professors is 425 hours or 39% of workload. Staff with significant
 responsibility for research are accountable through the appraisal process and through biannual
 research interviews, allowing for a close integration of individual research plans and line
 management objectives. Within the School, every researcher is required to discuss and agree
 research plans with a senior researcher at the start of the academic year, with monitoring and
 feedback processes running throughout the year. Following the introduction of an institutional
 sabbatical policy, we have further committed to funding at least one semester-long sabbatical
 per academic year within the unit. Consequently, during the current REF period, several
 individuals have benefitted from a period of sustained research leave, either to make significant
 progress on monographs (Wang CB, Hird, Kelly, Huc-Hepher) or to get new major research
 projects off the ground (Wielander, Alfer).

 Career pathways for researchers at all stages are clearly set out at University level, supported
 by a range of workshops and training courses run by the Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Office, which also provides specialist training for individuals and groups in impact and bid
 writing. This is supplemented by regular day-long bid writing clinics with external
 consultants (including, for example, experts from the Missenden Centre), and residential writing
 retreats, funded by the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. The success of our staff
 development strategy is reflected in a strong record of promotion since 2014, including one
 promotion to a Professorship (Wielander), one to a Readership (Wang CB), one to Principal
 Lecturer (Alfer), and several to Senior Lecturers (Alshaer, Harvey-Kattou, Huc-Hepher,
 Huertas-Barros, Kendall, Vine).

 2.2 Research students

 Through the change in research leadership following REF2014, a more systematic approach to
 PhD admissions and coordination was put in place as part of our ambition to grow our numbers
 of doctoral registrations in a steady and sustainable fashion, given the wider current context of
 declining numbers of academic jobs in Modern Languages areas in the UK. In particular, funded
 scholarships have been used to attract high-calibre students and to help build supervisory
 capacity within the School, given the large number of ECRs in the unit. The University Graduate
 School, established in 2012 with an explicit mission to enhance student experience and progress
 and to provide research training across the University, also offers specialised training in
 postgraduate supervision, which is mandatory for all new researchers.


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2015 Modern Languages was awarded two of the University’s new competitive fully-funded
 Studentships (Denise Kwan, Benedetta Morsiani), who both completed within 3.5 years. One
 further PhD project (Guangpei Ran) was also made possible through a full scholarship deriving
 from a Leverhulme grant (awarded to Professor Harriet Evans). We were also able to support a
 further student through a departmental fee waiver. A further four self-funded and one student
 funded by the Quintin Hogg Trust (a charity that supports education at the University) started
 with us between September 2017 and January 2020. Four further students have begun their
 studies in 2020-21; two with full scholarships funded by the Quintin Hogg Trust, in Translation
 Studies and in Chinese Cultural Studies, and two funded through Mazzara’s Erasmus+ grant. All
 four are female BME students.

 In total, five students supervised by researchers in UoA 26 completed during the REF period,
 while a further nine were continuing their PGR studies at the census date.

 At University level, the Graduate School coordinates a Doctoral Researcher Development
 Programme through a range of customised workshops, individual sessions and PDP activities
 based on the national Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Further details can be found
 in REF5a. This is complemented by a College-based training programme, which provides a
 series of both generic and discipline-specific sessions for years 1-4 to ensure timely completion
 of formal stages and to develop discipline-specific research skills. More locally, PhD students in
 Modern Languages are fully integrated into our research seminars and are expected to
 contribute to work-in-progress seminars, both as presenters and organisers. They have access
 to specialist computer rooms and office space in our Regent Street building and have equal
 access to funds to support conference attendance and fieldwork. There is also an annual
 residential PhD away weekend run by the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, which fosters
 relations between students across different disciplines, and which is free to all who attend.

 Our PhD students have produced highly complex and creative work and have had very
 successful career trajectories. Most notable are Kendall’s and Huc-Hepher’s outputs, both
 based around their PhD work; both are now Senior Lecturers in the School of Humanities. Peter
 Guangpei Ran is an independent film maker, known for his work around the existential
 significance of ritual in rural China. Denise Kwan is an artist and curator whose PhD included an
 online exhibition of object stories and artworks created by the participants in her research and
 who is central to the unit’s new project on Sinophone creative responses to Covid-19.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 At University level all staff are required to undertake and pass an on-line diversity training
 module. We also require that all staff undertake interview training with an EDI focus before they
 are involved in recruitment processes. All appointment panels within the School are gender
 balanced. The University of Westminster was the first university to be awarded the post May-
 2015 Athena Swan Bronze award and requires all School procedures to meet the standards of
 the Athena Swan charter. The School has a high proportion of women in leadership roles.

 One result of the change of configuration of the unit’s staff group is that a previously
 predominantly female staff base has now achieved greater gender balance. Of the 24 members
 of staff who form this unit, 13 are female, 10 are male, and 1 identifies as non-binary. Eight of
 the ten male staff members were appointed during the current REF period. The staff group is
 very diverse in terms of sexual orientation, and 18% are BME. There are a number of grassroots
 staff networks at the University of Westminster, such as the LGBTQ+ staff network and the BME
 staff network (see REF5a), in which colleagues from the unit actively participate, to support
 colleagues who are traditionally under-represented in research. As part of her work within the
 University’s Centre for Education and Teaching Innovation, Fraser is actively involved in the
 creation of inclusive practices of teaching and pedagogy that make higher education accessible
 to learners from all backgrounds.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All academic staff involved in the research evaluation process leading up this submission
 received training on all relevant aspects for equality and diversity in the context of the REF
 submission. The UoA lead was part of regular meetings at University level which included
 detailed briefings on the criteria for output selection. The UoA lead also met regularly with the
 staff group comprising the unit to ensure maximum transparency throughout the lengthy and on-
 going process of constructing the submission. This included two “mini-REF” exercises, one in
 2017 and one in 2019, each of which entailed individual meetings with all researchers in the unit.
 The process of evaluation also included several junior researchers, providing an opportunity for
 peer evaluation and practical experience of the application of the REF criteria. Submitted outputs
 were selected in the following way: the required one item per researcher was selected on the
 basis of quality, with the remaining pieces comprising the best pieces in the available output pool
 up to a maximum of five per staff member. Where, exceptionally, internal and external evaluation
 resulted in the same evaluation, representation of staff with protected characteristics across the
 submission was taken into consideration in the final decision on which outputs should be
 submitted.

 The University moved all teaching online in March 2020 and all academic staff have been able to
 work from home since that time. The University has provided an exceptionally supportive and
 empathetic environment for all colleagues and students in this challenging new reality through
 regular and transparent communications, by making sure that all staff have the necessary
 equipment (including laptops, cameras, specialised software, etc) to carry out their work
 remotely, and by providing continued access to mental health support.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 All researchers in the School benefit from a full-time Research Development Partner who
 identifies external funding opportunities and supports applications. Bid-writing is further
 supported through pre- and post-bid support offered by dedicated staff in the RKEO.
 Researchers discuss their proposed applications with the School Research Director prior
 to approval by the College Research Director, ensuring that the proposed bid fits with the aims
 of the unit. This is further supported by a College-level peer review college for all grant
 applications, composed of current and former members of RCUK Peer Review Colleges. All
 researchers are given the opportunity to attend introductory grant writing workshops at both
 University and School level.

 Following the award late in the last REF period of substantial grants from the Leverhulme Trust
 (Evans £260,000) and AHRC (Wielander £70,000), Kelly was successful in securing external
 funding as Co-Investigator for the AHRC Open World Research Initiative (OWRI): “Language
 Acts and Worldmaking”, co-led by King’s College London, Westminster, Open University, and
 Queen Mary University of London (awarded July 2016). The total grant amounted to circa £3
 million over four years, with £114,000 coming to the School. This grant derives from a flagship
 AHRC research initiative in Modern Languages and is one of four projects funded nationally (the
 other three being led by Oxford, Cambridge and Manchester).

 Upon joining us as permanent Lecturer in French from QMUL in 2019, Kasstan transferred a
 £90,000 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship project on “Universals of Grammatical Change in
 Language Obsolescence” (ECF-2017-584). Mazzara was awarded £161,000 in 2019 as part of
 an Erasmus+ project (Capacity Building) for a Master’s Degree in Migration Studies in Tunisia.
 Huertas-Barros is Co-I for a £220,000 Erasmus+ project to develop a European framework for
 translation competence (awarded in 2020; £20,000 income to the School).

 Among smaller awards, Hird was recipient in 2014 of a British Academy International
 Partnership and Mobility Scheme (£9,980.50). In 2019, Wielander received £10,000 through the
 research development fund held by Westminster International University in Tashkent for her
 project on the impact of the Belt and Road Initiative in Uzbekistan, which involves junior

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers in Tashkent. Mazzara received £15,000 Arts Council funding for her exhibition Sink
 Without a Trace at P21 Gallery. Several others received smaller amounts from external funders
 to facilitate focused projects. The total research income to the unit in the period was £380,199
 (REF4b).

 Several projects also received competitively-awarded internal funding from the University’s
 strategic research communities launched in 2019. Bywood was awarded £9,250 of dedicated
 ECR funding for a project with Chelsea Physic Gardens, while Kasstan was awarded £10,464
 from the University’s Health Innovation and Well-being Research Community for the project
 “Healing through language? A mixed-methods study into Linguistic Discontinuity and wellbeing
 in UK-based migrant contexts”. In 2020, Wielander, Kehoe and Ng were awarded £6000
 through internal Covid-19 seed funding to develop a series of events and workshops on
 Sinophone creative responses to Covid-19, racism, and xenophobia which is expected to lead to
 a larger funding application in 2021.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 All permanent members of staff are provided with shared office space. The unit moved into new,
 modernised offices in the University’s flagship Regent Street building in November 2015. The
 then Head of Department was closely involved in the planning and design of these new spaces
 whose set up has greatly enhanced dialogue and research collaboration in a discipline that has
 historically been divided into smaller silos. The new office space was particularly conducive to
 the development of our research in translation research and teaching through the creation of a
 ‘translation and interpreting hub’ office area. Two interpreting rooms are used for conference
 interpreting teaching, but also for mock conferences, interpreting short courses and as additional
 spaces for research seminars.

 Among specialised facilities, from 2013 onwards, the University invested, in collaboration with a
 scholar based at the Freie University, Berlin, in applying the latest digital archive and internet
 project management technologies to developing Westminster’s Chinese Poster Collection as a
 major interactive online resource. This has now been superseded by the China Visual Arts
 Project which provides a fully open access catalogue of the University’s entire Chinese poster
 and memorabilia collection following the transfer of the physical collection, to which there was
 previously only severely restricted physical access with a handful of visitors per year, into the
 University of Westminster Archive in 2015. This significant step was made possible through the
 outstanding work of our archivists Elaine Penn and Anna McNally, who accommodated this
 additional work of digital archiving into their regular workload, supported in the initial stages by a
 PhD student who aided with cataloguing and transcription. McNally also contributed an article
 about the collection to the Journal of Design History for their Archives, Collections & Curatorship
 strand. Access to the collection has greatly increased following its transfer to the University
 Archive and items in the collection are now regularly used in teaching on the BA History, BA
 Modern Languages, and MA Art & Visual Culture courses. External PhD students and others
 also continue to access the collection for research. In 2018-19, we facilitated paid-for group
 visits by students at Sotheby’s Institute and the University of Birmingham. The fully digitised
 catalogue went live in January 2019 and google analytics data (applied from May 2019 onwards)
 show 20,575 visits to the site in the period between May 2019 and October 2020 with 16,796
 unique site visits between January and October 2020; clear testament to the significantly
 enhanced reach of the collection. Since the launch of the Contemporary China Centre blog in
 October 2019, the associated twitter account (c.3,100 followers) regularly showcases posters
 from the collection, creating an important link between teaching, research and public
 engagement.

 Our central London location provides a rich, fertile, and diverse environment for all our
 researchers with easy access to national and specialist archives and libraries, as well as an
 excellent base for impact activities. The University library has made major investments in both
 refurbishment of its estate (see REF5a) and in the extension of electronic library packages and
 other resources, including BoB, EEBO, JSTOR, LION, Project Muse. This internal scholarly

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infrastructure is complemented by access to major collections in central London, such as the
 British Library, the Wellcome Library, and the specialist library at SOAS.

 In 2015, as part of a wider refurbishment project in our historic Regent Street building which led
 to the creation of new office spaces detailed above, the University built two new interpreting
 rooms at a cost of £124k funded by the Quintin Hogg Trust, which are used for interpreting
 teaching and research. The School also subscribes to significant software packages including
 SDL Trados Studio, memoQ, Memsource, WinCAPs, Ooona tools and Adobe Premier Rush to
 support teaching and research in translation studies, including audiovisual translation.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Modern Languages research at Westminster drives a broad range of impacts on cultural life, civil
 society, and public discourse, as well as research and knowledge transfer activities such as
 significant commercial contracts with bodies outside the academic world, including the Ministry
 of Defence. Of particular note as regards our contributions to the discipline is Kelly’s leading role
 as Co-I and Deputy Director of Language Acts and World-Making, one of the four OWRI
 landmark projects funded by the AHRC. The Contemporary China Centre has significantly raised
 its international profile, most notably through the Contemporary China Centre Blog (25k views
 since October 2019), while ECRs associated with Multilingual Cultural Studies can point to an
 impressive range of contributions to the research base. In addition to the collaborations and
 examples of professional service listed below, our extensive contributions to the discipline are
 further exemplified by the number of colleagues across all research centres and clusters who
 have examined PhDs, including at Goldsmiths, SOAS, LSE, several at King’s College London,
 Nottingham, Sussex, Southampton, Aberdeen, Oxford, Essex, York, UEA, as well as
 internationally at Barcelona and Florence. Staff have also acted as external examiners for a wide
 range of postgraduate courses.

 Contemporary China Centre

 Hird organised three events on Chinese masculinities, as part of a British Academy funded
 project: a conference at Hong Kong University in December 2014; a symposium on Mediated
 East Asian Masculinities in May 2015 and a workshop on Chinese Masculinities and the
 Creative Industries, May 2015. In July 2016 Wielander and Hird organised an event on
 “Perspectives on Chinese Happiness” at Westminster which was attended by over 100 people,
 comprising a mixed audience of academic and non-academic participants from the Chinese
 community in London with the involvement of the True Heart Theatre Company. Hird and
 Wielander also collaborated on a new project on Chinese happiness (2018; see REF2), which
 led to engagement with the local Chinese community on the mental health needs of first-
 generation Chinese migrants. The volume received international media coverage through
 articles in The Economist (February 2019) and an interview on BBC World Service.

 Wang CB co-organised (in collaboration with Chinese University of Hong Kong and Tsinghua
 University) an international conference on the Belt and Road Initiative at UoW entitled “New
 Insights from the Perspective of Transnational Chinese Migration” (August 2018), which resulted
 in a special issue of the Asia and Pacific Migration Journal (Volume 29.2, June 2020) co-edited
 by Wang, with the title “Diasporic Heritage, Maritime Corridors and Connected Societies in
 Asia”. Wang also organised a conference on British Chinese identities in February 2020 (see
 under HOMELandS below). He was invited speaker at conferences in Switzerland, Hong Kong,
 and Singapore and his public engagement work includes a panel discussion at the “Unrolled
 Silks” exhibition by Xiaowen Zhu at Bloomsbury Gallery London in September 2016.

 Members of the Centre hold significant editorial and subject association duties. Wielander is the
 managing editor of the British Journal of Chinese Studies (formerly Journal of the British
 Association for Chinese Studies) and was East Asian languages section editor for Modern
 Languages Open from 2013-18. Wang CB is series editor of Routledge Research on Museums
 and Heritage in Asia. Kehoe has been editor of our Contemporary China Centre blog which

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publishes weekly articles on China from a cultural studies perspective. Since joining us, Ng has
 taken responsibility for organising the Centre’s research seminar series which has included high-
 profile events like an online round table on racism and Covid-19 which formed the basis of a
 successful internal funding application. Kendall served as Secretary to the British Association
 for Chinese Studies (BACS). During his time at Westminster, Hird served as East Asian
 Languages representative on the University Council for Modern Languages and as Council
 member of BACS.

 Wielander delivered keynotes and plenaries on Christianity and politics in contemporary China
 in the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Hong Kong, and the US and has received a plethora of
 international invitations to speak about her work on happiness. She has also been an invited
 participant in closed workshops on a range of academic and policy issues, including China’s
 involvement in academia and a British Council round table to feed into a national language
 policy. An example of her writings as a national leader in Modern Languages is her essay “In
 Defence of Modern Languages” published in the inaugural issue of Modern Languages Open.
 Wielander was a member of the AHRC Advisory group for Modern Languages (2016-2020) and
 a standing co-opted member to the Council of the British Association for Chinese Studies
 through her role as main editor of the association’s journal. She regularly contributes to policy
 blogs like The Interpreter, published by The Lowy Institute; The Asia Dialogue, published by the
 Asia Research Forum at Nottingham; Orizzonte Cina, published by the Torino World Affairs
 Institute.

 HOMELandS

 Since 2014, HOMELandS has brought into dialogue research on refugees in the Mediterranean
 (Mazzara), French migrants in London (Huc-Hepher, Kelly), linguistic discontinuity and
 wellbeing among migrant communities (Kasstan) and Chinese migration (Wang CB), some of
 which has also been jointly presented at conferences overseas and has led to a special issue in
 Modern Languages Open entitled “The Material Turn in Migration Studies” edited by Wang CB,
 to which Kelly and Huc-Hepher also contributed. Monographs by Mazzara and Wang CB have,
 over the current period, made further significant contributions in this field, with further
 monographs by Kelly and Huc-Hepher set to appear in 2021. The work of two recently awarded
 PhD students (Kwan and Morsiani) also falls under this theme. The contribution of the Hub to a
 range of international conferences and public engagement events includes, for example,
 Mazzara’s exhibition at P21 Gallery in King’s Cross entitled “Sink Without Trace” which received
 wide coverage in the international media and forms the centre of one of our impact case studies.
 Mazzara also organised a screening and discussion with director Luca Vullo on “Italian
 Emigration Before and After” (May 2016), as well as a symposium on “Lampedusa: Migratory
 Space, Memory and Aesthetics” at UCL (October 2014). Mazzara spoke at the Barbican festival
 “Papers: Festival of the Art, Culture and Architecture of the Refugee Crisis” in June 2016, and
 was also interviewed for the website performingborders. She has been invited to speak at a
 variety of talk series and film festivals, including Migration Film Festival (December 2018) and
 organised an event on “Radical Film: Voyerism in Documentary Filmmaking on Migration” at
 Westminster in February 2019. She also works with the NGO Migrant Voice to advise journalists
 and editors on how to write about migrants and migration.

 Wang CB organised the HOMELandS symposium on “Bridging Borders, Creating Spaces:
 Negotiating Multi-cultural Identities and Belongings among Migrant Communities in Global
 London” (June 2018), which will result in a co-edited volume, together with Lamb, of the same
 title contracted with Multilingual Matters (expected 2021). He also co-organised, in collaboration
 with Wuyi University in China and Nagasaki University in Japan, the 5th biannual symposium on
 transnational migration and Qiaoxiang studies at Wuyi University (December 2016 and
 December 2018); a delegation of HOMELandS members were invited speakers. He co-
 organised (with Lamb) a public event on “Cultural Diversity, Migration Integration and Youth
 Action: New Perspectives and Innovative Practices” (June 2019) as well as the
 conference ”Remapping the Cultural and Linguistic Landscape of the Chinese in Britain”
 (February 2020).

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Working closely with a wide and diverse range of French migrants in the capital, Kelly’s and
 Huc-Hepher’s research has been noted by French residents and representative bodies such as
 the French Embassy/Consulate and also media professionals and political party support
 workers. Huc-Hepher presented on “Today’s Tales of the French in London and the British in
 Paris”, held at the French Institute in March 2014, during which she also publicly launched the
 London French Special Collection (British Library's UK Web Archive) and spoke at the Lycée
 Français Charles de Gaulle's centenary celebrations in May 2015 on "Teaching France in
 London", related to her Web archiving and ethnographic research. She was invited to present
 papers at several international conferences on migration/Web archiving (IHR, London,
 2015; Wuyi University, China, 2016; Paris, 2019; Amsterdam, 2019), and is a key figure in
 developments around Web archiving. She created the London French Special Collection (UK
 Web Archive, British Library), which has been used as a model for collections on the Latin
 American and Russian communities with an archive on the Chinese community under
 construction through a PhD project she supervises. She has joined the Organising Committee of
 the “Digital Diasporas: Interdisciplinary Perspectives” conference (June 2019; in collaboration
 with the IMLR and the British Library; held at Westminster) and has played an influential part in
 disciplinary reform and in OWRI innovation projects. In recognition of this work, Huc-Hepher
 was nominated for the 2018 Digital Curation Award.

 Kelly spoke at “Les lieux de mémoire de la France Libre à Londres”, with Jacques Godfrain,
 Président de la Fondation Charles de Gaulle and organised by the “De Gaulle in London Tour”.
 She also acted as consultant for two further public events in 2015: the “Huguenot Summer” (with
 the Huguenots of Spitalfields charity and the Montagu Music Collection, Boughton House) and
 the Centenary of the French lycée in London, for which she acted as historical advisor. Kelly
 was also appointed to the advisory group for a new Franco-British Relations Centre in
 Ouistreham, Normandy on the site of Sword Beach, a project which is under the patronage of
 the French National Commission of UNESCO, and was a participant in a one-hour France
 Culture programme, “La Fabrique de l’Histoire” (equivalent to BBC Radio 4’s “In Our Time”),
 recorded at the BBC London, on Franco-British cultural exchanges in London during WW2, as
 part of events/programmes leading up to the 70th anniversary of the D-Day Landings in May
 2014: http://www.franceculture.fr/player/reecouter?play=4842450.

 Theories and Pedagogy of Translation

 Researchers working on theories and pedagogy of translation have been particularly active in
 organising conferences and editing special issue journals and books (Alfer, Bywood, Huertas-
 Barros, Tomozeiu, Vine), contributing significantly to our standing in the field as a centre for
 researchers, practitioners and pedagogues of translation and interpreting. Tomozeiu organised
 the international conference “Community Translation as a Tool for Inclusion/ Exclusion in a
 Multicultural Society” in June 2014. The conference provided the basis for a special issue he
 subsequently edited for New Voices in Translation Studies. Huertas-Barros and Vine organised
 an international conference on “New Perspectives in Assessment in Translation Training:
 Bridging the Gap between Academic and Professional Assessment” at Westminster in
 September 2015. They also formed the organising committee for an international conference on
 “Translation and the Creative Industries” held at Westminster, October 2016, organised jointly
 with our partner Guangdong Foreign Studies University. We hosted a further jointly organised
 conference in October 2018 on the topic of “The Future of Translation and Interpreting”.
 Huertas-Barros and Vine have delivered a range of public talks as invited speakers and in
 round tables both in the UK and abroad (China, Poland, Spain).

 Huertas Barros and Vine were guest editors of a special issue of The Interpreter and Translator
 Trainer and Huertas-Barros was co-editor of a book on translation assessment and quality
 assurance. As a result of their published work Huertas-Barros was appointed editor of The
 Interpreter and Translator Trainer and received an invitation to publish the special issue as part
 of the Routledge Special Issues as Books programme. She has also acted as expert advisor in
 the PACTE research project “Establishing Competence Levels in the Acquisition of Translation

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Competence”, as a result of which she will be providing consultancy services for the PACTE
 project “Translation Competence Acquisition Evaluation” (funded by the Spanish Government).
 Huertas-Barros’ and Vine’s research has generated significant impact in the way translation is
 taught and assessed in the UK and Europe, notably through involvement with PACTE, the UK-
 based Association of Programmes in Translation and Interpreting Studies (APTIS), the Chinese-
 based World Interpreter and Translator and Interpreter Training Association (WITTA), and the
 translation industry via the Association of Translation Companies (ATC). Vine was vice-chair of
 WITTA (World Interpreter and Translator Training Association). Wang CW is on the editorial
 Board of the International Journal of Applied Linguistics and Translation.

 Alfer organised a symposium on Translation as Collaboration: Translaboration? (June 2015)
 followed by two international Translab workshops hosted at Westminster (September 2016 and
 May 2018). She edited a 2017 special issue of Translation and Translanguaging in Multicultural
 Contexts, on “Translaboration: Translation as Collaboration”, and a 2020 issue of Target:
 International Journal for Translation Studies, on “Translaboration: Exploring Collaboration in
 Translation and Translation in Collaboration”. Bywood is deputy editor of the Journal of
 Specialised Translation and the director of the European Association for Studies in Screen
 Translation (previously Vice-President). Bywood also serves on the advisory board of the
 Language and Media Conference Series and has provided consultancy for Turner Broadcasting,
 the National Theatre, and Chelsea Physic Garden and was an invited reviewer in the Chartered
 Institute of Linguist’s 2020 qualification review. All our researchers in translation and interpreting
 benefit from our Memoranda of Understanding with the Institute of Linguists and the United
 Nations.

 Multilingual Cultural Studies

 Researchers in the field of Multilingual Cultural Studies contributed to a wide range of academic
 conferences and related events across the world. For example, Kelly organised the “Telling
 Tales of Two Cities: British Parisians and London French, Yesterday and Today”, a public event
 and one-day conference, French Institute London, March 2014, as well as the 20th Anniversary
 Conference of the Group for War and Culture Studies, “The Past, Present and Future of War
 and Culture Studies”, June 2015. Through the Institute for Modern and Contemporary Culture,
 and in collaboration with the Centre for the Study of Democracy at Westminster, the unit was
 also instrumental in organising the 2019-20 “French Politics: A Neighbour’s History of the
 Present” seminar series, co-funded by the French Embassy and Political Studies Association,
 with speakers including Norman Ajari (Toulouse 2 Jean Jaurès), Elsa Dorlin (Paris 8), Eric
 Fassin (Paris 8) and Sophie Wahnich (CNRS). Kelly is founding and now principal editor of the
 Journal of War and Culture Studies (Intellect; Maney; Taylor & Francis).

 Lamb is founder and editor of Innovation in Language Learning and Teaching (Routledge/Taylor
 & Francis) (since 2007), and a member of the editorial boards of ten other academic journals. He
 is also a member of the supervisory board of the academic journal The Journal of Language
 Teaching and Learning, Turkey (2010-) and member of the editorial boards of two professional
 journals: Scuola e Lingue Moderne, Italy (2010-), and SAALT Journal for Language
 Teaching/SAVTO Tydskrif vir Taalonderrig (South African Association for Language Teaching)
 (2002-). Furthermore, he is member of the editorial boards of four Italian book series: Biblioteca
 di Cultura (2014-); SAIL: Studi sull’Apprendimento e l’Insegnamento Linguistico (2012-); I libri di
 Babele (Utet) (2011-); Avamposti di glottodidattica (Guerra) (2011-). He is also editor of a Peter
 Lang book series, Foreign Language Teaching in Europe (2004-). Kasstan was co-editor of
 Cahiers and is now on the editorial board of the Journal of French Languages Studies. He is
 also a member of the Swiss Islands in North America research network and was the lead editor
 of the group’s first major research output (in the International Journal of Bilingualism).

 Members of this cluster have received many invitations to present international keynotes or
 plenary addresses and are frequently consulted by the media. Lamb gave keynotes at
 conferences in Australia, Greece, Bulgaria, USA, Austria, Brazil, and Uzbekistan. Kelly
 delivered the keynote at the French Studies Annual Conference in Aberdeen in 2014 and was

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 invited to speak at Universitat Rovira i Virgili (Tarragona, Spain), Facultat de Lettres, February
 2015 on “Battlefields: Approaches to War and Culture Studies”. She also delivered the annual
 Christianson Lecture, School of Modern Languages, University of Bristol, on the culinary history
 of the French in London. Alshaer is regularly consulted and contributes to programmes on the
 culture and politics of the Arab world for BBC Radio Four, Radio Monocle and Aljazeera. He was
 the chief consultant for the BBC Radio Four's Programme Poems from Syria. He has authored
 more than 30 pieces on cultural and political issues on the Arab world across a range of
 publications. He also translated poetry collections from Arabic into English for the Poetry
 Translation Centre and Exiled Writers Ink. Lotem was interviewed on BBC news (TV) about the
 Dutch and French elections and authored more than 20 pieces for BBC News, New Statesman,
 Huffington Post, The Conversation, and The Local (Sweden and Austria).

 Colleagues further extend their influence in the field through involvement in organisations
 outside HE. Lamb holds a string of roles on external bodies, including Secretary General of the
 Fédération Internationale des Professeurs de Langues Vivantes / World Federation of Modern
 Language Associations, which is an NGO with consultative status with UNESCO and with
 representation as an NGO with the Council of Europe (since January 2016). He was previously
 president of FIPLV (2006-2015) and Chair of FIPLV Europe (since 2009) and represented FIPLV
 on the European Council of Modern Languages. He is also a member of the Sheffield
 Languages Strategy Implementation Board (since 2014), patron of Languages Sheffield
 (formerly Sheffield Multilingual City Forum) (since 2012), a member of The Languages Company
 Advisory Group (since 2009), founder of The Language Alliance (since 2002), member (now co-
 opted) of the Committee for Linguistics in Education (since 2001), and Vice Chair of the Sheffield
 Children and Young People’s 0-19+ Partnership Board, Sheffield City Council (2015-16). Kelly,
 in addition to the co-directorship of OWRI’s “Language Acts and World Making”, was a member
 of the QAA Languages and Related Subjects Benchmarking Statement Working Group 2014-15
 and was the Co-Director of the Routes into Languages London Consortium (‘Capital L’), with
 Westminster as co-lead institution (together with SOAS) for the London region and from 2011
 onwards was Co-Director Network for Languages London (a continuation of the previous Links
 into Languages London Regional Centre). Harvey-Kattou serves on the steering committee of
 the Society for Latin American Studies. Kasstan is a member of the executive committee of the
 Association for French Language Studies where he holds the post of Interim Research
 Committee Chair (budget bearing). He has been working directly with stakeholders as part of the
 Linguistics in Modern Foreign Languages Project, which comprises secondary school teachers
 and policy advisors including the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Modern Languages. He is
 also the co-author of a policy paper published in the journal Language, Policy, and Society.




                                                                                           Page 14
