Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution:
 University of Reading


 Unit of Assessment:
 32B Art and Design: history, theory, practice

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 World-leading research in the history, theory and practice of ’design for reading’ continues to
 thrive at Reading and includes information design, book and document design, graphic design
 and typeface design. In this REF period our established research centres, the Centre for
 Information Design Research (CIDR) and the Centre for Ephemera Studies (CES), have
 flourished, attracting income and opportunities for collaboration. One of the University’s new
 competitively-awarded Interdisciplinary Research Centres ‘Book Cultures and Publishing’
 (CBCP) has recognised our strength in printing and publishing history and practice and is co-
 directed by Typography & Graphic Communication (T&GC) together with Modern Languages
 and English Literature. Our work in non-Latin typeface design has flourished with an eager and
 committed cohort of doctoral and early-career researchers. We have prioritised global
 engagement through research collaboration with universities, industrial partners, professional
 associations and NGOs in China, India and Africa in line with our REF 2014 vision.
 T&GC sits within the School of Arts and Communication Design and within the University’s
 Heritage & Creativity research theme. The School comprises three distinct, small research
 divisions: Art; Film, Theatre and Television; and Typography and Graphic Communication.
 Recent investment by the University has focused on embedding a new, fit-for-purpose, research
 structure with enhanced leadership and expanded support services. Four new research themes:
 Environment, Heritage & Creativity, Prosperity & Resilience and Agriculture, Food and Health,
 each with its own Research Dean, have activated cross-disciplinary working. This new structure
 has benefitted T&GC immensely as demonstrated by the increased success and breadth of our
 research funding portfolio (as below).
 T&GC’s aim in this REF period has been to ensure sustainability of its distinctive, globally-
 recognised, discipline-shaping research portfolio. Our strategy to achieve this has been to:
       extend our range of funding sources including for fellowships, knowledge transfer and
        impact as well as for research grants taking advantage of opportunities from UKRI,
        charities, the EU and government;
       engage in cross-disciplinary research where ‘design for reading’ is integral to
        successful outcomes (e.g. an antimicrobial resistance communication project with
        pharmacy and architecture);
       prioritise support for doctoral and early-career research to ensure growth and reach
        of ‘design for reading’;
       engage in partnership work to support impact and knowledge transfer (e.g. museums
        and hospital trusts);
       promote our distinctive approach to collections-based research and raise the profile
        of the research value of the Lettering, Printing and Graphic Design Collections in T&GC;
       provide a stimulating, supportive and inclusive research environment that promotes
        collaboration and inter- and cross-disciplinarity as drivers of research and innovation.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 T&GC’s impact strategy is embedded within its strategy for research and knowledge exchange.
 It is underpinned by collaboration with non-academic external partners who work with us to
 extend the reach of our research. Supported by a University Impact Development Manager, we
 work with partners in the development of impact-driven funding bids and resulting projects (e.g.
 AHRC Follow-On funding with House of Illustration and Design Science resulted in a public
 exhibition in London attended by over 10,000 people, and science resources for primary school
 children designed with teachers and children). Funding from Reading’s GCRF funding for
 equitable partnerships extended the impact of Walker’s AHRC-funded antimicrobial resistance
 project (IDAPPS) through work in Rwanda. Impact evaluation is built into what we do as it is
 critical to our research to understand whether it has made a difference to people’s lives, which in
 turn is an indicator of its success.
 Over the next 5 years we will maintain and enhance a distinctive research identity in the history,
 theory and practice of typography and graphic communication. We are committed to developing
 a diverse and engaged community of researchers and partners in the pursuit of excellent,
 sustainable research that is of benefit to society. We will:
    generate income to stimulate innovation in research. We will integrate design thinking in
     the development and investigation of innovative, cross-disciplinary research questions and
     their exploration notably in health, and in environmental science with national and global
     relevance. We will develop ambitious funding bids through leadership and engagement with
     the new Centre for Book Cultures and Publishing to build on our strengths in book design
     history and practice.
    undertake collaborative research and impact with partners in heritage and culture, and
     in public services. We will exploit opportunities arising from Reading’s institutional
     partnership with the British Museum (IES 2.1.2) to enhance PhD recruitment and
     collaboration on collections-led research projects. We will further develop our engagement
     with the type community globally in particular taking forward collaboration in China. We will
     take advantage of Reading’s new Thames Valley Science Park to enhance relationships with
     knowledge-based companies. Our work in health communication will draw on partners from
     the Oxford Academic Health Science Network (OAHSN) and on the University’s institutional
     multidisciplinary partnership with the Royal Berkshire Hospital (RBH).
    ensure that all colleagues are supported in producing key outputs deriving from funded or
     lone-scholar research, and in leading the development of ambitious funding bids and
     fellowships by providing time, mentoring and resource for travel and publication.
    continue our commitment to early career research by attracting and supporting post-
     doctoral research fellows with funding from prestigious schemes, and doctoral researchers
     with passion and enthusiasm for design for reading. We anticipate keen interest in our new
     practice-based PhD (launched for 2020/21).
    build on our reputation for excellence in design and printing history and culture using
     the Lettering, Printing and Graphic Design Collections and partner collections to support
     research in innovative and engaging ways, in particular through producing on-line resources,
     activities and events, and digital humanities methods and approaches; development of the
     Centre for Ephemera Studies will be key to this.
    contribute to COVID-19 recovery building on our current funded COVID-19 research, in
     relation to adolescent mental health and instructions for home- and community testing. An


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ongoing collection of COVID-19 communication material will contribute to planned work on
    everyday graphic communication in a pandemic.
 2. People
 T&GC’s staffing strategy in this REF period has been to ensure the vitality and sustainability
 of its distinctive disciplinary research, to mitigate the effect of the loss of senior research
 active staff. A new professorial appointment (Poynor) has enhanced research in graphic design,
 while early-career new lectureships (Lickiss, Warner) and British Academy and Marie Curie
 Fellowships (Singh and Nemeth) have expanded capacity in information design, design history,
 typography and typeface design. Through new appointments and strategic support for
 independent research fellowships we have increased our returnable FTE since 2014 from 8.2 to
 10.4 (headcount 13), and we have maintained our diverse international representation (USA,
 South Africa, Greece, India, Austria, The Netherlands). An increase in the number of teaching-
 intensive staff (Lloyd and Wyeth from September 2016; Warner and Smeijers from January
 2020) serves to enhance the capacity of research-active staff (Warner was subsequently
 appointed to a T&R lectureship). We support the University’s commitment to job sharing when
 appropriate and have benefitted from a fixed-term shared Collections Research Assistant role
 (Carnelos and Morris).
 Retired colleagues continue to enrich our environment through their research with
 publications, PhD supervision and support. Publications completed during this REF period
 include Mary Dyson and Ching Y Suen Digital fonts and reading (World Scientific, 2016) and
 Paul Luna’s contributions to The history of Oxford University Press, vol 4 (OUP, 2017) and his
 Very short introduction to typography (OUP, 2018). Michael Twyman continues in his role as
 Director of the Centre for Ephemera Studies and publishes extensively on aspects of the history
 of lithography. Black contributes user-centred design perspectives as lead- or co-author, on
 papers based on her completed inter-disciplinary funded projects. Gerard Unger’s much-
 anticipated Theory of type design (nai010) was published shortly before his death in 2018.

 Early-career research: supporting excellence and ambition
 We prioritise support for and development of early-career research including for members of
 academic staff, post-doctoral researchers and doctoral students.
 Early-career members of academic staff for all or part of this REF period (Lickiss, Moys, Warner)
 were assigned a research mentor, and encouraged to take up 10 days per year for personal/
 professional career development in relation to research, e.g. training, leadership development
 and conference attendance. Further, Lickiss was fully-funded to attend the Oxford Digital
 Humanities Summer School in 2018: ‘The focus on foundational skills for digital humanities and
 examples of the practical application of these skills has given me an understanding of how to
 apply digital humanities approaches to future research’. Lickiss was also funded to attend the
 World Bank Understanding Risk Forum’s ‘Interdisciplinary 24hr Pressure Cooker challenge’ in
 Mexico City (2018), which has resulted in collaborations leading to two journal papers, research-
 led teaching collaborations with the Environment Agency and, following a presentation, an
 invitation to submit a book proposal, ‘Communication design for decision-making: disaster,
 health, diversity’ (accepted) for a new Routledge series. Moys was funded to attend
 ‘Engagement for Research: Power, Impact, & Collaboration’, Leapfrog Summer School 2017,
 Lancaster, which she described as ‘an invaluable networking opportunity with designers working
 united by an interest in participatory methods . . . I have built new connections that I have used
 in grant proposals.’ Moys was encouraged to develop her editorial skills through guest-editing a


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 special issue of Visible Language on inclusive design. Lickiss, from 2019, as part of career
 development, has been appointed to the Research Division Lead role as a job share (with
 Walker). Moys advises on and reviews all research ethics applications in T&GC gaining an
 overview of research being undertaken at undergraduate and postgraduate levels and by
 members of staff. Warner, newly appointed as a Lecturer in 2020, joined Walker’s
 communication design research group for mentoring and introduction to the benefits and
 opportunities of cross- and inter-disciplinary working. Warner will be supported in her plans to
 engage in communication design projects that benefit third sector organisations, building on
 recent collaboration on a project with Liberty.
 Research in Indian and Arabic scripts was extended through the independent research
 fellowships of Singh (British Academy) and Nemeth (Horizon 2020, Marie Curie). Both were
 supported by senior colleagues in writing applications and assigned mentors who encourage
 and support outreach and promotion of their work as well as advising on research and
 publications. Singh has been encouraged to take advantage of his Fellowship to create networks
 and has co-organised a series of conferences with SOAS and the Royal Asiatic Society, for
 example, ‘Technologies of print in South and Southeast Asia: the social history of modes of
 production’, in March 2019 and ‘Print unbound: the making/unmaking of newspapers and
 periodicals in Asia’, convened in January 2020. His proposal, ‘Typing in tongues: how does
 technology shape language, script, textual communication’ was selected for the (virtual) British
 Academy Summer Showcase in June 2020. Nemeth’s website TypoArabic explains his research
 and provides updates, using a research.reading.ac.uk template and support (available to all
 researchers). We take advantage of other opportunities to enrich and sustain our research
 environment with outstanding ECRs, e.g. Ricardo Olocco (Design Star CDT graduate) has been
 appointed as a Visiting Research Fellow and will contribute through his research on fifteenth-
 century typefaces.
 We have an excellent and sustained record of recruitment to externally-funded early-
 career research posts. Since 2014 we have welcomed 8 colleagues to such roles (Lekka,
 Savoie, Lickiss, Bravo, Carey, Mole, Lee and Minns) increased from 5 in 2014. Each is expected
 to contribute with full acknowledgement as co-authors, co-curators, designers or for data
 collection/analysis as appropriate, and is supported by their respective PI. Lekka and Savoie, for
 example, are PDRAs on the Leverhulme-funded ‘Women in Type’ project and have spoken
 about the project at conferences and events. Savoie gave the annual Beatrice Warde Lecture:
 ‘Invisible women: the contribution of the type drawing office to twentieth-century type making’
 (November 2019). Each member of research staff, along with all members of academic staff,
 has access to training and development opportunities provided by the University and external
 trainers, aligning with the new Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 which has informed a University-wide ‘action plan’ to measure effective implementation of the
 Concordat recommendations.

 Doctoral research: developing talent and confidence
 T&GC’s research environment is enhanced by a thriving cohort of doctoral researchers
 which is critical to the sustainability of ‘design for reading’. We currently host 27 doctoral
 researchers from the UK and overseas, including from China, Brazil, Singapore, Norway, Spain,
 Egypt, South Korea, Syria and USA; and who study full-time, part-time or working away (a status
 that allows researchers to work in their own country for example, with archival resources, and
 receive on-line supervision combined with two visits to Reading each year for intensive study).


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our commitment to doctoral research is shown through our leadership of the AHRC CDT,
 Design Star (Walker), working with colleagues at Loughborough, the OU, Brighton and
 Goldsmiths. The definition of design in this CDT is broad, providing opportunity for Design Star
 researchers at Reading (who work on topics relevant to design for reading) to experience
 research methods and projects concerned with product design, fashion design and
 sustainability, for example. The Design Star strapline ‘strength in diversity’ acknowledges this
 range, and also indicates a commitment to offering studentships to those with work experience
 as well as the more traditional academic routes and who may want to study part-time. In this
 REF period, 13 T&GC students have attracted funding through the rigorous competitive process
 for AHRC Design Star studentships. Design Star also disperses funding for creative, often
 student-led research and impact training (e.g. through Summer Schools, skills workshops and
 curated exhibitions), and this enhances the doctoral researcher experience.
 Beyond Design Star, we have continued to attract funding from AHRC for Collaborative
 Doctoral Partnership awards, including with Tate for ‘Forms, strategies and contexts of
 publishing in modern and contemporary art practice (1960s to the present day)’ (PI Blacksell),
 and with National Museums Scotland for ‘Democratising knowledge and visualising process:
 illustrations from Chambers’s Encyclopedia, 1859–1892’ (PI Banham). Our reputation for
 collections-based research attracted funding from family donors to work on the archive of the
 artist, Charles Mozley. This funding has supported a PhD student (Zlotea) and a part-time
 cataloguer (Morris) and this provides a distinctive and supportive environment for doctoral
 research. We have been successful in the competitive internal, University-wide international
 studentship competitions in this REF period (3 fees-only studentships). Others are self-funded,
 many of whom took advantage of Reading’s alumni 10% fee discount.
 All doctoral researchers are offered the opportunity to contribute to undergraduate and MA
 teaching and to reflect on the benefits of this to their research or career. Victor Gaultney, for
 example, has taught aspects of the history and theory of italics to MA type design students, with
 the benefit that it ‘sharpens the focus of my research so that it remains relevant to current
 designers. It has also helped me to identify areas I may have overlooked or that need further
 investigation’; and Alex Heslop taught ‘History of Graphic Communication 1’ and ‘Printing and
 Printmaking’ to Part 1 undergraduate students to support her ambition to pursue an academic
 career. Doctoral researchers are encouraged to curate and design exhibitions, conduct
 workshops and lead symposia, such as Borna Izadpanah’s 2019 exhibition ’20th-century
 Persian newspaper types: investigating the design process’, an exhibition co-curated with his
 supervisor and that was featured by BBC Persia in their programming; and Darryl Lim’s 2018
 interdisciplinary symposium, ‘Multiple impressions: the coexistence of scribal practices and
 printing technologies in texts’ convened for graduate students and early-career researchers:
 jointly-organised by the Centre for Cultural, Literary and Postcolonial Studies, School of Oriental
 and African Studies, University of London, and the British Library. We are proud of the
 publication record of our doctoral researchers and encourage and support this as part of
 their doctoral training. In 2018, for example, Reading Design Star students Borna Izadpanah and
 Ricardo Olocco had work accepted in the Journal of the Printing Historical Society for ‘Early
 printing and type founding in Europe, and ‘The Jenson Roman’ respectively. Andrew McIlwraith
 published in Visible Language, ‘Two-dimensional and three-dimensional maps: which work best
 for museum visitors.’
 Each PGR student is jointly supervised. The weekly postgraduate seminar is presented by a
 doctoral student and attended by staff and all postgraduate students. This seminar forms part of


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 annual monitoring of progress that, along with written work, is evaluated by two colleagues and
 reviewed by the Departmental PGR Committee. Confirmation of PhD registration in the second
 year of study, or part-time equivalent, is granted after review of a chapter-length piece of writing
 and an interview. These processes lead to timely completions and excellent pass rates. In this
 REF period we have had 20 PhD successful completions, an increase of 11 from REF 2014.
 Within T&GC, doctoral researchers benefit from a designated room with desk space that
 complements study space in the Graduate School, access to printing and studio facilities,
 exhibition space and support for and training in collections-based research. Our doctoral
 researchers participate in Graduate School events and competitions which provide an
 opportunity to share their research experience with students working in other disciplines. Bodil
 Olsen, for example, won the 2019 Graduate School Research Poster competition for
 ‘Communicating health in food labelling in Britain 1850–1970’.
 We encourage interest in potential future research by engaging with Reading’s distinctive
 Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (UROP) that has led to 6 funded
 placements (with Banham, Black, Leonidas and Moys) that have inspired future postgraduate
 study or careers in information design.

 Supporting and rewarding people; promoting and celebrating diversity and inclusion
 Reading is committed to rewarding research excellence and ambition across all staff,
 whatever their career stage. T&GC has benefitted from Reading’s Research Endowment Trust
 Fund (RETF) for:
    research and impact development within the research division (£19.5k)
    funding bid preparation and research leave (Banham, Leonidas Lickiss, Moys, Ross, Walker)
     and for research assistance (Walker). This included a Heritage & Creativity theme
     Collections Residency for Banham to work on a funding application about the reconstruction
     of historical printing processes, and to run a related cross-disciplinary ‘Ideas Labs’ to explore
     integration of digital humanities methods and that has resulted in a large AHRC grant
     application: ‘Revisiting the heritage of printed images, 1780–1880: printing surfaces,
     reconstruction & interpretation’ £995,000)
    research and impact excellence. Lickiss was awarded one of the University’s prestigious
     2020 Fellowship awards for an outstanding ECR, which has supported a monograph. This
     monograph was subsequently awarded the best ECR research output prize for the Heritage
     & Creativity theme in 2019. Walker’s work to extend the reach and range of beneficiaries of
     her research was acknowledged through selection as a finalist in the 2019 and 2020 awards
     for Research Impact and Engagement for her work on antibiotic resistance in the UK and in
     Rwanda; and the graphic design pioneer, Marie Neurath.
    Design Star CDT doctoral studentships. Funding for each of the last five years for one
     Design Star PhD studentship (£281,220); contribution to the admin support for the CDT (c
     £25,000), and buyout for Walker as Director (£13K).
 Research excellence and engagement has contributed to the promotion of 7 members of staff
 in this REF period: 3 to Professor (Kindel, Leonidas and Ross); 2 to Associate Professor
 (Blacksell and Moys), 1 to Principal Research Fellow (Burke) and 1 within the professorial zonal
 range (Walker). Of these promotions 3 were part-time staff; 4 were female, 3 male. All staff are
 supported in applying for promotion through workshops on the application process at University
 level, and through mentorship within the School. The promotion process allows for and takes



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 account of an individual’s personal circumstances, including maternity, paternity and adoption
 leave, ill-health and caring responsibilities.
 We have welcomed the University’s commitment to equality and diversity through the
 appointment of a Dean for Diversity and Inclusion, and appointment of champions at Department
 level (Moys and Warner). Staff networks, for example, for BAME and LBGTQ colleagues and
 Women@Reading offer collegial and supportive spaces for discussions and events. We take
 active steps to promote the work of women in our research, for example, Ross’s Leverhulme
 project ‘Women in type’, and Walker and Kindel’s AHRC project about the designer, Marie
 Neurath. The research centre for Book Cultures & Publishing has four female co-directors,
 including Walker, and is committed to working in a collaborative and inclusive way, and to raising
 the profile of the contributions from under-represented groups in book and publishing history.
 Walker continues to serve as an Aurora role model and mentor. Moys has extended her interest
 in inclusive design by encouraging undergraduate students to be aware of different areas of
 diversity, including in research through workshops and a publication ‘I am, we are … different by
 design’ supported by the University’s Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Fund. Doctoral and staff
 research reflects commitment to the representation of languages other than English, including
 Armenian, Greek, Arabic, Chinese, Hindi and Bengali. Our volunteers working within the Centre
 for Ephemera Studies are retired people and bring valued experience and expertise from
 librarianship, archive cataloguing and printing history. Our funded research demonstrates our
 commitment to engaging with diverse groups of people both in the development of research
 ideas and in their exploration. This engagement includes with children and young people, local
 communities in Rwanda and Ghana, carers of people with dementia and people who work with
 type and language in non-Latin scripts.
 Individual research plans are prepared annually and take account of strategic objectives
 identified in a research division 5-year plan that in turn aligns with the University’s research
 strategy. Research Division Leads (RDLs) oversee and support individual plans and assist in
 making sure objectives are achieved, that both full- and part-time colleagues are aware of
 internal and external research support schemes, and that personal circumstances (such as
 COVID-related home-schooling) are taken into account. Staff Performance and Development
 Reviews include discussion of personal research plans and the opportunities and challenges
 associated with these. Within the Department research-related meetings are scheduled to
 accommodate part-time staff; and flexible working arrangements in agreement with the Head of
 Department support people with caring responsibilities. All research-active members of staff are
 invited to contribute to strategic research planning discussions and related meetings and
 workshops. The RDLs meet termly with the Research Dean to discuss research progress and
 highlights, and to raise issues and questions about resource.
 Our approach to REF preparation has been inclusive, ensuring that all REF returnable
 colleagues have been involved in drafting the Environment statement; and that individual
 research plans have been taken into account in drafting our forward strategy. One of our impact
 case studies derives from research undertaken by full- and part-time members of staff and
 combines ECR research with that of senior colleagues. Output selections were based on quality,
 assessed through peer review, and consideration of equality and diversity issues. Our output
 selection is a balanced portfolio that represents the range of research in this small UoA. We
 reflected on the outcomes of the University’s interim Equality Impact Assessment (2020) and
 bias analysis (2021), which identified no statistically significant differences for protected
 characteristics in our selection. Items were selected from up to 10 outputs from returnable
 colleagues and have taken account of gender, career stage, nationality and whether full- or part-

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 time. For example, the average number of outputs per staff member is 1.8 (M) and 2 (F); 13 of
 25 outputs are from full-time staff; 9 from part-time staff, and 2 from a retired colleague; 12 of 25
 outputs are from professors (split equally between full- and part-time); ECR research is
 represented with 5 outputs, 2 of which are double-weighted; 11 of the outputs are from staff with
 nationalities other than British.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Diverse sources of funding for research, knowledge transfer and impact
 We have built on our strong track record of attracting research income, extending our range of
 funding sources, as planned. We received £1.4m in the assessment period deriving from
 external sources including UKRI, the EU, charities and government, and from internal
 competitive funds such as from Reading’s GCRF allocation. This funding success demonstrates
 our commitment to cross- and inter-disciplinary working and to global contexts.
 Our success in grant capture has been underpinned by internal support mechanisms, for
 example, collaborative thematic workshops that support networking. Walker’s AHRC project
 about antimicrobial resistance arose from discussion at a Health Humanities workshop, and
 Black’s and Lickiss’s research collaborations with Meteorology stemmed from internal cross-
 disciplinary workshops. Researchers from T&GC (Banham, Lickiss, Leonidas, Ross and Walker)
 have contributed to Heritage & Creativity funded workshops and events related to digital
 humanities and using collections and archives in research. Further, from 2018 research
 applications have been supported by internal peer review from an institutional Grant
 Development College. Within T&GC colleagues writing grant applications are supported by
 senior colleagues, in particular when applicants work part-time or are at the early stage of their
 research career. Walker, for example, supported Ross in her successful Leverhulme bid.
 Our research excellence in typeface design has resulted in funding from Leverhulme for
 ‘Women in type: a social history of women’s role in type drawing offices’ (Ross); from the British
 Academy for ‘Merchants of alphabets: networks of typographic design and technology in Indian
 language publishing, 1900-1950’ (PI Singh) and from Horizon 2020 for ‘TypoArabic: towards
 historically-informed practice in contemporary Arabic typography’ (Nemeth). For research in
 information design, we secured funding from AHRC for a project (2018-19) concerned with the
 role of pharmacies in communicating information to combat antimicrobial resistance (Walker).
 Black was Co-I (with Lickiss as RA) on a NERC-funded project (2013-2017) as part of the PURE
 (Probability Uncertainty Risk and the Environment) initiative and worked on the communication
 of forecasts of risk and uncertainty to audiences from air-traffic controllers and property insurers.
 A second NERC project (Black Co-I; Lickiss RA) with GCRF resilience funding on the
 communication of risk and uncertainty to low-literacy agricultural communities in sub-Saharan
 Africa raised the profile of information design. Black extended her work on this project as Co-I
 with RA support on a project for DfID about how to improve the provision of seasonal forecasts
 to aid decision-makers. Walker is Co-I on an ESRC Cross Council Mental Health Network Plus
 project, bringing an information design perspective to ‘Emerging minds: action for child mental
 health’ with Psychology and Computer Science, Sociology, Media Studies and History at other
 HEIs. Black, and then Moys, were Co-Is on the EIT Food KIC project ‘Developing a digital toolkit
 to enhance the communication of scientific health claims’ which aims to help manufacturers and
 marketers communicate more effectively about the health benefits of food and help consumers
 make more informed choices. Walker was successful in internal competitive funding for GCRF
 for Equitable Partnerships for a project in Rwanda about communicating information about
 antibiotic resistance. Walker is Co-I on an Oxford University-led MRC/AHRC/ESRC COVID-19

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 rapid knowledge mobilisation project: ‘Evidence based mental health and well-being
 resources made by young people for young people in the COVID-19 context’.
 In parallel with attracting funding for research, we have successfully explored funding routes for
 the application of our research, for impact and for knowledge transfer. Black co-ordinated a
 range of commissioned health communication projects including with Southampton CCG to
 develop materials for long-term patients explaining how they could help reduce medicines waste,
 and that resulted in cross-media approach of print and digital resources for use in different
 contexts (GP surgery, pharmacy, hospital); and with Royal Berkshire Hospital on a tool to
 improve communication between hospital staff and carers about patients’ experience of pain.
 Walker was appointed by Public Health England as a consultant on a project to design
 information materials to support antimicrobial stewardship in community pharmacies. AHRC
 Follow-on funding enabled Walker and Kindel to raise the profile of Marie Neurath’s work on
 science communication in her Isotype books for children.
 Support from Reading’s HEIF (£40k) has enabled Lickiss and Walker to initiate the Innovation in
 Communication Design (InCoDe) project that is committed to partnership working and
 knowledge exchange, in relation to immersive technologies, health and the environment.
 Current InCoDe collaborators include Royal Berkshire Hospital on a project about penicillin
 allergy, the McPin Foundation and Mental Elf in relation to adolescent mental health, and HM
 Prisons Service on structured communications in prisons. As part of InCoDe, Lickiss undertook a
 University-wide survey of VR capability at Reading which has resulted in investment in
 equipment and its application in health-related information design in discussion with Reading’s
 Knowledge Transfer Centre.

 Support for collections and archives to enliven research and engagement
 The research importance of the Lettering, Printing and Graphic Design Collections
 (LPGDC) was affirmed in this REF period by the positive response to our Collections Research
 Development Framework commissioned as part of a University-wide Collections Project. The
 LPGDC comprises mainly C19 and C20 material including the Otto and Marie Neurath Isotype
 Collection; the Non-Latin Type Collection; the Rickards Collection of Ephemera and the C20
 Poster Collection; the work of designers such as Hans Schmoller, Colin Banks and John Miles
 as well as a unique collection of printing presses spanning technology from the C16 to the C19.
 The framework set out plans to increase the research potential of the LPGDC, in particular
 cross-disciplinary engagement through partnerships and collaboration, attracting funding for
 research and impact and enhancing access through workshops, cataloguing and digitisation.
 Approval of the plans led to substantial University strategic funding: for a Collections
 Research Assistant (£43k); Heritage & Creativity theme funding for digitisation and access
 projects (£5k), and Research Infrastructure & Equipment Funding for additional collections
 storage and refurbishment for exhibitions, including new lighting, vitrines and digital display
 equipment (£35k). As a result of this support, funding and profile, during this REF period, we
 have had 4 successful funding bids that have drawn on our collections (Ross [Leverhulme],
 Singh [BA], Walker x 2 [AHRC]); as well as 7 AHRC-funded doctoral students. This research
 has also benefitted T&GC through connections with other national and international collections,
 including AHRC-funded CDAs (with National Museums Scotland and Tate).
 Recognition of the research value of the collections in T&GC is further demonstrated by donor
 contributions to the ‘Michael Twyman Fund’, established after Emeritus Professor Michael
 Twyman was awarded the Misha Black Award in 2014 for his stellar contribution to ‘design for
 reading’ including for collections-based teaching and research. This Fund is used to support

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collections development and research, for example, as shown in the 2016 exhibition ‘A-Z
 ephemera’; and bursaries for postgraduate students undertaking collections-based research.
 Serjio TrijilloPerez, who won a Twyman Bursary in 2015, acknowledged the value of the
 LPGDC: Everything from antique books, newspapers, posters and ephemera, to original
 sketches, production pieces and printing tools, has been at our disposal. The close contact with
 these collection pieces provides the historical context needed to better understand, appreciate
 and practice any design profession. It is definitely a unique experience to work in such a
 historically rich and creative environment, and I am extremely thankful that I was able to do so.
 As well as collections housed within T&GC, our research is supported by the University
 Special Collections service, including material in the Archive of British Publishing and Printing
 and the Printing Collection, both of which have been developed in consultation with researchers
 in T&GC. Further, T&GC research is enhanced and supported by the University Library which
 has extensive holdings. T&GC researchers benefit from the range of disciplines represented in a
 broad-based HEI, and take advantage of books and journals, for example, in linguistics,
 psychology and economic history as well as holdings in typography, graphic communication and
 printing and publishing history. A reading room in T&GC holds additional key books and journals
 in the AF Johnson Collection and the Otto and Marie Neurath Isotype Collection.

 University infrastructure and support
 Since 2015 the University has invested over £1 million in new research support posts,
 increasing the resource available to researchers from several central functions, including theme-
 based research development managers, impact support officers, and business relationship
 managers. This support has benefitted researchers in T&GC, for example, by suggesting
 funding routes; supporting costing for applications; identifying opportunities for impact and
 knowledge transfer. Typography’s impact work has been supported through Reading’s award-
 winning Building Outstanding Impact Support Programme (BOISP), with £16,300 awarded to
 support exhibitions, user-engagement and data analysis. The University’s support for
 interdisciplinarity is evidenced through recognition after a competitive process of 10 inter-
 disciplinary research centres. Successful applicants (including our new Centre for Book Cultures
 and Publishing) received RETF financial support for research and engagement pump-priming
 projects. T&GC shares the University’s commitment to Open Research and has been supported
 through the Open Access fund to support publication of journal articles in peer-reviewed journals
 (Lickiss, Walker, Black). Where relevant and appropriate, Creative Commons licenses are used,
 for example, with design templates produced as part of research projects.
 Within T&GC all staff have networked computing facilities in dedicated offices, have professional
 Creative Cloud software as required and access to scanners, cameras, audio and VR
 equipment. All staff have access to the Lettering, Printing and Graphic Design Collections, and
 are supported by Assistant Curator, Dr Emma Minns, who can arrange photography and
 scanning as required to support research projects. The University’s Research Communications
 Office provides templates and support for research project websites and as part of our strategy
 to extend the reach of our research we make use of this opportunity as with, for example,
 Women in Type and TypoArabic.
 In our 2014 REF submission we anticipated a new location for T&GC and in 2015 the University
 set in motion plans to rehouse T&GC in a distinctive 1970s-era brutalist building located in the
 centre of the Whiteknights campus. The redevelopment, budgeted at over £30m, aimed to bring
 together the Schools of Construction Management, Architecture and of Art, as well as T&GC.
 The project reached a stage 2 design phase, when in 2017, the building was listed by Historic

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 England and the project was unable to continue. To mitigate this, T&GC’s current building has
 been prioritised for a programme of redevelopment. Work has started on refurbishing our current
 facilities and creating additional space for a new print workshop that will house our outstanding
 collection of historic presses.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Information design research is concerned with making a difference to people’s lives and we seek
 to engage users both in the conception of research projects as well as evaluation of their
 effectiveness and resulting benefits. Public-facing outcomes such as exhibitions and accessible
 digital assets are integral to our collections-based research, for example. And our research and
 practice in type design and book design is undertaken in close association with readers, industry
 professionals and publishers.

 Collaborations within and beyond the University
 Our work in information design has prioritised cross-disciplinary collaboration and
 stakeholder and user-engagement, evident in Black’s work as Director of the Centre for
 Information Design Research (CIDR), with research links with schools and departments across
 the University (Food Science, Henley Business School, Linguistics, Meteorology, and
 Psychology) and to users of research beyond the University (Government Digital Services,
 Parliamentary Digital Services, DWP, Berkshire Healthcare Foundation Trust, Royal Berkshire
 Hospital, Clarity (professional legal society), the Met Office and Environment Agency). CIDR
 provides an identifiable focus for T&GC's information design research, leading into the
 publication of the co-edited Information Design Research and Practice (2017), which included 49
 contributions from colleagues around the world, and was launched in collaboration with the All-
 Party Parliamentary Design and Innovation Group (APDIG) at an event at Westminster in 2018,
 attended by over 100 guests. In response to COVID-19, Walker is working with colleagues in
 bio-medical engineering on a project about anti-body testing kits to ensure that instructions for
 doing the tests are clear and easy to use. This research is funded via a crowd-sourcing
 campaign organised by Reading’s Development Office.
 During this REF period, Black, Moys and Walker have been members of the EU COST-Action,
 ‘Evolution of reading in the age of digitisation’ (E-Read), collaborating with colleagues
 across Europe. Our attendance at workshops in Slovenia, Hungary, Croatia and Lithuania raised
 the profile of ‘design for reading’. Moys collaborated with E-read colleagues in Ireland on a
 project ‘Investigating the interplay between typographic differentiation, motivation and recall in e-
 learning interfaces’; Black organised a working seminar attended by 25 delegates on the theme
 ‘Reading to do’ that focused on instructional text. Walker collaborated with Theresa Schilhab,
 Aarhus University on an edited volume, The materiality of reading (2020), and was lead author
 on a chapter, ‘Designing digital texts for beginner readers’ in an edited book Learning to read in
 a digital world (Benjamins, 2018). As a result of this engagement T&GC contributed to and
 signed The Stavanger Declaration, outlining future research on reading from paper and screens.
 Work across disciplines characterises our historical approaches to ‘design for reading’. In
 2019, Kindel commenced an interdisciplinary collaboration with musicologists and codicologists
 at the Institut de Recherche en Musicologie (IReMus), Paris, inaugurated at the conference,
 ‘Le livre de musique pochoir: techniques, répertoires, ateliers’ (Valenciennes), attended by 30
 people. To accompany her co-edited special issue of the journal Architecture & Culture (2016),
 Blacksell collaborated with Dr Stephen Walker, University of Sheffield to organise two one-day

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conferences at the ICA (London) in 2015 and 2016 under the title ‘Architecture and the spaces
 of information’, each with around 180 international delegates. Ross was invited by the British
 Library (BL) to contribute an online article ‘Two Bengali grammars – a typographic perspective’,
 and Singh was awarded funding (£15k) in 2019 from the BL’s Endangered Archives Programme
 for a project, ‘Preserving the history of Indian cinema through digitising early Urdu film
 magazines’. Singh’s growing national and international reputation has led to symposia in
 collaboration with the Royal Asiatic Society, the Centre for Printing History and Culture and The
 Bibliographical Society. His ‘Drafts of history’ project is creating a publicly-sourced archive of a
 single day with newspapers from around the world.
 Our expertise in collections-based research, history of printing and design and in describing the
 material attributes of text that inform workshops, symposia and exhibitions has nourished
 partnerships including the Centre for Ephemera Studies working with the John Johnson
 Collection at the Bodleian contributing material and expertise to the 2020 exhibition ‘The art of
 advertising’, and with Université Cergy Pontoise on an EU-funded project ‘Patrimeph’ leading to
 a French-language edition of the ‘Thesaurus of ephemera terms’. Many of our workshops
 involve hands-on sessions with presses and other artefacts to demonstrate the major and minor
 printing processes, supported by a print technician and material relating to the making of prints
 using these processes. Working with the Institute of English Studies London Rare Book School,
 we convened a 3-day collections-led and hand-on workshop on Colour Printing, 1830–1950
 (2018), which was the first time the Book School moved outside London, and that will be
 continued as part of our Centre for Book Cultures and Publishing activities from 2022.
 Much of our collections-based research results in public-facing exhibitions curated in
 collaboration with national museums and galleries. These include Poynor’s ‘National Theatre
 Posters: A Graphic Design History, 1963–2017’ at the National Theatre, London, 2017/8; and
 Kindel and Walker’s ‘Marie Neurath: Picturing Science’ at House of Illustration, London in 2019.
 In his role as Curator of the Otto and Marie Neurath Isotype Collection, Kindel has provided
 research-informed consultation and expert curatorial support to colleagues in museums and
 galleries in the UK and Europe. These include: ‘Exemplary: 150 Years of the MAK – from Arts
 and Crafts to Design’ (Museum für angewandte Kunst, Vienna, 2014); ‘Bildfabrik. Infografik
 1920–1945, Fritz Kahn, Otto Neurath et al’ (German National Library, Leipzig, 2017–2018; and a
 contribution to an exhibition publication and keynote address to exhibition opening); ‘Bilston’s
 Happy Housing’ (Bilston, West Midlands, 2015); ‘Can graphic design save your life?’ (Wellcome
 Collection, London, 2017–2018 and a contribution to exhibition publication); and 'Society of
 Signs', Leopold Hoesch Museum (Düren) and Museum für Neue Kunst / Städtische Museen
 Freiburg, 2020.
 Within T&GC, a refurbished exhibition area has supported displays curated by staff, students
 and external members including, ‘Pelican books by design’ the public-facing inaugural exhibition
 of the Centre for Book Cultures & Publishing, curated in 2019 by Lickiss. We have extended the
 reach of our collections-based research through on-line exhibitions, for example, about Marie
 Neurath’s children’s books (2020).

 Research and impact globally, nationally and locally
 The global reach of T&GC’s research has been significantly developed and enhanced during this
 REF period often in response to requests for collaboration, consultation and curiosity to find out
 more about what underpins T&GC’s approach to research in ‘design for reading’. Leonidas has
 led work in China, for example, with Tsinghua University where a research group on design in
 digital reading is investigating partnership with us, including PGR training and research

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration. Leonidas’s global influence is also seen as a founder member of the Granshan
 Foundation that celebrates ‘non-Latin typefaces and typography, design and communication
 that enable communities to develop culture and enterprises in a balance between local, regional,
 and global’. Under Leonidas’s direction, Reading hosted the 2015 Granshan conference which
 attracted 200 international delegates.
 Now in its 12th year, our two-week Type Design Intensive (TDi) summer course has been
 instrumental in creating a global community that spans industry and research, education and
 practice. Run by Leonidas, the course attracts engineers and managers from companies such
 as Google and Microsoft, senior designers from companies such as Jaguar, and educators from
 institutions around the world. Group sizes are maintained at around 20 to ensure exchange of
 ideas and TDi utilises a research-intensive approach to illuminate how typography matters
 across these different perspectives, and to build bridges between decision-makers, engineers,
 educators, and practitioners.
 Leonidas and Ross continue to work in collaboration with Google. Leonidas’ research informed
 the development of Source Serif 2 through designing character sets for historical and current
 Greek; and Google in 2020 released Ross’s fonts developed for the acclaimed Murty Classical
 Libraries of India project for Harvard University Press in their Open Source Library in 2020, in
 line with their policy of making freely available exemplars of best typographic practice and the
 research and design processes that inform them.
 Much of T&GC’s research results in outputs or materials that offer direct benefit to people.
 An example is Black’s ‘Handbook for Carers of People with Dementia’, produced with Berkshire
 Healthcare Foundation Trust (BHFT), to help them navigate local services available to them. The
 Handbook contributed to the Outstanding rating in BHFT’s quality of care provision, and was
 specifically cited as an example of excellence. The success of the handbook in Berkshire
 resulted in new editions relevant to Essex and the Isle of Wight. In 2016, Health Education
 England commissioned an e-book and app version for trainee professional carers that is
 available in their website and via Kindle and e-book where it has had over 8000 downloads and
 has been commended in reviews for its ease of use and clear structure. Other examples of the
 application of our information design research include invitations to present to UK Parliamentary
 Digital Service (Black and Moys) on ‘User focused information design in a multiplatform
 environment’ in 2018; Moys contributed recommendations to a confidential report for the Office
 of Parliamentary Council in 2014; and Walker offered an information design perspective to the
 Grenfell Tower Enquiry: a sector workshop ‘Redesigning Building Regulation Guidance’.

 Getting involved in the sector: affirming research value of typography and graphic
 communication
 Contributions to the research base in the UK include Walker’s appointment to the Art and
 Design REF 2021 panel and membership of the Advisory Group for the AHRC Design Research
 Leadership Fellow. UKRI support includes membership of AHRC Peer Review College (Black,
 Kindel, Walker) and of the Strategic Review College (Walker); membership of the mid-term
 EPSRC DTP/CDA review panel (Walker). Drawing on her Design Star experience, Walker was
 one of Reading’s leads in the development of the successful South West and Wales DTP2,
 which helped to ensure that design is one of the topics eligible for funding and that training in
 collections-based research is available for doctoral research; Black, Kindel, Leonidas and
 Walker contribute to the SWW2 review process. Although a small UOA, T&GC’s broad range of
 research makes a significant contribution to the research base. Our contribution in this REF
 period from 12.7fte (including returnable and retired colleagues) reflects this: 40 articles in

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 refereed journals, 55 chapters in edited books, 10 books, 7 edited books, 14 practice as
 research outputs, and around 200 papers that focus on critical practice in design from a
 research perspective or that serve to extend the reach of our research to professional as well as
 academic readers in publications such as Eye, Print (USA), Design Observer, Medium, Creative
 Review, Art Monthly, Baseline and The Ephemerist.
 Members of staff have taken leadership roles in subject associations with international
 reach, including the Printing Historical Society (Singh) and the Ephemera Society (Twyman).
 Leonidas was elected President of Association Typographique Internationale, the primary global
 body for bringing together research and practice in typeface design and served until 2019.
 Walker continued as Co-Chair of the Information Design Association until 2017 and was a
 conference organiser and chair of the 2014 ‘Information Matters’ international conference held at
 RIBA in London attended by 250 delegates. As well as these major discipline-leading events,
 colleagues have organised smaller influential conferences and symposia that reflect T&GC’s
 research or methods relating to it. For example, ephemera-related research underpinned a
 ‘Poster Network Study Day’ in June 2017, in collaboration with the V&A and the Arts Council,
 and a ‘Letterforms and Ephemera’ symposium with the Ephemera Society in June 2019. Both
 these events provided opportunity to showcase material from the Lettering, Printing and Graphic
 Design Collections, to the delight of more than 50 delegates attending each event. Overseas
 invited committee memberships include Type Directors Club, Beatrice Warde Scholarship
 Committee (Ross), Council of Higher Education, Israel, panel member for national sector review
 of communication design (Leonidas); Non-Latin Advisory Board of the Type Directors Club
 (Leonidas, Nemeth, Ross). Other contributions have been acknowledged through awards,
 including the 2018 TDC Medal for Distinguished Contributions to the Fields of Typeface Design
 and Education' and the 2014 SOTA award (Ross), the 2017 TDC medal (Unger), and an
 Antibiotic Guardian Commended award for antibiotic resistance materials for Rwanda (Walker).
 Staff have served as reviewers of journal articles, and Leonidas is editor-in-chief of the
 ‘Typographic knowledge for global communication’ series, published by CITIC Press.
 Our reputation for research leads to many invitations to deliver keynote lectures. Of particular
 note are ‘Representing technical information for everyday communication’ at the Visualisation of
 Knowledge conference at Aalto University, Helsinki in 2017 (Black); ‘The illustrator as public
 intellectual: Russell Mills – a case study’ at the 6th Annual Illustration Research Symposium at
 Rhode Island School of Design in 2015 (Poynor); ‘Type more examined than ever: now more
 than ever is the time to ask relevant questions: interrogating research and practice’ Type Drives
 Culture conference at the Type Directors’ Club, New York in 2019 (Ross), ‘Heritage and
 creativity, productivity and innovation’ at the Symposium on the Creative Chinese Character at
 CCC Association, Beijing in 2017 (Leonidas) and ‘Progress? On the evolution of Arabic type’,
 The Justin Howes Memorial Lecture, 2019 (Nemeth). In addition, staff delivered high profile
 lectures in Europe, USA, Brazil, China, Sri Lanka, and India on a wide range of ‘design for
 reading’ topics: book design for children, book design and spaces of publishing, women in type,
 Isotype, key figures such as David King, William Sandberg and Stanley Kubrick; and methods of
 working including collections-based research, and design skills for environmental risk
 communication.

 T&GC’s research in this REF period has been supported and sustained through alignment with
 the University’s strategic ambitions for research: collaboration, openness, impact, leadership and
 resource. We have engaged with partners locally, nationally and internationally in an open and
 inclusive way. Our approach to impact is built into our research to take accounts of the needs

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and skills of partners and user communities. Colleagues continue to provide leadership in
 respective research fields and to provide encouragement and guidance in research in alignment
 with senior research leadership at Reading, T&GC’s ambitions have been recognised and have
 benefitted from University of Reading support. This has resulted in a research environment that
 has enabled a small, distinctive UoA to thrive.




                                                                                         Page 15
