Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: D-28 History


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview

Sheffield’s Department of History seeks to foster research excellence and innovation in a
community of scholars with diverse interests and expertise across a broad historical span. We
prioritise chronological, geographical, thematic, and methodological range because the cross-
fertilisation of ideas stimulates dynamism and experimentation, enables many collaborative
configurations, minimises risk, and facilitates agile responses to changing disciplinary and societal
demands. These commitments are replicated in our taught programmes and reflect the symbiotic
relationship between our research and teaching. This pluralism also provides the best platform to
contribute practically to contemporary issues and connect to a wider public.

Sheffield’s investment in History since 2014 has extended our research’s breadth and profile.
Chronologically, we have deepened our expertise in contemporary (post-1945) history while
extending our purview into the ancient world. Geographically, we have diversified our research and
developed the infrastructure to analyse – and teach – a comprehensive ‘global history’.
Thematically, we have enhanced our reputation in political cultures, material culture, and
digitization, while extending our expertise in medical humanities, gender, migration and social
networks. A new generation of colleagues have embraced collaboration in interdisciplinary centres
and research hubs facilitating the participation of postgraduate research students (PGRs),
postgraduate taught students (PGTs) and undergraduates (UGs). Two strategies in particular are
transforming our ambitions. The first is the development of formal departmental links in Europe,
North America, Africa, and Asia, extending our research environment around the world. The
second is the sustained commitment of colleagues for their research to have an impact on
contemporary society. While this desire is reflected in our four impact case studies, it is equally
evidenced by numerous projects, small and large, where colleagues exchange and co-create
knowledge with non-academic partners.

While this document records many highlights of the last seven years of History at Sheffield, two
recent initiatives particularly encapsulate our achievements. One is the decision of the leading
journal Gender and History to select us as its new editorial home due to our concentration, range
and diversity of expertise. The other is Sheffield’s participation in ‘Teaching European History in
the 21st Century’ (TEH21), a funded collaboration with Utrecht, Berlin, Budapest, Lille, Madrid and
Prague, to create a transnational textbook of European history since 1500, based on the latest
research. Sheffield’s role in these projects indicates the development of its global connections, its
commitment to European collaboration post-Brexit, to research-based teaching, and to
comprehensive thematic expertise.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 Achievement of research objectives

We have realised the plans set out in REF2014 in the following ways:

   1. We supported individual research. we currently comprise 88 individual researchers: 38
      staff on teaching and research contracts (T&R), five staff on research contracts (R), and 46
      fully registered PGRs. The strength of our individual research is exemplified by our
      productivity: over the assessment period we published 27 monographs, 42 edited books or
      special journal issues, 207 journal articles and 167 book chapters.

   2. We invested in staff. We maintained our strengths in medieval history, early modern
      history, American history, international history, modern British and modern European
      history by appointing twelve new T&R staff in these areas. In addition, we strategically
      expanded into ancient, interdisciplinary and transnational history:

          a. We integrated a new biblical history post (gained through the VC Fellowship
             Scheme – see REF5a) and established a Roman history post, to strengthen our
             pre-1500 research, create links our Department of Archaeology and the Sheffield
             Institute of Interdisciplinary Biblical Studies (SIIBS), and overcome outdated period
             and methodological divides in pre-modern history.

          b. We created a medical humanities post to consolidate links with Medical Humanities
             Sheffield (MHS). History is now a key collaborator with other Sheffield research
             groups: the School of Health and Related Research, iHuman in the Department of
             Sociology, the Institute for Sustainable Food, and the Crick Centre for the Public
             Understanding of Politics.

          c. We recruited three new T&R staff in global history, strengthening interdisciplinary
             research with the social sciences, and developing our ability to exploit GCRF
             opportunities.

   3. We restructured our research groups and created new, organic departmental research
      hubs to enhance cross-section collaboration and innovation. Chosen by staff, they build on
      established strengths and open up new areas (medical humanities, migration, slavery)
      enabling colleagues to use ‘cutting-edge’ research to address complex multidisciplinary
      problems and contemporary challenges (e.g. through Withington’s HERA ‘Intoxicating
      Spaces’ project (2019-2021), Knight’s Sheffield and Slavery project 2020-).

   4. We created opportunities for interdisciplinary research:

          a. Through co-directorships of multidisciplinary centres in the Faculty of Arts and
             Humanities, the Medieval and Ancient Research Centre at the University of
             Sheffield (MARCUS), the Sheffield Centre for Early Modern Studies (SCEMS) and
             the Centre for Contemporary and Modern (COMO).

          b. Through building University-wide links between the Faculty and the new
             University Research Institutes, particularly the ISF, MHS, the Centre for the Study of
             Journalism and History (e.g. Bingham’s collaboration with the School of Journalism
             to edit The Edinburgh History of the British and Irish Press).

          c. Through leading interdisciplinary research across the White Rose University
             Consortium. Vincent led the ‘Beyond Charlie: Anticlericalism and the Freedom of


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
              the Press’ network (three funded PGRs), Withington supervised on the ‘Cultures of
              Consumption’ network (three funded PGR), and Summerlin, Toner, Miller-Davenport
              were co-investigators on White Rose Collaboration Fund projects. Lambert-Hurley
              leads the White Rose South Asia network.

   5. We enhanced the international dimension of our research: We secured large grants
      with international co-investigators (e.g. Hillner AHRC and Leverhulme, Withington HERA,
      Lambert-Hurley GCRF and Leverhulme); obtained prestigious fellowships and invited
      professorships for staff abroad (e.g. Karamouzi, British School of Athens; Staub, Konstanz;
      Moses, Göttingen; Gottlieb, Prague); developed new European collaborations (e.g.
      Tompkins, ERASMUS+ strategic partnership fund). Staff and PGRs delivered papers in 20
      different countries (one third of our papers were delivered internationally). We attracted
      international PGRs, early career researchers (ECRs) and other visitors for research stays,
      e.g. from Germany, Iraq, Japan, Portugal, Spain. At least 25 T&R and R staff have an
      international background (in 2019: 52% UK; 48% International). Our research has been
      translated into Dutch, French, German, Spanish, Russian, Japanese.

   6. We diversified sources of research and postdoctoral funding, obtaining grants from
      (for us) new funding bodies (e.g. Wellcome, HERA, GCRF), societies and institutions (e.g.
      Institute of Classical Studies; French Embassy). We strategically increased funding for
      ECRs through exploiting the VC Fellowship, Leverhulme, Marie Curie, Humboldt, and Max
      Batley schemes.

   7. We increased our income by exploiting our considerable expertise in digital
      humanities. Several major grants had a digital element (see below, open research
      environment).

   8. We supported PGRs by accessing funding from WRoCAH Doctoral Training Partnerships,
      the ESRC, Wellcome, and the University. We arranged collaborative arrangements with
      external partners, ensuring high-quality supervision, providing infrastructure and funding for
      specific activities (e.g. annual PGR conferences), integrating PGR into hubs, research
      centre seminar series, reading groups; and through mentorship for publications. We led on
      a University policy-change to grant PGRs further University affiliation (email and library
      access) between completion and first appointment.

   9. We involved UG and PGT students in our research: We supervised 26 Sheffield
      University Undergraduate Research Experience projects (SURE) - 6-week paid research
      placements, working with a supervisor (four ancient/medieval; 10 modern British/European;
      seven early modern; three American; two global), some of which led to PGR study with us.
      We ran the annual UG Witness Project, collecting oral histories around Sheffield. We
      provided work placements on funded research projects (e.g. MA internships on Migration of
      Faith and Digital Panopticon).

   10. We encouraged engagement and collaboration with non-academic audiences in our
       research and teaching by providing departmental and University funding, support for
       events, and sharing expertise. Nearly all our staff and PGRs are active in knowledge
       exchange as part of their usual activities (see Section 4). In 2018 Bingham was joint winner
       of the Royal Historical Society Public History prize for 'Public Policy and Debate'.

   11. We explored research opportunities through academic collaborations: we have grown
       our collaborations, especially interdisciplinary ones with social sciences and STEM. For

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       example, Shaw’s White Rose network involved social scientists, Hillner’s Leverhulme
       project involved physicists and published in science journals. The strength of our
       collaborative research is exemplified by the publication of 42 edited books or special journal
       issues.


1.3 Research structure

What makes our research successful is that it scales up from individual projects to departmental,
Faculty, University and national and international academic collaborations, and enables us to
develop and maintain links between research and teaching. We support both individual and
collaborative research through:

   1. Four chronological/geographical sections (ancient/medieval, early modern, modern,
      global), based around individuals’ core specialization and teaching expertise.

   2. Five thematic hubs around our research strengths as intersectional department pillars
      (membership can be overlapping), reviewed by the Department every three years: Body
      and Mind, Migration and Identity, Transmission of Ideas, Slavery, Political Engagement.
      They run dedicated sessions in the Department seminar, organize events, develop cross-
      period team teaching, facilitate funding applications and provide the basis for informal
      collaboration.

   3. Leadership in Faculty multidisciplinary research centres, branching out from the
      chronological organisation of the Department sections, supporting collaboration on
      publications, grants, and PGR supervision within and across faculties and organising
      seminar series, masterclasses, conferences, and public events.

   4. Contributions to University-wide interdisciplinary research groups, branching out from
      hubs, such as MHS, the Urban Institute, Centre for Study of Journalism and History,
      Migration Research Group, Interpersonal Violence Research Group and Flagship Institutes
      (see REF5a).

   5. Leadership roles in White Rose Research regional networks with Leeds and York.

   6. Our research is embedded in national and international networks. We have active
      externally-funded research collaborations in e.g. Australia, Brazil, Denmark, Finland,
      Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Pakistan, Spain, Sweden, US.

1.4 Impact and knowledge exchange

Belief in the value of historical perspectives to contemporary society drives our impact and
knowledge exchange (KE) strategy. It is embedded from undergraduate upwards: students are
given the opportunity to participate in voluntary local research programmes (e.g. ‘Witness’
programme) and conclude their degree with ‘Uses of History’ module, reflecting on history’s role in
the public sphere. MA students are able to take the ‘Presenting the Past’ module, dealing directly
with the application of historical knowledge, and the MA Work Placement (c.30 placements 2019-
20) that enables students to work with external partners like Kelham Island Museum, Walkley
Community Centre, Elsecar Heritage Centre, National Railway Museum, Hylton Castle, Wentworth
Woodhouse, Sunderland City Council Heritage Team, and Joined-Up Heritage Sheffield. The
imperatives of research impact and dissemination are also central to postdoctoral training,
especially on our funded projects.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our impact and public engagement strategy is reviewed and revised every two years. It outlines
our belief in the public role of professional historians, commits us to fostering KE across our full
range of research activities, and outlines our aspiration to lead and innovate in public engagement
locally, nationally, and globally. Our four impact case studies are accordingly embedded within a
wider landscape of KE and co-production with external partners. A third of T&R staff were identified
as having potential case studies at the beginning of the assessment period. We work with
museums, galleries and heritage sites; policymakers, non-governmental organisations and
advisory groups; schools and educational providers; and with businesses and commercial
partners. What is striking about this landscape is its inclusivity (e.g. our case studies were lead by
a Lecturer, Senior Lecturer and two Professors) and geographical extent (see Section 4).

Our public engagement strategy commits us to explore both the opportunities of new and
developing technologies for publicly communicating our research and to new ways of contributing
publicly. Our acclaimed ‘History Matters’ blog, the first departmental blog of its kind in the UK, has
published over 300 articles, with over 1.5 million views. The blog showcases a broad range of
research from across the Department, and includes contributions from UG, PGT and PGR
students, current and former staff, and invited external authors.

Staff conducting KE activities are supported by a robust infrastructure. The Department works
closely with a Faculty team of KE project managers, led by a KE lead and Impact Manager. The
University provides central financial support for staff working on major impact projects, as well as
other funds for specific one-off activities, and the expertise of its Media Team. There is also
support for designing KE pathways for external funding. Staff have benefited from University
impact mentoring (three mentees and four mentors from History during the assessment period).
Within the Department, the Impact and Public Engagement Coordinator takes the lead in
promoting and championing public engagement at local, national, and international level, informing
colleagues of funding opportunities, providing advice, and collating information on our public
engagement activities. The departmental lead also oversees the spending of devolved funds on
departmental activities.


1.5 Open research environment

The University is an exemplar of open access (OA) initiatives, partly due to its ground-breaking
Digital Humanities Institute. In History, we have ensured OA to journal articles published during the
assessment period and are laying the foundation for more comprehensive OA practices for all
types of outputs, building on our digital expertise in a variety of OA forms, including monographs,
and guided by our institutional response to OA and Plan S.

Our OA Coordinator promotes open publishing, gold and green, and the sharing of research data.
To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all short-form outputs in White
Rose Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The 264 outputs
deposited over this submission period were downloaded over 70,000 times. This is our preferred
route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish
outputs in fully OA journals, or hybrid where required for funder compliance. We have also
published two peer-reviewed OA monographs and numerous op-eds in online OA journals and
blogs. Shoemaker has published (with Tim Hitchcock) an OA version of London Lives: Poverty,
Crime and the Making of a Modern City, 1690–1800. Beyond these activities, we have helped
spearhead two new OA publishing ventures, the Journal for Interdisciplinary Biblical Studies
(Finney) and the White Rose University Press.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have developed online research resources offering users innovative digital routes into data
collections, including charts, maps and social network graphs: ‘Protestant Communities in the
USSR’ (Dobson) ‘The Migration of Faith’ (Hillner), ‘Accessing Muslim Lives’ (Lambert Hurley),
‘Digital Panopticon’ (Shoemaker), ‘Intoxicants and Early Modernity’ and ‘Intoxicating Spaces’
(Withington) All these are indebted to Shoemaker’s pioneering and world-leading work from
previous REF cycles (Old Bailey Online - which had more than 1M hits in this assessment period,
London Lives, Connected Histories, Locating London's Past). We continue expanding on these
approaches (e.g. Summerlin’s British Academy grant to refresh the Clavis Canonum).

In addition to ‘History Matters’, staff and PGRs produce research blogs (e.g. West, ‘Turbulent
Priests’ (heavily integrated in medieval teaching at Level 1 and 2), Hillner, ‘Writing Helena’ (readers
from 88 countries); Parker and Wright (PGR), ‘The Language of Authoritarian Regimes’ (46
international contributors)). We encourage UG and PGT students to engage with open research,
e.g. through our MA module on Wikipedia. The impact of our OA activities is apparent in sustained
user statistics, from ‘smaller’ research blogs like Hillner’s ‘Writing Helena’ with over 5,000 visitors
since 2017, to Shoemaker’s large ‘Digital Panopticon’ project, with over 239,000 visitors since
2017 and currently 3,200 visits a week from 76 countries headed by UK, Australia, United States,
Canada, New Zealand, France, India, Norway, Sweden and Germany. The largest user group are
family historians (figures from Jan 2020).

Our staff engage with policy development by contributing to the Plan S debate through editorships
and roles in the Royal Historical Society (RHS) and British Academy. Staff leadership of externally
funded projects with the prerequisite of OA publishing (Wellcome Grants, HERA) or of deposition
of research data (Digital Panopticon, Migration of Faith, Intoxicants and Early Modernity) has
influenced departmental discussion of OA best practices, which are routinely included in research
support meetings.


1.6 Research integrity

Issues of research integrity and ethics have risen up the Department’s agenda in recent years due
to new regulations around the use of personal data (GDPR), the growth of oral history interviewing,
and more research into histories of private life, sexuality, emotions, and identity. Since 2018 the
Department has conducted a comprehensive review of its procedures, producing a report
complying with best practice as outlined by the University Research Ethics Committee. We have
published new ethics webpages for staff and students, created an ethics training log and ethics
review workload spreadsheet, and send an annual reminder of responsibilities to staff. We remind
UG and PGT dissertation students about the need for ethical approval and PGRs are required to
undertake research integrity training. We engage with national conversations about the
implications of GDPR and data protection legislation for archival research, liaising with the RHS
Research Policy Committee and feeding into the work on the recent RHS publication of Data
Protection and Historians in the UK.


1.7 Strategic objectives 2021-2028

We seek to promote future research excellence in terms of vitality, impact and sustainability. Our
published research and public engagement strategies foster integrity, collegiality, inclusion, and
support, and emphasise robustness, accountability, and transparency of procedures. They have
been developed collectively and we encourage staff and students’ continued engagement with
their delivery. They undergo an annual reflection as part of the departmental planning process and

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
will be reviewed and refreshed at a mid-term away day in 2024. Our strategic objectives for 2021-
28 are to:

   1. Maintain our commitment to chronological, geographical, thematic, and
      methodological range, including as a principle of recruitment, to ensure intellectual
      innovation and dynamism. We will retain our position at the forefront of the discipline by
      investing in areas that diversify our research practice such as the Global South on its
      own terms, as well as its connections between Europe and the world, and encourage
      innovation, notably through interdisciplinary research. We will deepen collaborations with
      social sciences and STEM, especially around themes of food, health, and labour, enabling
      us to respond to funders’ challenge-focused agenda. We will intensify our collaborations
      with the University Flagship Institutes, especially the Institute for Sustainable Food and the
      Healthy Lifespan Institute. We will consolidate our international leadership in digital
      humanities through exploiting new possibilities of linked open data and big data analysis
      and facilitate the University’s closer integration into the DARIAH-EU network.

   2. Continue to support outstanding research, both individual and collaborative, through
      flexible and responsive departmental, faculty and University structures (staff development,
      study leave, hubs, centres, networks) that will be periodically reviewed to ensure alignment
      with our ambitions. We will particularly support completion of ECR first monograph projects
      and improve the volume of research grant capture, building on recent diversification of
      funding sources, an increase in new awards value towards the end of this assessment
      period (doubling in 2018-2020 compared to 2016-2018), and in our current applications
      value (at £9m in 2020-2021). In collaboration with the Faculty Research Hub, we will extend
      departmental research mentoring and grant-writing support. In line with the University’s
      Academic Careers Pathways promotion framework (2018-) we will support greater ambition
      in project and collaborative applications.

   3. Continue to embed knowledge exchange throughout our research culture and develop our
      position as an innovator and leader in public engagement locally, nationally, and globally.
      We will build capacity from existing student work placements and deepen our collaboration
      with local partners, especially those that speak to our multi-level interests, such as
      Wentworth Woodhouse and Elsecar Heritage Centre. We will continue to foster community
      engagement projects, taking the lead from our major collaborations with food festivals and
      educational programmes in India and Pakistan (Lambert-Hurley) and integrated school
      projects in Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands, and the UK (Withington). We will explore
      the possibility of harnessing our activities to a Public History MA programme. We will
      embed and extend good practice on open access, including working with funders,
      publishers and disciplinary societies to increase our production of open access
      monographs. We will also use our expertise in digital humanities to continue creating world-
      leading digital KE products.

   4. Focus on improving the well-being and diversity of our staff and student community,
      particularly in terms of ethnicity, by reviewing recruitment practices, improving mentoring of
      under-represented groups, and supporting the University’s Race Equality Strategy. We will
      nurture research trajectories from UG level to maintain a ‘community of researchers’ with
      students. In line with recommendations of the RHS Race, Ethnicity and Equality report we
      will continue to revise the UG curriculum in inclusive/diverse ways. We will aim to improve
      the diversity of our PGR community. We will seek to exploit collaborative awards with
      external partners, and the new eligibility of international students for WRoCAH funding. We

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       will enhance professional development opportunities for students who seek work outside
       academia, encouraging greater uptake of internal and external training and placements. We
       will monitor the career development support for ECRs, including those on temporary
       teaching contracts and research-only staff, taking into account EDI aspects and diverse
       career trajectories.

   5. We will continue to extend our research environment globally. This means further
      strengthening international collaborations, exploring new collaborative funding
      opportunities globally and in Europe. We will continue to foster links with EU institutions to
      enable agile responses to future funding contexts. We will fully exploit bilateral funding
      opportunities which we anticipate will increase, building on recent success with the AHRC-
      DFG and Gerda Henkel schemes. We will also encourage environmental sustainability
      by supporting colleagues to develop research methods less reliant on international travel,
      such as virtual conferences, digital archive subscriptions or employing local research
      assistants.


 2. People


2.1 Staffing strategy

In this assessment period we consolidated, broadened and diversified our expertise in line with our
commitment to maintaining chronological, geographical, thematic and methodological range. We
have achieved these goals, and have increased the number of permanent T&R staff from 33 to 38.
All permanent appointments, with one exception, have been at lecturer level as we seek to identify
and nurture potential and remain at the cutting-edge of the discipline (all of these, except two, have
stayed beyond the assessment period). The sole senior (Reader) appointment was made, in line
with our strategic priorities, to provide leadership to the Global History section.

Department structure: our T&R staff comprises 14 lecturers, 10 senior lecturers, three readers
and 11 professors – all on open-ended contracts. Our gender balance has improved across the
period, from 39% to 48% of female T&R staff, which is the third highest in the Russell Group.

Appointments: we have appointed to 17 permanent positions, and 12 staff retired or moved to
other HE institutions (including Oxford, Cardiff, Birmingham, Groningen, William & Mary, LSE). We
have made relatively limited use of temporary T&R posts - seven across the assessment period,
usually to cover long-term staff absence - and a significant proportion of those colleagues have
stayed in the profession, which testifies to our supportive environment. Two were appointed to
open-ended positions (in our strategic areas of ancient history and medical humanities). We have
also contributed to the viability and sustainability of our discipline by employing and supporting an
increased number of postdoctoral researchers (PDRAs). We appointed 19 research-specialist staff
across the assessment period, of whom 14 were PDRA, three were on externally-funded ECR
schemes (Leverhulme, Wellcome and Marie Curie), and two on the internally-funded VC
Fellowship scheme.


2.2 Staff development

We facilitate staff development by integrating all colleagues into a dynamic and supportive
research culture; through mentoring, team-working and peer review; by making available research
time and resources, and overseeing a fair and transparent workload allocation model; and by

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
maintaining an equitable and attractive reward and recognition process. We align our procedures
with Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

Research culture: All colleagues are encouraged to participate in departmental seminars and
research hubs and centres. ECRs, fixed-term teaching staff, associate tutors and PGRs are
represented on the departmental research committee and in other structures. Fixed-term teaching
or research staff are given access to departmental research support, have their own webpage and
are offered opportunities to become involved in PGR supervision teams (e.g. MacCarron, Brown).
Several former colleagues continue to participate through honorary research fellowship affiliation (a
status which provided valuable support during the COVID-19 pandemic). Retiring colleagues are
given emeritus or honorary titles, with continued email and library access, and are encouraged to
maintain links with the Department.

Mentoring: All new staff have a detailed induction and an appointed mentor, defined milestones
and regular meetings with the Head of Department. They participate in department-wide
development structures, including annual research support meetings with the Head and Director of
Research; peer-reviewing of draft outputs and research funding applications; Faculty support for
public engagement and KE. New T&R colleagues enter into a three-year probation process. The
University also provides mentoring schemes and targeted support networks for specific groups
(e.g. parents, BAME, female professors). nine colleagues (seven at lecturer level) participated in
Sheffield Leader, a training programme for leadership roles. Fixed-term research staff are included
in our annual staff review and mentorship processes. Many have progressed to academic
appointments in Sheffield or elsewhere (e.g. Liverpool, UCC, Wuppertal).

Time and resources: We have a workload model that equitably allocates teaching and
administrative responsibilities and demarcates time for research. A workload allocation working
party developed a robust set of principles and an hours-based model that explicitly includes a
research allocation at 40% of overall workload for full-time staff (pro-rata for part-time staff). This
builds on our customary practice to preserve a research day for all colleagues, including those on
fixed-term teaching contracts, throughout the semester. New colleagues receive an overall
workload reduction of 20% in their first year, and workload allocation is given for developing new
modules. For research grants, project time is allocated or a replacement lecturer appointed. Both
part-time and full-time staff can apply to the Faculty for a semester of research leave every seventh
semester (with parental leave counted towards service). All open-ended staff had study leave at
least once (with the exception of those who started contract in 2018-19): applicants are required to
produce a well-defined research plan and these periods of leave have enabled the productivity
noted above. There is further support for research and knowledge exchange activity in money or
kind from the Department and Faculty.

Reward and recognition: We have an excellent track record of supporting promotion through
targeted mentoring, clarity about expected goals, and the allocation of departmental responsibilities
to enable a broad base of leadership. 21 T&R staff were promoted over the assessment period, 13
to senior lecturer, six to reader, six to professor. A new framework for Academic Career Pathways
(ACP) was introduced from 2018-19 to improve the transparency of promotion criteria around the
core components of the academic role. For T&R and R staff, ACP articulates an expectation of
producing excellent research outputs, obtaining income to support excellent research, generating
impact from research, and contributing to the discipline. In the first round, four colleagues in History
were promoted (one to professor, three to senior lecturer).



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.3 Equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)

The Department has become more balanced and representative by greater attentiveness to EDI
considerations in recruitment, workload allocation, mentoring, professional development, and
promotion processes. The REF Steering Committee also underwent implicit bias training.
Improvements are most notable in terms of gender. 48% of staff are now women, with 11 of the 17
appointments in the assessment period being women, including the one reader. In 2014 we had
one female professor, whereas now we have four (out of 11), and another female professor moved
institutions. Two out of three readers are female. In this assessment period, women have served
as Head of Department and in all senior research positions, including Director of Research, overall
REF lead and REF impact lead. Three of four impact case study leads are women. Six colleagues
have received funding from the Women Academic Researchers’ Programme, which provides
research assistance and costs to mitigate the impact of maternity leave on research activities. We
are supportive of flexible and part-time working: even before COVID-19, staff could work at home
when not engaged in teaching or committee work, and our departmental-level timetabling process
takes into account commuting and caring responsibilities.

Colleagues contribute to national policy conversations about gender equality (e.g. Vincent co-
authored the RHS’s 2018 Promoting Gender History report and Hillner co-authored a piece on
editorial strategies regarding gender balance in the Journal of Roman Studies). Our engagement
with gender issues was recognised with the editorship of Gender and History (2019).

We acted as the pilot for the RHS LGBT+ survey in 2019, thereby contributing to the LGBT+
Histories and Historians Report; and we are committed to working towards its recommendations.
The University has been named as a Stonewall Top 100 Employer seven years in a row and the
principles of inclusion are shared throughout the institution. We have recently implemented a new
Faculty Gender Identity Policy committed to providing a supportive environment for trans and non-
binary students and making it easier for students to share correct pronouns and preferred names.

Further progress is ongoing in other areas. Staff with a declared disability has grown from one to
four. We are looking to build on the work of the University’s Disability Inclusion Strategy and Action
plan (2020). Only 8% of our staff are self-disclosed ethnic minority. We have reflected critically on
our recruitment practices, amending our advertisements to avoid bias, adding diversity criteria to
job specifications and ensuring that colleagues serving on recruitment panels receive implicit bias
training. We held an extended departmental discussion on the publication of the RHS Race,
Ethnicity and Equality report (2018). A working party produced a report that has shaped
departmental and faculty practice. It also organised an event with c.400 attendees on ‘Race,
Decolonisation and History’ (2019), with authors of the RHS Report, Sadiah Qureshi and Jonathan
Saha, and bestselling author Reni Eddo-Lodge. These perspectives have shaped reforms to our
curriculum (e.g. to the core Level 2 module ‘Historians and History’, and the Level 3 module
‘Conflict, Cultures and (De)Colonisation’), and inspired research and KE projects (e.g. ‘Knight,
Sheffield and Slavery’ project).

Our demographic profile, our commitment to inclusion and our focus on early career support are
reflected in our REF output distribution. We have submitted 100% of our Category A Eligible staff
and on average 1.4 outputs for two-thirds of our staff. Staff with four or five submitted outputs are
all at reader or professorial level.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.4 PGR recruitment

Our commitment to chronological, geographical, and methodological range enables us to offer
diverse research supervision opportunities (33 of T&R staff have acted as primary supervisors).
Our strategy is to grow, and improve the diversity of, our PGR community by building on the
momentum of an expanding PGT cohort; exploiting a wider range of funding sources (including
collaborative awards with external partners as part of our KE strategy); attracting more
international students (now eligible for WRoCAH funding); and providing a supportive environment
for mature students.

Ensuring a research trajectory through our programmes is a central feature of our PGR strategy.
Sheffield Undergraduate Research Experience (SURE) projects in History have encouraged
talented UG students to develop research experience and consider academia (e.g. Yokoe
completed a University-funded PhD in 2019). The significant growth of our MA numbers in recent
years - including on a new MA programme in Global History - has broadened our pool of potential
recruits. We have a dedicated Historical Research MA programme designed to support those on
the PGR trajectory. As we seek to increase the diversity of our UG and PGT recruitment, and also
recruit more students internationally, we expect this will improve our proportion of ethnic minority
PGRs (currently 3.7%).

As a result of our recruitment strategies, 84 PGRs started in the Department in this assessment
period. 62% were funded and a majority were female (55%). 31% are aged 30 years or over; 7%
have a known disability; 24% are from abroad and 15% study part-time - factors we monitor when
designing PGR support.

Since 2013 our chief source of PGR funding is the AHRC WRoCAH Doctoral Training Partnership
with Leeds and York. Whereas six AHRC studentships were awarded 2009-13, we secured 18
WRoCAH studentships over this assessment period, including some competitive White Rose
network PhDs. The Department was chosen for Wolfson Foundation funding, adding nine
scholarships, along with six studentships attached to funded research projects. Other funding has
been secured competitively from within the university: five studentships in the annual Faculty
competition, three University Research Development Scholarships, and one funded by the Hossein
Farmy foundation. We have supported a number of PGRs with KE elements: three studentships
with Chatsworth House, two projects with the British Library, one with Bolsover Castle and one with
Sheffield Archives. We have successfully diversified our funding streams, with our first Wellcome
studentship, and an EPSRC PhD project, joint with the Department of Computer Science.

2.5 PGR support, training, and research culture

The Department provides a dynamic, supportive, and inclusive environment that enables PGRs to
develop their skills, participate in our research community, complete projects on time and succeed
with employment. The 2019 survey of postgraduate research student experience (PRES) showed
a 100% satisfaction rate on all aspects of supervision (expertise, feedback, contact, identification of
training needs), and 100% satisfaction with the experience of the research degree programme (up
from 90% in 2013). 65 students received a doctoral award in this assessment period; the average
submission rate for students beginning between 2013 and 2016 was 86%, up from 79% in the last
REF period.

Each student is allocated a supervisory team of a primary and secondary supervisor, and an
independent personal tutor. They also have access to desk space in the Department to foster a

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sense of intellectual community through co-location. Regular supervision (every 4-6 weeks, with
reports electronically recorded), and biannual review meetings ensure that timely support is
provided. PGRs submit material for a confirmation review in the final quarter of their first year, at
which two independent colleagues assess their project’s robustness and feasibility and provide
constructive feedback. Before this, the Department holds a showcase to give first-year students the
opportunity to present their ideas to a supportive audience. As their research progresses, students
are given further opportunities to present their work, at the Department seminar, research hubs,
reading groups and faculty centres. The PGR community is active and participatory, organising an
annual colloquium and a host of thematic reading groups, including the Medieval Reading Group,
the Early Modern Discussion Group, the Modern International History Group, and the Gender
History Discussion Group. PGRs across the Faculty run a writing retreat, and have organised 12
international conferences, obtaining funding from the Faculty, the RHS, Social History Society,
Economic History Society and WRoCAH.

Students identify their training needs on an annual basis and are able to broaden and enhance
their skills through the Doctoral Development Programme, which provides online and in-person
training and advice in research ethics, methods, KE and career opportunities. Students from
History have shown the most consistent engagement with professional development of all Sheffield
departments, with participation in the University ‘Think Ahead’ sessions rising four-fold 2014-19.
Students can audit MA modules (space permitting), receive language provision through the
Modern Language Teaching Centre, and take palaeography and other skill-based modules.
MARCUS and SCEMS run masterclasses with visiting scholars. We encourage international
connections, both through departmental and faculty exchanges and the networks established by
WRoCAH. PGRs have visited institutions in Berlin, Stockholm, Oldenburg, Utrecht, Halle, and
Stanford, among others. One student was W.M. Keck Foundation Fellow at the Huntington Library,
California, and another took part in the Yale University IDIEZ Nahuatl Summer Program. The
Department is a partner of the British School at Rome, sending PGRs on its programmes. We also
encourage KE activities, and students have taken placements at the National Railway Museum,
the National Media Museum and the British Library, as well as participating in the Department’s
civic engagement activities (Witness, History in the City). PGRs are given the opportunity to
develop UG teaching experience - in 2019-20 37% of fully registered PhD students taught in the
Department - and are supported with a training day, dedicated mentoring and supportive seminar
observations. A number of students have also undertaken paid internships on our funded projects
(e.g. Wellcome, Gottlieb).

The best indicators of the vitality of our PGR community are the research that students have
produced while at Sheffield, and their career trajectories when they leave. In this assessment
period our students published in American Historical Review, Past and Present, Historical Journal,
Economic History Review, Renaissance Studies, Social History, Twentieth Century British History,
Contemporary British History and Early Medieval Europe. Recently completed PGRs have gone on
to prestigious postdoctoral fellowships (e.g. Humboldt, Tübingen; Oxford JRF; Manchester;
Birkbeck, Bremen) and to open-ended academic positions (e.g. Stirling, York St Johns, Sheffield).
They have also taken up a wide range of non-academic careers (e.g. Foreign Office, Imperial
Tobacco, the Japanese pharmaceutical industry). The Department led on introducing a new six-
month affiliate post-viva position for all completed PGRs across the University to help the transition
to PDRA.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Funding strategy

Our research strategy over the assessment period has been to create an environment where
colleagues develop bespoke research strategies that have been discussed and developed in
various settings; where Departmental, Faculty and University funds are used to facilitate pilot
projects and relationship-building; and to encourage a diversification in funding options that reflects
and will sustain our expertise in the medium and longer terms. We have also strategically used
funding to enhance the knowledge exchange potential of key projects. Our
chronological/interdisciplinary centres (MARCUS, SCEMS and COMO) and our departmental
research hubs have fostered an inclusive and collaborative research culture, and we have
formalised international partnerships in Europe, Asia, and Africa. Since 2015, we have strategically
spent over £20k on fostering such partnerships, e.g. through exchange visits. These centres and
networks have provided a significant context – and logic – for external investment (detailed below).

The result is a series of large collaborative international projects from a range of funders that a)
are distributed across our premodern, early modern, and modern sections, b) have funded or
facilitated postdoctoral and PGR recruitment and training, and c) have encouraged serial funding
within the same assessment period. Ancient/medieval projects include Hillner’s AHRC ‘Migration of
Faith’ (2014-2017; with Aarhus, Halle and Vienna), succeeded by her Leverhulme ‘Gendered
Networks’ project (2018-2020; with Porto Alegre/Brazil, Cork). Large early modern projects include
Withington’s ESRC, ‘Intoxicants & Early Modernity’ (2013-2016; with the V&A), which became the
basis of the HERA ‘Intoxicating Spaces’ (2019-2021; with Stockholm, Utrecht and Oldenburg);
Shoemaker’s AHRC ‘Digital Panopticon’ collaboration (2013-17, with Liverpool, Oxford, Sussex
and Tasmania) has led to the ESRC ‘Victims’ (2018-21) and BA ‘Tattoos’ project (2019-2020). In
the modern/global sections, Lambert Hurley’s Leverhulme ‘Veiled Voyages’ project (2015-2018;
with Boston and Northwestern, Delhi, Sabanici/Istanbul, American University/Sharjah) has
facilitated successful GCRF applications addressing genealogies of dietary knowledge and literacy
skills among Muslim women (2019-2022; York, Delhi, Columbia, FC College, Lahore).

For the same reasons we have also been able to exploit the increasingly variegated funding
landscape to maintain our traditional strengths and coverage while expanding our thematic
expertise in accordance with our strategic objectives. We have secured funding for projects in:

   •   Political engagement: on political participation (Bingham), peace movements (Gottlieb,
       Karamouzi, Ziemann), the political economy of money (Middleton), Irish political thought
       (Reid), punishment and incarceration (Shoemaker), law and politics (Summerlin), states
       and violence (Toner), religious violence (Vincent), early modern political thought
       (Withington).

   •   Body and mind: on the politics of humanitarianism and adoption (Baughan), disability and
       empire (Cleall), the popular press and child sexual abuse (Bingham), suicide and politics
       (Gottlieb), psychiatry and modern life (Millard), welfare policies and the state (Moses),
       addiction and society (Withington); food and tastes (Lambert Hurley), tattoos (Shoemaker),
       human/animal relations (Schurch), intoxicants and their spatial and material cultures
       (Withington).



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Digital humanities: see Hillner, Withington, Shoemaker above (with the Old Bailey Online
       project now recommended as a ‘model’ project by AHRC).

   •   Migration and networks: on global cities (Miller Davenport), Jewish networks in North
       Africa (Lee) (and Baughan, Cleall, Hillner, Lambert Hurley, Shoemaker above).


3.2 Funding income overview (excluding PGR)

Based on these strategic considerations, the last seven years have seen an increase in internal
and external investment and the growth and diversification of our sources of funding. In this
assessment period 46 staff (including eight on temporary contracts) applied for external grants, to
an application value of c.£18m. Six of these were COVID-19 related; a testimony to our ability to
respond to challenges quickly (although industrial action and Covid reduced the number of
applications overall in 2019-20). This has translated into awards worth £3.7m, compared to £2.3m
in 2008-2013, allowing us to conduct c.30 externally-funded projects and run 15 externally-funded
international conferences (in addition to 12 run by PGRs).

Figure 1




Over the same period, we have increased the number of successful funding sources from 15 to 20.
Figures 1 and 2 show that colleagues have successfully continued with traditional funders like the
AHRC, ESRC, British Academy, and Leverhulme, and have made new use of alternative types of
funder. These include Wellcome, reflecting the developing expertise in medical humanities
(Gottlieb, Millard); GCRF, as part of our emergent global profile (Lambert Hurley); and European
funding, via Marie Curie fellowships, HERA, and the Gerda Henkel foundation (Moses, Withington,


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Summerlin). ECRs have been adept at securing regional White Rose and Northern Network for
medical humanities grants (Miller-Davenport, Summerlin, Toner; Millard) and an important sixth
source, especially in terms of internationalization, has been the ‘significant additional research
income’ that goes unrecorded in HESA returns: bespoke awards (e.g. the National Bank of
Greece, History Today), international fellowships (e.g. British School at Athens, Humboldt,
Konstanz, New York City Library), Higher Education Academy grants and a total of £23,870 in
SURE grants.
The same trends are likewise reflected in the distribution of our postdoctoral fellowships, with
ECRs funded by the AHRC, VC Fellowship scheme, Leverhulme and British Academy enhancing
our ancient research (Rohmann, MacCarron, Strine, Vihervalli), global research (Kapuria, Lee),
those by Wellcome and Marie Curie our medical humanities (Blayney, Scheurch), and the Max
Batley Fund our work on peace movements (Quaggio).

Figure 2




Source: MyPublications


3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

The growth and diversification of external funding is rooted in an infrastructural grid described in
Section 2. Within this, the research strand involves discussion of individual research plans with
informal mentors, in the annual staff appraisal and an annual Research Support Meeting with the
Head of Department and Director of Research. Overall department research strategy is also
discussed in department meetings and away days. These structures of ‘support and mentorship’
are crucial to a) developing forward-looking personal and collaborative research plans; b)

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
orientating colleagues to the appropriate sources of resource and support (financial, technical,
administrative, intellectual within the Department, Faculty, University, region, and beyond); c)
getting feedback about the kinds of infrastructure and support required by colleagues.

The Department offers considerable funds to support individual research and exchange between
staff. We run a weekly seminar with invited speakers chosen by consensus and reflecting the
range of our research interests (148 funded talks over the assessment period) and offer colleagues
access, by application, to the annual department research fund (basic rate of £500 for staff and
£300 for PGRs p.a. to support range of activities from indexing, image licensing to archive trips;
with the potential to claim up to £750 more for conference attendance) and support the activities of
MARCUS, SCEMS and COMO (c. £1,000 p.a. per centre; hubs can access funding through
collaboration with centres).

All staff and some funded projects (e.g. Gendered Networks) have their own offices. We also
provide bespoke resources if the strategic case is demonstrated, including specialist software for
particular projects (including oXygen XML editor (Dobson), Citavi (Tompkins), NodeXL (Hillner),
Scrivener (Leng, Middleton, Fletcher)) and library resources supporting our strategic priorities (e.g.
Ancient/Medieval: Acta Sanctorum, Loeb Classical Library, Année Philologique, Oxford Classical
Dictionary Online; global: East India Company Records, Foreign Office Files for India and China
Struggles for Freedom in Southern Africa; World Heritage Sites: Africa; medical humanities: Global
Commodities Database). Emergency resources (over £6k) have been made available for staff and
PGRs to respond to the impact on research created by COVID-19, including physical books and
journal subscription purchases, local research assistance to photograph archive items, virtual
research assistance for staff with child-care responsibilities.

The Faculty provides crucial financial, intellectual, and administrative support for developing
funding applications, reorganised in 2019-20 through the new Faculty Research Hub. The hub
organizes the peer review of applications (and mock interviews where appropriate), and helps with
costings. Faculty support staff also provide invaluable administrative support to funded projects.
The Faculty is home to the Humanities Research Institute, which provided free and state-of-the-art
space for lectures and seminars (also available across the University) and hosted cross-
disciplinary events, and the Digital Humanities Institute, a world-leader in digital support and the
reason many of our large collaborative projects have such strong digital profiles.

The Faculty also works with the Department to allocate the significant amounts of resource now
available within the University to seed external funding applications (seven ‘Faculty Small Grants’;
nine ‘Faculty Research Application Fellowships’; five Visiting Postdoctoral Application Fellowships
since 2016); GCRF seed funding (c. £55k) and for knowledge exchange projects (£5k pa). The
Faculty has provided support to extend the lifetime of some of our funded projects (e.g. Hillner,
Leverhulme) due to COVID-19. It is this University investment in infrastructural support that has
done most to transform our research.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Staff at all career levels play an influential role within the larger research landscape. They have
been editors of eight refereed journals, ranging from specialist publications across our periods and
themes - Early Medieval Europe (West), Twentieth Century British History (Bingham, Baughan),
History of the Human Sciences (Millard) to foreign language journals (e.g. Zeitschrift für
Geschichtswissenschaft (Ziemann) - to premier mainstream publication The Historical Journal

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Withington). Colleagues participated on editorial boards of 31 journals, including Contemporary
European History (Vincent), Journal of Roman Studies (Hillner), Past and Present (Braddick), and
History Workshop Journal (West). We edit eight book series run by academic presses, including
Cambridge University Press, Manchester University Press, Brill and Bloomsbury, and have hosted
Gender & History since 2020 (co-eds Bingham, Hillner, Lambert-Hurley and Moses).

Staff have conducted 50+ instances of grant reviewing and related work for UK funding bodies,
agencies in Europe (including the ERC) and the wider world and sit on prize committees like the
Queen’s Anniversary Prizes for Higher and Further Education, the Dyos Prize in Urban History, the
Alexander Prize, and the Gladstone Prize.

Colleagues sat on hiring and promotion panels around the world: e.g. Aarhus (Dobson), TCD
and UCD (Milton), Institute of Advanced Study, Princeton (Braddick), University of Western
Australia (Shoemaker), UC Santa Barbara, UCLA (Milton), Simon Fraser (Dobson), Boston
(Dobson), Iowa (Bingham, Hillner), Yale (Withington). They also sat on institutional review
panels: e.g. Cambridge, Newcastle, Kent, History of Parliament Trust (Braddick), Austrian
Academy of Sciences (Hillner), Durham, Oxford, Northumbria (Vincent), Lancaster (Withington).

Colleagues at all career stages and sections have held around 30 national and international
fellowships over the assessment period (e.g. ancient/medieval section: Tübingen (West);
Konstanz (Staub), St John’s College, Oxford (Strine); Bonn (Hillner); Max-Weber Kolleg, Erfurt
(Miano); early modern: Tokyo Metropolitan, Duke, Beinecke Library at Yale (Withington);
Huntington Library (Braddick, Harvey); Texas (Knight); modern: Charles University Prague
(Gottlieb); Lichtenberg Institute for Advanced Study, Göttingen (Moses); Marsh’s Library, Dublin
(Reid); NYU’s Urban Democracy Library (Miller-Davenport); Humboldt University Berlin (Ziemann);
St John’s, Cambridge (Stevens); An Foras Feasa, Maynooth University (Nic Dhaibheid); Göttingen,
Munich (Moore); Stanford (Lee).

Our staff received 7 prizes (PROSE Awards Honorable Mention by the Association of American
Publishers (Hillner); British Society for 18th-Century Studies Prize for Digital Resources
(Shoemaker); RHS Public History prize for 'Public Policy and Debate' (Bingham); best paper prize
at the LSE Cold War History Summer School (Miller-Davenport); Geisteswissenschaften
International Translation Award for Gewalt im Ersten Weltkrieg (Ziemann); Fass-Sandin Prize 2019
for best paper on the history of childhood (Baughan).

We play leading roles in various national and international research bodies. Braddick has had
numerous roles at the British Academy (including Chair of the Standing Committee and the Higher
Education Policy Development Committee). Vincent has been Vice-President, member of Council,
and Trustee of the RHS (2013-17), Chair of Advisory Board, Institute of Historical Research (2019-
20) and Trustee, IHR Trust (2019-20), and a member of History Lab+: Advisory Board (2015-17).
Hillner was elected to the Faculty of Archaeology, History and Letters of the British School at Rome
(2017-2021) and is elected Council member and Trustee, Society for the Promotion of Roman
Studies (2020-2022). Ma was elected Treasurer for the British Association for Chinese Studies
(BACS). Milton was elected President of the Society for Reformation Studies (2014-19). Moses
was elected to the Executive Committee of the Council for European Studies. Shoemaker is
Trustee of the London Journal Trust.

Staff gave 30+ keynote lectures in 13 countries. International appearances include the 26th
Finnish Symposium on Late Antiquity (Hillner); Presidency University, India (Withington); Digital
Panopticon Conference in Hobart, Tasmania (Shoemaker); Trinity College, Dublin (Davison); 2020


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Mediterranean Studies Conference in New York (Maglaque); Universitat Oberta de Catalunya,
Barcelona (Vincent); Annual Conference of the Japanese Society for German Studies, Tokyo
(Ziemann); University of Milan (Bingham); International Commission on Occupational Health’s
triennial history conference in Gothenburg (Moses). In addition, we published c.450 invited
research papers in the UK and around the world, including South Africa, India and Pakistan,
Japan and China, New Zealand and Australia, Israel, the USA and Canada, France, Poland,
Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands, Russia, Belgium, Italy, Cyprus, and Ireland.

Colleagues peer reviewed articles for over 100 research journals around the world, reflecting our
geographical and chronological range and thematic expertise, manuscripts for c.30 academic
publishers, including Yale, Princeton, Harvard, Oxford and Cambridge university presses and
Polity.

We have spearheaded various collaborative arrangements for PGR training, taking advantage
of the ESRC WRDTC and AHRC WroCAH schemes, amongst others, as well as international
training opportunities. Activities have included a ESRC WRDTC training course for Social History
(Moses; 2014-16); White Rose training and research network 'Imperial Afterlives: The Crisis of
Nation and Citizen in Historical Perspective’ (Miller-Davenport); medieval and transnational PGR
exchange between Sheffield and Ohio State University (Hillner, Miller-Davenport); annual PGR
conference of the White Rose South Asia Network (Lambert-Hurley); policy engagement training
for historians (Bingham); PGR and research staff exchange between Sheffield and Alcalá through
Spanish government funded ‘Materializando a una Augusta’ project (Hillner); and PGR training at
Forman Christian College, Lahore, Pakistan (Lambert-Hurley). Vincent has been involved in PGR
training and policy making in the UK through her work at the RHS (see above). The Erasmus+
Strategic Partnership with the University of Utrecht will foster further PGR training and facilitate the
creation of new teaching resources. Colleagues have examined c.30 doctoral theses.

Beyond academia, colleagues at all career stages have engaged with key research users,
beneficiaries and audiences to make unique contributions to the economy and society.

In terms of knowledge exchange partnerships we have worked closely with political
institutions and public enquiries. We were an official partner of History and Policy (providing
£15k for the period 2016-19), with Bingham as Senior Associate. Three of our impact case studies
have contributed to and shaped the work of political processes (Bingham’s research figured
prominently in the Lampard Report on the Jimmy Savile case in 2015; Gottlieb advised the mayor
of London on the memorialisation of suffragist leader Millicent Fawcett; Karamouzi curated an
exhibition for the Greek Parliament). These are only part of a wider landscape. For example, Nic
Dhaibheid served on the UK Government’s Advisory Panel for the Northern Ireland Centenary
celebrations; Withington’s ‘Intoxicants’ organized a workshop on licensing at the House of
Commons; Lambert-Hurley submitted evidence to the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for
Social Integration; and Strine has given talks for the Christians in Parliament APPG.

We also work closely with NGOs based in the UK, Europe, and the global south. Alongside
Baughan’s collaboration with Save the Children (Children & Humanitarianism case study) Moses
worked with the German Association for Binational Families and Partners, the Lower Saxony
Refugee Council and the German Federal Ministry for Population Research to address issues
relating to integration and refugeeism; Hillner worked with Amnesty International as part of her
AHRC-funded ‘Migration of Faith’ project; Withington’s HERA project works with the Mainline
Foundation and UN Habitat; and Lambert-Hurley used GCRF resources to work with the Bunyad
Foundation, Abdul Aleem Khan Foundation, Pakistan’s Children and Mahashakti Keva Sendra to

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
develop various societal initiatives. Colleagues have developed durable relationships with
educational institutions in the UK, Europe, and South Asia. The Department is involved in the
Sheffield Local History Society, hosting the annual debating competition. Colleagues are regularly
invited to speak to local history societies around the country and we participate in events run by
Sheffield Museums. As part of our outreach programme, we have delivered around 40 events for
Y8-Y13 students, including taster days, collaborative research projects, in-school workshops,
essay prize competitions and school debates. Colleagues have recorded lectures for Massolit, a
commercial organisation reaching sixth form audiences (e.g. Braddick, Dobson). Ziemann’s Das
Deutsche Kaiserreich 1871-1918 was commissioned by the Federal Agency for Political Education
in Germany and distributed with an initial print-run of 500,000 copies. Cleall worked with disability
activists and schools to develop learning resources to teach the history of disability at Key Stage 3.
She also made a short film with adults with learning disabilities about the history of learning
disability and their lives in the present. Withington’s HERA project works with schools in Germany,
the Netherlands, Sweden and the UK to develop projects by 16-18-year-olds for an international
schools’ conference and a permanent virtual exhibition. Lambert-Hurley’s GRCF projects with
NGOs are committed to creating learning resources for schoolchildren and adult literacy
programmes. Colleagues also use their research to inform the training of professionals in history
and other fields. The Department organised regular workshops for schoolteachers to discuss
recent research developments. Millard was an invited lecturer at the Worshipful Company of
Apothecaries; Hillner was involved in the training of priests in the Lutheran Church in Germany;
and Withington ran classes for Utrecht University Addictions Summer School and contributes
articles to The Lancet. Finally, we contributed to heritage projects. Shoemaker worked with
London Metropolitan Archives, curating the exhibition ‘Criminal Lives, 1780-1925’, and provided
data for genealogy companies Findmypast and Ancestry.com. Braddick advised the National Civil
War Museum in Newark over their new permanent ideas gallery. Pennock helped set up a
children’s workshop at the British Museum . Withington has worked with the V&A on permanent
display cases dedicated to intoxicants, on public lectures, workshops, and performances, and is
forging relationships with museums in Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden.

In terms of public dissemination and co-creation of our research we have delivered many
‘traditional’ public talks and events. Colleagues have organised and appeared at events locally
(e.g. at Sheffield’s ‘Off the Shelf’ festival and at Sheffield Cathedral), nationally (e.g at the People’s
History Museum; Bloomsbury Festival; Lambeth Palace) and internationally (e.g. National Library
of Ireland’s ‘One City One Book’ festival). We have developed a significant collective
broadcasting profile, in online and traditional media outlets. Colleagues regularly contributed to
global sites like The Conversation, The Huffington Post, New Statesman, Verfassungsblog,
Scroll.In, and Kafila.org. Colleagues are active on Twitter (Pennock was ranked in the top 10% of
history-related Twitter accounts) and regularly contributed op-eds and articles in the popular and
quality press, including BBC History, BBC World Histories, History Today, BBC News website,
TLS, LRB, and The Economist. Colleagues featured regularly on television, radio and podcasts,
including BBC Radio 4’s In Our Time (Vincent, Pennock, Summerlin), Woman's Hour (Gottlieb),
Addicted hosted by Evan Davis (Withington), BBC Radio 3’s Free Thinking (Maglaque), the BBC
History Magazine and BBC Sounds ‘You’re Dead to me’ podcasts (Pennock); Channel 4 (Pennock,
talking head on ‘Lost Pyramids of the Aztecs'); and RTE (Nic Dhaibheid, talking head on ‘Bloody
Sunday 1920). Colleagues are regular guests on BBC Radio Sheffield and BBC Radio Derby. Our
expertise actively shapes how history is presented in the media through historical consultancy.
Pennock was consultant on children’s books (e.g. A Child Through Time (DK)) and interviewed for
‘Inside Science’. Vincent was interviewed in various newsprint and broadcast reports on the


                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Catalan constitutional crisis and the abdication of King Juan Carlos, and for ‘Sacred Wonders’ and
‘Holy Week in Málaga’ (BBC1). Moses advised the US Public Broadcasting Service’s Finding your
Roots (reaching an audience of ca. 1.2M), Bingham was historical consultant to BBC 2 Back In
Time: The Corner Shop series (2020), Withington was historical consultant for a BBC Radio 4 The
Long View on snuff and electronic cigarettes; and Lambert-Hurley and Holland (PGR) for ‘A
Passage to Britain’ (BBC 2).

The range and diversity of the activity listed above reflects our pledge to working at the cutting
edge of the discipline, and collaborating with partners inside and outside academia to benefit from
the fruits of our research. We believe that our strategy of pursuing the widest disciplinary range at
multiple levels leaves us well-positioned to meet the challenges of the years ahead.




                                                                                             Page 20
