Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 11 – Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  1.1 Unit context and structure

The Computer Science and Informatics Unit of Assessment submission for Kingston University
(KU) consists of 22 staff (22 FTE), including 9 professors and 3 early career researchersECR, all
from the School of Computer Science & Mathematics. Research is undertaken in the Digital
Information Research Centre (DIRC), one of KU’s research centres of excellence.

DIRC is organised around three non-exclusive research themes: Communications, Vision and
Security. Across them, staff conduct research in the following areas:
   • Communications (7 FTEs, 34% of outputs)
       o 5G networks & mobile infrastructure
       o Wireless & multimedia communications
   • Vision (9 FTEs, 53% of outputs)
       o Visual surveillance
       o Medical imaging
   • Security (6 FTEs, 12% of outputs)
       o Cyber & network security
       o Private & public place security

DIRC is managed by its director, Professor Politis, and three theme leaders, Professors Martini,
Nebel and Remagnino for Communications, Vision and Security, respectively. Supporting KU’s
Strategic Plan, DIRC aims to offer a vibrant and active research environment where staff engage
with the latest research and collaborate to produce impactful interdisciplinary quality research on
culture, society, and industry. More specifically, to ensure a sustainable research culture, the
Centre’s director and theme leaders (meeting on a monthly basis) define investment priorities,
organise biweekly seminars (internal and external speakers present, and ~20 members attend),
put in place mentoring activities supporting, in particular, ECR and research students (65 PhD, 3
PhD wholly overseas & 13 MSc by Research completions since REF2014), and support the
organisation of scientific conferences. They also coordinate the mandatory training of research
supervisors and the dissemination of good research practice, in tandem with the central Research,
Business and Innovation Directorate (RBI). Since DIRC’s leadership aims to increase and diversify
funding sources (income over £5.6M in cycle) and increase collaborations with the public and
private sectors, the Centre facilitates brainstorming events to respond to the latest funding calls
and initiatives, and in order to anticipate the future needs of industry. Moreover, theme leaders
facilitate cross-theme collaboration, joint publications, and research grant submissions.

DIRC’s expertise in Computer Vision and Wireless & Network Technology was developed
across two decades with applications focusing on health and security. With the rapidly changing
and ubiquitous world of digital information, the Unit not only embraced and contributed to the latest
technologies (e.g., Martini and N. BarmanECR work on standards), but also anticipated the latest
trends (e.g., Politis’ and G.C.ECR ’s white papers). Consequently, these two areas of research have
become increasingly entwined which has led to, for example, the creation of innovative solutions to
facilitate the live video streaming revolution (ICSUoA11Martini1). In addition, the overarching topic
of Security was developed into a research theme, supported by the development of new expertise
in cybersecurity and collaboration with the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ).

DIRC provides an inclusive and outward looking environment for research development,
fostering interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research to achieve maximum impact in
real-world applications, as illustrated in the three submitted impact case studies (ICSs). It has
developed a significant array of collaborators both internationally and across a range of

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
stakeholders to address the needs of society in its areas of excellence. DIRC’s thematic research
is complemented by other KU centres of research excellence, in particular the Centre for
Engineering, Environment & Society Research (UoA12), and the Interdisciplinary Hub for the Study
of Health & Age-related conditions (UoA3), which promote interdisciplinary research and
collaboration. Research is also supported through the continuous development of our Research
Laboratories and Infrastructures that provide the required resources to undertake internationally
leading research.

   1.2 Unit research

Following REF2014, the Unit - coordinated by the DIRC director, the head of the School of
Computer Science & Mathematics, the School’s Director of Research & Enterprise, and the
Associate Dean for Research & Enterprise from the Faculty of Science, Engineering & Computing -
designed its research strategy for the next 6 years. This strategy guided the Unit during the
assessed period, which resulted in a vigorous growth of research in terms of visibility, quality and
quantity, e.g., 82% of submitted outputs were published in upper-quartile (Q1; Scimago tracked,
2019) journals and average annual external research income increased by 24%. Following the
description of the Unit’s strategy, which is organised around priority areas and key objectives, its
achievements are briefly summarised. Finally, future research and its approach to open
research and research integrity are described.

Priority areas

In this REF period, the Unit built on its existing research strengths, emerging trends, and
challenges to define the four priority areas on which it focused and invested to produce
internationally leading research (examples of such publications are provided in brackets):
    • Machine learning-based computer vision, including deep learning, in domains such as
        visual analytics in the context of security in public spaces, processing of images captured
        by unmanned aerial vehicles, and quantitative medical imaging to aid diagnostics
        (ICSUoA11Remagnino3). Relevant infrastructure investments include a GPU-farm and a
        new High Performance Computing facility. (outputs 11-32-1364, 11-17-1842, 11-05-1339,
        11-13-1347, 11-22-1355)
    • Ambient intelligence and error resilient 2D/3D video transmission facilitated by the
        synergy between the vision and communications themes, and interdisciplinarity embracing
        health, life sciences, social sciences, and arts (ICSUoA11Martini1). Relevant infrastructure
        investment includes a Centre for Augmented and Virtual Reality Environments that includes
        a user experience laboratory equipped to industrial standards. (outputs 11-40-1372, 11-36-
        1368, 11-11-1345, 11-29-1361, 11-12-1346)
    • Next generation network standards and applications, including 5G architectures, and
        creations of ad-hoc network in critical situations (ICSUoA11Politis2). Relevant infrastructure
        investments include WiMAX/WiFi-Adhoc/LTE testbeds. (outputs 11-38-1370, 11-18-1351,
        11-20-1354, 11-48-1376, 11-19-1352)
    • Cyber security, including smart grid security. This has been underpinned by an £0.9M
        investment in a new Centre of Cybersecurity Education and Culture to support academic
        development and included the appointment of two new members of staff, and the purchase
        of a Quantum Cryptography Analyser. (outputs 11-46-1375, 11-02-1336, 11-49-1377)

Since REF2014, the University supported these identified priority areas by investing over £2.6M
through competitively-awarded initiatives. These include the delivery of new infrastructure (see
section 3.2), 15 PhD scholarships, funding to pump-prime innovative research and support impact
activity, and research transformation funding to facilitate international collaborations.

Key objectives

During this period, the Unit identified capacity building and enhancement of international
recognition as its key objectives in pursuing excellence in its research priority areas:


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     • Capacity building through external collaborations
To capitalise on its existing research strengths, increase its available resources and expand its
research portfolio, the Unit instigated a set of measures to forge national and international
partnerships and consortia:
         o A sabbatical scheme was established, which resulted in two colleagues spending
             extended periods in overseas institutions (32 months in total), which led to the
             submission of three proposals to the Qatar National Research Fund (U$D1.6M total)
             and the award of an MRC grant (£146k). Moreover, many Unit staff (38%) took the
             opportunity to visit (from a few days to several weeks) overseas research institutions.
         o To supplement externally funded travel grants, £10K was allocated by the faculty to
             allow leading international academics to spend time (typically a week) within the Unit
             (26 academic visitors were received during the period). It also hosted over 100 external
             researchers for extended periods (several months). Finally, funding was made
             available to invite external speakers to the Unit’s biweekly research seminar
             programme. E.g., Prof. Murroni - IEEE distinguished lecturer - shared his expertise on
             ‘Quality of experience models and methods for broadcasting’ (2019).
         o Encouragement and financial support for staff to participate in events supported by
             non-academic stakeholders such as government departments and agencies. E.g.,
             participation at the Chatham House event - ‘Cyber 2015’ - led to a close collaboration
             with GCHQ resulting in the accreditation of Cyber MSc courses and the funding of
             several PhD studentships. Consequently, KU made a strategic investment of £0.9M in
             its new Cybersecurity Centre (2018).
         o Monthly meetings between the School’s Director of Research & Enterprise with KU’s
             Research, Business and Innovation Directorate to identify research that is sufficiently
             mature to be considered for future commercial exploitation, and to respond to direct
             business enquiries. This pro-active and structured approach to knowledge transfer
             proved particularly successful as exemplified by £2.0M of Knowledge Transfer
             Partnership (KTP) awards.
All those activities contributed not only to increased success in obtaining external research funding
(see section 3.2), but, perhaps more importantly, to help broaden the base of researchers and
collaborations with external partners, including foreign institutions, SMEs, and large companies.
     • International recognition
In parallel with building capacity, the Unit made a concerted effort to steadily enhance its reputation
in its key areas of research, through international recognition and leadership activities:
         o Staff support in terms of funding and teaching relief to organise international
             conferences under the auspices of professional bodies such as IEEE. E.g., in 2017
             Martini chaired the ‘Communications Software, Services & Multimedia Applications’
             symposium at the IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC'17).
         o Travel and publication fund to increase visibility of research by supporting publication in
             highest profile journals consistent with ‘most appropriate outlet’ e.g. targeting open-
             access Q1 (Scimago) journals
         o Increase the number of staff on editorial boards of journals. E.g., Remagnino became
             Associate Editor of the journal ‘IEEE Transactions on Circuits & Systems for Video
             Technology’ in 2016.
         o Engagement with policy making and standards setting organisations. E.g., Martini has
             been active in the IEEE P3333 group - Standard for the Quality Assessment of 3D
             Displays, 3D Contents and 3D Devices based on Human Factors - making a key
             contribution to the IEEE P3333.1 standard. She also chaired the IEEE P3333.4 group
             and is currently chairing the IEEE P3333.1.4 standardization committee on quality
             assessment of light-field imaging.

Achievements

The following research achievements aim to illustrate the success of the Unit’s strategy:
   • Production of bodies of research in the identified priority areas
        o Argyriou designed a novel end-to-end 3D face reconstruction approach from a
            single 2D facial image based on a new CNN architecture. In 2017, it was presented at

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             the prestigious International Conference on Computer Vision (output 11-05-1339).
             Moreover, this work had an international reach outside academia (see Section 4.2).
        o S. Barman produced a body of work focused on the automation of retinal vessels
             morphology quantification. This was applied to the UK Biobank fundus image
             dataset (over 100,000 retinal images) and contributed to diabetic retinopathy as
             evidenced by a publication (output 11-22-1355) in the Q1 journal ‘Computerized
             Medical Imaging & Graphics’ (2015).
        o Makris and Nebel’s research on modelling sets of multivariate sequences using
             nonlinear dimensionality reduction delivered a new approach addressing stylistic
             variations in time series. Published in the Q1 journal ‘IEEE Transactions on
             Cybernetics’ (2014), this work (output 11-32-1364) has applications beyond human
             motion analysis such as autonomous transport and other self-organising areas.
        o Martini’s research on multimedia Quality of Experience focused on medical video
             streaming ensuring preservation of diagnostic quality. Her work is a main
             reference in the European Network on Quality of Experience in Multimedia Systems
             and Services (Qualinet) Working Group on medical imaging. Publications include
             (output 11-40-1372) in the Q1 journal ‘IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health
             Informatics’ (2014).
   •   Impactful research. The three submitted ICSs exemplify the significant impacts produced
       by the Unit’s research.
        o ‘Intelligent computer vision improving security in crowded public events and agricultural
             practice on farms’ (ICSUoA11Remagnino3)
        o ‘Industrial innovations through enhanced multimedia quality of experience’
             (ICSUoA11Martini1)
        o ‘Using ubiquitous networks to produce novel communication capabilities and to
             improve quality of life’ (ICSUoA11Politis2)
       They highlight the benefits of a strategy that builds on sustained and focused research
       efforts in specific areas, a wide range of stakeholders, e.g., telecommunications industry
       and Home Office ministerial department, using long lasting commercial relationships as the
       initial step towards economic impact.
   •   Publications in high-quality journals (82% of submitted outputs were published in upper-
       quartile journals) including the following IEEE Transactions journals: Smart Grid,
       Cybernetics, Image Processing, Services Computing, and Multimedia E.g., KhanECR and
       Martini’s research on encoding dynamic vision sensor data was published in ‘IEEE Internet
       of things journal.’
   •   Significant increase in both external funding (+24%/year) and PhD completions
       (+26%) in comparison with REF2014.
   •   Capacity building through external collaborations:
        o Funding awards from a wide variety of sources: EPSRC, MRC, TSB/Innovate UK,
             EU, NATO, National Institute for Health Research and many foundations and charities,
             i.e., Nesta, British Heart Foundation, Fight for Sight, and Lausanne Hospital.
        o Collaborations with a range of UK (Buhler UK Ltd, Deltatre Ltd, Entryphone Ltd, Globe
             Microsystems Ltd, VCA Technology Ltd.) and overseas (Airbus, Cubic Corporation,
             Deutsche Telekom AG, Google, Instinet, Telecom Italia, and Alcatel-Lucent (now
             Nokia)) companies.
        o Publications with other research groups: among submitted 55 outputs, 82% include at
             least one external collaborator (at 51 different institutions), and 45% include at least
             one international collaborator.
   •   National and international recognition:
       - External examiners for 70 PhDs (38% overseas) and delivery of 18 keynote talks at
            academic venues including the prestigious Royal Society (see Section 4.2)
       - Membership of 10 national and 15 international grant review committees (see
            Section 4.2)
       - Membership of the editorial board of 25 international publications including 15 Q1
            journals (see Section 4.2)
   •   Engagement with policy makers and contribution to standards bodies: Nebel, having
       spent a week at the UK Parliament as part of a Royal Society Pairing Scheme, provided

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       written evidence to the House of Lords Select Committee on Artificial Intelligence (2017) to
       inform national policies on the economic, ethical, and social implications of advances in
       artificial intelligence. Martini contributes to international standards for the International
       Telecommunication Union (ITU) - ITU standards on Quality of Experience (SG12) – and the
       IEEE P3333 group. N. BarmanECR made 9 contributions to ITU resulting in the G.1072
       Gaming Quality of Experience standard (01/2020). Politis was chief editor of a white paper
       ‘A New Generation of e-Health Systems Powered by 5G’ published by the Wireless World
       Research Forum (WWRF) in 2016. He also contributed to a white paper of the 5G
       Infrastructure Public Private Partnership (5G PPP) - joint initiative between the European
       Commission and European ICT industry - on ‘5G empowering vertical industries’ (2016).
       G.C.ECR contributed to the white paper ‘Connected Vehicles’ published by WWRF (2019).

Future research

As cyber-attacks are becoming more and more sophisticated, usage of machine learning
approaches has become an essential element of cyber security. Since the Unit developed
significant research capacity in those two domains, machine learning for cyber security,
especially in 5G/6G heterogeneous networks, will be included as a future research priority area.
Similarly, as original research on multimedia quality of experience showed, machine learning is
essential to ensure accurate dynamic response to changes in network conditions. Consequently, it
will take an even more prominent role in Communications research, e.g., on smart mobile ad-hoc
networks. Collaboration with various local authorities has clearly highlighted that the ‘smart cities’
agenda is becoming both mainstream and a reality. Consequently, this agenda will be one of the
key research topics the Unit will contribute to. Its existing strengths in both visual surveillance and
mobile communications leaves it particularly well placed to substantially impact the field.
The Unit has already amplified its efforts to diversify its research, impact and engagement
funding sources: e.g., research proposals worth £1.6M were submitted to the Qatar National
Research Fund and we collaborated with South London local authorities on a successful £6M bid
(pending funding allocation) to the London Business rates strategic investment fund, where the
Unit will develop an AI-based business intelligence platform to support over 1,000 local
businesses. The Unit has also engaged in closer collaboration with industry (e.g., media, visual
surveillance, finance, and pharmaceutical) to be able to target, in particular, the various Innovate
UK programmes (e.g., £0.48M award for a double KTP with a FinTech company, 2019).

Open research and research integrity

The Unit complies with the University’s Open Access Policy, and therefore the REF2021 Open
Access Policy and funding bodies’ requirements. Consequently, all its submitted research outputs
are available in KU’s Research Repository (https://eprints.kingston.ac.uk/) to achieve a Green
open access environment as a minimum. Moreover, thanks, in particular, to KU’s funds to
support Gold open access, the percentage of submitted publications that are Gold open access
increased significantly since REF2014 from 5% to 22%. The University supports fairness and
transparency in research assessment, so does not support the use of unweighted impact factors.
Nebel contributed to a recent project, translating this to a public-facing set of principles and
signature of the Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA).

The Unit also complies with KU’s policy on data sharing and management, which aligns with that
of UKRI. Collectively, these mechanisms promote a culture which supports transparency of
research and data sharing. This is exemplified by some of the datasets and source codes that the
Unit makes available to the research community. Importantly, when they involve human
participants, collection and management of those data adhere to research protocols agreed by the
University Research Ethics Committee in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018 and the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Based on data captured by a motion sensing device
(i.e., Microsoft Kinect), Makris and Argyriou created action datasets for both single player (G3D)
and multiplayer gaming (G3Di) (http://dipersec.kingston.ac.uk/G3D/). The publications reporting
those datasets were cited over 200 times during the REF period. S. Barman produced a dataset of
retinal images of multi-ethnic children that allows for the scientific community to train, test and,

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
most importantly, benchmark computer vision algorithms
(https://blogs.kingston.ac.uk/retinal/chasedb1/). The associated publications were cited over 300
times since 2014. Argyriou made open source the code of his 3D face reconstruction app on
GitHub, where it was in the world’s top 10 downloads for four weeks (2017). Those examples
illustrate some of the impact that our data sharing culture has on the scientific community.

Through ongoing training and a rigorous and integrity-driven research culture, the Unit fosters
an environment whereby academic staff and other researchers are actively supported in the many
aspects of research ethics, research integrity, and researcher supervision (see Section 2).

   1.3 Unit impact strategy

Approach to enabling impact

The critical mass and longevity of the Unit’s research have resulted in the generation of positive
impacts on economy, society, culture, quality of life, health and public policies as illustrated by the
two ICSs submitted to REF2014 and the three included in this submission. These outcomes were
made possible with the support of KU’s Research, Business, and Innovation team (and Impact and
Business Development Managers assigned to faculty support) and a focused strategy aimed at
ensuring engagement with industry, and national and international bodies by establishing long-term
relationships with main stakeholders, participating at decision-making organisations, and exploiting
intellectual property opportunities.

The strategy to ensure the maximum impact of conducted research is organised around two
main objectives:
   1. to build trust and foster the establishment of long-term relationships with commercial
       organisations and main stakeholders.
   2. to participate actively in the work of professional organisations and decision-making
       entities.

Engagement with industry
The strategy is focussed on building trust and fostering the establishment of long-term
relationships with industry. This was achieved using various schemes which include KTPs,
sponsored PhD scholarships, supply of trainees and job candidates, support of SMEs and
organisation of industry relevant events such as the School’s annual industrial lectures, IP training,
discussion forums and professional workshops. The Unit’s applied research, addressing practical
problems, is particularly sought by SMEs, illustrated by involvement in 12 KTPs during the period,
across a variety of industries including media, visual surveillance, food processing, finance,
pharmaceutical, building, safety and security, manufacturing, and software engineering (see
Section 3.1). The Unit was also a partner in 10 EU funded FP7 and HORIZON 2020 projects,
where it collaborates with international companies including Airbus, Deutsche Telekom, Telecom
Italia, and Alcatel-Lucent (now Nokia) (see Section 3.1).

Engagement with governmental departments and policy makers
In parallel with enterprise partnerships, the Unit recognises the importance of engaging with other
types of stakeholders such as standards bodies, governmental departments, and policy makers
(see Section 4.2). Police, security, and safety services have relied on the Unit’s expertise through
being a collaborative partner in many funded projects involving security organisations, e.g., H2020
MONICA (ICSUoA11Remagnino3). The Unit was also highly active in transferring the product of its
research to standards bodies (ITU, WWRF, and IEEE Multimedia Interest Group).

Unit impact

The quality and variety of impacts generated by the Unit is illustrated by its ICSs; all of them relied
on successful collaborations with industry and public/standard bodies, including the City of Bonn,
the EU, IUT and IEEE:


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   1. Research in computer vision and artificial intelligence (Remagnino) led to: safety and
      security benefits in large public events through the deployment of the ‘MONICA’ platform in
      5 European countries, with over 140,000 end-users; bringing industrial benefits and
      strategic redirection to a UK SME; driving forward drone operations with a UK SME
      specialised in unmanned systems; and harnessing 5G to provide welfare improvement
      and cost savings in farming. (ICSUoA11Remagnino3).
   2. Research in multimedia quality of service and experience (Martini & N. BarmanECR)
      was adopted by both a UK SME and a multinational company. First, the creation of
      innovative video door phone systems by Entryphone Ltd resulted in additional cumulative
      sales of £0.4M and increased profit margins. Second, the integration of video streaming
      quality monitoring in Deutsche Telekom’s networks enabled the company to offer cloud
      gaming services. This is essential to its competitiveness since cloud gaming is predicted
      to represent up to 50% of 5G data traffic by 2022. (ICSUoA11Martini1).
   3. Research into methods for building ubiquitous Mobile Ad-Hoc Networks, machine
      learning and quality of service in streaming (Politis, Argyriou & Martini) led to:
      economic benefits to an international company through the development of an advanced
      radio gateway supporting emergency responders; a network and software solutions SME;
      the deployment of Ubitech’s (a network and software solutions SME) gaming platform in
      nine institutions in five countries supporting children with cerebral palsy, leading to
      significant health benefits for over 1,000 of them; and finally, contribution to new
      technological standards and EU 5G policy. (ICSUoA11Politis2).

In addition to these selected ICSs, the Unit’s research has consistently benefitted its industrial
partners, e.g., Innovate UK assessed all its contribution to KTPs very positively. Besides
generating economic impact, health and social care were areas of particularly impactful research.
E.g., Philip’s body of work on mobile healthcare (m-health) brought positive health benefits to
diabetes patients through interdisciplinary and international collaborations (e.g., with Pharmacy
and Chemistry at KU, Chemistry and Forensics at Nottingham Trent University, Biochemistry at
Basrah Medical College in Iraq, Applied Medical Sciences at Dammam University in Saudi Arabia,
Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, consultants at various NHS Trusts, and foreign hospitals in
Germany, Greece, Ireland, and the Netherlands). It includes: a social robotic platform supporting
behavioural change in children; a social network-based system contributing to both social
behavioural change and better disease management; and, a telehealth solution, where a vest with
wearable sensors and a patient hub capture physiological information for smarter management of
diabetes as a comorbidity.

 2. People

   2.1 Staff and promotion of equality, diversity and inclusion

The staffing strategy of the Unit is guided by its commitment to Equality, Diversity, and
Inclusion (ED&I). Kingston was one of the first 8 UK institutions to be awarded a Bronze Race
Equality Charter in 2015 (renewed in 2019). Its ED&I work on academic career progression was
recognised by The Guardian Award for Diversity Initiative in 2014. Moreover, members of the
Unit were instrumental in the School of Computer Science & Maths achieving an Athena Swan
Bronze Departmental Award in recognition of its commitment to advancement of gender equality
in academia (2019). The School prides itself on a strong representation of female professors in the
leadership – from Head of School to theme leader and Director of Research & Enterprise (2014-
2019, now Professor of Computer Vision). The Unit’s submission adheres to KU’s REF 2021 Code
of Practice, and to the underpinning principles of transparency, consistency, accountability, and
inclusivity. The University’s staffing policy supports flexible working and study leave, promotes
health and wellbeing and provides support for staff with caring responsibilities within the Unit.
Among the Unit’s 22 FTE membership, there are 4 female staff (18%). While this figure is slightly
lower than that of the HESA Benchmark 2014/15 for ITCS (IT, systems sciences & computer
software engineering) academic staff (22%), they made a significant contribution, 35%, to the
submitted outputs. In terms of BAMEs, the Unit returns 7 staff (32%), which compares very
favourably to the HESA Benchmark of 12%.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

During this REF period, the staffing strategy focused on recruiting junior academic and
postdoctoral staff offering original research in its research priority areas, supporting staff research
activities and skill development, and rewarding the quality of their overall research output by
promotion.
    • Recruitment and induction
         The Unit is committed to ensuring transparency within its recruitment process through
         training its staff and offering, e.g., refresher opportunities every three years. All recruitment
         panels comprise mixed gender. We also minimise any potential bias within the recruitment
         process by ensuring all Chairs have undertaken Unconscious Bias and Fair Recruitment &
         Selection training in the last three years. This process served particularly well our ED&I
         commitments since among the four new Lecturers who joined the Unit, three are from
         Black, Asian or minority ethnic backgrounds. To ensure that new staff feel welcome and
         supported, in addition to the formal University’s induction process and introductions to their
         new colleagues, each new staff is placed with more experienced colleague in shared offices
         with this person acting as a “buddy” in the short-term helping with any day-to-day questions.
         Moreover, they are assigned a research mentor for their first years and encouraged to join
         research groups that align with their interests. Furthermore, BME and female staff are
         offered to join the Beyond Barriers Mentoring Scheme which aims to maximise their
         potential. Finally, to support early research activity of academic staff, new appointees have
         a 30% reduction in their teaching hours during their first year.
    • Research support
         Supporting the career development of all staff and strengthening the Unit’s research is
         addressed through several mechanisms:
          o The annual appraisal process is organised around a flexible menu of personal research
              objectives designed to both challenge and develop an individual’s activities according
              to the Unit strategy. To support staff, all appraisers are required to attend appraisal
              training before undertaking them and appraisees are also encouraged to participate in
              training.
          o The organisation of specific research and enterprise training seminars. The topics that
              were covered during the period include KTP funding, Horizon 2020 briefing, the Global
              Challenges Research Fund, fast track impact, GDPR & research data, legal contracts
              & negotiations, Intellectual Property Rights protection, research management, and
              publication masterclasses.
          o A staff development fund provides resource to support research objectives by funding,
              i.e., specialised equipment, conference/networking event attendance, and sabbaticals
              (S. Barman - 8 months at the Institute of Neuroscience in Marseille, France, 2018; Al-
              Fagih - 24 months at Hamad Bin Khalifa University in Qatar, 2018-2020).
          o The work allocation system is a metric-based methodology used to ensure that
              academic staff’s teaching commitment does not prevent development of their research.
              This methodology explicitly rewards research success, i.e., publications in high-quality
              journals, grant awards, and PhD completions, with teaching relief. The system also
              recognises the time associated with research student supervision (2hrs/week) and FTE
              contributions to funded projects.
          o A research activity mentoring programme supports ECR and academic staff aiming to
              increase their research activity. Based on frequent meetings, the scheme encourages
              personal progress monitoring, esteem building and engagement with the research
              community and research users. In particular, the scheme supports ECRs to apply for
              KU’s First Grant Scheme that is intended to provide pump-priming grants to initiate
              work on research projects that will, in-turn, result in a high-quality application for
              external research funding. E.g., one female academic (Al-Fagih), ECR at the time, was
              successful in achieving a First Grant in 2017/18, publishing two Q1 and five Q2 papers
              and submitting two large external grants (2019 and 2020) since. A direct impact of this
              programme was the sustained increase of the number of research awards (+24%
              annual income compared with the REF2014 period).
          o Support for research grant applications. All applications are internally peer-reviewed by
              two senior colleagues (at least one from the Unit) before submission. The application is

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            coordinated and supported by KU’s Research, Business, and Innovation service (RBI),
            which deals with all pre- and post-award processes. They include identification of
            appropriate funding opportunities through horizon scanning (issuing of a monthly
            funding alert), support in finding suitable industry partners if necessary, budget
            preparation, and application submission. Moreover, RBI works with funders to provide
            necessary information for the applicants on Terms & Conditions of Grants/Awards
            before submission. If applications are unsuccessful, RBI encourages applicants to
            collect any official feedback from the funder and advise them on how to enhance
            and/or change the focus of their application so that it becomes suitable to other funders
            or schemes. Additional support is provided in sharing good practice events and grant
            writing sessions, especially in response to calls fitting ongoing research.
   •   Career progression and promotion
       All staff are given equal career/promotion and internal funding opportunities, irrespective of
       their contract. Moreover, they are permitted to work flexibly/remotely for at least one day
       per week, and for longer durations by arrangement with their Head of Department. Staff are
       encouraged to participate in leadership programmes (Stellar HE and Diversifying Academic
       Leadership, Leadership Foundation) and a female leadership development programme
       (Aurora). Three staff attended Leadership programmes and two female staff completed the
       Aurora programme during this REF period. Moreover, all staff can access KU delivered
       courses free of charge, e.g., Masters/MBA, and budget is available to support staff wishing
       to study at a higher level and attend short courses, conferences, and travel to enhance their
       career progression. Staff also apply externally for funding projects that strengthen their
       international recognition, e.g., Martini received internal investment of £20k to develop an
       international transmission standard by an international professional body
       (ICSUoA11Martini1).
       A significant portion of the Unit’s staff (45%) was promoted in recognition of their research
       excellence during the current assessment period: N. Barman from Research Associate to
       Lecturer, Al-Fagih to Senior Lecturer, Philip to Associate Professor, and Argyriou, S.
       Barman, Khaddaj, Makris, Martini, Nebel and Politis to Professors. They all play a major
       part in strengthening the research culture, developing valuable research collaboration,
       producing research outputs, supervising PhD completions and attracting substantial
       external research income. 40% of promotions in the period were women (including two to
       Professor).

Visiting Scholars contribute to both the vitality of the research culture and the Unit’s engagement
with the international research community, industry, and national and international bodies. They
regularly give research seminars, advise researchers, contribute to journal publications, serve on
the committees of international events organised by the Unit, and facilitate collaborations with their
organisations. Moreover, Visiting Professors - four are currently active, and constitute a diverse VP
base – not only allow direct contact with decision makers in national and international bodies, but
also act as role models for students and staff alike. Professor Monekosso (Leeds Beckett
University) conducts research in sensor data analytics for human activity recognition, behaviour
analysis and automated sensor failure detection. Professor Velastin (University Carlos III, Spain) is
an expert in computer vision and video analytics (security, safety, traffic analysis, machine
learning). Professor Hatton is Professor Emeritus of Forensic Software Engineering. Professor
Qanadli (Head of the Cardio-Thoracic and Vascular Unit, Lausanne University, Switzerland) is a
key partner in a large clinical trial (500 sample data set) currently conducted with Dehmeshki to
achieve both European (CE) and Food & Drug Agency (FDA) certifications of his computer aided
system for detection and monitoring of aortic abdominal aneurysm.

   2.2 Postgraduate Researchers

The Unit embraces the vision behind the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. Consequently, alongside the University, it has developed specific mechanisms to
support its Postgraduate Researchers’ career development with a view to developing them as
both independent researchers and attractive candidates for future posts.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The increasing quality of research has attracted more and higher quality PGRs. Moreover, to
recruit the strongest students, the Unit invested around £1M during the REF period on PGR
support. Consequently, there was a significant increase (33%) of doctoral completions compared
to REF2014 (the annual average of 7.4 a year increased to 9.9). This growth and the improving
completion rate were supported by additional supervisor and student training, annual monitoring of
supervision teams, and the provision of additional computing resources. The opening of the £55M
University’s Town House Project (2020), which incorporates extensive and state-of-the-art library
and seminar facilities, provides further research-orientated space. Best practices in supervision are
promoted and guide the development of individual training programmes. Most importantly, PGRs
are embedded within a supportive research community which facilitates interdisciplinary
exchanges via, for example, seminars, cross-faculty conferences, and science communication
competitions. ED&I commitments naturally include PGRs; with a current female population of 24%,
it is in line with the corresponding HESA Benchmark 2014/15 (26%).

The Graduate Research School provides compulsory training in core
multidisciplinary/transferable skills (e.g., research methods, ethics, intellectual property,
personal development portfolio planning, and thesis writing skills) and acts as a centre for further
support/guidance. PGRs are also encouraged to attend specialist MSc courses that are relevant to
their research area. Among them, the MSc’s in Networking & Data Communications, Network &
Information Security, and Game Development, with its Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence
component, support directly DIRC’s three research themes. Moreover, specialist training outside
KU is offered if required. In addition to those subject-specific training opportunities, DIRC organises
biweekly both a reading group and a seminar series including internal and external speakers.
PGRs are also financially supported to present their research at international conferences and in
open access journals. The Unit’s PGRs routinely publish their research in high quality
international (Q1) venues.

An explicit part of the PGR monitoring process is to ensure that supervision teams engage their
students in these training programmes. Moreover, students are encouraged to become involved in
organising events to develop leadership and research organisation skills. E.g., in 2014 a Unit PGR
took the initiative to organise the first University-wide PhD conference. PGRs are now expected to
present their work at that event and compete to represent KU at the UK-wide Vitae Three Minute
Thesis® competition (in 2019, the representative was from the Unit). They are also encouraged to
take part in competitions and events organised by learned societies and the industry. E.g., a
PGR was awarded a prize in the Biochemical Society's Science Communication 2016 competition,
and two PhD students won the first prize for their solution to the challenge 'classification of
construction site images' (sponsored by Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd) at ProjectHack3.0 (2019). All
those initiatives contributed to the significant increase of PhD degrees awarded during the
period, i.e., 65, when compared to REF2014’s, i.e., 37.

As part of their career planning, in discussion with supervisors, they may take on limited teaching
duties to gain experience in delivering education and improving their communication skills. Indeed,
PGRs and postdoctoral researchers are offered opportunities to engage in teaching alongside
experienced academics, assisting in within-laboratory teaching and portions of classroom delivered
materials. They are supported and encouraged to engage with the opportunities for HEA
recognition and training appropriate to their roles. The success of those schemes can be
exemplified by researchers moving on to take up academic positions and fellowships at
competitive UK and international universities, such as Surrey, Oxford, Pennsylvania, and National
University of Sciences & Technology in Pakistan.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

   3.1 Income

Steady growth of research income and increasing success in raising both nationally and
internationally competitive external research funds can be attributed to several factors. Most
important is the maturity of the Unit – it produced 195 external research funding applications during

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the period - and its engagement with the research community, users and industries across the UK,
Europe, and the world. The total research income of £5.65M from new and continuing projects in
the current period is substantially greater than that accrued over REF2014, corresponding to a
growth of 24% in the annual average income. This is particularly significant in the current climate
of reduced public research funding and unease regarding the participation of UK institutions in EU
Programmes. 43% of Unit’s income is from 10 collaborative EU programmes, addressing
visual surveillance, and wireless & multimedia communications for health and security (Table 1).

Table 1. Research funding from EU programmes

     Prog.    Project title [partners]                  Income       Period Unit’s theme
 1   FP7      ADDPRIV (Automatic Data relevancy         £178k        2011-  Vision &
              Discrimination for a PRIVacy-sensitive     of €0.4M KU 2014   Security
              video surveillance) [10]
 2   FP7      CONCERTO (Content and cOntext             £206k        2011-       Communications
              aware delivery for iNteraCtive             of €0.4M KU 2015
              multimEdia healthcaRe applicaTiOns)
              [11]
 3   FP7      PROACTIVE (PRedictive reasOning           £196k        2012-       Communications
              and multi-source fusion empowering         of €0.3M KU 2015        & Security
              AntiCipation of attacks and Terrorist
              actions In Urban EnVironmEnts) [10]
 4   FP7      PROTECTRAIL (The Railway-Industry         £30k         2010-       Vision &
              Partnership for Integrated Security of     of €0.1M KU 2014        Security
              Rail Transport) [31]
 5   FP7      SALUS (Security And InteroperabiLity      £199k        2013-       Communications
              in Next Generation PPDR                    of €0.3M KU 2016        & Security
              CommUnication InfrastructureS) [17]
 6   FP7      SIAM (Security Impact Assessment          £161k        2011-       Vision &
              Measures - A decision support system       of €0.3M KU 2014        Security
              for security technologies) [8]
 7   FP7      WELCOME (Wearable Sensing and             £265k.          2013-    Communications
              Smart Cloud Computing for Integrated      New €8.3M       2017
              Care to COPD Patients with Co-            award
              morbidities) [13]                         (€0.6M KU
                                                        shared with
                                                        UoA3)
 8   H2020 AEGLE (An analytics framework for            £165k.          2015-    Communications
           integrated and personalized healthcare       New €6.1M       2018
           services in Europe) [14]                     award
                                                        (€0.5M KU
                                                        shared with
                                                        UoA3)
 9  H2020 MONICA (Management Of Networked               £586k.          2017-    Vision &
          IoT Wearables - Very Large Scale              New €17.6M      2019     Security
          Demonstration of Cultural Societal            award
          Applications) [30]                            (€0.9M KU)
 10 H2020 QoE-NET (innovative Quality Of                £414k.          2015-    Communications
          Experience maNagement in Emerging             New €2.9M       2018
          mulTimedia services) [7]                      award
                                                        (€0.5M KU)

Although historically there was an important reliance on EU Programmes, the Unit diversified its
sources of incomes, resulting in new awards with headline value £4.52M during the period.
Consequently, despite the award of a limited number of H2020 grants, its income grew during the
REF period. Indeed, the last few years showed increasing success in attracting funding from UK
Research Councils (Table 2). As a result, 18% of income is from 2 continuing and 4 new

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
EPSRC and MRC projects and Industrial Case Studentships (with BAE systems, Legion Ltd
and Roke Manor Research Ltd).

Table 2. Research awards from UK Research Councils

       Prog. Project title                             New Award         Period Unit’s theme
 1     EPSRC DARE (Distributed Autonomous and          £1.2M (£363k      2017-  Communications
             Resilient Emergency Management            KU)               2020   & Security
             System)
 2     EPSRC IOSIRE (The Internet of Silicon           £561k (£280k      2017-    Vision
             Retinas: Machine-to-machine               KU)               2020
             communications for neuromorphic
             vision sensing data)
 3     MRC   Classification of oral lesions using      £147k (£89k       2018-    Vision
             deep learning for early detection of      KU)               2020
             oral cancer
 4     MRC   Automated retinal microvascular           £149k (£83k       2014     Vision
             quantification as a predictor of          KU)
             cardiovascular disease risk in later
             life

In line with KU’s mission of supporting business innovation through knowledge transfer of its
expertise, technology, and world-leading research (9% 4* in REF2014), the Unit applied for funding
to Innovate UK schemes from which it was awarded 19% of its income:
     • 10 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships - including 3 ‘double’ KTPs - with the following
        companies: Cubic Defence UK Ltd (former Vocality) D, Deltatre Media Ltd, Factbook Ltd,
        Globe Microsystems Ltd, VCA Technology Ltd, Entryphone LtdD, JPY Plc, Selectamark
        Security Systems Plc, Lerch-Bates Ltd, and Instinet Global Services LtdD
     • 5G Testbeds & Trials Innovate UK Programme
        5GRIT - 5G Rural Integrated Testbed, £2.1M (£180k for KU), (2018-2019)
     • Agri-tech catalyst round 9 scheme (IUK & the Department for International Development)
        Bee Smart: Improving yields for cashew growers in Ghana with smart pollination
        management, with Agsenze Ltd, £427k (£150k for KU), (2020-2023)

The remaining income is derived from a variety of sources including:
   • Overseas organisations:
      - NATO (WITNESS - Wide InTegration of Sensor Networks to Enable Smart Surveillance
          and MIDAS - Control of Team of Mini-UAVs to Support Counterterrorism)
      - US Department of Homeland Security
   • UK organisations: Home office Centre for Applied Science & Technology, SouthWest
      London Academic Network, and National Institute for Health Research
   • Private companies: Google, Siemens AG and DOCOMO Communications Laboratories
      Europe GmbH, and Buhler UK Ltd plus 11% of income from KTP and RCUK partners
   • UK and European Charities: Linde Real Fund, Fight for Sight, NESTA, Leverhulme Trust,
      Council for Assisting Refugee Academics, British Heart Foundation, and Lausanne Hospital

     3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

During the period, research was supported by investment exceeding £2.6M by KU. It comprised
£1.6M funding for the acquisition of new infrastructure and facilities all co-located in a single
building to foster collaborations (described below), and in addition, a combination of research
capital, pump-priming and faculty studentships over the period (£1M).

Since 2009, the Unit has had access to a dedicated 20-node Linux High Performance
Computing facility (200 processor cores & 20TB storage). It was essential to the development of
machine learning-based classifiers in areas including protein bioinformatics, action recognition,


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
people tracking and big data processing. Since this important resource was becoming outdated,
KU invested £0.52M in 2018/19 to replace the previous facility by a state-of-the-art one following
the Unit’s specifications. Delivered in 2019, it offers significant improvements in terms of
connectivity (10 Gbps Ethernet), processing units (Xeon® Scalable Processors at 2.1 GHz),
number of cores (768), memory (8GB memory per CPU Core) and useable storage capacity
(80TB). Moreover, to boost further research quality across the three themes (especially projects
using Deep Learning), £50k was invested in 2017/19 to build a 24 GPU-farm based on NVIDIA
Titan.

The Unit also invested £53k in a customised facility to further its activities in advanced research in
computer vision and digital communications to become a leading institution for Mobile Virtual
Reality and Connected Living. The Centre for Augmented and Virtual Reality Environments
(CAVE) opened in 2017, equipped with cameras, projectors, motion capture sensors and
specialist workstations & software to facilitate research in the domain of real-time data integration
and analytics – with applications ranging from medical diagnostics to smart cities, ambient assisted
living – to gaming and user experience. It includes a high-performance display (Sony’s BVM-X300)
as an essential part of the set-up for achieving an effective visual interface and High Dynamic
Range workflow. As it complies with the next-generation ITU standards embracing 5G and ITU-R
BT.2020 broadcast standard, it is essential in our contribution to relevant standards bodies.

Furthermore, KU allocated £0.9M in support of a new Centre of Cybersecurity Education and
Culture (2018/21). The centre specialises in providing intelligence for live threats using state-of-
the-art technology and strategies to combat cybercrime. It offers research in physical, network &
cybersecurity, a GCHQ Masters qualification, and partnerships with the Home Office, the security
industry, and communities. An additional £100k was invested in a fully equipped Cyber Security
lab, which promotes state-of-the-art research contributing directly to the Security theme (2019).

The Unit also supports the Communications theme with LTE/WiFi-Adhoc testbeds to enable
experimental evaluation. In addition, it invested £25k in 2019 in a Quantum Cryptography Analyser
to pioneer Internet-of-Things data security using quantum key cryptography for post-5G and
6G mobile Networks.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

   4.1 Collaborations and interdisciplinary research

Over the last decade, the Unit enhanced networks of collaborators across the full range of
stakeholders in their respective disciplines. There were 258 collaborations in the period (defined as
a relationship with an external entity that led to a peer-reviewed co-authored paper submitted to
REF2021 and/or a funded research project). They include partnerships with academic institutions
in the UK, Europe, America and Asia (Cambridge, Oxford, UCL, Imperial College, EPFL, ETH,
Bologna, New York, Pennsylvania, British Columbia, Nanjing, and Yonsei in Korea), research
organisations (Francis Crick Institute, Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, French National Centre for
Scientific Research, and UK Biobank), multinational companies (Airbus, Cubic Corporation,
Disney, Deutsche Telekom AG, NTT Docomo Inc, Dolby Laboratories Inc, Google, and Telecom
Italia), and 33 SMEs (e.g., VCA Technology, Vocality, Ubitech, Entryphone, Blue Bear Systems
Research Ltd, which are introduced in the ICSs).

As impact in real-world applications often relies on interdisciplinary research, the Unit
collaborates with academics from very different fields, especially in the areas of medical and
biomedical sciences, to ensure real-world impact. Evidence of interdisciplinary leadership is
provided by substantial investments from non-traditional computer science funders (e.g., £0.5M
from MRC and medical charities) and publications in scientific journals in non-UoA11 disciplines
(e.g., Nature, Physics, Developmental Cell, Ophthalmology, and Hypertension). In addition to
Philip’s work already described in the ‘Unit Impact’ section, interdisciplinary research is
exemplified by the activities of the following members.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
S. Barman’s research in medical imaging analysis addresses the early detection of oral cancer
and the association of retinal microvascular morphology with cardiovascular disease risk. Her MRC
& British Heart Foundation funded retinal vasculometry work involved collaborations with various
clinical UK research groups, i.e., Integrative Epidemiology at UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, the
NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Moorfields Eye Hospital and the Institute of Public Health at
University of Cambridge, and the UK Biobank Eye and Vision Consortium. Her MRC funded project
on classification of oral lesions for cancer detection, involves an international partnership with US
and Asian institutions including department of Oral & Maxillofacial Pathology, Radiology &
Medicine at New York University, Cancer Research Malaysia, Faculty of Dental Sciences at
University of Peradeniya in Sri Lanka, and the department of Oral Medicine & Radiology at BP
Koirala Institute of Health Science in Nepal.

Hoppe conducts research in medical imaging in close collaboration with researchers from the
MRC Laboratory for Molecular Cell Biology and Department of Physics & Astronomy at UCL, and
the Francis Crick Institute. This leads him to design novel segmentation and tracking algorithms
addressing the real-life challenge of processing wound time-lapse images. Their output permits
quantitative analysis, providing important insight about the wound healing process (Nature Physics
doi:10.1038/s41567-019-0618-1, 2019).

Makris investigates the distinction of liver lesions by analysing images produced by contrast-
enhanced ultrasound imaging. His research is performed in partnership with three other
institutions, each providing their unique expertise to address this interdisciplinary challenge:
Department of Radiology at King's College Hospital, Perelman School of Medicine at University of
Pennsylvania (USA), and Radiology & Imaging Research Centre, Evgenidion Hospital, National
and Kapodistrian University (Greece) (Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology, output 11-25-1386).

Nebel’s collaborative research in bioinformatics led to 16 joint publications during the period. It was
conducted with a variety of departments, including Pharmacology, Biochemistry, Plant Sciences,
and Statistics at University of Oxford, Bioengineering at Nice Sophia Antipolis University (France),
Pharmacy at University of Patras (Greece), Biological Sciences at University of Trieste (Italy),
Computational Medicine at Autonomous University of Barcelona (Spain), and Pharmacology at
University of Illinois (USA). That work was supported by grants from the British Council, the EU,
the Royal Society, and the Polish National Centre for Science, and led to participation in
international protein structure prediction contests (CASP11 & 12).

Remagnino has been a Visiting Researcher at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, since 2010. This
collaboration led to the production of an interdisciplinary body of work in plant classification, e.g.,
‘Multi-organ plant classification based on convolutional and recurrent neural networks’ was
published in IEEE Transactions on Image Processing (2018).

   4.2 Contribution to the research base, economy and society

Contribution to research base

Unit members contribute to their academic and research communities through a variety of
activities including journal edition, membership of national and international grant review
committees, membership of learned societies, advisory boards, chairing conferences and giving
invited talks. Moreover, they serve as reviewers for hundreds of journals and conferences (due to
space constraints, this is not detailed in this document).

Funding committees: Unit members serve on relevant UK funding committees, including EPSRC,
BBSRC, MRC, British Council, National Institute for Health Research, Cancer Research Wales,
Newton Fund, UK National Commission for UNESCO, and UK Research & Innovation. Nebel and
Remagnino are Full Members of the EPSRC Review College, S. Barman is a member of UKRI
Future Leaders Fellowships Peer Review College, and Martini is a member of the EPSRC
Prioritization panel. As evidence of international reputation, Unit members participate in
international grant review committees of the EU, e.g., Mellor and Politis are expert reviewers for

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
H2020 programmes (INNOSUP and, 5G & Beyond 5G), and 15 non-UK national funding bodies
from Europe (Belgium, Cyprus, Finland, France, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, &
Switzerland), the Americas (Canada & Chile) and Asia (Qatar). Nebel is a member of the
Computer Science Evaluation Group for the Discovery Grants Program of the Natural Sciences &
Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) (2019-22).

Journal editorial boards: Unit members serve on the editorial boards of 25 different journals
including 15 upper-quartile journals, including IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, IEEE
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, IEEE Transactions on Human-
Machine Systems, IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and
Cybernetics, IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics, IEEE Signal Processing
Magazine, IEEE Vehicular Technology Magazine, IEEE Access, BMC Bioinformatics, PLOS One,
and Neurocomputing.

PhD examinations: Unit members examined 70 doctoral theses including for the universities of
Oxford, Edinburgh, and Imperial College, and 26 overseas.

Keynote speakers: Unit members delivered 17 keynotes at international conferences.
Furthermore, S. Barman was invited to give a talk at the Royal Society on ‘The transformative
potential of data and image analysis for eye care’, where she presented her retinal image analysis
system (2018).

Conference contributions: The Unit supports hundreds of conferences by joining their
programme committees and chaired over 22 conference committees. Exploiting his multi-
disciplinary research activities within computer vision and healthcare, Makris chaired the IET
Human Motion Analysis for Healthcare Applications conferences (2016-2019). As an expert in e-
Health and 3D Multimedia Technologies, Martini chaired the programme committees of 3DTV
Conference (2014), and the International Conference on Mobile Medical Multimedia Technologies,
Applications and Services (2016) and chaired 4 international workshops.

Involvement in learned, national, international and industry-led societies: Unit members
contribute to the research base, economy and society through their activity in over 20 different
societies. They naturally include memberships of IEEE (and Senior IEEE) (Martini is chair of the
IEEE P3333.1.4 standardization committee, was chair of the IEEE P3333.4 group and was Vice-
chair of the Multimedia Communications Technical Committee of the IEEE Communications
Society (2014-16); Philip is privacy sub-group chair for IEEE P2933 Standard Working Group on
Clinical IoT Device and Data interoperability with TIPPSS (Trust, Identity, Protection, Privacy,
Safety and Security)), British Machine Vision Association, IET (Makris is chair of the Vision &
Imaging Network since 2017) and Fellows of both the Institutes of Physics, and Mathematics & its
Application. Moreover, Hunter is a member of the British Standards Institute and International
Electrotechnical Commission committees working on International Standards for Automatic Speech
Recognition systems; other colleagues are involved in more specialised associations such as the
Climate Vulnerable Forum, and National Institute for Health Research Central Commissioning
Facility. Finally, some act as experts in industry-led societies. Politis is chair of two working groups
of the WWRF and of the e-Health Vertical Industries Platform. G.C.ECR contributes to the
‘Cybersecurity’ workgroup of the WWRF.

Contribution to economy and society

As detailed in section 3.1, over three-quarters of income involve collaborations with companies, a
third of which directly benefiting UK SMEs (Innovate UK programmes). Moreover, Politis is the
director and co-founder of Ubitech Limited; a 10-people R&D company in wireless communications
and machine learning that exploits outcomes of his research.

This demonstrates the Unit’s ability to apply its innovative research to practical problems,
contributing to economy and society. This is further illustrated by its three ICSs. They detail not
only the economic benefits provided to both SMEs and multinational companies (Deutsche

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Telekom and Cubic Corporation), but also enhanced security at public events, ecological benefits,
better welfare for livestock, and health benefits for disabled children. Moreover, research applied to
health contributed to better treatments, especially to diabetes and cancer patients.

Finally, the Unit is keen to engage with and inform the public through a variety of activities
including talks at KU’s ‘Cafe Scientifique’, local scientific societies and schools, scientific advice to
the national press (The Economist magazine, and The Sunday Star), science festivals and
outreach using KU’s two state-of-the-art portable laboratories (‘Labs in a lorry’), which attended
over 100 events (e.g., Big Bang Fair, Festival of Science, and New Scientist Live) reaching over
10,000 individuals. Argyriou released a free app demonstrating his research on 3D face
reconstruction from a single 2D facial image (ICCV17): it received over 1M uploads and the code
was in the world’s top 10 downloads at GitHub for four weeks (2017). Nebel published popular
science articles in The Conversation (UK, France & España) about his research: 'DNA techniques
could transform facial recognition technology' (2017) attracted 23,000+ readers and was
republished in Scientific American. In total, those articles attracted over 48,000 readers (86% from
overseas).




                                                                                                 Page 16
