Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction
 Sussex Law School (SLS), based in the School of Law, Politics and Sociology (LPS), has built a
 vibrant, supportive, and inclusive research environment that has made significant contributions
 to knowledge generation and exchange through the work of its 58 academics, three research
 centres and its research groups. Contributing to a wide range of sub-disciplines, our research
 adopts doctrinal, theoretical, critical, contextual, socio-legal, and interdisciplinary approaches.
 Our research is rooted in the Sussex traditions of critical scholarship and commitment to equality
 and social justice. We are proud to lead on interdisciplinary international research projects and
 that our research has demonstrably made positive changes to society regionally, nationally, and
 internationally.

 The University’s commitment to the development of the discipline is evidenced by its investment
 in Law which has grown from 17.2 FTE returned in RAE2008 to 31FTE in REF2014 and
 55.9FTE in REF2021. This step-change growth was carefully managed to deliver an enhanced
 research profile building upon existing strengths whilst diversifying research areas; enhanced
 capacity for interdisciplinary, collaborative, and impactful research; and facilitate community
 engagement and knowledge exchange. Our recruitment has enabled us to develop further the
 established research strengths identified in REF2014 through creative, interdisciplinary, and
 collaborative research in particular in criminal law, now the Crime Research Centre and human
 rights, now the Sussex Centre for Human Rights Research. Our focused recruitment strategy
 has enabled us to establish Sussex expertise in Information Law, now working under the
 auspices of the Centre for Information Governance Research, and in Property, Land and
 Environmental Law. Our appointments have facilitated our contribution to knowledge in key
 strategic areas such as sustainability, environment, digital technologies, human rights, and
 social justice.

 The majority of appointments in the most significant period of expansion (2013-2016) were early-
 career-researchers (ECR) to their first academic post having completed or been near to
 completing their PhD (18 of 24) and 8 staff new to the UK HE environment. Consequently, SLS
 adapted our research support processes to nurture the research careers of our staff,
 underpinned by departmental investment in research and supported by LPS and University
 infrastructure. Our aim has been to offer inclusive, constructive, and informative research
 support that stimulates, supports, and develops individual researcher autonomy, collegiality, and
 the flourishing of individual and collective research capabilities across outputs, grant capture,
 impact, and knowledge exchange. As these staff have become established in their research
 careers (currently 5 staff are ECR) we have focused upon enabling strategic thinking about
 research and provided opportunities for the development of research leadership. The expertise,
 intellectual curiosity, and energy of our staff ensure the vitality of SLS research. Our strategy has
 enabled excellence and a sustained contribution to research focused on equality, social justice
 and interdisciplinarity.

 1.2 Review of strategic aims identified in REF2014
 In REF2014 we identified our strategic aims as the development of the Centre for
 Responsibilities, Rights and the Law; expansion to establish Sussex expertise in Information
 Law, Environmental Law, and Commercial Law, whilst building on existing strengths;
 strengthening collaborations (4.1) and interdisciplinary research; and, building our PGR
 community (2.2).

 1.2.1 Sussex Centre for Human Rights Research
 In REF2014 the Centre for Responsibilities, Rights, and the Law (CRRL) was central to our
 research strategy and structures within the wider research environment provided by other LPS

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 centres and Law research groups. A 2015 review of CRRL concluded that the diverse range of
 research interests within SLS by then meant the Centre was no longer sustainable as the
 primary umbrella mechanism for SLS research. Formal recognition of a broader range of
 research expertise was required, building on existing strengths and consistent with our stated
 intention to expand our research in transitional justice, minority rights, intellectual property, and
 environmental responsibilities. Furthermore, we wished to support the organic growth of
 collaborative research endeavours in new and innovative fields.

 The CRRL was re-launched in 2015 as the Sussex Centre for Human Rights Research
 (SCHRR), currently co-directed by Skeet, Berry, and Ferreira, to provide a focus for strengths in
 human rights research which had been enhanced by new appointments. SCHRR fosters
 research across doctrinal, critical, theoretical, and practical approaches to domestic, European,
 comparative, and international human rights. Pursuing our core values of social justice and
 equality, there is a distinctive focus upon minority rights (Baldi, Berry, Brayson, Craig, Gilani);
 gender and families (Brayson, Bremner, Ferreira, Lind, Griffiths, Millns, Moscati, Skeet); and
 more broadly upon constitutionalism, governance, transitional and transformative justice (Craig,
 Evans, O’Sullivan, Sokhi-Bulley, Skeet). SCHRR supports a programme of research and
 publications and their dissemination; feeds into debates and collaborations with academics,
 policymakers, NGOs, and external engagement with other stakeholders at a local, national, and
 international level (eg UN Independent Expert on Foreign Debt; UN Working Group on Business
 and Human Rights); runs a vibrant series of research and work-in-progress seminars; and, hosts
 an annual conference (eg, in 2017 on the theme, Challenging Human Rights Disenchantment, to
 celebrate 50 years from the ICCPR and ICESCR). International collaboration is facilitated by the
 Visiting Fellow Scheme attracting human rights scholars e.g. Professor Alvarez Medina (Madrid)
 working on strengthening women’s rights through regional courts. An illustrative example of
 SCHRR’s work is the SOGICA project (1.2.3; 4.1).

 1.2.2 Developing new areas of research expertise and building existing strengths
 Strong recruitment in Information Law was first supported by a Research Group and in 2018
 the creation of an interdisciplinary Centre for Information Governance Research (CIGR)
 under the directorship of Marsden, with Frabboni and Li as current deputies. CIGR is a multi-
 university, multi-disciplinary and multi-stakeholder network for information governance research
 including autonomous systems (UKRI funded collaboration with computer science, medicine and
 sociology), Artificial Intelligence, internet regulation, intellectual property, digital health (e.g. Li’s
 project on bioprinting in collaboration with bioengineering, law and industry), digital information
 management including new media, Smart cities innovation, the global Digital divide and digital
 trade.

 The Property, Land and Environmental Law Group has a distinctive focus primarily on natural
 resource conservation, including climate change, biodiversity conservation, sustainable food and
 farming, and trade. Theoretical work engages with themes including Wild Law, human/nature
 connections, and Rights of Nature; ethics of care and connection to place; and conceptions of
 property and commodification in environmental contexts such as emissions trading, forestry, and
 conservation covenants. The group hosted the UK Environmental Law Association Wild Law and
 Activism Conference in 2019 which attracted practitioners, activists and academics to explore
 the connection between environmental activism and ecocentric perspectives on law and is
 leading the UK Earth Judgments Project (Dancer, Howe). The group works collaboratively
 across the University with the cross-disciplinary Sussex Sustainability Research Project
 (1.2.3). Lydgate’s research, with Sussex LLM and PhD students, on trade policy and legislation
 to protect human and animal health after Brexit led directly to changes in UK pesticides
 legislation, and forms one of our ICS.

 Supported by the Commercial, Private Law and Regulation Research Development Team (3.2)
 our Commercial lawyers work across a broad range of issues including Corporate Governance
 and Social Responsibility (Amao, Bu); Banking Law (Wilson); Financial Services (Amao,
 Iglesias-Rodriguez); International Arbitration (Ghouri, Guntrip); and International Trade (Dawar).
 They collaborate with the LPS Centre for the Study of Corruption on issues of corporate

                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 governance and corruption and with the UK Trade Policy Observatory (UKTPO). Dawar’s
 research leading to the introduction and implementation of effective competition and consumer
 protection legislation forms one of our ICS.

 The Unit has also built upon strengths identified in REF2014. The success of the research
 group in Criminal Law and Criminal Justice led to the launch in 2016 of a new interdisciplinary
 Crime Research Centre (CRC), currently with co-directors in Law (Welsh), Sociology
 (McGuiness) and Psychology (Crombag). The Centre’s research is multi- and inter-disciplinary,
 bringing together expertise from law, sociology, criminology, politics, psychology, neuroscience,
 business and international development to research ‘crime’, broadly defined including criminal
 law and evidence, criminology, new forms of criminality and corruption. The formation of the
 Centre has facilitated the development of research beyond the long-established and still well-
 represented strengths in international and comparative criminal law (Garrod, Henderson, Jupp,
 O’Sullivan, Vogler) to include e.g. constructions of sexual violence, access to justice, restorative
 justice, and family contact with prisoners. The Centre hosts annual seminar and work-in-
 progress series, conferences, and Public Lectures (e.g. Victim’s Commissioner, Baroness
 Newlove, 2019; Director of Europol, Rob Wainwright, 2017). The Criminal Law Reform Now
 network was established following an international conference on criminal law reform, papers
 from which were submitted to the Law Commission’s consultation on its 13th Programme of work.
 One example of the interdisciplinary research of CRC members (Walters, Wiedlitzka and
 Owusu-Bempah (now LSE)) is on hate crime supported by six projects totalling over £1.2 million
 of external funding since 2014. The Hate Crime and the Legal Process study by Walters
 analysed statistics, cases, and in-depth interviews with practitioners, victims, local authorities,
 and charity groups to make recommendations for a new Hate Crime Act. This study was
 followed by a global comparative study, Legislating to address hate crimes against the LGBT
 community in the Commonwealth. The final report of The Sussex Hate Crime Project, funded by
 the Leverhulme Trust (co-led by Walters and Brown, Psychology) has been used extensively by
 researchers, civil society organisations, and government departments to help understand the
 impacts of hate crime. Consequently, Sussex has become one of the leading international
 research hubs for the study of hate and prejudice, its research pivotal to the development of
 ‘Hate Studies’ as a discipline and forms one of our ICS (Walters).

 In addition to recognising flourishing research groups as centres of expertise, SLS continues to
 pursue a strategy of cultivating an inclusive research culture by supporting the activities of
 smaller research groups of faculty and PGRs across the diverse and varied interests
 represented. Groups report annually to the SLS Research Committee which oversees the vitality
 of the groups which currently include Public International Law, European Law and Family,
 Relationships and Kinship. For example, new appointments in Family Law, Gender and
 Sexuality have enabled growth of the small group of staff focused upon theoretical research on
 family responsibilities in REF2014 to a research group undertaking empirical, comparative, and
 interdisciplinary research focused on law’s response to medical, reproductive and genetic
 innovations who work, in particular, with scholars in Anthropology and Medicine. As
 demonstrated by the outputs of the group (Bremner, Bridgeman, Griffiths, Lind, Moscati,
 R.Stirton), a focus is on issues that arise in sexually and gender diverse families including
 reproduction and parenthood, the distribution of child-rearing roles, and adult relationships and
 intra-family conflict, including Moscati’s ICS on mediation with sexually and gender diverse
 families and their children.

 Colleagues are encouraged to explore interest in new groupings facilitating their organic
 development. Groups in the early stages of development are Art/Law; Critical Theory; Legal
 Education; Social and Legal Issues in Science and Health; and, Comparative Legal Studies. The
 Unit has sought to support their activities in innovative ways e.g. in 2018-19 adopting Art/Law as
 a teaching theme. Reading groups provide the forum for discussion in other areas such as
 Transitional Justice. By supporting colleagues to explore new topics, adopt new approaches to
 existing topics and push the boundaries of the discipline, our research groups are central to the
 Unit’s contribution to ensuring the vitality and sustainability of the discipline.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.3 Strengthening interdisciplinary research
 SLS seeks to facilitate interdisciplinary research through pro-active engagement in strategic
 University-level interdisciplinary groups; the cross-departmental work of our centres; the
 establishment of interdisciplinary networks to research, shape disciplines and respond to
 contemporary issues of equality and social justice (4.1); and, through research groups such as
 Art/Law which combines legal research with humanities. Interdisciplinary research is also
 supported by the LPS Social Science Research Methods cluster which provides a forum for
 discussion and training in social science research methods. Topics covered include a mindful
 approach to data collection, conducting autoethnography, and conducting research interviews.

 Members of the Property, Land and Environmental Law Group (Dancer, Holligan, Howe,
 Lydgate, McGillivray) and other Law colleagues (Bu, Moscati; R.Stirton) were founder members
 of the University-wide cross-disciplinary initiative, Sussex Sustainability Research
 Programme (SSRP), which focuses on the role of science in pursuing the UN Sustainable
 Development Goals and has 20 external partners globally. Currently, Holligan and Dancer serve
 on the Programme Management Group, setting the strategic direction of SSRP and organising
 interdisciplinary sustainability-themed research and public engagement activities, e.g. the
 Research Methods for Sustainability workshop. LPS researchers are involved in interdisciplinary
 research projects with international partners addressing key global sustainability challenges
 including People, pollinators and pesticides in peri-urban farming (Howe, Lydgate, McGillivray),
 and The “right to nutrition” in its social, legal and political context (RStirton).

 SLS faculty (Lydgate, Deputy Director; Dawar, Szyszczak, Fellows) are central members of the
 interdisciplinary independent expert group of the UK Trade Policy Observatory (UKTPO), a
 partnership between Sussex and Chatham House, one of the UK’s most influential research-
 driven contributors to post-Brexit trade policy and associated debates (4.2).

 By bringing together researchers from a range of disciplines, all of our centres have facilitated
 the development of interdisciplinary research projects (for CIGR and CRC see 1.2.2). Within the
 SCHRR the SOGICA project, Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Claims of Asylum: A
 European human rights challenge funded by the ERC (EUR 1,000,565) involved researchers
 from law (Ferreira, Dustin), international relations, sociology and political science, using diverse
 methods including non-participant contextual observations, semi-structured interviews, focus-
 groups, and documentary analysis with legal and sociological theoretical underpinnings,
 including feminist, queer and human rights scholarship. SOGICA undertook a theoretically and
 empirically-grounded comparative examination of the status and legal experiences of asylum-
 seekers across Europe claiming international protection on the basis of their sexual orientation
 or gender identity to determine how European asylum systems can treat more fairly asylum
 claims based on sexual orientation or gender identity. This major award for international
 interdisciplinary collaboration enhanced our profile in policy, practice and academic scholarship
 in migration, gender and sexuality, further enhanced with the EUR3m Horizon 2020 grant for
 TRAFIG - Transnational Figurations of Displacement: Connectivity and Mobility as Solutions to
 Protracted Refugee Situations, an interdisciplinary project with colleagues from geography, law,
 sociology and anthropology as part of a global team of 11 institutions.

 Interdisciplinarity flourishes through the engagement of significant numbers of Law faculty with
 other LPS-wide interdisciplinary Research Centres: the Centre for the Study of Corruption; the
 Centre for Gender Studies (Brayson Director 2017-2019); and, the Sussex European Institute.
 Faculty also actively contribute to the interdisciplinary and multi-disciplinary research that is
 central to the University’s Sussex 2025 strategy, in particular the Centre for Cultures of
 Reproduction, Technologies and Health (Moscati, co-Director); Centre for Innovation and
 Research in Childhood and Youth (Ferreira, steering group member); Justice and Violence
 Research Group; Social and Political Thought; Sussex Centre for Conflict and Security
 Research.

 1.3 Embedding Impact in our Research Culture


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A key priority over the assessment period, drawing upon the experience and skills of some of
 our new appointees, has been to embed within our research culture the production of research
 which has a positive impact on equality and social justice. Our strategy has been to ensure that
 impact is an integral part of planning and support processes. Since April 2018, this has been
 delivered by a team including the Academic Impact Lead (Henderson), supported at School level
 by two Impact Coordinators (one, Dustin, will continue this role in a full-time permanent
 lectureship) and one part-time Impact Administrator.

 Bringing expertise from previous roles in public, private and NGO organisations, and informed by
 knowledge gained through involvement in the wider UK academic community such as the
 Universities Policy Engagement Network and the Association of Research Managers and
 Administrators, the coordinators have raised awareness about impact and engagement through
 training workshops on eg communicating with policy audiences and impact and early career
 research. They have also developed guidance on how to: understand impact in relation to REF
 and its benefits more broadly; integrate impact into research planning; understand stakeholders
 and how to engage them; and the effective collection of evidence of research impact. Reflecting
 our commitment to an inclusive and supportive research environment, Impact-in-Progress
 sessions provide faculty with the opportunity to present and discuss the impact of research and
 strategies for attaining this. The team produces a monthly Engagement News Bulletin detailing
 relevant UK policy and identifying opportunities for engagement in policy events, government
 consultations, and committee inquiries, enabling staff to get involved. Direct support is available
 to all staff on a one-to-one basis for planning and executing impact activities.

 The Coordinators supported the Academic Impact Lead in identifying colleagues whose impact
 has the potential to be a strong REF ICS and provided direct and tailored support in their
 development whilst facilitating ICS authors to share experiences and best practice. They have
 supported bids to the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account fund including Jupp’s work on
 strengthening legal protections and support for victims of terrorism during criminal proceedings
 in Afghanistan which forms one of our ICS. Centrally, Policy@Sussex staff have supported
 colleagues to translate their research into accessible policy briefings e.g. Demetriou’s guide to
 implementing the law on anti-social behaviour and Moscati’s book for children on parenting
 disputes between same-sex partners, Rainbow after the Storm - A Book for Children on
 Families. The successes of this strategy are shown in our ICS and the wider impact of our
 research (4.2).

 1.4 Open Access
 Open access is integral to SLS’s commitment to public engagement. We have sought to go
 beyond the REF open access requirements by fostering a culture of open access. Since 2014
 Guadamuz, (who with Marsden led the Openlaws.eu project expressly promoting open access to
 law), has had responsibility for disseminating information about, and supporting colleagues to
 make their research, open access. Open access policies are explained in research induction and
 can be raised in research planning meetings or with mentors, supported by a range of
 information provided to departmental meetings and by the University’s Research Quality and
 Impact services. Compliance with open access requirements and the University statement on
 open access is formally achieved through Sussex Research Online (SRO). Placing items on
 SRO has become an integral part of the publications process. In the assessment period 1,287
 Law items were placed on SRO and there were 187,428 downloads. Faculty are encouraged to
 make their research open access through other platforms such as academia.edu and
 researchgate.net.

 1.5 Research Integrity
 Faculty are introduced to research ethics requirements and processes at induction whilst
 research planning processes and mentoring provide opportunities to reflect upon research
 integrity in relation to specific projects. In 2017 LPS appointed two Research Facilitators (3.2) to
 advise, guide and support research using a range of methods which fulfil expectations of
 research integrity. A University Research Ethics Administrator based in LPS guides faculty on
 compliance with the University’s Code of Practice for Research, provides training e.g. on how

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ethics review facilitates and improves the research experience, and gives individual guidance on
 ensuring good ethical practice in staff and student research. The LPS research webpages
 provide information about processes for ethical review, peer review and approval of external
 funding bids. Two consecutive chairs of the Social Sciences and Arts Cross Schools Research
 Ethics Committee have been staff from LPS drawing upon their expertise in the ethical approval
 of research. Online platforms dedicated to improving research ethics experience and training
 provided to students within research-based modules has led to an improvement in the overall
 quality of ethics applications received by the Ethics Committee.

 1.6 Strategic Aims for Research and Impact for the Next Five Years
 Our strategic aims at the start of the current REF period reflected the plans for expansion of the
 Unit, aims we modified given the appointment of many ECR and faculty new to the UK HE
 environment. We end this REF period with more experienced staff many of whom have already
 established themselves as scholars in their chosen fields and who we will support in the next
 REF period, drawing on skills they have acquired, to lead international interdisciplinary research
 projects and work collaboratively in international centres of excellence. Our strategic aims
 include:
     • Encouraging staff to push the boundaries of legal research through our centres and
         research groups, by the organisational mechanisms detailed below and by encouraging
         interdisciplinary and collaborative research;
     • Enhancing the reputations of our centres as international centres of excellence by
         supporting their grant capture and public engagement work;
     • Furthering our commitment to equality and social justice through research that
         contributes to bringing about a fairer society locally, nationally, and internationally and by
         the appointment of an academic lead for ‘community and public engagement’ to generate
         new avenues for knowledge exchange that reach all sectors of society;
     • Providing mid-career colleagues with opportunities to acquire research leadership skills
         and develop those skills through training, recognizing where research leadership has
         been effective in nurturing colleagues’ research careers;
     • Supporting mid-career staff to attract high quality PGR by further raising external
         research reputations.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and Staffing Strategy

 2.1.1 Recruitment and Promotion
 In the period of expansion at the start of the assessment period, Law’s targeted recruitment
 strategy was to build new specialisms in Information Law (Townend), Environmental and
 Property Law (Armeni, Dancer, Holligan), innovative aspects of comparative and transnational
 commercial, trade and competition law (Amao, Dawar, Ghouri, Iglesias-Rodriguez, Harder). We
 also sought to further enhance existing expertise in e.g. Criminal Law and Criminal Justice
 (Demetriou, Garrod, Griffiths, Hutton, Jupp, Welsh), Human Rights (Baldi, Evans, Ferreira,
 Moscati, Sokhi-Bulley). We also recruited staff with expertise in the development of pathways to
 impact (Townend) and public engagement (Dawar, Moscati, Townend), to further embed these
 activities within our research environment. The success of our recruitment strategy is evidenced
 by the balanced composition of our staff including a diverse mix of age, gender, sexual
 orientation, ethnicity and race; by the retention of staff across the period; and by the collegiate
 and supportive environment in which ECRs have been able to flourish which have been crucial
 to the sustainability of our research culture.

 SLS has grown from the 40.8FTE in 2013-14 to current staffing of 55.9FTE with a significant
 responsibility for research; there are eleven staff on Teaching contracts who make a significant
 contribution to teaching, learning and student experience. Three staff were appointed to fixed-
 term contracts, all of whom have moved to permanent posts (Baldi, Demetriou, Partington);
 Evans and Jupp moved from Teaching Fellow posts to Teaching and Research contracts. There
 are currently 8 staff on fractional posts, either 0.5 or 0.8FTE, all of whom benefit from the same

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support as full-time staff. Succession planning is managed through phased retirement. We have
 sought to balance the appointment of ECRs with the appointment of leading scholars to provide
 research leadership and ensure mentoring capacity. We have nurtured the careers of research
 staff with e.g. Wiedlitzka, Dustin and Smallwood appointed to lectureships at the end of
 externally funded research contracts.

 SLS aims to nurture research excellence and reward this through promotion. To ensure equality,
 discussions about promotion occur at appraisal and are invited prior to each promotions round.
 Unsuccessful applicants are given constructive feedback to ensure that they understand the
 reasons for the outcome and how to develop their profile to meet the criteria. All staff sitting on
 appointments or promotions committees have received training in equality and diversity and
 unconscious bias. The Chair of the School Promotions Committee reviews together with HR all
 special circumstances statements to ensure that the promotions process is carefully conducted
 in accordance with our commitment to equality and diversity. Over the REF period, there have
 been 23 promotions to Senior Lecturer (13 female, 10 male), promotions to Reader (Amao, King,
 Walters) and Professor (McGillivray, Paz-Fuchs, Walters). There is a gender imbalance in senior
 roles. At the census date whilst there were 11 male and 11 female SLs, there were 2 male and 1
 female Readers and 9 male and 2 female Professors. Consideration of a number of applications
 from female colleagues for promotion to senior positions was delayed as a result of the
 University pausing of the 2019/20 promotions round in response to the COVID pandemic. The
 process recommenced in February 2021. We will be taking steps to address this imbalance.

 2.1.2 Mentoring
 Research support processes are explained at induction. Faculty appointed to their first
 permanent academic post are allocated a research mentor during their probationary period,
 establishing relationships which often continue on an informal basis. Mentor training organised
 by SLS supports effective mentoring. The mentor reviews with the probationary member of staff
 their probation goals and progress towards meeting them. They also discuss the development of
 research plans, read work in progress, facilitate networking opportunities, talk through publishing
 plans, encourage the delivery of seminar and conference papers and support the development
 of funding proposals, paths to impact, and public engagement as appropriate. Faculty have a
 reduced teaching load of 30% in year 1 and 20% in years 2 and 3 of probation. To support the
 integration of new faculty, in the academic years of our most significant expansion we ran
 sessions, over consecutive weeks, where all faculty gave a five-minute presentation of their
 research interests enabling the identification of synergies with colleagues resulting in the
 formation of the research groups in Art/Law, Comparative Legal Studies and Critical Theory.

 2.1.3 Research Planning and Staff Development
 SLS has continued to provide individual, tailored, research support for all staff through yearly
 Personal Research Plan (PRP) meetings held with the Research Lead or one of the deputies,
 that aim to identify ambitious and attainable research goals through the discussion of individual 5
 year and 1 year research plans (of which REF planning is a part) across outputs, funding,
 impact, public engagement, support needs, and identification of obstacles to achieving agreed
 goals. Held separately from Appraisal, the annual PRP meetings are the primary support
 mechanism for non-probationary staff, providing an opportunity to discuss and identify the
 appropriate means of addressing staff development needs for the advancement of research
 careers. Feedback from faculty is that PRP meetings provide a constructive and enabling
 environment for the discussion of research, enhanced by shorter informal discussions over the
 course of the year e.g. to discuss peer reviewer’s comments or progress with a specific piece of
 work. The Research Lead annually reviews agreed PRP’s with the Head of Department and
 Head of School to identify support needs and to inform Law’s research strategy. Faculty are
 encouraged to provide a copy of their PRP to feed into discussions at appraisal, enabling a
 further review of plans in the light of career progression, discuss obstacles and strategies to
 overcome them, and identify staff development needs.

 Through the departmental processes to support research, staff are encouraged to reflect upon
 their staff development needs and supported to access training (e.g. Moscati, mediation

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training). SLS supplements the University staff development programme provided through the
 University’s Research Staff Office with tailored development sessions for staff. These have
 included departmental workshops on issues including indicators of research quality with the aim
 of arriving at shared understandings, how external funding can support research capacity, and
 how to engage external audiences with our research. For external training needs identified in
 PRP or appraisal, faculty can apply to the LPS Social Science Research Training Fund. For
 example, this funded Bremner to attend a Social Research Association course on designing
 qualitative research, used to design a qualitative interview study on gay men’s parenting
 journeys in the UK, Australia, and New Zealand, published in Social and Legal Studies. Prior to
 research leave, Howe received funding to attend training in quantitative data analysis for her
 study following the environmental considerations in farmers’ land use decisions in the changing
 legal and policy framework as we leave the EU, research which built on theoretical discussion in
 her article on post-Brexit farming policy published in the Journal of Environmental Law.
 Transcription of the interviews from the pilot study was supported by the LPS Research
 Development Fund (3.2) which led to a briefing paper for relevant stakeholders. LPS staff
 development funds have also funded faculty to receive professional research coaching;
 everyone supported through this remains an active researcher, and some colleagues attribute a
 step-change in their research to this support.

 2.1.4 Research Leave
 Research leave policy was reviewed in 2015 aimed at ensuring equality in the application for,
 and take up of, university leave of one semester (including the related marking period) every
 three years. Equally available to all full- and part-time staff at all stages of their research career,
 a planned approach was introduced identifying the last leave period of each member of staff and
 when they are next entitled to apply. Faculty are encouraged to be actively planning for leave,
 including with mentors or in PRP and appraisal. Through the processes identified in 3.1, staff are
 supported to seek external sources of funding to complement University periods of leave,
 entitlement to which is unaffected by external buyouts. Leave is regarded as a protected period
 of time in which to invest in the development of expertise, and equally available for work directed
 at outputs, impact, or the development of funding bids. Research leave has facilitated the take
 up of Fellowships abroad (e.g. Marsden, Fundação Getúlio Vargas Law School, Brazil,
 University of New South Wales (UNSW), Sydney, Australia; Orlando, European University
 Institute; L.Stirton, R.Stirton, University of Tasmania), investment in the development of
 expertise in new literatures or methodologies, development of pathways to impact (e.g. Dawar,
 Jupp) and protected time for the completion of monographs (e.g. Davies, Marsden, O’Sullivan,
 Velluti). Faculty complete a reflective end of leave report to identify achievements as well as any
 barriers or obstacles during the leave period. Further leave is granted, of up to a year, upon
 completion of a substantial departmental role such as Head of Department (HoD) and a term
 upon completion of School Director roles. Research leave has continued despite the challenges
 presented by COVID. Given our commitment to equality, we aspire to be able to give study leave
 to staff returning from maternity or other career breaks. Beyond research leave, we have sought
 to provide the space to think creatively by funding participation in writing retreats. Annual
 workload planning is informed by staff preferences for an even spread of teaching and
 administration across the year or for one heavier and one lighter semester.

 2.1.5 Support for Public Engagement
 The coordination and development of knowledge exchange between academia and business,
 industry, public sector bodies and the community has been enhanced by the appointment of staff
 with experience of working in NGOs and public organisations (Dawar, Moscati, Townend). It is
 supported at School level by the Community Engagement Lead (Townend) and School Projects
 Officer and discussed in PRP and appraisal meetings as an integral part of the research
 planning process in which staff are encouraged to explore how their work engages with, impacts
 upon and benefits wider audiences, consistent with our commitment to social justice.
 Achievement in impact has been recognised by awards made at the annual Sussex Impact Day,
 in 2016 to Vogler for his work on witness rights and freedom from police corruption in Georgia
 and in 2015 Walters, then in the Emerging Researcher category, a special commendation for his
 work on hate crime. The strength of our impact strategy is demonstrated by our ICS, wider

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact, and public engagement, achieved through constant renewal of our strategy to ensure we
 are able to respond to new opportunities and contexts, examples of which are given in 4.2.

 Into the next five years we will enhance these processes with a focus upon supporting staff as
 they progress through their academic career to be confident and ambitious researchers, provide
 opportunities for research leadership and take steps to address the gender imbalance in senior
 and leadership roles.

 2.2 Research Students
 SLS aims to be a national and international institution of choice for research students in law.
 Until 2016 an ESRC Doctoral Training Centre, the School is a founder member of the ESRC
 South East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS) Doctoral Training Partnership Consortium, and
 the Consortium for the Humanities and Arts Southeast England (CHASE) Doctoral Training
 Partnership. SeNSS funding has supported seven Law PGR and CHASE a further two. Our
 applicants have also been successful in securing studentships from AHRC, ESRC, as well as
 from university schemes. Others are funded by international governments, embassies, and
 consulates, although many are self-funded. A small proportion of PhD students study part-time.
 During the review period, we awarded 44 PhDs on topics including the protection of plants,
 gender-based violence, sexual and reproductive rights, and combating money laundering. We
 currently have a PGR community of 43 students. Staff also supervise interdisciplinary PhDs
 alongside colleagues in e.g. Cultural Studies, Gender Studies, and International Relations. SLS
 does not offer a Professional Doctorate. Joint supervision in which one supervisor has to have
 supervised at least one student to completion enables the development of supervisory capacity
 of less-experienced colleagues.

 The supervision and training of PGR students is overseen by the School Director of Doctoral
 Studies and a departmental team of PGR Convenors with each member allocated responsibility
 for applications, training, or progression/research reviews, reporting to departmental meetings
 and the School’s Research Degrees Committee. The School organises initial training for new
 supervisors and regular training events for all staff to encourage exchange of best practice and
 update supervisors on changes to regulations. These events cover general issues arising in
 supervision such as the ethical review process and professional development but also
 examination of specific issues such as mental health and supporting wellbeing.

 Having recruited high quality PGR, the department supports them towards the timely completion
 of their theses, commencing with a half-day induction programme. All new PGR students attend
 SLS skills workshops on Legal Writing Skills, Legal Research Methods, Presentation Skills, and
 Publishing. Joint supervision ensures that students benefit from different perspectives and
 expertise. Supervisors follow the university’s principles governing doctoral study at Sussex. The
 overall quality and effectiveness of PGR supervision is maintained via contact monitoring
 through the online recording of supervisions and annual progression review procedures
 designed to ensure all are satisfied with the supervisory relationship and progress.

 Professional development of PGR students is promoted to prepare them for a research-based
 career within or beyond academia. Individual training needs identified in conjunction with
 supervisors at the beginning of the first year are met, in large part, through training provided by
 the Doctoral School on e.g. funding, publication, career development, knowledge exchange and
 research dissemination. Students can take modules on the MSc in Social Research Methods.
 From their second year of study, PGRs are provided with paid teaching opportunities; 40 PGRs
 taught within the department in the assessment period. Many have worked with faculty on
 research projects, together enabling them to develop transferable skills alongside key research
 skills, for example, on the report for the Sussex Wildlife Trust on Mapping Sussex Wildlife Trust’s
 Land Management Advice: establishing a methodology (Anthony with Howe, 2020) supported by
 the Strategic Priorities Fund. An LPS annual away day, developed in conjunction with the PGR
 student representatives, focuses on professional development including: getting published in
 academic journals; developing theses into monographs; developing a media and web profile;
 developing a work-life balance; presenting at conferences; post-doctoral opportunities; and how

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to secure academic or non-academic jobs. Evidence of the success and sustainability of this
 collegial and supportive environment is given by the recruitment in this assessment period of
 seven former doctoral students to lectureships in the department (Dancer, Demetriou,
 Fouladvand, Garrod, Jupp, Lukera, Smallwood). Sussex PhDs students have secured academic
 positions in Universities in, for example, Nigeria, Turkey, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia and within the
 UK at Cambridge, City, Exeter, Kent, Open, Portsmouth, University of Law, and Winchester.

 Our PGR are integral to our vibrant research culture and its sustainability. Facilitated by a PGR
 representative, PGRs are fully integrated, and active participants, in all SLS Centres and
 research groups. For example, SCHRR holds termly doctoral debates and sponsors a termly
 PGR ‘Coffee and PhDing' morning. CRC has hosted a PGR conference, organised by the PGR
 students with the support of the Directors. CRC and SCHRR have hosted events on getting
 published (e.g. Routledge) and socio-legal methods (Bibbings). PGR students are encouraged
 to publish with the School’s ‘LaPSe of Reason’ blog. The LPS scheme to support PGRs to
 present their work at national and international conferences (£150 and £300 respectively)
 complements those run by the Doctoral School and research councils. PGR can also apply to
 Research Centres for funding to present and attend conferences and for financial support for the
 organisation of events.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 Established in 2015, the LPS Equality and Diversity (E&D) Committee, chaired by Hutton
 (previously Walters), has representatives from academic and professional services staff from all
 LPS departments, to cover as many protected and other relevant characteristics as possible.
 The Committee seeks to ensure that equality and diversity is integrated into all LPS, and
 therefore SLS, structures and processes. The Chair is a member of the LPS Senior
 Management Team reporting to the monthly meeting. The Committee’s first Equality and
 Diversity Strategy (2017-2020) adopted an evidence-based framework (developed by LPS
 researchers, the Changing University Cultures collective) through which institutions and units
 can nurture capacities in contemporary higher education, namely: self-awareness; honesty;
 action; political consciousness; and empathy. The E&D Strategy has set in motion a process of
 cultural change in the School, aiming to nurture strong positive cultures that are more conducive
 to equality and diversity, to ensure policies and processes are more effective and the wellbeing
 of staff enhanced. The work of the Committee is informed by Sussex data on eg the Gender Pay
 Gap and that experienced by Black staff, by University staff surveys which have revealed
 problems with bullying and harassment and access and support issues for disabled staff. The
 Committee has commissioned and implemented training on conduct and communication,
 disability awareness, understanding the impacts of micro-aggressions in the workplace and
 assisted with staff members’ requests for reasonable adjustments to support their research
 productivity. The Committee reviewed the school probation processes to ensure that targets are
 consistent and fair for all probationary staff and its Chair is a member of the promotions
 committee. The School conducted an anonymous survey to gather the differential experiences
 upon staff of COVID, the lockdown and its restrictions on teaching provision and research
 planning upon which the Committee is offering support and guidance as School policies are
 developed. This encouraged three members of staff to draw on their experiences to offer
 insights on the intersection of recovery from COVID and caring responsibilities and make
 recommendations to the University to create a supportive environment for staff and students
 during the pandemic. Building on the first strategy, the 2020-23 Equality and Diversity Action
 Plan adopts an intersectional approach that addresses all of the protected characteristics under
 the Equality Act 2010 and has extended its remit to include socio-economic background.

 Law seeks to develop all its staff to their fullest potential. Support for flexible working integrates
 the recently created University Flexible Working Policy. Workload allocation is transparent
 through the published Annual Planning of Workload. Equalities work is specifically considered in
 annual appraisals, recognising the importance of this work to a collegiate and supportive working
 environment. Support for staff wellbeing, as well as support for staff and PGR students suffering
 from illness and returning from leave and ill-health, draws upon and integrates the University’s


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Employee Assistance Programme, including a 24-hour helpline and the Mental Health at Work
 ‘toolkits’. Occupational Health advises on support and reasonable adjustments.

 The UoA lead completed unconscious bias training from Advance HE. We have adhered to the
 University’s REF Code of Practice but, given our commitment to equality, collegiality, and a
 supportive research environment, we have gone beyond the Code of Practice in our REF
 preparations. The selection of outputs is informed by the views of an internal review panel and
 the expertise of ‘External Research Advisors’. In promoting transparency, staff have been
 provided with the predicted rankings and justificatory comments given by the internal and
 external reviewers and are encouraged to discuss any aspect of the feedback or process with
 the UoA lead. The E&D Committee reviewed the processes and equalities data on the protected
 characteristics in relation to the selected outputs. Staff have had opportunities to provide critical
 feedback on this statement. Having supported colleagues to develop the impact of their work,
 the final selection of the best ICS was made in a transparent process following review by internal
 and external readers and after discussions with authors. Sensitivity to equalities issues has
 ensured a balanced submission across gender (3 female, 2 male) and seniority (1 Prof, 3 SL, 1
 L). Colleagues not selected fully understand the reasons for, and are supportive of, the decisions
 made.

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1 Research Funding Strategy
 During the assessment period, we have sought to increase external funding for research, not as
 an end in itself, but where it supports staff to enrich their research, for example, for data
 gathering or teaching buyout to focus upon a substantial project. Our strategy for enhancing the
 capacity of staff to secure external funding has been through career development, seeking to
 support colleagues to build a funding profile appropriate to career stage through clear internal
 structures and processes. This includes the recruitment of colleagues with experience of grant
 capture; by raising awareness of how funding can increase research capacity; embedding
 discussion of funding applications within the research planning processes; encouraging the
 development of a funding profile through applications for pump-priming funds, smaller grants
 and collaborations with more experienced colleagues; and, supporting colleagues developing
 proposals through the organisational structures explained below. An example of successful
 building of a funding profile is Li who received her first small research grant from BILETA
 (£1.2K), then as Co-Investigator won large consortia bids from AHRC (£90K), EPSRC (£65K),
 ESRC (£750K), Leverhulme (£340K), MRC (£2M), and UKRI/EPSRC (£3m).

 Applications have been encouraged by the sharing of expertise from funding bodies, reviewers
 (eg Leverhulme Research Fellowship) and award recipients (eg Dancer, AHRC Leaders
 Fellowship). Staff are encouraged to apply to the Sussex Research Opportunities Fund for
 pump-priming funding to develop a substantive research funding proposal, awards include
 Bremner and Lind on surrogacy; and Dancer and Holligan on Earth Law. Within the Crime
 Research Centre, Welsh and Vogler successfully responded to a call from the Criminal Cases
 Review Commission (CCRC) to work with colleagues in Sociology on a mixed methods research
 project on the effects of legal aid changes on the representation of applicants. The scoping
 project was funded by the Research Development Fund prior to securing £365,000 funding from
 the ESRC. Through peer review experienced funded researchers advise colleagues at the
 application stage on the construction of their bid (Marsden for EU and international funders;
 Griffiths for UK funders) and staff are encouraged to seek feedback on draft bids from Research
 Development Teams. Recognising the competitive funding climate and the substantial
 investment in time required to develop a bid, colleagues are encouraged to discuss unsuccessful
 bids and reflect on feedback with a view to development for submission elsewhere as
 appropriate. Staff are encouraged to apply for funds from a wide range of schemes best
 matched for their career stage and project and have successfully applied to Research Councils,
 Charities (e.g. Townend, £25,283, Legal Education Foundation), the British Council (e.g. Bu,
 £24,000 research on global supply chains), and the EU (e.g. Dawar, £397,696, EU external co-
 operation and trade). Over the review period we have increased our external grant capture with

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 income of over £400k in each of the past three years and a total over the REF period of
 £1,967,000.

 External funding has supported large interdisciplinary research projects including those with
 external partners; the development of impact eg in 2020, Marsden Research England impact
 seminar series funding for Evidence Based Policy Making for Disinformation Regulation; and,
 resulted in high quality outputs eg Kochi’s Leverhulme Fellowship for the writing of his
 monograph, Global Justice and Social Conflict. Small grants also support important projects eg
 O’Sullivan secured a British Academy/Leverhulme Small Research Grant for archival research in
 Irish National Archives on the history of the Ireland v United Kingdom case, 1971-1978.

 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research
 A central part of our strategy has been to increase investment in research through an expanded
 team of research administrative roles whilst also ensuring sustainability by providing
 opportunities for the development of research leadership skills as staff progress through their
 career. SLS’s research strategy and the operation of supporting structures is overseen by the
 Research Lead for Law and HoD at Departmental level and the Director of Research and
 Knowledge Exchange and the HoS and Deputy HoS at School level. The Research Lead works
 together with a team of two deputies, Impact Lead, Research Funding Leads, Research
 Facilitator, Open Access Lead and Research Development Team leads, co-ordinated through
 the SLS Research Committee. With a combined remission of 1FTE in addition to the 20%
 administrative time this represents a step-change investment in research leadership from the
 Research Lead working alone at the end of the last REF period. Administrative support is
 provided within LPS by two Research and Knowledge Exchange Coordinators, two Impact
 Coordinators, an Information Coordinator, and a School Projects Officer. The Law Impact Lead
 (Henderson) and LPS Impact Coordinators are supported by the University’s Research Quality &
 Impact team and University resources such as Impact Tracking Tools and the ‘Impact ToolKit’.
 SLS’s Research Facilitator (Griffiths) advises staff on research methods and ethical issues in the
 development of funding applications. This role complements the University Research Officer,
 from University Research and Enterprise Services a dedicated University research office, who
 raises awareness of, and identifies, potential funding opportunities for projects, costs
 applications, and provides guidance on internal peer review.

 Concerned to provide effective mechanisms of tailored support to a large unit with a diverse
 range of research interests and methodologies, beyond PRPs and that offered by centres and
 groups, support has been extended by the introduction, in 2017, of Research Development
 Teams (RDT) in six sub-disciplinary communities. Each is grouped around research synergies in
 the areas of: International Law (currently led by Henderson, Guntrip); Public Law and Human
 Rights (StirtonL, Velluti); Commercial, Private Law and Regulation (Amao, Iglesias-Rodriguez);
 Environmental and Property Law (Howe); Criminal Law and Criminal Justice (Walters, Welsh);
 Law and Society (Griffiths, Moscati, Paz-Fuchs). Primarily, RDTs provide research advice and
 support colleagues on the strategic elements of research, particularly in the planning,
 preparation, and development stages. All members of faculty are allocated to a team whilst
 being encouraged to work across teams facilitated by a website detailing RDT activity. RDTs
 offer support through reading and commenting upon draft publications and work-in-progress,
 organising discussions around research methodology and publication, impact, and grant
 strategy. As well as fostering a culture of collaboration and peer support, RDTs are typically co-
 led by a senior and a junior member of staff to provide junior faculty with opportunities to gain
 experience in research development with the aim of nurturing future research leaders.
 Colleagues have reported positively upon the constructive comment and discussion upon work-
 in-progress provided through RDTs which has enabled them to enhance the quality of work by
 helping them to focus, clarify, and strengthen their arguments.

 LPS has increased its investment in research with the aim of supporting a vibrant research
 culture which enables excellence. For the majority of the assessment period, all staff have had
 an annual research-support allowance of £750 which can be used for any research-related
 purpose e.g. conference fees, travel, research assistance, with the opportunity to request further

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support of up to an additional £500. LPS supports all of its Research Centres with an annual
 grant of £2500. Staff with external funding receive 10% of overheads in a Personal Incentive
 Fund to use for future research support. Further research funding is available on a competitive
 basis through four School research funding schemes: Research Development Fund; Research
 Cluster Fund; Social Science Research Methods Training; and Impact Support Fund. SLS staff
 have secured funds for e.g. pilot studies, development of external funding bids, knowledge
 exchange activities, funding to support the activities of research groups and for fees for social
 science research methods training. Both the baseline individual funding and the LPS competitive
 schemes were temporarily suspended in 2020 due to budgetary uncertainty resulting from
 COVID, although funding is available for online conferences.

 As well as a recognised purpose for leave and beyond the support available to all staff for impact
 work, we have supported the work of colleagues with a significant impact dimension to them by
 an annual reduction of 0.1FTE from expected teaching hours in the Annual Planning of Work.
 These staff are also allocated an additional £200 for impact expenses. Any faculty wishing to
 develop the impact of their research can apply to the LPS Impact Support Fund for financial
 support for research assistance, travel and consumables or targeted teaching relief.

 Law, Politics and Sociology are located in a dedicated state of the art building with office,
 research, and teaching accommodation for LPS faculty, PGRs, and administration, facilitating
 opportunities for interdisciplinary engagement. There is a staff common room, a meeting room,
 moot room, dedicated space for the Law Clinics, work and social spaces for PGR and hot-
 desking facilities for other research and teaching staff. The library provides physical and online
 access to an extensive range of legal materials. A member of faculty has administrative
 responsibility for co-ordinating between the library and faculty on the review of holdings, new
 purchases, and library support for research and teaching resources. IT provides specialist
 software such as NVIVO, SPSS, and Qualtrics. The University’s Research Dashboard provides
 up-to-date research management information and Sussex Research Online, supported by the
 University Library, provides the institutional repository for outputs. Recently launched, the
 Symplectic Elements platform enables researchers to capture, collate, and showcase research
 activities and enhances open access compliance.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 4.1 Support for, and Effectiveness of, Research Collaborations
 Staff have been supported to develop new international and multi-disciplinary research networks
 contributing to the vitality and sustainability of the research environment. For example, together
 with colleagues from Sociology, Garrod and Jupp have established the Terrorism and Violent
 Extremism Research Network to promote research on the causes and understanding of
 terrorism and violent extremism and how to counter them and develop research through
 partnerships with academics, experts, NGOs, intergovernmental organisations and policy
 makers, nationally and internationally, evidenced by Jupp’s ICS.

 Consistent with the University’s commitment to interdisciplinary research, in 2013, the
 University’s Higher Education Innovation Fund Kick Start Networks provided initial funding for
 the International Network for Hate Studies, co-founded and co-directed by Walters (with
 Schweppe, University of Limerick). The Network facilitates international and interdisciplinary
 research collaboration and knowledge exchange between academia, policy-makers and criminal
 justice practitioners working in the field of hate studies in a manner which is both scholarly and
 accessible to all, furthering our values of equality and social justice. Further supporting the
 Network in 2016, the Kick Start scheme funded the development of a comprehensive suite of
 resources for academics, policy-makers and practitioners including the online library accessible
 via the website and linked into the Ministry of Justice’s hate crime reporting website True Vision
 and into a new online training course on monitoring hate crime run by A Jewish Contribution to
 an Inclusive Europe. The website currently attracts over 50,000 visits every month. The network
 also produces a monthly newsletter for its 1100 members which outlines recent publications,
 events, and new blog articles that are added each week to the website. Its work was recognised

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as central to the UK Government’s aim of tackling hate crime in their 2016 Hate Crime Action
 Plan. Research collaboration sessions are held at biennial interdisciplinary and international
 conferences, held at Sussex in 2014. This collaboration led to the Life Cycle of a Hate Crime
 Project, funded by the EU Department for Justice and Consumers (2015-2017) involving six
 academic and NGO partners from across five EU countries producing five country reports
 detailing the legal process for hate crime and recommendations for law reform. Findings from a
 comparative report was presented by Walters and Schweppe in the European Parliament in
 2018. The UK report underpins Walters’ ICS.

 Funded by the ERC, the SOGICA project, the interdisciplinary work of which was explained in
 1.2.3, has a large network of academics, practitioners, Third Sector organisations and
 community groups in the field of sexual orientation and gender identity asylum claims. The
 project actively assists NGOs and policy makers, such as the UK Parliament, ILGA-Europe, UK
 Lesbian and Gay Immigration Group, MigraBo (Italy) and Die Linke (Germany), in submitting
 evidence that shapes changes to policy and decision making. For example, the European Union
 Committee of the House of Lords considered the potential impact of Brexit on SOGI asylum
 claimants in its report Brexit refugee protection and asylum policy informed by SOGICA’s
 evidence. UKLGIG was also able to advocate improvements in the SOGI asylum system before
 the Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration as a result of evidence SOGICA provided on
 Home Office interviews and judicial appeal hearings and interpretation services. SOGICA also
 contributes to improvements to Home Office written guidance on sexual orientation, gender
 identity and country specific notes on such asylum claims through an informal working group that
 meets quarterly with the Head of Country Policy Information Team. The German political party,
 Die Linke submitted questions in parliament on the treatment of SOGI asylum claimants based
 on a document prepared by SOGICA, prompting a comprehensive reply by the Government. In
 Italy, SOGICA team members offered training and spoke at numerous events to raise
 awareness of the issues affecting SOGI asylum claimants. At a European level, SOGICA has
 produced recommendations to improve the EU’s Common European Asylum System. SOGICA
 has also hosted several placements of students and activists based in the UK, Germany, Italy,
 Turkey, and Canada, enhancing their knowledge and skills in this field. The project website has
 a wealth of resources accessible to all users.

 Amao secured AHRC funding for the African Union Law Research Network which brings
 together leading experts in various aspects of AU Law from policy, practice, and academia. It
 currently has over 80 members from across Africa, Europe, and the US. As a result of this
 Network, the concept of African Union Law is gaining traction in Africa and greater prominence
 as a consequence of its outputs including Amao’s, African union law: the emergence of a sui
 generis legal order (2018), and articles in The Conversation, local media in Africa and informal
 spaces such as Wikipedia.

 4.2 Engagement with research users and wider contributions to the economy and society
 Anchored in SLS’s commitment to social justice and equality, staff have engaged with non-
 academic users and beneficiaries of their research leading to extensive and tangible real-world
 impact and to broad contributions to society both within the UK and globally. For example, within
 the field of environmental policy and trade, Lydgate partnered with NGOs, the EU Commission,
 Brexit negotiators and the UK Labour Party. This led to direct changes to UK Government
 legislation on the protection of human and animal health from endocrine disrupting chemicals,
 shaped the EU negotiating positions toward the UK on environmental protection, and assisted
 the Labour Party in developing its position towards a closer relationship with the EU post-Brexit.

 By engaging with high-level Afghan criminal justice practitioners and the United Nations, Jupp’s
 research on ‘legal transplants’ has strengthened the support and legal protections for victims of
 terrorism in criminal proceedings in Afghanistan. Through engagement with public sector
 agencies, civil society organisations and government, Walter’s research on hate crime has
 shaped reform proposals across UK jurisdictions (including by the Law Commission and the
 Northern Ireland Ministry of Justice) and underpins newly drafted legislative proposals.


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Moscati’s research on sexual and gender diversity has informed policy and practice on dispute
 resolution involving same-sex couples and their children working with the UK College of
 Mediators, delivering workshops and as a member of the College’s Diversity and Inclusion
 Working Group. Dawar has worked with organisations such as the United Nations Conference
 on Trade and Development, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, and the
 World Trade Organisation. This engagement led to the introduction and implementation of
 effective competition and consumer protection legislation in Ethiopia, increased regional
 competition cooperation between Eastern, Western and Southern African countries, and
 increased skills and knowledge on procurement, competition and consumer law and policy in
 Latin America and the Caribbean, the EU, the World Trade Organisation, World Economic
 Forum and the UK.

 The breadth and depth of the impact of research undertaken within SLS goes beyond that
 exhibited in the submitted impact case studies across all areas of our research activity
 advancing the causes of equality and social justice, supported in the ways explained in sections
 1.3 & 3.2. Examples include informing changes to criminal law, practices and procedures, such
 as Demetriou’s work with local practitioners and police officers to develop a code of practice
 regarding the implementation of anti-social behaviour tools and powers, used by forces in
 Sussex and Kent; Keating’s report commissioned by the Public Policy Institute for Wales on
 behalf of the Welsh government informing the Children (Abolition of Defence of Reasonable
 Punishment) (Wales) Act 2020 which is directly referenced in the legislation’s explanatory
 memorandum; Griffith’s work with the Royal Colleges and GMC working group on medical
 manslaughter; Vogler’s work with the Open Society leading to the abolition of witness
 compulsion in Georgia in 2016. Other examples include Townend’s drafting of proposals for a
 commitment to open justice in the 2021-23 UK Open Government National Action Plan; and,
 The European Parliament Resolution of 31 May 2018 on responding to petitions on tackling
 precariousness and the abusive use of fixed-term contracts (2018/2600 (RSP)) cites and draws
 significantly on the findings of Katsaroumpas’ study, Temporary contracts, precarious
 employment, employees’ fundamental rights and EU employment law.

 In 2017 the University of Sussex funded the UKTPO to focus on its support for young scholars
 from Law and Economics ‘to engage with a broad spectrum of stakeholders’ ‘share their
 research and influence the Brexit debate’ (Dawar, Lydgate). Lydgate, for example, has
 presented her research at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Global Counsel, Chatham
 House; authored briefing papers on topics including Toxic Trade and the effect of a post-Brexit
 trade deal on Scottish Independence; given evidence to the HC International Trade Select
 Committee, HC and BEIS Parliamentary Select Committee and in the HL to the EU Energy and
 Environment sub-Committee; her research has been reported on the BBC, CBS, China Daily,
 and in the Financial Times, Guardian, New Scientist, Times, Telegraph. Dawar has written
 briefing papers on e.g. Brexit and Government Procurement and presented her research at e.g.
 the World Trade Forum, Department for International Trade and the HC Expert Evidence for
 Committee on Exiting the EU. Szyszczak has written briefing papers on state aid and was
 Special Adviser to the HL EU Internal Market Sub-Committee Inquiry Brexit: Competition 2017-
 18.

 Other SLS staff have also responded to national and international priorities applying their
 expertise to multi-disciplinary and impactful examination of the legal challenges of Brexit,
 including for internet liability, farming, and gender and queer perspectives. Staff have submitted
 evidence to Parliament, including to the Women and Equalities Select Committee inquiry on
 ensuring equality protection after the UK leaves the EU and to the Human Rights Committee
 inquiry into the human rights implications of Brexit.

 Sussex Clinical Legal Education provides for ongoing community, government and NGO
 engagement drawing upon and mobilising staff research expertise and capacity in legal advice
 and public policy dialogue and development in: family law (Jupp); employment (Paz-Fuchs,
 Katsaroumpas); housing (Holligan); criminal justice (Welsh); migration (McCready); Citizens
 Advice (Holligan; Smallwood). Separately, International Human Rights Law LLM students

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participate in a Human Rights Clinic, working with NGOs (Berry; Evans). Supporting litigants-in-
 person, the CLOCK partnerships (Moscati; Ashton) include CAFCASS, RISE, several law firms
 and Brighton Court and is represented on the Family Justice Council in Brighton. In the pilot for
 an Environmental Justice Clinic, Holligan and PhD students worked with law clinic students on
 an interdisciplinary research project, Rewilding Sussex to help reach Carbon neutrality in
 Brighton-Hove and its surrounding region. Ferreira and Townend contributed to a report by
 Brighton and Hove City Council on International Migrants in the City identifying the need for a
 strategic approach across the city including advice agencies and the University, which led to the
 establishment of the migration law clinic, co-funded by the Sebba Trust. In 2020, drawing on
 their research Townend, Ferreira, Dustin, Clarke and McCready led a successful application for
 the award of the ‘University of Sanctuary’, in recognition of the work of Sussex University
 supporting those from refugee and asylum/at risk backgrounds.

 Drawing on their expertise, staff have delivered training to judges, lawyers and mediators on
 sexual orientation, gender identity and mediation in England, Italy, Croatia, Bulgaria and
 Hungary (Moscati); on environmental crime and liability to judges from China (Orlando); using
 restorative justice for hate crime to senior judges and prosecutors from Asia and South America
 (Walters); on the new Church Representation Rules 2019 and the roles and responsibilities of
 charity trustees in the church context (Sutton); and, on election regulation combatting
 disinformation to electoral bodies in Africa (Marsden).

 4.3 Wider Influence, Contribution and Recognition by Research Base
 SLS staff have made a significant contribution to the legal research base through a variety of
 research activities.

 Staff have shared their research expertise as authors of leading textbooks including: Criminal
 Law: Text and Materials (Keating, Walters); Smith, Hogan & Ormerod’s Essentials of Criminal
 Law (Child); Environmental Law (McGillivray); Law, Policy and the Internet (Guadamuz,
 Marsden); Banking Law and Regulation (Wilson); Remedies in Australian Private Law (Harder);
 Torts: Cases and Commentary (Harder).

 Staff have contributed to the development of the discipline by serving on book series editorial
 boards including Counterpress (Kochi); Roman and Littlefield International (Kochi); Law, Justice
 and the Visual Series, Edinburgh University Press (Finchett-Maddock); Person, Family and
 Society series, Colombia (Ferreira); Palgrave Hate Studies (Walters).

 We have edited 34 collections on a rich variety of topics pushing the boundaries of the
 discipline and advancing interdisciplinary approaches on issues including Environmental Crimes;
 Social Rights in the Welfare State; Gender and Queer Perspectives on Brexit; The Global
 Financial Crisis; Art/Law/Power; and Translational Bodies.

 We have reviewed proposals for books with University Presses (eg CUP, Edinburgh, MIT,
 OUP), multinational publishers (e.g. Macmillan, Pearson, Routledge) and independent
 publishers (e.g. Edward Elgar, Elsevier, Bloomsbury).

 Staff expertise is recognised and shared through editorship of leading journals including
 Journal of World Intellectual Property (Guadamuz); Manchester Journal of Transnational Islamic
 Law & Practice (Ghouri); Mediation: Theory and Practice (Moscati); Journal on the Use of Force
 and International Law (Henderson). Many staff have contributed through membership of
 editorial boards including those who were ECR at the start of the assessment period e.g.
 Public Procurement Law Review (Dawar); Open Library of Humanities (Evans); Journal of Law,
 Property, Society (Finchett-Maddock); International Journal of Law, Crime and Justice
 (Fouladvand); Journal of Comparative Law (Moscati); German Law Journal (Orlando).

 We have contributed through the review of journal articles submitted to leading generalist law
 journals and to a wide range of specialist journals worldwide reflecting the range of subject
 specialism across the unit (e.g. Journal of Human Rights Practice; Human Rights Law

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Review; Law, Democracy & Development; Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies; Women &
 Criminal Justice; Journal of Gender-Based Violence; Urban Studies; Transnational
 Environmental Law; Journal of Environmental Law; Theoretical Criminology; Journal of
 Interpersonal Violence; Computer Law and Security Review; Journal of Intellectual Property,
 Information Technology and E-Commerce Law) and including those which draw upon our
 expertise in theoretical, critical, contextual, and socio-legal approaches (e.g. Journal of Law
 and Society; International Journal of Law in Context; Theory Culture & Society; Law and
 Critique; Law, Culture and the Humanities; Jurisprudence; European Journal of Social
 Theory).

 Our research has been recognised through nomination for and award of prestigious prizes.
 Garrod’s 2014 article published in Diplomacy and Statecraft won the Neil Rackham Prize for
 Best ECR paper. Howe’s article ‘Making Wild Law Work’ received an honourable mention (i.e.
 second place) for the Richard Macrory Prize 2017. Sokhi-Bulley’s book, Governing (Through)
 Rights, was nominated for the SLSA Socio-Legal Book Prize, 2016. Kochi’s book, Global Justice
 and Social Conflict, was shortlisted for the Susan Strange Book Prize 2020. In 2016 Walters was
 a finalist for a Research and Innovation Award, National Hate Crime Awards and won the Social
 Research Upstander Award 2019, for his work on hate crime.

 SLS staff have contributed to the shaping of research as members of the AHRC Peer Review
 College (Frabboni, Guadamuz, Sokhi-Bulley); Global Challenge Research Fund Peer Review
 Group (Bu); UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships Peer Review College (Bu); Hong Kong Research
 Council (Moscati); moderation panel member for AHRC/NERC (Dancer). They have reviewed
 grant proposals for UKRC (e.g. AHRC, ESRC); Research Councils (e.g. European Research
 Council, National Research Council of the Netherlands); Charities (e.g. Leverhulme, Nuffield;
 Polish-US Fulbright Commission; Ireland Canada University Foundation); Government (e.g.
 Universities Canada Global Excellence Initiative; Polish National Science Centre; South African
 National Research Foundation; Swiss National Science Foundation); International Organisations
 (e.g. UNESCO).

 Our staff have disseminated their research, shared their expertise and reflected on
 contemporary challenges in our fields in public lectures, keynotes and plenaries at UK
 Universities (Bridgeman, Griffiths, Keating, Sokhi-Bulley), across Europe (Kochi, Walters), at the
 National Library of Latvia (Guadamuz), LIBER (Guadamuz), World Intellectual Property
 Organization (Guadamuz), Safe to Be Me International Conference (Walters), Why Me?
 Conference (Walters). Staff have disseminated their research at events hosted by Universities
 worldwide, Academic Societies annual conferences, Research Councils, Government (e.g.
 National Offender Management Service), Parliaments (UK, European), statutory bodies (e.g.
 CCRC), intergovernmental organisations (e.g. United Nations, OECD, Council of Europe,
 European Commission); international organisations (e.g. OSCE Office for Democratic
 Institutions and Human Rights), policy institutes (e.g. Chatham House), research organisations
 (e.g. Max Planck Institute), networks (e.g. Equally Ours), research agencies (e.g. Forest
 Research), charities (e.g. Why Me?), community organisations (e.g. Community Land Trust),
 primary schools, arts festival (Sick!), pubs (Philosophy in pubs) and many online.

 Our staff have served as experts including as advisor to the Taiwan Food and Drug
 Administration (Li); the UN Harmony with Nature programme expert in Earth-centred law
 (Dancer); international consultant to World Intellectual Property Organisation (Guadamuz);
 principal expert to the OECD study of telecoms/broadcasting convergence regulation, Mexico
 2016-17 (Marsden); European Commission funded EU panel examining cancer treatment
 in Teenagers and Young Adults (Griffiths); G20 Task Force on Trade, Investment and
 Globalization on guiding principles on investment facilitation for sustainable development
 (Ghouri); the Education for Justice initiative of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime
 (Jupp); Management Committee for European Commission for Political Research Standing
 Group on Organised Crime (Fouladvand); Academic Panel of the Administrative Justice Council
 (LStirton). Walters is Patron of Restorative Justice Working and serves as an advisory group
 member of the Crown Prosecution Service National Hate Crime External Consultative Group,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime Online Hate Crime Hub and to The Law Commission
 on Hate Crime Law Reform.

 In summary. Committed to equality and social justice, SLS has made a significant contribution
 to legal scholarship. We have made a positive impact upon society, contributing to the vitality of
 the discipline by pursuing ambitious and innovative research agendas and to its sustainability by
 nurturing the next generation of world-leading scholars.




                                                                                            Page 18
