Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow

 Unit of Assessment: 33

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Music research at Glasgow is undertaken by a network of scholars and practitioners (13.3
 FTE). We engage critically and creatively with music as an art with both a future and past.
 While embracing many elements of traditional music scholarship, our community is
 particularly concerned with enhancing current musical cultures and taking a lead in
 developing vital and sustainable directions for music in higher education and research. We
 are committed to rendering our cultural and scholarly activity accessible and influential, in as
 broad a local, national and international context as possible. Within the University, Music is a
 subject area within the School of Culture and Creative Arts (SCCA), which in turn belongs to
 the College of Arts.

 The unit’s identity lies in a collaborative research community across five overlapping areas:

 (1) historical musicology (including analysis, criticism and cultural study)

 (2) performance practices (including Scottish traditional)

 (3) composition and sonic arts

 (4) popular music studies and music industries (supported by IMIRGe – Interdisciplinary
 Music Industries Research Group)

 (5) ethnomusicology (the most recent addition, thanks to a Leverhulme Early Career Fellow
 appointment and a British Academy post-doctoral Fellowship)

 These five areas represent efforts to create a more specific focus than the two broader areas
 that characterized REF2014 (Creative Practice and Musicology), and they are enhanced by
 an increasing number of ECRs on research-related fellowships (both internally and externally
 funded).

 The diversity of these areas notwithstanding, most researchers relate to contemporary and
 twentieth-century musical cultures at some level, even when their primary work lies in earlier
 music. This serves to focus the unit towards understanding how all aspects of musical
 culture inform current and future practices and how understanding our various pasts provides
 a strong foundation for mapping out possible directions. Successful grant bids have opened
 up the opportunity to develop areas of ethnomusicology, which provide a broader, world-
 wide, context from which to view the cultural and disciplinary future.

 Musical research at Glasgow is, by its very nature, designed to generate impact, by inflecting
 developing practices of research, creativity, or public engagement. The two submitted case
 studies are exemplary of broader strategies within the unit, such as experimenting with historical
 scenarios for performance across a broad range of international platforms, in order to encourage
 audiences to experience music in new ways; or producing empirical research to inform music
 industries’ policy debates at local, regional and national levels, enhancing the reach and
 sustainability of non-academic organisations. The broader arena of impact includes
 performances, sales, and streams of recordings and apps, with live performances as far apart as


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Colombia and Australia, and at major international festivals such as the London Proms. The unit
 also takes its local and civic commitments extremely seriously, by its influence in setting up
 workshops, educational projects and networks. Scottish ensembles strongly associated with the
 unit, such as Concerto Caledonia and Dunedin Consort (https://www.concal.org;
 https://www.dunedin-consort.org.uk), are particularly active in this regard. Glasgow Sound
 Network brings local creative businesses together with the unit’s sonic arts researchers, and
 SPIN (Scottish Pop Ideas Network) serves the creative and critical environment across Scottish
 popular music industries.

 In REF2014 the UoA identified three strategic priorities: i) enhancing its research culture
 through the creation of appropriate fora for the sharing of ideas and projects at an early
 stage; ii) capitalising on, and enhancing, the existing collaboration between Creative Practice
 and Musicology; and iii) increasing collaboration with academic and non-academic partners.
 This resulted in the establishment of three reading groups (scholarship; practice research;
 music industries and popular music), as networks for discussion of future work and funding
 applications (all REF-eligible staff belong to at least one). These are complemented by a
 strategic effort to increase applications to network funding, in order to take these internal
 conversations into the broader local, national and international arenas.

 The unit’s research policy is to encourage staff to claim a stake in the broader culture
 surrounding the subject area and explore overlaps, correspondences and commonalities
 between different research interests. In this way, very diverse activities enrich each other
 through a common awareness of differing viewpoints and taste communities. We seek to
 develop the view that all forms of music complement one another in the contested terrain of
 contemporary culture. In this environment it is common for scholars in popular music or
 ethnomusicology to engage in discussion and collaboration with those working in western art
 music fields, all mutually involved in reading and critiquing ongoing work. This policy has
 resulted in a book co-authored by all available staff outlining observations, ideas and
 manifestos for the role of music in universities (one of the most ambitious aims articulated in
 the future strategy for REF2014): Higher Education in Music in the Twenty-First Century, ed.
 Heile, Moreda Rodriguez and Stanley (2017). Two of the editors, ECRs at the outset of the
 project, were chosen by the unit in order to offer them a strong stake in the future directions
 of the UoA.

 Interdisciplinary collaborations have been facilitated by the UoA’s location in SCCA. Music
 has led the School theme ‘Inclusive/Exclusive’, encouraging broad exploratory discussion of
 common issues and interests. This ongoing integration has also facilitated a number of PhD
 projects that cross between music and disciplines within and beyond the School. With the
 joint supervision that these projects require, all are exposed to a diverse range of disciplines
 and methodologies, such as linguistics, cultural policy and computing science.

 Other developments:
    • As proposed in the REF2014 strategy, several staff have been engaged in attempts
        to define elements of the field in the broader national context. Fells’s establishment of
        an RMA network for Practice Research in 2015-16 has been particularly important in
        enabling the field to define practice as research, through symposia and working groups.
        He brings this experience to a wider interdisciplinary context through membership of the
        steering group of the Practice Research Advisory Group UK, of which he is deputy chair.
        This contributes significantly towards developing the collaboration between creative


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        practice and musicology (and indeed the other areas of study).
    •   The Unit has developed its own practice research to enhance both its profile and
        impact. Local and international practice research in sonic arts and historical
        performance is complemented by the more critical and reflective aspects of research.
        In this way, the impact strategy is devised to work on two levels simultaneously:
        practice research that itself has considerable public exposure, and the development
        of critical discourses designed to promote future understanding and discussion of
        diverse creative practices.
    •   As part of our commitment to research-informed teaching within the subject area, a
        range of degree pathways embrace the areas in which research activity is particularly
        strong (e.g. sonic arts), with the aim of producing strongly engaged graduates who
        can take their experience of research-led teaching into a wide range of careers. While
        courses at UG and PGT level inevitably reflect topical research interests, more
        important to our approach is the prioritizing of research methods at the heart of the
        curriculum, and the fostering of a culture where students – at all levels - become
        independent researchers and acquire knowledge and understanding through their own
        enquiry, and where they can become co-researchers with staff (e.g. our UG Research
        Internship in Music, where final year students work directly with staff on current
        research). The result of this integration of research with teaching is that colleagues can
        develop aspects of their research thinking even during periods when most of their activity
        is directed towards teaching.
    •   The dialogic approach to research-informed teaching also engenders its complement -
        teaching-led research. Staff are encouraged to learn from the fast-changing musical
        backgrounds, skills, and practices that students are bringing with them. The research
        environment is thereby better informed to respond to the rapidly changing landscape of
        music culture and higher education.

 The Unit has been working towards an open research environment, particularly through its
 engagement with the University’s Enlighten platform, which provides free access to text-based
 staff outputs. Staff are also encouraged to enable the free release of materials relating to
 practice research. Several colleagues (e.g. Fells and McGuinness) regularly make performance
 material freely available (e.g. sharing of Max patches and other software scripts, scores etc.)
 through platforms that they curate. Some researchers are publishing supplementary material
 entirely through Enlighten, with a Creative Commons Attribution.

 Research integrity is embedded in the UoA’s culture through the reading groups, which identify
 issues through their discussion of forthcoming research and applications. Four members of the
 UoA addressed issues relating to music and copyright by contributing half the chapters in
 Concepts of Music and Copyright (Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, 2015), ed. Andreas Rahmatian.
 Training in RI issues (e.g. copyright, open access, joint authorship/collaboration, data-
 management, and handling misconduct) is available to researchers via ArtsLab. The unit’s
 research director discusses and resolves potential concerns in this area with the appropriate
 researchers, drawing on the College expertise via the Research Integrity champion and research
 office as required.




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future strategy:

 Whilst retaining the agency of individual research interests and the five areas of specialisation
 as primary drivers of our research at the UoA level, we have identified research clusters that
 resonate with the wider research activity across the SCCA. These involve four configurations of
 all staff:

    -   Performing History
    -   Culture, Critique and Analysis
    -   Music Industries
    -   Practice Research

 Over the next five years, we will use these configurations to open up new opportunities for
 collaborative research and external funding, to a degree that was not possible before the SCCA
 became more closely integrated. Additionally, we are developing new UoA initiatives that
 specifically address the priorities of impact and income generation: External Collaborations (led
 by Butt, Williamson, and Moreda Rodriguez), Training and Development (led by Brennan and
 Harris), Open Access / Open Data (led by Heile and Fells), and Equality and Diversity (led by
 Code and Green). In developing and implementing these initiatives we will continue to work
 closely with Arts Lab (of which Brennan is deputy director) and its immersive experience lab,
 led by former and current PGRs from Music. The existing support systems for research will
 be enhanced by increasing the frequency of research forums and by augmenting opportunities
 for staff to present their work.

 The unit is actively seeking international placements for its staff in order to enhance research-
 related traffic in both directions. Butt’s visiting professorship for a year at Princeton (2021-22) is
 a successful example of this developing strategy. This was the product of combining an invited
 keynote for the US Handel society with the offer to direct a concert with Princeton students.
 McGuinness developed a partnership with the University of Sydney, which is already generating
 collaborations in the performance and research of Scottish music. Heile was Visiting Professor
 at the Université de Côte d’Azur, Nice (2017).

 2. People
 Staffing:

 This cycle has seen sustained institutional investment in the UoA, with a Readership and an
 LKAS Fellowship in Popular Music Studies, and a Unit-level focus on securing externally funded
 Research Fellowships. This has led to an increase in REF-eligible staff from 12 to 14 (FTE 11.2
 to 13.3). The UoA has actively supported its Research Fellows to move to open-ended positions
 at the institution (two in this cycle), and will continue to focus on securing externally-funded
 research fellowships and ECR appointments, in order to sustain the richness and diversity of the
 UoA.

 The recruitment strategy encourages applications to externally funded programmes involving
 fellowships (e.g. Leverhulme, British Academy and AHRC), and also to the University’s own
 scheme of research fellowships (Lord Kelvin-Adam Smith Fellowships, LKAS). The route from
 research fellowship to lectureship has worked particularly successfully: Rodriguez has already
 proceeded to Senior Lecturer level, and more recently Williamson, who had already moved from
 an AHRC/ESRC-supported fellowship to a LKAS fellowship, is now a Grade 8 Lecturer. The
 success of fellowships in expanding the numbers of the unit (and recruiting scholars earlier in

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their careers), and the development of areas that had previously not been covered, drives the
 strategy for recruitment over the coming years.

 The unit’s strategy of ECR recruitment has as its corollary a focus on developing leadership
 capacity. Staff development at all levels is supported by individual annual Performance and
 Development Reviews (PDRs), conducted by the Head of School or professorial members of the
 UoA, which identifies goals and development opportunities. ECRs benefit also from the
 institution’s Early Career Development Programme (ECDP), which supports ECRs to achieve
 ambitious development goals, including promotion to SL within eight years. Within the UoA
 workloads are designed to prioritize ECRs’ research activity (including a lighter teaching load,
 geared wherever possible to their research interests and other particular strengths), they are
 mentored and given specific opportunities to take a lead in formulating the research strategy of
 the unit as a whole. They have contributed particularly strongly towards managing PGR
 students, developing internationalization strategy and defining the UoA’s research directions in
 publicity materials. Colleagues are encouraged to seek promotion as soon as they are eligible,
 and are supported by CoA information sessions on the promotion process and one-to-one
 interviews with the Head of School. Ten colleagues have been promoted since 2014.

 The College of Arts offers research leave for all R&T staff on the expectation of one semester in
 seven. The UoA supports staff in leave applications within a four-year rolling rotation of all
 research staff, both full- and part-time, at every career stage and all applicants have been
 successful. Colleagues are strongly encouraged to integrate college funded research leave with
 external funding plans, so that periods of leave can be extended wherever possible.
 During the current cycle there have been nine successful bids for research leave, over a third of
 which were extended by external funding. There have also been two instances of maternity
 leave, moves to part-time contracts, and also long-term sick leave.

 Successful applications to both internal and external funding for leave and larger-scale research
 projects have led to the hire of temporary staff, particularly in popular music studies, composition
 and sonic arts. These staff have also provided invaluable help in supporting research, such as in
 the business development of materials (including software). Green (Leverhulme Fellow) has
 been supported both in his research (several field trips to Mexico) and in successful applications
 for funding. This has facilitated the projects, ‘The Role of Music Practices for Peace Education in
 Conflict (MuPPEC)’, including a planned conference, and ‘Music Studies on a Damaged Planet’.
 In turn, he has been supported in the development of two new UG courses, classes for PGT
 programmes, and in an important leadership role as PG Convenor. Other temporary and part-
 time appointees have been integrated into the research culture even when they are not yet on
 research contracts. This includes the convenorship of the RMA Research Colloquium series and
 composing original works for the final concert in the international Debussy in 2018 event. The
 UoA has worked towards providing temporary and part-time staff with a portfolio of skills and
 experiences that places them in the best possible position to apply for permanent posts within
 the unit or elsewhere. One former teaching fellow gained a Lectureship at the University of
 Edinburgh and another continues to contribute to teaching while developing his creative career
 working for Creative Carbon Scotland (with a chamber opera recently shortlisted for the 2019
 Ivan Juritz Prize). One postdoctoral musicologist gained early career experience as a teaching
 fellow and Co-I of the RSE-funded EAERN, and subsequently acquired a permanent post at the
 RCS.

 The gender balance of staff remains stable, with just under a quarter of the FTE female. Just
 under half of the staff (6) are placed at Grade 9, three of whom are female (which bodes well for

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 forthcoming female promotion to the professorial range); the remainder are split equally
 between lower grades and professorial level.

 Staff are strongly supported by both College and School (with support for grant applications
 from Arts Lab). Mid-career staff are also supported both within the unit and by broader college
 structures. College and school levels have strived to ensure that these staff are adequately
 supported according to the needs of their ongoing research trajectories and career paths.
 Research forums continuously work towards encouraging established researchers to develop
 interests that might only be just emerging and also to integrate their approaches with broader
 research themes across the School and College. Arts Lab provides a level of individuated
 support and feedback for both outputs and grant applications, thus complementing the unit’s
 own support at a broader, interdisciplinary, level.

 Staff at all levels are encouraged to present their work within the reading groups, and in staff
 seminars that are organized by the director of research. These facilitate informal discussion of
 research – both individual projects and strategic matters – and encourage the sharing of ideas.
 Staff can belong to more than one group (e.g. those who work in both scholarship and practice
 research). The director of research encourages staff to discuss and share work with him and
 other senior staff, to supplement the activity of the reading groups. Research staff contribute at
 least once a year to the public colloquia promoted by the subject area (in association with the
 Scottish chapter of the RMA), and many benefit from the various performance opportunities
 arranged within the university. The University Concerts Manager actively seeks to integrate the
 work of practice researchers into each semester’s concerts programme. This support has
 enabled the unit to take a central role in important events that resonate with the research
 interests of specific members of staff, such as the 2018 Debussy Centenary and the 2019
 Cage/Cunningham celebration (the fiftieth anniversary of Mewantemooseicday).

 Staff contribute to research reports and blogs that have now become integrated within the
 SCCA’s blogs. The platform is designed to profile the work of the unit in a more informal way
 than Enlighten, and it helps to tie outputs and research themes to specific events. This has
 contributed to an uplift in attendance at many of the public lectures and performances within the
 university (with the Concert Hall’s capacity of 250 frequently being met).

 The supportive and collegial environment has been particularly effective in enabling impact
 activities. The very flexible organization of teaching, by which staff frequently share courses or
 stand in for each other on specific weeks, means that very active artists and performers such as
 Harris, Butt and McGuinness can undertake major engagements even during teaching periods,
 thus contributing to the ongoing impact activity of the unit without adversely affecting the smooth
 running of courses. Significant impact (e.g. performances and conference organization) is
 regularly credited with incremental rewards or bonuses (two members of staff were among the
 three nominees for Best Collaboration in the Arts, in the University’s KE and Public Engagement
 Awards 2020 - won by Brennan). Moreover, the University’s Knowledge Exchange and
 Innovation funds have contributed to the development of new software and industry-
 engagement activity (also providing employment for a PGR student) over the period of the last
 REF and some £14,092 in the current cycle.


 Research Students

 There has been an increase in registered PGR students (from 24 to 33 per year over the course

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the cycle) and 25 doctoral students have graduated over the same period. The gender
 balance between doctoral graduates has been very near to 50:50 male-female. In all, the larger
 numbers have led to a richer and more diverse research culture (with 15 countries represented
 beyond the UK), greatly expanding on the expertise and interests of the permanent staff.

 There has been a systematic approach to recruitment:

    1. Increased website presence and clarity of research strengths, strongly complemented by
       the University’s own PGR recruitment activities.
    2. Development of funding streams in addition to AHRC and College level scholarships,
       such as research projects involving research studentships, and the unit’s own Lunn
       scholarship.
    3. Promoting the passage from PGT/PGR study at Masters level, where students who have
       finished a year of study at Glasgow might qualify for entry into the doctoral programme
       (for instance, four PhD students during the current cycle have previously completed the
       MLitt in Popular Music Studies, with similar numbers in Musicology and
       Composition/Sonic Arts, and two from the MMus in historical performance). While many
       new PGR students come from other institutions, the unit aims to make the role of the
       PGT courses in providing feeders to research much more explicit.
    4. Highlighting the reputations of individual researchers that attract students, particularly
       from abroad, has been largely successful (with PhD students from USA, Italy, Hungary,
       Poland, Romania, China, Taiwan and South Korea).

 New PGT courses and pathways have recently been designed and implemented (e.g. in Sound
 Design, Musicology, and a new MSc in Music Industries, reflecting the appointment of the new
 Reader in Popular Music); all of these prioritize research methodologies that can provide a
 suitable foundation for PhD study. Webpages and literature about PG study have undergone
 continuous enhancement, based on feedback from the accepted applicants and also from
 gauging emerging trends in applications.

 In this cycle 22% of graduating doctoral students were international, with a further 15% from the
 EU. The unit’s increasing efforts to develop an interdisciplinary profile have led to the joint
 supervision of several interdisciplinary doctorates during the current cycle (e.g. music industries
 and cultural policy; music and computing science; linguistics and performance practice; creative
 writing; drama and music; Scottish culture and history). Such collaborations foster projects that
 genuinely break new ground, such as an investigation into the questions of accent in choral
 cultures.

 PGR students have been strongly supported in developing successful applications for grants
 from the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH), generating about one
 grant per year. Music has also successfully competed for a Lord Kelvin Adam Smith PhD
 Fellowship, the University’s flagship PhD award, which provides full fees and maintenance
 together with an annual research allowance. In addition to a number of awards available at
 College level, Music has a dedicated PGR scholarship (Lunn fund, donated by a distinguished
 alumnus of the unit), covering full fees and maintenance. Brennan has secured an additional
 AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award (2019-2023), in partnership with the Scottish Music Industry
 Association, to produce a landmark project mapping and measuring the Scottish Music Industry.
 This not only opens up the developmental opportunity for a PGR but also provides immediate
 impact within the Scottish cultural context. Another AHRC doctoral award came from the


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 National Productivity Infrastructure Fund, for AI projects (supervised by Harris, Fells, and staff in
 Computing Science, working in partnership with Incalcando Ltd).

 All PGRs benefit from the opportunities provided by the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and
 Humanities (SGSAH), which is based at UoG. SGSAH’s Creative Arts & Design Discipline+
 Catalyst provides an annual Scotland-wide training programme that facilitates skills
 development, networking and community building (both within the discipline and across
 disciplines), complementing the researcher development programme in the College of Arts
 Graduate School.

 All supervisors undergo mandatory training provided by the College of Arts Graduate School
 every four years, as required by the SGSAH DTP. SGSAH also provides mandatory induction
 training for DTP supervisors. SGSAH’s PGR training events are open to all doctoral students
 regardless of funding source. This provides a yardstick for the highest quality of PGR training
 within the UK and Scottish contexts.

 The Graduate School provides an annual training programme for all PGRs internally, targeted at
 each stage of the doctoral journey and organised according to the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. All PGRs take mandatory courses in Research Integrity, Equality and
 Diversity, Information Security and ‘Setting Off’ in year one, and at least two training courses
 over the next two years. There is a host of additional training available in topics including writing
 for publication, presenting with confidence, planning a career and practice research.

 All PGR students also undergo an Annual Progress Review (APR), which provides a yearly
 appraisal of progress and reviews the support mechanisms and extra training that might be
 necessary for the following year’s work. This also prepares students for vivas and ways to
 develop the research along differing career pathways. Each student has at least two
 supervisors; pastoral and academic advising is provided by the College Graduate School. The
 supervisory team regularly advise students on progress into a career, whether within academia
 or in cognate fields (e.g. arts administration and management). This is supported by the PGR
 ‘careers season’, provided in collaboration with the Careers Service, which provides mock
 interviews, guidance on applying for jobs in academia, and training in entrepreneurship and
 ‘business beyond the bottom line’.

 There are a number of paid GTA posts per year, and most PGRs have the opportunity to hold at
 least one of these during their programme. Holders of these posts are given formal training at
 college level and, at subject level, orientation and further training. A number of students pursue
 practice research; one is a professional artist approaching PhD study after a 15-year career,
 much of it in New York; another has become a successful sound designer in the US; others have
 maintained related international careers as singers and instrumentalists (including violin,
 recorder and lute).

 PGR culture has been rendered more collegial and supportive through public colloquia and
 regular presentations throughout the year. The bi-weekly PGR discussion groups have offered
 students the opportunity to test out papers and presentations, receiving feedback in an informal,
 peer-led environment. This forum also offers mock vivas and job interviews, and provides
 opportunities to discuss careers and transferrable skills.

 PGRs benefit from College-wide activity, such as an annual PGR Conference (last year co-
 chaired by a Music PGR) and online journals eSharp and The Kelvingrove Review. The UoA’s

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR community has led the Sound Thought showcase, an annual festival of music and sound
 research, composition and performance; this has greatly expanded in recent years. It is now an
 event of national and international significance and contributes to a strong collaborative
 relationship with the city of Glasgow’s Centre for Contemporary Arts (CCA). This provides some
 unusually strong leadership opportunities for PGR students and some of its past directors have
 become part-time lecturers within the unit. The showcase also enables students to learn
 practical approaches to generating and enhancing impact.

 Recent PGR career successes have included lectureship appointments at the RCS, Edinburgh
 University, University of the West of Scotland (one Reader, one Lecturer) and McGill University,
 Canada (Assistant Professor), research posts at GU’s Centre for Cultural Policy and Research,
 and fellowships for two recent doctoral students on an RSE network grant on 18th Century Arts
 Education.


 Equality and Diversity

 With staff comprising four nationalities (stretching globally from Canada to Spain) the unit is
 richly representative of the Western and New Worlds. The lack of diversity in other categories
 (e.g. race, ethnicity) requires long-term, strategic solutions within the sector as a whole, but the
 unit is well placed to take a leading role, particularly given the University’s commitment to
 compensating for historic discrimination. The unit sees the ongoing ‘globalization’ of the
 curriculum as a key strategic objective, with the hope that this will open up opportunities for
 greater FTE diversity in forthcoming appointments. We are pleased with the progress already
 made in redressing what had been until recently a particularly stark gender imbalance, but with 3
 women within an FTE of 13.3, much work is required to improve future demographics. In the
 medium term, this involves encouraging female candidates to apply for openings and in
 sustaining the growing number of female graduate students. Female colleagues have been
 strongly supported in undertaking leading roles at Subject, School and College levels: e.g. as
 Head of Subject, Convener of the McEwen Commission and Concert, Study Abroad and
 Internationalisation Convener for Music, School Internationalisation Officer, College Student
 Mobility Officer, Deputy Dean for Internationalisation, PG Subject and School Convener,
 Convener for Wellbeing – the latter a new post responding to pressing cross-sectoral concerns.
 Female staff account for around one half to two thirds of the income from grants 2017-19 (while
 they account for just under one quarter of the headcount). This rise has resulted from the
 strategy of encouraging a broader range of staff to make funding applications, giving particular
 support to junior staff.

 Three members of staff serve on the School’s Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team, which was
 successful in receiving a Bronze Award in 2020; they therefore provide further strategic insight
 into ways of improving staff gender balance within existing legal frameworks. UoA membership
 of the EDI Working Group for the new School UG programme also provides experience in ways
 of increasing diversification of cultural study and, consequently, of future cohorts of job
 applicants. School-wide initiatives have also generated a new Grade 10 academic post in
 Creative Economy, with explicit focus on EDI.

 The UoA has taken a leading role within the School in promoting inclusive practices. For
 instance, the unit’s proposal to feature the celebrated 2016 UK film Notes on Blindness within
 the ‘Inclusive/Exclusive’ year gave rise to a multi-level KE/public engagement event on
 ‘accessible cinema’, in partnership with Deaf/Blind Scotland. This included workshops for PG

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students in both film-Making and Sound Design/Audiovisual Practice. During the same year, the
 Cramb Residency of indigenous Canadian musician and LGBT+ activist Jeremy Dutcher offered
 further opportunities to strengthen the unit’s leadership in fostering an inclusive ethos – notably
 through the roundtable co-convened by Code on ‘Decolonising Gender’, which drew a wide
 range of participants from across the College.

 The unit organises study leave rotas, promotion applications and REF submission processes in
 conformity with the rigorous, transparent and EDI-conformant policies of the University. The
 flexibility built into teaching allocations, through sharing and co-teaching of courses has been
 particularly successful in facilitating family commitments for both women and men. Relevant staff
 have been consistently able to schedule teaching breaks to support parental responsibilities
 during the school holidays. Given the variety of research, colleagues who need to pursue
 aspects of research away from campus are generally afforded the flexibility to undertake some
 of their work in appropriate environments, such as home, concert hall or studio. This has allowed
 several members of staff to develop performing careers and other activities related to practice
 research without seriously disrupting the regular teaching provision. The establishment of
 flexible practices has also meant that most members of staff were able to remain productive
 when the Covid crisis struck since they were already accustomed to adapting their work to the
 home environment. Staff have been strongly supported through this period by the University’s
 various upskilling measures and provision of equipment needs for home operation. The
 University’s Academic Returners and Research Support Scheme, which is designed to mitigate
 the effects of career breaks in research (funding teaching buyout and recording costs of one
 REF submission) has supported two returns from parental leave. The institution supports phased
 retirement, together with moves to part time employment, in order to allow career diversification;
 the UoA strongly supported one colleague’s move to a 0.5 contract and another to 0.8.

 The unit’s commitment to EDI is actualized in its approach to constructing the REF submission.
 It has adapted - but also gone well beyond - the University’s guidelines on transparency and
 equality, towards the most open process possible. Through the medium of the three reading
 groups, all eligible members of staff were involved in assessing outputs, and the resulting scores
 provided the list from which choices were made (by the leaders of each group, REF champion
 and head of research). The emerging choices and weightings were then fed back to staff for any
 further comment or discussion. With Environment and Case Studies, the emerging drafts from
 the relevant champions were regularly circulated amongst staff.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The unit has worked towards an inclusive and integrated approach to pursuing grant income,
 rather than relying on the success of just two or three individuals. While the focus on UKRI has
 been maintained, there have been equally strong efforts in approaching various other funders
 (e.g. RSE, Leverhulme). All staff are encouraged to aspire to the pursuit of grants appropriate to
 their research plans and the thematic research strategies of the unit. This is scaled according to
 career stage development, and the need to gain experience evolving from small, towards larger,
 grant management. Staff can expect to receive input and support the unit’s research director,
 then from the College Research Office, ArtsLab, REF Champion, the P&DR process, ECDP
 mentors where appropriate, senior colleagues, and partners in the team. This system of multiple
 support also operates for collaborative and interdisciplinary bids.

 Unit income over the current cycle stands at £907,548. The first half of the current cycle is
 dominated by two large AHRC projects (Bass Culture and Musicians’ Union), with the lowest

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grant yield occurring in 2016-17. After this, the yield increased in line with the new strategy
 towards a more inclusive approach, with several figures securing grants (AHRC projects on
 Recording in Spain, Music and Sustainability, and Works of Allan Ramsay generating c.
 £131,300, c.£52,499 and c. £43,516, respectively from 2017-19 ). Over two-thirds of the FTE
 have been grant-holders or are themselves sustained by external income. Research income
 covers the broad range of staff research specialisms and all stages of academic development.
 Nearly 100% of the HESA income is attributed to Research Councils, British Academy and RSE,
 and the collaborative research strategy is successfully realized by ECR researchers, including
 one Leverhulme Fellowship, who are particularly well represented towards the end of the cycle.

 Several areas of research activity have been significantly enhanced by successful bids for HESA
 funding:

    •   Scottish Music and Historical Performance – The first part of the cycle was supported
        by the 2012-2015 AHRC Research Grant for Bass Culture in Scottish Musical Traditions
        (one PI and one CI) and the latter part by the 2018-2022 AHRC, Research Grant
        dedicated to The Edinburgh Works of Allan Ramsay (one CI). Both of these involved
        collaborations with other institutions, within the UK and beyond, highlighting the
        University’s commitment to the expanding the study of Scottish culture beyond its own
        boundaries. This has resulted in a database providing the most comprehensive open
        access to available sources; two students in the unit have completed PhDs in Scottish
        music.
    •   International approaches to Scottish history - have also been enhanced by a smaller,
        follow-up, AHRC award (together with a 2019 University of Sydney/University of Glasgow
        Partnership Collaboration Award), supporting Songs of Home & Distant Isles: Musical
        Soundscapes of Australia and Britain, 1787-1860. All these awards have not only
        promoted source-based research but also many areas of practice research (Concerto
        Caledonia/McGuinness).
    •   Historical Musicology and Ethnomusicology - In addition to the AHRC supported
        projects on Spain, and in music and sustainability (resulting in published books and
        papers), the British Academy/Leverhulme Small Grant scheme has supported work in
        modernist history (Mauricio Kagel: Estate and Legacy) and the RSE supported the
        Eighteenth-Century Arts Education Network (EARN) and the network, Towards a
        Somatic Music: Experimental Music Theatre and Theories of Embodied Cognition.

 Despite the drop in funding in 2020, the last segment of this REF period has been geared
 towards applications for funding broader networks, both nationally and internationally. Pending
 applications:

    •   Research Networks: AHRC Research Grant in 18th century performance practice as a
        follow-on from the EAERN project (Eighteenth-Century Arts Education Research
        Network); AHRC Research Network, following on from the BARN project (British Audio
        Visual Research Network); AHRC, Follow-on Funding to the Bass Culture project.
    •   Music Industries: ‘Sustaining music-making in response to Covid-19: Continuity and
        recovery for the UK's live music sector’ (led by Newcastle University with Brennan as Co-
        I)

 Non-HESA-recorded financial support has been strongly evident over the current cycle. This has
 been particularly relevant in relation to performance and performance studies, which often


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 require streams of funding that are not covered by HESA routes. Much of this relies on strong
 partnerships between the UoA and outside bodies, together with significant internal support for
 innovative researchers. This is partnered with the administrative assistance of the performing
 organisations which they head. Support may come from foundations supporting the arts (e.g.
 Kunststiftung Nordrhein-Westfalen: ‘Mauricio Kagel 2018‘, c. £9,034), or national arts-promoting
 bodies. Creative Scotland has supported Dunedin Consort, each year at £100,000; it has also
 supported Concerto Caledonia, £9139, for Ceilidh Nights (2017) and provided £10,000 for a
 collaborative album project on the music of Ivor Cutler.

 The University has continued to invest in the public facing aspects of the School, with the
 provision of a Concerts’ Manager (who develops a programme of international artists together
 with projects directly relating to the unit’s active research). This has an annual operating budget
 of c. £22,000, regularly supplemented with grants from the University’s Chancellor’s Fund for
 specific projects and events. The University has also strongly supported work in the Scottish
 music field: the photography unit has enabled digitization of unique items from the Duke of
 Buccleuch’s collection, as part of the Bass Culture project (2015).

 The unit has been very thoroughly supported by the College and its dedicated Arts Lab,
 particularly in providing infrastructure to support impact and develop compelling applications.
 Music’s own input is productively focused on the necessary specialist advice, including
 workshops by recent grant holders. The role of the unit’s Research Director has been particularly
 important in helping each individual staff member in the initial stages of drafting.

 A recent PhD graduate in Music has been appointed Research Systems Developer in the Arts,
 supporting the tech/online aspects of funding bids across the College. The unit’s own Resource
 Development Officer advises on technological issues (equipment throughout the unit is regularly
 serviced and monitored by a technician). Both RDO and Technician contribute to outputs as
 recording engineers - their expertise has complemented the available facilities and enabled
 sonic outputs from several staff to be satisfactorily recorded, edited and produced. Most
 members of staff have individual offices and benefit from an equipment budget. The shortage of
 dedicated research space has led to the development of a flexible culture of off-site work outside
 teaching hours, supported by regular virtual meetings of research collaborators (something that
 was in place before the pandemic). Creativity in both practice research and traditional
 scholarship has been enhanced by work on multiple sites and environments beyond University
 facilities (e.g. concert halls, arts centres, archives etc.), which means that public engagement is
 seeded in the early stages of the research process.

 For bibliographic and archive work, the role of the library is particularly important, with Special
 Collections (including the remarkable bequest of the Euing Collection) maintained by dedicated
 staff, who have also assisted in the formulation of grant proposals involving archives. The
 Scottish music collections have been freely used in two collaborative projects with the University
 of Southampton and Sydney Living Museums 2018-19 (AHRC supported). Other major
 collections, particularly relevant for Popular Music Studies, are the Janey Buchan Political Song
 Collection and the Simon Frith and Pete Frame archives. This library also contributes to the
 open publishing and disseminating of research and datasets. The recent donation of two
 historical pianos (Broadwood and Erard) has greatly enhanced the unit’s impact in historical
 performance practice research (through recording and experimentation). Both have also been
 used in the regular concert series, thus becoming exposed to the broader public.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Engagement with the rich context of Scotland’s central belt means that the research
 environment is enhanced beyond the sum of its parts, with much research activity resonating
 with the surrounding culture. This has been accelerated by a steady and strategic increase in
 collaboration with non-academic partners in Scotland, the UK and beyond (following the aims
 set out in REF2014). The UoA benefits particularly from Glasgow’s position as a UNESCO
 City of Music. This enables the ongoing collaboration with a number of internationally
 significant, yet local, institutions: the Gallery of Modern Art, Glasgow School of Art, Glasgow
 Film, Centre for Contemporary Arts, SWG3, Scottish BAFTA, Royal Conservatoire of
 Scotland, Royal Scottish National Orchestra, BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra, Scottish
 Opera, BBC (both UK and Scotland), Linn Records and the Alliance Française.

 The Edinburgh-based Dunedin Consort has, in this cycle, generated one Gramophone
 Award and a Grammy Nomination; there have also been two London Prom performances (a
 third, in 2020, was cancelled); Dunedin and Concerto Caledonia have performed regularly at
 the Edinburgh International Festival. Brennan has developed an ambitious album project re-
 imagining the output of Glasgow artist Ivor Cutler, released in January 2020 at a headline Celtic
 Connections show in Glasgow.

 Collaborative areas include:

 Audio Visual Studies - GAVN (Glasgow Audio Visual Network) capitalizes on the mutual
 interests in film and sound across the School. This has incorporated focused discussion of
 ‘scholar’s discourse and practitioner’s discourse’ into the RSE BARN Workshop (British
 Audiovisual Research Network, 2015-16), which covered a broad range of audiovisual
 issues (analytical and creative) in the UK context. Among several outcomes is a forthcoming
 book series on musically-oriented film makers (edited by Code and Butt).

 Musicology - Claude Debussy in 2018 - A centenary Celebration at the RNCM and the
 University of Glasgow, led (Glasgow) by Code/Hammond, in collaboration with staff at the
 RNCM and musicians of the RSNO. This was the largest international Debussy conference
 marking the centenary (review). Allan Ramsay Project – a major AHRC research grant within
 the College of arts involving both poetic and musical elements, with music aspects directed
 by McGuinness. EAERN (Eighteenth-Century Arts Education Research Network) ran from
 2016-19 (Butt, with two post-doctoral fellows), embracing scholars from the UK, USA,
 Europe and Ireland.

 Practice Research - Fells, Harris and Lexer have established ‘Glasgow Sound Network’, an
 informal consortium of creative businesses and academics in the city, exploring sound as a
 significant cultural medium. Fells is also responsible for the ‘Never Come Ashore’ web label.

 Popular Music Studies – Brennan, Williamson and Green launched IMIRGe in 2019, a new
 research group that aims to build outward collaboration (beginning with a Scottish Music Industry
 Association AHRC CDA award) and also to make the most of research strengths elsewhere in
 the university (specifically CREATe, CCPR, and the Creative Economy Research Hub).

 Brennan is a founding member of the Live Music Exchange, a key online hub for live music
 research, and currently serves as co-director in collaboration with colleagues at the Universities
 of Newcastle and Turku. Staff have worked with a number of music industries’ organisations on
 a range of educational, awards and research projects (UK Music, the Scottish Music Industry

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association and the MU). This has been complemented with an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral
 Award in partnership with the Scottish Music Industry Association. Collaborations with many
 local music organisations and companies in Popular Music, both for research purposes and for
 MSc work placements, include: 432 Concerts, Slam/Riverside Festival; Sub Club; Last Night
 From Glasgow (record label), Help Musicians (charity), Scottish Music Industry Association.
 Williamson is co-founder/committee member of Working in Music, an international network of
 music labour scholars (organizing the first conference in Glasgow, and on the committee for the
 next two: Lausanne, 2018, Turku 2019). The MU exhibition resulting from this project has been
 shown in Glasgow (Mitchell Library), Manchester (People's History Museum) and London
 (Congress House). Brennan and Cloonan (in collaboration Newcastle University) led the design
 and delivery of the Live Music Census, in conjunction with Musicians’ Union, UK Music, Music
 Venues Trust etc.

 International collaborations:
  With its range of nationalities, the unit has strong connections across the world. But the
  origins of the personnel represent only a starting point in a research culture that is very
  strongly international. Staff direct performances in countries such as Columbia, Mexico, US,
  Canada, Hong Kong, Australia and some ten European countries (McGuinness and Butt, the
  latter also festival director for Krakow’s Misteria Paschalia 2018). These connections have
  not only led to research collaborations but have also influenced the world-wide connections
  on a larger scale (e.g. Butt’s visiting professorship at Princeton, delayed to 2021).

 Concerto Caledonia has undertaken several high-profile performances and tours, bringing
 classical and traditional music from Scotland’s history to new audiences (and involving regular
 collaborations with artists from the US and Canada). A recent album features a traditional ballad
 singer alongside performance on historical keyboard instruments. The ongoing project,
 Nathaniel Gow’s Dance Band, has recreated dance tunes of the eighteenth century, both on a
 recently released album and at venues across Scotland, some involving audience participation
 in the dances concerned. This has resulted in reconstructions of late 18th-century ceilidh
 practice, parallel to Dunedin’s experimentation with 18th-century liturgies and coffeehouse
 concerts. McGuinness has established an ongoing collaboration with performance staff at the
 University of Sydney Conservatorium, the Evergreen Ensemble in Melbourne, and with several
 Australian amateur specialist dance and music groups (Scottish fiddlers, baroque dancers etc.).
 His work also extends to other genres, including projects with punk cabaret artists The Tiger
 Lillies and the multi-genre Grit Orchestra.

 Influencing musical cultures:

 At a time when sustainability is key to the future of many subject areas, the unit’s range of
 interests and expertise have become a crucial resource for examining, critiquing and enhancing
 musical practice in many national and international environments.

 Broadcasts, installations and applications - Given the regular appearances of Butt and
 McGuinness on BBC Radio 3, the channel decided to broadcast an entire 2hr episode of In Tune
 from the University of Glasgow in June 2019, profiling the unit’s research, teaching, composition
 and performance, together with RCS students and other visiting musicians. Butt also presented
 a documentary on Bach for BBC Radio 4 and has been the subject of a Radio 4 fly-on-the-wall
 documentary on rehearsal practice. Among the subject’s composers, Sweeney was
 commissioned by the BBCSSO to write a piece for their Hear and Now: Scottish Inspirations
 season (2018). Stanley’s work has been performed in the UK, Canada, Poland and Australia,

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Harris has had installations in the UK, Slovenia and USA. Fells and Lexer have jointly
 worked on sound controller software for (Parat+) which has been released on the Apple App
 store. This software allows Ableton users to work within a 3D sound space using a 2D visual
 representation on a mobile touchscreen.

 Research strategy and panel membership - Colleagues hold influential positions for research
 strategy in the wider context. Heile has been Panel Member of: European Science Foundation
 (since 2018); Research Funding Applications, Research Council of Portugal (2018); ‘Think Tank
 Arts & Sciences’, Université Côte d’Azur (Nice); Research Funding Applications ‘Aesthetic
 Studies’, Research Council of Norway, 2014/15, 2015/16. Butt reviews research funding
 applications for the British Academy and Royal Society of Edinburgh. Williamson has been Chair
 of the Scottish Album of the Year Award for Scottish Music Industry Association (since 2012),
 member of jury and workshop leader for 3 years (2014-6) at Riga Symphony (International song
 contest), consultant / shareholder in Monorail Music (Glasgow record store). Brennan manages
 the Andrew Goodwin Memorial Prize, for Postgraduate research on popular music in the UK.

 Commissioning editorships and keynotes - Brennan co-edits a book series for Bloomsbury
 called ‘Alternate Takes: Critical Responses to Popular Music’; Butt is co-editor for the Cambridge
 University Press series ‘Musical Performance and Reception’.

 Staff have also been invited to give keynote lectures internationally: e.g. Brennan at the Rock &
 Roll Hall of Fame (Cleveland USA) and the Chicago Drum Show in May 2020 (both postponed);
 Butt at Cornell University (The Organ in the Global Baroque conference); American Handel
 Society Serwer Lecture (Princeton); Fundacion Juan March (Madrid); Society for Musicology in
 Ireland (Belfast); University of Hong Kong. Williamson and Cloonan have co-edited an issue of
 Popular Music and Society and given a keynote at the ‘Working In Music’ conference in
 Lausanne. Williamson also gave a keynote for International Institute of Popular Culture in Turku
 in 2019.

 In keeping with the aims of the Routledge group publication, the unit intends to enhance its
 future prospects not just through the dissemination of research but also by taking a lead in
 developing new pathways for the study and practice of musical cultures (reinforcing our
 commitment to innovation and collaboration), and seeking to integrate a wide range of
 approaches and practices.




                                                                                           Page 15
