Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sunderland
 Unit of Assessment: 20
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Introduction: Social sciences research at Sunderland is delivered primarily through the Centre of
 Applied Social Science (CASS), a centre created in the period leading up to the REF 2014 to
 promote and improve research in this university priority area. The Unit comprises of 13 full-time
 research active members of academic staff drawn from the School of Social Sciences and the
 School of Culture within the Faculty of Education and Society. These 13 full-time research active
 members of academic staff are to be returned to the REF 2021. In addition to these staff, 18
 members of CASS are being funded to study at doctorate level and 19 members are on teaching
 intensive contracts (this includes 5 Associate Tutors). The Centre’s research mission is to engage
 in research and practice-based collaborations that aim to improve living conditions, address
 inequalities and social exclusion and promote social justice.

 CASS has four themes that unite research and foster collaboration between academic staff. These
 are: Crime, Victims and Social Justice; Social Histories; Communities, Health and Social
 Exclusion; Children, Young People and Families. The Unit’s research active members consist of
 two professors (Prof Stephen Macdonald and Prof Leaza McSorley), one associate professor
 (Dr Kevin Yuill), eight senior lecturers (Dr Rick Bowler, Dr Sarah Lonbay, Dr Delphine Doucet,
 Jane Scutt, Dr Peter Hayes, Dr Lesley Deacon, Dr Nicola Roberts and Dr Matthew Durey) and
 two lecturers (Dr Sarah Hellawell and Dr Tom Rodgers). Within the REF2021 period, these
 research staff have been responsible for research projects concerning domestic violence,
 disability, mental health and medicalisation, gender and social policy, white-collar crime, crime
 and technology, terrorism and de-radicalisation, police culture, early modern crime and the law,
 regional history, and the politics of suicide. The unit’s academics also contribute to the broader
 university research culture concerning disability studies, gender studies, and regional history as
 staff are founding members of cross-faculty research networks such as SUNGEN (University of
 Sunderland Gender Network) and DISCRIM (Vulnerability and Criminal Justice Research
 Network) that broaden the reach of CASS. It is felt that, since 2014, CASS has been central to the
 emergence of a research culture in the social sciences at the university.

 Overview of Structure: From RAE 2008 through to REF 2014 there was a strategic shift as the
 University of Sunderland recognised the need to develop a research base in the social sciences
 and to progress towards a research-led teaching model. Various approaches were investigated,
 resulting in the establishment of the Centre for Applied Social Sciences (CASS) in 2013. The
 purpose of this Centre (and other similar centres in different disciplines) was to provide training,
 funding, and support to staff and postgraduate students conducting research at the university. We
 consider CASS to have been a very successful initiative, building on the outcome of REF 2014
 and ensuring the significance of the applied social sciences in the University’s research profile.
 Currently, the various centres across the University are managed at a Faculty level, each Faculty
 being responsible for funding and delivery of the approved research agenda. The Faculty of
 Education and Society oversees two research centres the ‘Centre for Applied Social Sciences
 (CASS)’ and the ‘Centre for Education and Pedagogy Research’. These two centres are of equal
 status and both Heads of CASS and CEPR sit on the funding panel that allocates funding to
 members from both research centres. A strengthening of University commitments to research
 have resulted in a 700% increase in annual funding for the centre.

 The policy of CASS has been to support individual students and academic staff to develop
 research careers within a sustainable subject team capable of producing and disseminating high-
 quality applied research. This has taken the form of encouraging and supporting the growth of
 early-career staff (particularly in the postdoctoral phase) as well as underwriting the efforts of the
 more established social scientists. To reach the widest audience, members of the Centre have
 published in a variety of ways, including newspaper articles (Yuill on euthanasia, Daily Telegraph),
 online webpages (Lonbay on Social Work by experience, NESWA), and contributions to
 Wikipedia (Prof Pete Rushton). Alongside these publications staff have also published 137 peer-
 reviewed journal articles, book chapters, books, edited collections, and encyclopaedia entries.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Books                Book chapter    Journal article Encyclopaedia       Edited collection
  (Monograph)                                          entry
  5                    50              78              2                   2
 Table 1: Publications produced by CASS staff members between 2014 and 2021

 Research Strategy: Following REF 2014, further steps were taken at University-level to support
 staff to submit research outputs in REF 2021; to increase provision for postgraduate students; to
 build upon our regional networks, both academic and public; and to increase our impact. The
 University's current research plan sets out an ambitious strategy as ‘an exemplar in the creation
 of knowledge, skills and learning that is work relevant in the 21st century’. At the core of the
 University’s ambition is research-led teaching that can transform the individual lives of students
 studying at our university, whilst recognising the importance of the development of our disciplines
 through research, innovation, and practice activities. The University is clear in its strategic plan
 that research and innovation should make a real difference to communities and societies at a local,
 national and international level. CASS’s research strategy reflects the University’s strategic
 mission as a civic university with ambitions to address inequalities and social exclusion and to
 promote social justice. To achieve these goals, CASS aims to produce research excellence via
 knowledge exchange with practitioners and policymakers, the development of a research-led
 curriculum, and the dissemination of research outputs through academic publications and
 conferences.

 Since 2008 the University has been actively committed to fostering a research-active culture
 across the institution. The School of Social Sciences has engaged fully in achieving this goal
 through fostering a supportive, friendly, and intellectually stimulating environment that has the
 potential not only to transform local professional communities but also has a positive impact on
 the academic development of our discipline. Through the establishment of CASS, a research
 culture within social sciences has emerged which now has local, national and international
 recognition. This has been achieved through research support administered led by CASS. To
 develop a research culture, the previous, Prof Catherine Donovan, and current Heads of CASS,
 Macdonald, have created an inclusive research environment that brings together the research
 interests of staff from across the School of Social Sciences as well as supporting social scientists
 from other Faculties. In developing a research culture in the social sciences, our key aims were
 to:

    •   create spaces where research can be discussed in a public forum (i.e. CASS public
        lectures; funding for staff to present their research findings at international conferences);
    •   support staff to develop their research careers through funding doctoral research projects
        across the school and faculty (see below for further details);
    •   implement training to support staff in developing research projects (i.e. CASS academic
        research development training; funding of external writing mentor);
    •   support staff to apply for external research funding (i.e. CASS academic research
        development training; internal research mentors);
    •   develop a supportive space where staff can transform their research into high quality
        published outputs (i.e. writing/reading groups, external writing mentor, research mentors;
        working papers);

 Social science staff have access to the CASS Mentoring Scheme where any member of staff can
 request a mentor from within the Faculty. There are currently 5 Research Mentors (Bowler,
 Lonbay, Deacon, Roberts and Durey) who offer specialist subject-specific support for individuals
 from each programme (i.e. Criminology; Sociology; History; Health and Social Care; Childhood
 Studies; Social Work and Youth and Community Work). To encourage academic staff to engage
 in high-quality research that reaches local, national, and international audiences, the Head of
 CASS, along with the Head of School, supports staff to apply for promotion at every level. Thus,
 lecturers are supported to apply and progress to senior lecturer level and senior lecturers to
 principal lecturer level as these promotions are based partly on their research profiles.
 Furthermore, the University has a biennial promotion call for suitably qualified academic staff to
 be promoted to the position of Associate Professor or Professor. For example, both Yuill, to

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Associate Professor, and Macdonald, to Professor, have been promoted through this process.
 This promotion mentoring illustrates CASS's commitment to rewarding and maintaining research-
 active staff at the University. These different forms of support help CASS to achieve its key
 strategic aim: to work with staff to foster a research culture and a supportive atmosphere that will
 foster research across the school and faculty.

  Senior Lecturer              Associate Professor                    Professor
  6                            1                                      2
 Table 2: Promotion of CASS members between 2014 to 2021




 Figure 1 - Academic career pathways

 Impact Strategy: The impact strategy fostered by CASS focuses on supporting staff to develop
 partnerships with local, national, and international policy or practitioner organisations. An objective
 of CASS is to embed research conducted in the social sciences into practice outside of the
 academy. University strategic investment has been central to this strategy as CASS has been able
 to develop several projects in partnership with local, national, and international charities, statutory
 agencies, and social enterprises. As many of our academics have emigrated from professional
 practice, staff often already have ties to local, national, and international practitioner-based
 organisations. CASS has been proactive in promoting collaboration between outside agencies and
 academia to foster an applied social science approach, allowing research to be embedded into
 professional practice. Many of the smaller strategically funded initiatives have developed research
 projects such as, Bystander Research – Roberts, LGBT+ Equality for serving police officers –
 Donovan, Dyslexia and Homelessness – Macdonald, which have shaped professional practice
 locally, nationally, and internationally.

 Staff members have also received training to engage with local authorities and Parliament to
 raise the profile and impact of research conducted by CASS. Donovan, on domestic violence,
 Yuill, on assisted suicide, and Macdonald, on neurodiversity, have presented, and had their
 research findings presented, to Parliament (at APPGs) on several occasions (see Section 4 for
 details). CASS has also encouraged a number of our partners to engage in academic research
 through enrolment on doctorate research degree programmes. This has encouraged closer ties
 between academia and professional practice. To support an understanding of research impact,
 CASS runs regular workshops and works in partnership with the University’s Impact Officer to
 encourage staff to work alongside our external partners. Additionally, our Impact Officer has
 conducted several workshops designed to support early-career staff to develop a research
 impact strategy. These workshops are developed to promote partnership working and identify
 pathways to impact at every stage of their research. As impact is central to the research carried
 out by CASS our lecture series is open to the public, to engage and attract external practitioners.
 The monthly events attract a meaningful number of practitioners to engage in debate around


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 topical sociological issues. This engagement has resulted in ongoing collaborations between
 practitioners and academics within the School, Faculty and University.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy: Since REF 2014, a successful staffing strategy has been in place in the School
 of Social Sciences to actively recruit new members of staff who are qualified at doctorate level or
 near completion. This recruitment strategy underpins the Faculty’s research priorities and has
 resulted in post-doctoral level appointments to our History, Criminology, Sociology, Social Work,
 and Childhood Studies Teams. When recruiting senior staff, i.e., senior lecturers and above, there
 has been a focus on recruiting experienced researchers with published research outputs, from
 outside of the University.
  Staff recruited Staff currently Staff             Associate       Associate         Ph.D.
  with a PhD       studying for a    currently      Tutors          Tutors            Students
                   funded            studying for a studying for a studying for a
                   doctorate at      funded         Ph.D. at        Ph.D. at
                   Sunderland        doctorate at   Sunderland      another
                                     another                        university
                                     university
  13               11                5              4               1                 8
 Table 3: Staff recruited since 2014 – 2021

 Within the School, we also offer a range of programmes led by professionally qualified lecturing
 staff such as Social Work and Youth and Community Work. Practice experience is essential
 criteria to the recruitment of staff to these degrees. For these practitioner-led degrees, the School
 makes concessions on the doctoral criteria, as professional experience is paramount for these
 programmes. Staff on these programmes are recruited at Masters level and there is an expectation
 that these staff will progress onto a Ph.D. or professional doctorate to progress their research
 skills. These staff members are eligible for academic support, doctoral funding, and 10% work-
 loaded time to make a seamless transition from practitioner to academic researcher. It is central
 to the ethos of CASS to foster an inclusive environment where staff members are supported at
 every stage of their careers and their previous experience is acknowledged at every level.
 Therefore, more experienced research-active staff are assigned to support new staff to develop
 their research skills and careers.

 The School has five staff members who are Associate Tutors who are currently undertaking a full-
 time Ph.D. at the University of Sunderland or are studying for a Ph.D. at another university. Staff
 on these contracts receive paid time to attend CASS meetings, CASS public lectures, CASS
 training sessions and are part of the decision-making process to shape the future direction of
 CASS. Associate Tutors also have full access to CASS mentoring staff to progress their academic
 and research careers. By developing an inclusive approach for our Associate Tutors, we believe
 that we are supporting and encouraging the development of the next generation of researchers at
 Sunderland University. CASS plays an important role within the Faculty in providing a nurturing
 environment to advance academic skills, so staff can achieve their full potential in line with the
 University’s strategic plan of ‘knowledge careers and boundary breakers.’

 Staff development: An important first step in creating a research culture, when CASS was
 launched in 2013, was the establishment of the Public Lecture Series. From humble beginnings,
 the CASS public lectures now welcome academics from around the world including those from the
 University of Auckland, the University of Cologne, and the University of Glasgow. These lectures
 occur on the last Wednesday of every month during term time and provide a vibrant space for
 academics, students, and members of the public to debate current social science issues. The
 centre’s staff from our ‘Social Histories’ strand, actively attend and present at the Humanities
 Seminar Series hosted by the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries. Staff members are work-
 loaded to attend these public lectures and seminars, as the School views these sessions as central
 to staff development. Since 2017, these public lectures have been published online.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alongside the ‘Public Lecture Series’ CASS also organises the ‘Academic Research Development
 Series’ for staff and postgraduate students, which takes place on the second Wednesday
 afternoon of each month. These sessions are aimed at developing a space where methodology
 training can occur to support staff at every level of their careers. The schedule is organised around
 the needs of academic staff from the School of Social Sciences. Academics leading these
 sessions are both internal and external to the University of Sunderland. The series has significantly
 expanded the range of methodologies employed by the social science community from traditional
 qualitative approaches to those involving quantitative and mixed-method analysis. Similar to the
 public lecture series, staff are also work-loaded to attend these sessions. The sessions bring
 together social science staff possessing different skills, knowledge and experience and are
 designed not only to up-skill staff but also to produce an environment that promotes collaboration
 beyond the Centre.

 To support staff, particularly early career researchers, with writing skills and publications CASS
 organises several writing groups for the School of Social Sciences. Led by volunteer senior
 researchers, the Centre supports staff (16 in 2019/20) in the dissemination of their work. These
 groups meet fortnightly to discuss a single member of staff’s work. The groups work as critical
 friends and are grounded in an ethos of inclusive, non-confrontational, and friendly support. These
 groups foster an atmosphere of trust where staff members feel supported, and the group works to
 the common goal of supporting each member to the point of publication. The Head of CASS also
 supports members of each group to identify appropriate journals, book publishers, and networks.
 A strength of the Centre has been in the implementation of research that has the potential to
 transform professional practice and of relevance to a wider international academic audience. To
 ensure the wider dissemination of this work and funded centrally by the University, CASS has now
 employed an external writing mentor, Prof John Bradshaw from York University, to support staff
 in achieving this aim. Bradshaw works as a part-time member of staff, employed for a two-year
 period, to support staff at every stage of their career in writing for publication. Currently, twenty
 CASS staff members have been working with Bradshaw to publish their work in respected social
 science journals. Our senior staff have also been working with him to improve the quality of their
 publications and improve our REF-relevant outputs in the short and medium-term. Depending on
 the success of this project after March 2021 CASS will review the writing mentor role to extend
 this service if this pilot scheme has been successful.

 As an indication of its commitment to research, the University has made firm commitments to
 supporting academic staff who wish to undertake a Ph.D. or a professional doctorate. CASS is
 similarly committed to supporting staff to achieve these qualifications, and there are currently 18
 members being funded in this way. The Head of CASS holds regular one-to-one meetings to
 encourage staff to consider engaging in doctoral level study. The support provided by CASS
 consists of developing a research question, writing a research proposal, and integrating research
 alongside their academic teaching responsibilities. CASS has negotiated an extra 10% of staff
 workload which can be dedicated to doctoral study alongside their existing 10% research and
 scholarship time. In reality, this means that staff can dedicate 20% of their workload to their
 doctoral studies. Thus, the University offers staff financial support and extra time to progress their
 research careers through doctoral support. For a one-year period following graduation, staff in the
 post-doc period are awarded an extra 10% on their workload (in total 20%) to publish their
 research findings from their doctoral studies. These staff members are also offered one-to-one
 mentoring from the Head of CASS to support them in publishing key themes from their Ph.D. or
 professional doctorate.

 Equality and Diversity: The School of Social Sciences and CASS are committed to the equality
 and diversity strategy of the University and, in the broader sense, to the requirements of the
 Equality Act (2010). The University recognises that to be truly effective, equality, diversity, and
 inclusivity should be considered across all facets of delivery. The University has an Equality,
 Diversity, and Social Responsibility Group that aims to ensure consistency of practice across all
 faculties, including the Faculty of Education and Society. The School of Social Sciences has
 various equality, diversity, and inclusion mechanisms through which to enhance research and the
 environment of the School itself. We have a dedicated School-wide Equality, Diversity, and Social

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Responsibility Group made up of staff and students which feeds directly into the larger Equality,
    Diversity and Social Responsibility University-wide group. In parallel, Andrew Dalton, the
    University's LGBTQI+ Staff Officer (and a member of our staff currently being funded to complete
    his Ph.D.) operates to ensure inclusion within our activities. The School has the Disability
    Confident award, informing all recruitment practices, and we originated and have the Positive
    Allies charter mark, to ensure that organisations are 'HIV-friendly' in their ethos. The School of
    Social Science consists of 50 members of staff, the gender ratio is at 68% (N = 34) females and
    32% of males (n = 16). 23% (n = 11) of our staff identify as disabled and 5% (n = 3) are from
    BAME communities. Although we are a teaching-intensive university, 13 of our staff are
    considered research active. From these, 23% (n = 3) are early career researchers, 54% (n = 7)
    are females and 46% (n = 6) males; 31 % (n = 4) identify as disabled researchers and 8% (n = 1)
    identify as being from a BAME community.

    Through its commitment to promote equality and social justice through our research, the centre
    fosters an inclusive and supportive environment that challenges and removes perceived barriers
    within the research workplace. CASS has a diverse membership and staff members are committed
    to equality and social justice. Several research projects produced from CASS have led to
    University equality training (see Dalton’s doctoral research on HIV, for example). CASS members
    have also run academic seminars promoting equality and diversity across the University and
    beyond (see Roberts’s research on student Bystanders). To embed this into CASS and our
    research culture we have created the post of CASS Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Officer, a
    new role in the School. The Officer’s purpose is to ensure an inclusive research environment for
    research staff and students, offering training, workshops, and information about University
    initiatives. The post-holder also acts to inform staff in their practice, and to enable voices to be
    heard within the Faculty and in the University Equality, Diversity, and Social Responsibility Group.
    Thus, issues of diversity were taken into consideration when selecting the submission of REF
    outputs. Finally, it should be noted that the University holds the Athena Swan Bronze award, has
    been awarded Investor in People status, and is a Stonewall Diversity champion.

    Research Students: Since 2014, the University has aimed to grow postgraduate research
    provision across the University. Within the School of Social Sciences, we have seen an increase
    in Ph.D. and professional doctorate students since the last REF. From 2014 to 2020 11 students
    successfully completed doctorates an increase from just 4 in REF 2014. We currently have 17
    Ph.D. and 3 professional doctorate students studying with CASS, mainly consisting of our staff
    (n=12 1) but also more recently attracting postgraduate students (n=8). Hence, postgraduate
    students have doubled since the REF 2014 from 10 to 20 students in REF 2021. The success of
    our academic team and the growing reputation of CASS has increased applications to study with
    us, both from within the University and from outside; this is undoubtedly helped by the reputation
    the University has developed for the excellence of student support, as evidenced in the 2019
    Postgraduate Research Experience Survey. In 2019 the University’s overall rating was 11th in
    the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey. In the Social Sciences, we achieved first place
    in our overall rating compared with 86 institutions that took part in the survey. Social science
    post-graduate students also have access to the same CASS support as academic staff.
    Postgraduate students can be employed as Associate Tutors, so they are viewed and supported
    as a crucial part of the academic team. Doctoral support takes place as a two-tier system.
    Firstly, the Head of CASS, Macdonald, is the CASS postgraduate Research Student Manager
    and offers academic and pastoral support to all of the postgraduate students within CASS.
    Secondly, the University offers support and training through our Postgraduate Degree Training
    Programme. This universal training brings together all doctoral students from across the
    University and offers both generalist and specialised training within the context of a vibrant
    postgraduate community. Generalist courses include SPSS, N-Vivo, and R, while for social
    science students, CASS offers its own research-specific training that can be accessed through
    the ‘CASS Academic Research Development Sessions’. In addition to this support, CASS post-
    graduate students (staff and non-staff) join our CASS writing groups. CASS also encourages

1
 Please note 12 staff in CASS are funded to study at doctorate level at the University of Sunderland and an additional
6 members of staff are being funded to study at doctorate level at other universities (n=18)

                                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students to engage in postgraduate reading groups both internally and externally to connect with
 students who have similar research interests and experiences. This is to improve their subject-
 specific knowledge, foster a sense of community, and extend their internal and external
 professional networks. Postgraduate students can also receive funding from CASS to attend
 national and international conferences and students have the opportunity to present papers at
 our postgraduate conferences. Again, these conferences are designed to foster an inclusive
 environment that is intended to be supportive of CASS post-graduate students. Finally, there has
 been the creation of a dedicated postgraduate room, with computers and printers, which has
 been an important stage in the development of a sense of collective experience for our research
 students.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Funding for staff to engage in their research activities comes from a mixture of external funding
 sources and internal University funds. Members of CASS have been successful in securing
 several large and small research grants. CASS's income generation from 2014 to 2021 equates
 to £326,664 averaging at £46,666 per year. These include, for example, £59,855 for Bowler’s
 ‘Perinatal Mental Health and Young People Project’; £71,001 for Donovan and Roberts’s ‘Be
 Difference: Active Bystander Project’ and £30,793 for her ‘Changing Lives: Breaking the Cycle’
 project; £35,481 for Dr Faye Cosgrove and Macdonald’s ‘Volunteer Appropriate Adult Project’
 and £11,220 for Macdonald’s ‘All Together Sunderland: Understanding Experiences of Social
 Isolation and Loneliness Project’; £27,958 for McSorley’s ESRC funding project ‘Whatever
 Happened to Gender Mainstreaming Project’. We have also received £2,300 from the ESRC, over
 a three-year period, to hold the annual ‘Parenting: Nature, Nurture and Futures’ conference series.
 Central University funding has also led to 15 new projects being developed across the School of
 Social Sciences. Many members of staff have presented at local, national, and international
 conferences concerning their research outputs. Assisted by the University Individual Research
 Plan fund, CASS members have been successful in obtaining £45,276 over the past year,
 including the current funding of the 18 staff studying at Ph.D. and professional doctorate level.
 CASS acknowledges the importance of external research funding and has developed an ambitious
 goal to double its income generation by working in partnership with the University’s Research
 Office.

 Infrastructure: in addition to funding for attendance at academic conferences, CASS has also
 funded staff to engage with academic networks outside the University, to improve their research
 skills and identify collaborative opportunities, and also to become engaged with the organisation
 of academic and practitioner-based conferences at local, national and international levels. CASS
 has organised several international conferences that have been held at the University. Examples
 include The World Congress On Learning Disabilities (90 delegates from seven different
 countries); National Appropriate Adult Network Conferences (110 delegates); the annual ESRC
 funded conference on ‘Motherhood’ (30 delegates), etc. CASS has also developed international
 ties with Cologne University due to our research concerning hidden disabilities. Members of staff
 have visited Cologne University to present on disability theory, biographical and ethnographic
 methodologies. Likewise, staff from Cologne University have visited Sunderland regularly to
 conduct training, particularly in the field of ‘Individual Case Study Analysis’ led by our Visiting
 Professor, Matthias Grünke. Building on the success of CASS, the University has supported the
 establishment of DISCRIM (the Vulnerability and Criminal Justice Research Network) a cross-
 faculty research network. Established in 2019, it brings together academics from across the
 University who have an interest in the study of children and adults who are/have been in contact
 with the criminal justice system and have been identified as having significant vulnerabilities. This
 unique research network brings together key programme disciplines from across the University,
 including Criminology, Police Studies, Forensic Psychology, Forensic Computing, Law, and
 Performing Arts. This network establishes a platform for future partnerships with the aim to
 become a centre of excellence in this area on a national and global level.

 Facilities: CASS has just moved into a new multi-million-pound building, Wearside View, which
 has been designed around teaching and research to facilitate collaboration and research
 excellence. This building has designated research rooms that allow staff to work in collaboration

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with each other and draw on up-to-date technologies as well as to create a space to develop world-
 leading research. These spaces have led to collaborations between social workers and
 criminologists; youth workers and sociologists; criminologists and childhood practitioners;
 sociologists and historians, and criminologists and sociologists. CASS actively works across
 programme/teams/faculty structures to encourage the development of research across academic
 and professional boundaries. This has led to a number of collaborative journal articles and edited
 books. An example of this can be seen in Ruston and Donovan’s 2019 volume ‘Austerity Policies:
 Bad Ideas in Practice’.

 The University Library Services, (ULS), supports research and researchers through the provision
 of a high-quality library environment, appropriate print and electronic information resources, and
 support for research staff and students. The ULS book fund for 2020-2021 allocated £82,100 to
 the Faculty of Education and Society including £43,900 for Social Sciences books. ULS also has
 Social Sciences e-Journals subscriptions totalling £22,900. Search and retrieval tools include a
 federated search engine and a range of online databases including, SocINDEX with full text;
 Community Care Inform; Child Development and Adolescent Studies; CINAHL; Health Research
 Premium Collection; PsychArticles; Psychology and Behavioural Sciences Collection. The ULS
 professional librarian contribute to CASS’s training programme for new researchers and deliver
 sessions on accessing, searching, and retrieving information from online databases. Thus, our
 librarians work in partnership with CASS to support a vibrant and supportive environment so staff
 at every level of their careers can produce high-quality and internationally relevant research.

 CASS also works in partnership with the library to develop its own publication strategy. CASS has
 created its own writing groups run by Lonbay supported by our subject specialist librarian. This
 group supports staff with writing at every stage of their career. This includes supporting staff in
 identifying high-level international journals which are aligned with their research. Lonbay
 organises a CASS reading group to update staff with current and cutting-edge theoretical ideas
 applicable to professional practice and staff can contact Macdonald for advice on journal choice
 for publication. CASS has a working paper series in which papers are blind peer-reviewed. Each
 paper is reviewed by three academics, two senior and one junior. This process is designed to
 produce high-quality publications, but also to support staff in publishing their first article. Articles
 can be submitted multiple times until they achieve a publishable standard. The peer-review
 process is also designed to mentor junior members of staff, who have not encountered peer-review
 previously, through the process of peer-reviewing these articles. The current editor of the working
 papers is Deacon.

 The University’s Research Repository and Publishing Coordinator has provided numerous training
 sessions for CASS members, including regular drop-in sessions on the topic of REF compliance
 offered throughout 2016; workshops on SURE and REF compliance training in 2017; training
 sessions on an 'Introduction to Open Access' in 2019 and 2020. These sessions are designed to
 enable staff to learn about Open Access and the wider themes of Open Research, including Plan
 S requirements. This gives staff the knowledge to consider how open access impacts and benefits
 their work. These practical sessions give staff an understanding of open access, how to use the
 SURE repository, and demonstrate how the system complies with REF Open Access policies.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 A central aim of CASS is to develop high-quality internationally relevant applied social science
 research. Programmes such as Social Work, Criminology, History, Health and Social Care,
 Childhood Studies, Sociology, Youth and Community Work have engaged in application-relevant
 research that has bridged the gap between academia and practice. Examples of this research can
 be viewed in the descriptions below for senior and junior members of staff within CASS.

 Academic esteem and outreach engagement: Members of CASS are regularly called on to peer
 review articles for international journals (see table 4). They are also called on to review book
 proposals for publishers such as Palgrave, Routledge, Mcgill and Queen's University Press,
 Boydell and Brewer, and Bloomsbury. Senior Academics (i.e., Senior Lectures to Professors) in
 CASS are frequently called on to examine Ph.D.’s nationally and internationally. Examples of

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national external Ph.D. examinations have taken place at Loughborough University; University of
 East Anglia; Newcastle University; Edge Hill University; Leeds Beckett University; Northumbria
 University. Examples of international external examinations are Swinburne University of
 Technology (Australia); Rhodes University (South Africa).

  List of journals that have requested social science staff at
  Sunderland to peer review
  History
  Journal of Policy History
  Journal of American History
  American Journal of Legal History
  Immigrants and Minorities
  Journal of American Studies
  William Mary Quarterly
  The Seventeenth Century
  The London Journal
  Law and History Review
  Journal of Constructivist Psychology
  International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction
  AREA
  The International Review of Victimology
  Scandinavian Journal of Disability Research
  Howard League Journal
  Journal of Youth Studies
  Journal of Oñati Socio-Legal Series
  Journal of Intellectual Disabilities and Offending Behaviour
  Disability and Society
  Studies in Higher Education
  Dyslexia: An International Journal Of Research And Practice
  Journal of Substance Use and Misuse
  Journal of Special Education & Rehabilitation
  Journal of Marketing Communications
  First Monday: Journal of Internet Studies
  Journal of Risk and Society
  Journal of Police Science and Management
  Public Health
  Journal of Gender-Based Violence
  European Journal of Women’s Studies
  Geography Compass
  The Journal of Adult Protection
  The European Journal of Social Work
  Crime Media Culture
  City
  The Sociological Review
  The British Journal of Social Work
 Table 4: List of journals that have requested social science staff at Sunderland to peer review

 Staff currently engage in multiple forms of outreach work within professional practice as well as
 participating in and enhancing scholarly communities at a local, national, and international level.
 Examples of this can be seen in the following academics who are to be submitted to Unit 20:

 Macdonald's research broadly examines the intersectional relationships concerning disability and
 social exclusion. Macdonald’s research on neurodiversity and deprivation has been widely used
 by third-sector organisations locally, (i.e., Social Inclusion and Dyslexia Project) nationally
 (Dyslexia Adult Network), and internationally (Learning Disabilities Worldwide). Macdonald’s work


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on labelling and disability has been referred to by the World Health Organisation in the World
 Report on Disability. Because of his research, Macdonald was asked in 2016 to present at the
 Houses of Parliament's All-Party Parliamentary Group Debate on Dyslexia’. His research has also
 been part of successful campaigns led by the British Dyslexia Association in Parliament, some of
 these being discussed in the House of Lords. Macdonald has been the keynote speaker for
 numerous conferences such as the 24th World Congress on Learning Disabilities; Dyslexia
 Culture Conference; National Dyslexia Conference for Police Services; SEN Umbrella Group
 Public Event; and Dyslexia and Dyspraxia Skill-Share Conference. His work on diagnosis and
 labelling has been referred to at Cambridge University’s ESRC seminar series on ‘The Role of
 Diagnosis in Health and Wellbeing’ (published online). Macdonald was the Associate Editor of the
 international peer-reviewed journal Insights on Learning Disabilities (2015-18); an International
 Advisor for the Journal of Intellectual Disabilities (2012-2019); and is currently on the editorial
 board of the Scandinavian Journal of Disability Research. In May 2021 Macdonald will become
 the Associate Editor for the Scandinavian Journal of Disability Research. He has been part of
 several management teams including the British Sociological Association – North East Medical
 Sociology Group (2015–2017) and the Prison and Offender Research in Social Care and Health
 Network (PORSCH). Macdonald has reviewed numerous research project bids for the ESRC and
 peer-reviews for numerous international Journals. In 2019 he was a Visiting Fellow at the Faculty
 of Human Sciences, University of Cologne (Germany), and in 2020 has been an external reviewer
 for Professorial Academic Promotions at Maynooth University (Ireland). Macdonald has recently
 been interviewed by the Australian ‘Dear Dyslexic Foundation’ on dyslexia and inclusion and the
 Australian-based ‘Neurodiversity Media’ concerning his research on dyslexia and policing.

 McSorley's research expertise is in regional economic development, particularly EU Cohesion
 policy, and labour market issues, social inclusion, and wage inequalities. She has contributed to
 several EU-funded research projects and has delivered research and policy advice to the Scottish
 Government, European Commission, and the Council of the European Union. McSorley is a co-
 investigator of the ESRC Productivity Insights Network, where she is the Health, Wellbeing, and
 Demographic Change Theme Lead and Lead for supporting early career researchers. McSorley
 is a Coordinator of the EU Cohesion Policy Research Network. She is an Advisory Board Member
 for the Joint EU Cohesion Policy Conference organised by the European Commission,
 Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy, and the Presidency of the Council of the
 European Union. She is an Advisory Board Member on the ESRC Hub Productivity Outcomes of
 Workplace Practice, Engagement and Learning (PROPeL) and the Co-ordinator for the Regional
 Studies Association EU Cohesion Policy Research Network. McSorley’s international activities
 include being the organiser and the Chair of international research workshops including ‘The
 Social Dimensions of EU Cohesion Policy’ at the University of Lisbon. She was an invited speaker
 at the international policy-academic engagement event, European Week of Regions and Cities,
 7th Master Class, for 30 international Ph.D. students and EU policymaker’s in Brussels 2019. She
 presented at the European Week of Regions and Cities in Brussels between 2017 and 2020 on
 topics such as, ‘Applying a gender lens to Cohesion Policy’, ‘Policy effectiveness in response to
 development challenges for European regions’ and ‘Territorialising EU Cohesion Policy to bring it
 closer to citizens.’ Finally, McSorley has recently been writing a policy blog related to COVID 19
 pandemic response, with international colleagues, entitled ‘Cohesion Policy for Coronavirus, and
 Beyond’.

 Yuill’s primary research interests are in the intellectual history of the United States. He has
 explored issues including race and equality in the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries, attitudes
 to suicide and death, and attitudes to the possession of firearms. Yuill’s research into assisted
 suicide has led to him being invited to deliver a paper at the Royal Society of Arts. He has been
 invited to take part in debates in University College, Dublin; Cambridge; Oxford; Exeter, and
 University College London. Yuill has guest-edited Immigration and Minorities (special edition on
 Immigration, Race, and the US Federal Government). Yuill continues to participate in public
 debates on the issue of assisted dying. His research and activities relating to assisted suicide are
 drawn on nationally to inform debates in the media and politics (BBC Radio 4 The Moral Maze;
 The House of Lords Select Committee on the Assisted Dying for the Terminally Ill Bill.). He has
 also been invited to speak internationally at events to debate assisted suicide in the Netherlands

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (keynote speaker at an event to mark 15 years of euthanasia), gave testimony to the New Mexico
 Health and Human Services Committee, and spoke there at the Stop Assisted Suicide in Your
 State Conference, delivered the annual Telders lecture in Utrecht, and in providing written and
 verbal testimony for the Australian parliament and testimony before the Health Select Committee
 in New Zealand. His research has been cited in the American College of Physicians position
 paper, ‘Ethics and the legalization of physician-assisted suicide’, by the Schnabel Committee in
 the Netherlands in its decision to reject the provision of euthanasia to those over 75 who are ‘tired
 of life’, and in materials produced by the Australian Go Gentle campaign – Yuill features in one of
 their podcasts. This research has also been cited in reports in the Economist, The Daily Telegraph,
 The Independent; The Spectator (both in the UK and Australia), and in Canada’s National Post.
 Yuill has been interviewed by the Dutch newspaper, Trouw, the Danish newspaper Dagblad, and
 the Belgian magazine Knack.

 Lonbay's research interests are related to adult abuse and safeguarding, older people and
 ageing, empowerment and vulnerability, and engagement and participation. Lonbay has shared
 her research at international conferences (including at the European Conference for Social Work
 Research) and presented her work at Malmo University, Sweden, as part of a short course that
 examines social work practice within different national and international contexts. Lonbay is a
 member of an international group, The European Network of Gerontological Social Work (a
 European Social Work Research Association [ESWRA] special interest group) which is committed
 to strengthening the position of gerontological social work in Europe. She is also a member of the
 ESWRA special interest group on Service User Involvement which explores the participation of
 service users in social work research and social work education. Lonbay is a peer reviewer for
 several international journals. Lonbay is currently working with an academic from Northumbria
 University to undertake research for the Newcastle Safeguarding Adults Board on domestic abuse
 in the older population.

 Bowler’s primary research interests are in anti-racist youth and community work practice and
 countering the everyday myths and misrepresentations of ‘race’ and the racial logics that justify
 the perpetuation of old and new racisms. Bowler’s research involved a two-year nationally funded
 ‘locally delivered’ project in Sunderland focused on participative anti-racist youth work approaches
 to bring young working-class people together across the racial divides in the City. This research
 was written up in a national report by the National Youth Agency and presented at youth
 conferences in Leicester, Belfast, and Essen, Germany. This work was followed up with a
 participatory approach to hearing the voices of refugees on the policy and practice of Integration.
 This was a transnational European-funded project involving research with refugees and asylum
 seekers in Newcastle upon Tyne, Rieti in Italy, and Dublin. This work was written up as a
 transnational report for the Council of Europe and the findings presented in Italy, Eire and England
 as well as a European conference on Integration in Helsinki, Finland. Bowler has also produced a
 series of podcasts drawn from his research work that has attracted a local, national and
 international audience.

 Durey, an early career researcher, researches post-industrial cities and urban culture, cultural and
 creative industries, urban identities, landscapes, and every-day practices. He has also carried out
 research on experiences and landscapes of inequality, interpersonal violence, and resistance in
 the North of England and the North of Germany. His research on the North East Domestic Abuse
 Project informed national and international debate of interpersonal violence through the Northern
 Rock Seminar Series and contributed towards continuing knowledge-building and transfer work
 between domestic violence and abuse and LGBT organisations. The research he carried out
 investigating student experiences of interpersonal violence has informed Sunderland City Council
 decisions on urban redevelopment as well as feeding into a broader discussion of student safety
 at universities nationally and internationally. He has been invited to present his research on cultural
 landscapes and urban regeneration to the Tyne and Wear Geography Association and been
 invited to provide evidence to the Green Party on cultural and urban development.

 Hellawell’s research interests relate to women's and gender history, and the histories of social
 movements, internationalism, activism, and other themes in British social history in the 19th and

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 20th Centuries. Hellawell, an early career researcher, has been involved in the ‘British Ex-Service
 Students and the Re-Building of Europe, 1918-1926’ project with colleagues at UCL, Newcastle,
 and Northumbria universities since 2017. This project has community partners with the National
 Union of Students and the Workers’ Educational Association North East. In addition to academic
 publications, this project has included workshops and pop-up exhibitions at NUS conferences
 around the UK. Hellawell is a member of the Women’s History Network Steering Committee as
 the online seminar convenor. She runs the Network’s seminars, which include national and
 internationally-recognised historians. The Women’s History Network is the UK’s leading academic
 society for researchers in women’s and gender history.

 Rodgers’ research interests and practice are centred on criminological and politico-economic
 issues of real and imagined forms of harm arising from the widespread adoption of digital and
 social media. An early career researcher, Rodgers has co-authored research articles relating to
 this field in the British Journal of Criminology and co-presented this work at conferences in
 Leeds, York, and Newcastle Universities. In addition to this, he is also an active member of the
 Deviant Leisure Research Network, through which he has been invited to present his work and
 take part in conference panel debates on online pornography and violence in video games at the
 universities of Plymouth, Leeds, and Sheffield. Within this international research network, his co-
 authored research has been discussed and debated in the official Deviant Leisure blog and at
 the annual conference of 2018. In conjunction with the completion of his Ph.D. in 2016/17, he
 was invited to contribute to panel discussions at the University of York, abstract reviewing, and
 conference organisation for the ESRC ISRF Critique and Critiques series, for which he was also
 an invited speaker. Recently, he has become an active member and invited future panel host
 and editor for the International Law and Political Economy Research Network (LPE) housed at
 Yale Law School, USA. Rodgers has also conducted peer review work on multiple occasions for
 several internationally recognised journals.




                                                                                            Page 12
