Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA18, Law

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 a. Birmingham Law School (BLS): Civic, Global, Diverse

 Situated within the College of Arts and Law (CAL) at the University of Birmingham (UoB), BLS is
 one of the UK’s largest law schools, with 1,499 students (1,339 LLB; 69 LL.M; 91 PhD), and 79
 staff, including 46 REF-eligible academics. All 46 staff submitted in this UoA are members of
 BLS and no BLS staff are submitted elsewhere. Our organisational environment seeks to
 support the success of every member, nourishing ethically principled, rigorous legal research
 that contributes to flourishing human lives wherever situated.

 We are a civic, global and diverse law school. These core attributes, and their concomitant
 values, underpin who we are, how we self-organise and drive our research activities and
 ambition. This guiding mission builds on our history of trailblazing research. It reflects the spirit of
 Gordon Woodman’s work on legal pluralism and the post-colonial search for justice in the 1970s,
 Baldwin and McConville’s ground-breaking empirical study of plea bargaining under the
 auspices of the Institute of Judicial Administration from 1968, and the establishment of the UK’s
 first Institute of European Law in 1989. Drawing on this creative, critical pioneering tradition, a
 swathe of innovative researchers joined this REF period, reflecting BLS’s continuing dynamism.

 UoB is the country’s first civic university. Today that civic orientation underpins our efforts to
 engage affected communities to produce impactful research addressing issues of public
 concern. Our research seeks to have demonstrable, positive societal impact, particularly by
 identifying, redressing and seeking to prevent injustice through engaging law. Our on-going
 partnerships with the legal community, particularly through our flagship Centre for Professional
 Legal Education and Research (CEPLER), exemplify how we operationalise these commitments
 (§4).

 Our global focus extends this civic orientation to national, regional and international levels,
 including the Global South. This REF period, we have developed unrivalled expertise in global
 legal studies, with implications for our staffing (§2), funding successes (§3) and collaborative
 partnerships (§4). This global orientation nurtures and contributes to sustaining law as a
 theoretically grounded yet applied discipline, reflected in our public engagement activities, the
 provision of transnational doctoral training (§2, §4) and our impact case studies (ICSs) (§1(d)).

 Diversity is fundamental to who we are and what we strive to be, reflecting our belief in
 pluralism, belonging and equal respect as necessary conditions to enable human flourishing. It
 informs our composition, recruitment strategy and research culture, underpinning our wide-
 ranging Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) initiatives and our outlook as a community of
 legal researchers with widely varying interests and perspectives. These plural perspectives
 include qualitative, doctrinal, theoretical, socio-legal, feminist, environmental, post-colonial,
 quantitative and interdisciplinary approaches. We unite this work via a shared commitment to
 meaningful engagement with diverse communities which are impacted by the law, while
 addressing pressing societal challenges. These challenges include the commodification of
 human bodies (Quigley; McHale); thorny governance challenges posed by new technologies
 (Delacroix; Lee; Webley; Yeung); the limits of legal and policy responses to counter-terrorism
 (de Londras; Greene; Morgan); and the possibilities of multilingual law (Cavoski, McAuliffe).

 b. Research Organisation and Structure

 We have a collaborative, shared leadership and governance structure, guided by commitment to
 academic rigour, ethical integrity and equal opportunity. As a large school, clear decision-making
 structures and open deliberation are essential for securing our research ambitions in an

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 effective, supportive and participatory manner. The Head of Research (HoR, Bedford), who
 shares leadership with a Deputy (Mavronicola), has overall responsibility for research (§2).
 Leadership is further devolved to three post-holders: one responsible for research culture and
 environment (Talbot, REF Environment Lead), one for supporting and developing impact
 (Boyron) (§1(d), §3(c)) and one for research funding (Young) (§3(a)), with PGR provision led by
 a Head of PGR (Tripkovic), a Deputy Head for PGR Funding and Recruitment (Child) and
 Deputy Head for PGR Environment (Fairclough). Bedford chairs the School Research
 Committee (SRC) and enables alignment between School, College, and University research
 priorities as a member of the CAL Research and Knowledge Transfer Committee. The SRC
 steers and supports the School’s research, meeting up to six times annually. All colleagues, and
 a PGR representative, are invited to attend SCR and contribute agenda items. PGRs also
 participate in the CAL Student-Staff Committee and the School’s PGR Board, meeting termly.
 These arrangements, together with all-staff ‘town hall’ meetings, and research away-days,
 encourage inclusive decision-making while nourishing a palpable sense of community.

 Our vibrant research environment is structured to encourage exchange, including via weekly
 BLS seminars, regular ‘shut up and write’ collective writing sessions, and high-profile symposia
 and conferences (§4). In particular, our research is organised into six cross-cutting research
 themes (Themes), in which our formalised research institutes and centres, and less-formal
 research groups, sit. These dynamic research-communities-in-miniature provide a stable,
 structured yet flexible and responsive fora for scholarly debate, fostering connection and
 dialogue across researchers at all levels of seniority and with many different perspectives.
 Themes offer regular opportunities for discussion, intergenerational exchange, collaboration and
 network-building without dictating research priorities or stifling creativity. They support, and are
 invigorated by, their connections to our research centres, institutes, and groups, preventing
 ‘silos’ in our research.

 Our Themes are:

    1.      Care, Relationships, Health (including the Centre for Health Law Science and Policy
            and the Gender and Law Group)
    2.      Language, Culture and Education (including CEPLER and the Law and Language
            Group)
    3.      Law, Governance, Economy (including the Institute of European Law, the Technology
            and Ethics, and Governance and Regulation of Commerce and Corporations Groups)
    4.      Jurisprudence and Applied Theory (including the Natural Law and the Jurisprudence
            Groups)
    5.      Human Rights, Development, and Global Legal Studies (including the Global Legal
            Studies and International Economic Law and Policy Groups)
    6.      Violence, Crime, Justice (including the Institute of Judicial Administration, the Centre
            for Crime, Justice and Policing, and the BLS Crime Group).

 Each Theme is co-led by a staff member and PGR student, with £500/year to support theme
 activities. At the BLS Annual Research Conference, all six Themes come together to celebrate
 and share our research, with at least one-third of the papers presented by PGRs.

 Themes reflect a mix of long-standing (e.g. in health, crime, and legal education) and emerging
 strengths (e.g. human rights, technology, and law and language), bringing new perspectives and
 insights to established research areas. For example, post-colonial approaches enrich
 international law (Theme#5); feminist perspectives challenge traditional understandings of
 healthcare (Theme#1); Marxist perspectives provoke conventional theories of corporate law
 (Theme#3).

 Our Themes also enhance our capacity to initiate, deepen, and sustain interdisciplinary
 connections. Themes members have forged links with science (medicine, environmental
 science, computing, chemistry), social science (political economy, sociology, management,
 criminology) and humanities (philosophy, literature, history, languages). They comprise a key

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 plank of our broader approach to supporting interdisciplinary research, which also includes
 investing heavily in interdisciplinary hires (§1(c)ii and §2(a)(i)); effective support for
 interdisciplinary funding bids (§3(a)) and collaborations (§4(a)); future plans to embed impact
 leads in research Themes to enhance our interdisciplinary engagement (§1(d)); and investment
 in interdisciplinary teaching to help sustain the vitality of law and bring legal insights to other
 fields (§4(d)). BLS staff have also enthusiastically participated in the University’s interdisciplinary
 initiatives (§3(b)), working in conjunction with the Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS) and
 Institute for Global Innovation (IGI) (REF5a-2.3) to mount coordinated responses to cross-
 cutting, rapidly-evolving contemporary events or crises that require theoretically-informed, legal
 expertise and to engage in horizon scanning to identify emerging needs and opportunities for
 both researcher and user communities.

 The Covid-19 pandemic has undoubtedly reduced individual research time, requiring teaching,
 and student and staff welfare, to take priority. Nevertheless, the underlying principles informing
 our research strategy remain unchanged, albeit paying greater attention to EDI risks, given the
 pandemic’s unevenly distributed impacts. Our collective research activities continued remotely,
 including weekly seminars and research Theme meetings (e.g. Byrne’s presentation on
 language and populism). To maintain an inclusive community throughout the prolonged period of
 remote working, we introduced new activities, including a weekly reading group at which children
 were welcome.

 c. Meeting our Strategic Aims since 2014

 We have achieved all three strategic aims proposed in 2014: (1) to produce high-quality
 publications, some with impact; (2) to recruit high-quality staff and doctoral researchers; and (3)
 to increase research income.

 (1) We have produced a range of high-quality publications. Since 2014, our rich portfolio of
 published research has included scholarly monographs, peer-reviewed articles, commissioned
 reports, and ‘grey’ policy-oriented literature. Our publications have received (SLSA Article Prize
 2018: Enright; Hart/SLSA Book Prize 2020: Bedford) or been shortlisted (SLSA Book Prize
 2017: Clark; SLSA ECR Prize 2017: Campbell; SLS Birks Outstanding Legal Scholarship 2018:
 Greene) for major awards, evidencing outstanding research quality, with many publications cited
 by superior courts and policy-makers (§4).

 (2) We recruited high-quality staff, 46 Category A, up from 33 in REF2014, expanding existing
 strengths and developing new cutting-edge expertise (§2). New colleagues joined at every level,
 from those straight from doctorates or post-doctoral posts (Campbell, Fairclough, Warwick), to
 those joining as Chairs (Bedford, de Londras, Gray, Lee, Quigley, Talbot, Webley, Yeung). Our
 recruitment was supported by the University’s investment in Birmingham Fellows (Krajewska,
 McAuliffe) and Professorial Fellows (Delacroix) offering relief from administration and teaching
 (see REF5a-3.4.1). Along with Computer Science, Law was awarded the University’s first
 flagship Interdisciplinary Chair (Yeung), reflecting our strategic investment in impactful
 interdisciplinary research within the burgeoning subfield of law and technology. We also
 recruited exceptional doctoral students, achieving more timely completion, fuller integration and
 winning significantly increased funding (§2(c)).

 (3) We achieved outstanding growth in research awards, with a sixteen-fold increase from
 £262,428 in REF2014 to £4,196,671 in REF2021. This was achieved by cultivating a research
 environment that enables grant applications by fostering intellectual ambition and the desire to
 undertake impactful research, rather than using performance targets as incentives. We promote
 resilience by offering funding-related skills training and support to researchers at all career
 levels, and by targeting diverse funding sources (§3).

 d. Impact Strategy



                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School’s impact strategy is underpinned by our civic mission, seeking to engage with
 affected communities to produce impactful research that supports the flourishing of human lives
 wherever situated. Our strategy seeks to mainstream engagement with users through each
 stage of the research process, including the formation of research questions, encouraging an
 iterative, collaborative, and participatory approach that values the expertise of all stakeholders,
 supported by strategic research dissemination to generate real-world impact (§3).

 Impact considerations are strategically integrated into our research activities via staff induction,
 BLS seminars, research Theme activities, research ‘away days’, and individual five-year
 research plans. We also deepen impact awareness and expertise via Performance and
 Development Reviews (PDRs) and mentoring (§2). We offer skills training to all staff, with four of
 our six ICS leads undertaking specialist media training provided by UoB (de Londras, Enright,
 Harding, Mavronicola). We appointed a full-time Research Development Officer (RDO, Gardner)
 with expertise in legal research and impact to communicate about our research more
 intentionally and responsively. By reinvigorating our website and enhancing our social media
 presence, we publicly communicate our research widely and rapidly. Our School Twitter feed
 (@bhamlaw) is now the third-most followed UK Law School on Twitter (source: Follower Wonk).

 Our ICSs reflect the effectiveness of our impact strategy. Taken together, they showcase the
 wide-ranging, diverse and global impact of our research, and they demonstrate significant
 changes to law and institutional practices at local, national, and global levels. Research
 underpinning our ICSs has been relied upon by governments around the world (de Londras and
 Enright, Harding, Mavronicola), international organisations (Mavronicola, Freedman), judges, the
 police, and barristers (Harding, Mavronicola), and the third sector (e.g. local and national
 charities per Harding, grassroots activists per de Londras and Enright, and international NGOs
 per Mavronicola). One of our ICSs (Freedman) involved an interdisciplinary collaboration with
 Development Studies (Freedman, Lemay-Hébert); another (Harding) involved work with
 psychiatrists and those treating patients with brain injuries.

 To sustain our future impact work, we are appointing impact leads to embed impact in each
 research Theme, to ensure resilience and enhance our interdisciplinary engagement. We have
 also committed to fostering ethical understandings of research impact. Pipeline impact projects
 are underway, led by colleagues at all career stages: from Warwick’s work, begun as a new
 lecturer, on the need for post-Brexit legal reforms in the common travel area, to Yeung’s career-
 long work on technology governance. Our impact strategy includes a strong commitment to
 diverse forms of open research practices.

 e. Open Access Research

 Commitment to open access (OA) publishing forms part of our research and impact strategy.
 Beyond basic REF requirements, we have published twelve ‘gold open access’ pieces,
 representing an investment of £20,987, of which £13,752 was funded internally. Colleagues
 have published 423 pieces of open research online through formal publishing outlets. OA articles
 and conference papers increased as a percentage of all BLS articles and conference papers
 from 28% in 2014 to 45% in 2020. Several colleagues have lead the development of ‘platinum’
 open access publishing platforms, including Campbell as founding editor of Oxford Human
 Rights Hub Journal and Enright with feminists@law. Under #BLSopen we showcase open-
 access research on Twitter and contribute significantly to institutional open access channels,
 including 74 articles in UoB’s The Conversation (with a combined total of 445,131 reads), and
 numerous article summaries on CAL’s ‘Two-Minute Reads’ webpages (linked to OA articles). We
 embrace open research practices, with several PIs on large grants depositing their research
 datasets with national or international repositories for public access (Bedford, Harding,
 McAuliffe).

 f. Research Integrity



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have robust organisational structures to ensure research integrity. All research involving
 human subjects (including undergraduate-level work) must be submitted for research ethics
 review via the University’s on-line portal, which escalates in intensity of review depending on the
 risks posed. Misconduct allegations are handled by the School and University (REF5a-2.2). BLS
 staff are members of the Humanities and Social Sciences Ethics Committee, with eleven serving
 this REF period. School arrangements that contextualise institution-wide ethics guidance for
 legal research are led by McHale, a senior medical lawyer who also helped develop a new
 College-wide Risk Assessment and Mitigation strategy in 2019. All staff are reminded of their
 duty to comply with UoB policy on research data management and storage (requiring use of
 UoB’s secure portal) and applicable laws. New staff induction includes research integrity
 training, complemented by an annual research integrity seminar. Research ethics guidance is
 communicated via our online platform, Canvas. PGRs undertake compulsory research ethics
 training, reinforced by progress review, monitoring, and annual development needs processes
 (§2).

 g. Beyond 2021: Our Aims for the Future

 For the coming census period, we seek to deliver, in a sustainable and inclusive way, a range of
 diverse, civically engaged, global-facing, world-leading research, impact and doctoral education.
 To this end, our strategic aims are to:
     1. undertake rigorous, innovative research that values all theoretical, methodological, and
         interdisciplinary approaches to law, supported by an enabling research-governance
         structure and sustainable research funding;
     2. support, progress, and retain excellent researchers, ensuring that staff workloads are
         manageable and all colleagues enjoy equal opportunities to excel;
     3. recruit and support outstanding and diverse doctoral and post-doctoral researchers,
         integrating them into our community;
     4. pursue sustainable global connections, in and beyond the discipline of law, including via
         strategic engagement with research partners in the Global South;
     5. deepen a culture of ethical impact;
     6. connect CEPLER’s work on legal education and the professions more tightly to our
         research and impact strategy.

 Many elements of our research environment are being adapted accordingly, including our impact
 strategy (§1(d)), our support for staff and PGR students (§2), our funding approach (§3), and our
 work with research collaborators and partners (§4).

 To further support these aims, we will

        (i) enrich research Theme activities, encouraging synergies in related subject areas, and
              between disciplines, to deepen and diversify our perspectives, both to attract funding
              and to sustain the vitality of the discipline;
        (ii) initiate a review of our global research connections, identifying geographical and
              research areas for strategic development that complement our research strengths
              and opportunities for impact;
        (iii) initiate a review of CEPLER’s research and impact to ensure that its pedagogical and
              pro-bono activities are better integrated with our research and impact strategy.

 2. People

 a. Staff

 Since 2014, our staffing strategy has sought to (i) recruit staff to enhance existing research
 strengths while cultivating innovative, emerging fields of research; (ii) support each member’s
 development and progression; and (iii) improve staff diversity and equalise opportunities.
 Today, we have a mix of senior and junior staff (16 Lecturers and Senior Lecturers; 30 Readers


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Professors) from diverse backgrounds within a thriving, open and collegiate community,
 evidencing successful implementation of our strategy.

    (i)     Recruitment Strategy

 Our recruitment has targeted five substantive areas. First, we built on existing expertise in
 international law (e.g. Cryer), developing a unique specialism in global legal studies (Campbell,
 de Londras, Gonzalez-Salzberg, Mavronicola, Nsoh, Shahabuddin, Tripkovic, Warwick).
 Second, we supplemented BLS’s historical strength in health law and ethics (e.g. McHale,
 McIvor) with cutting-edge, interdisciplinary expertise in science and technology in and beyond
 the medical and national domains (Delacroix, Enright, Krajewska, Lee, Quigley, Webley, Yeung).
 Third, we deepened BLS’s existing expertise in criminal law and criminal justice, incorporating
 theoretical and international approaches (Child, Greene, Jones) and recruiting early-career
 researchers (ECR) (Bendall, Fairclough, Morgan) to enhance sustainability. Fourth, we
 invigorated existing private law expertise with diverse theoretical and international approaches in
 the law of contract, IP and corporate governance (Mitchell, Talbot, Zhu). Finally, we deepened
 investment in interdisciplinary research, hiring researchers who investigate intersections
 between law and other fields, including linguistics (McAuliffe), political economy (Bedford),
 transitional justice (Clark), and computing (Yeung).

    (ii)    Career Development

 We provide extensive career-development support through regular personalised and specialised
 support for all researchers. Our career-development strategy is overseen by the Deputy HoS
 (Staffing and Strategy) (DHoSSS, Shahabuddin) assisted by our Staff Development Lead
 (Coyle) who oversees our Mentoring programme and Performance Development Review (PDR)
 process. Support is available from the moment of joining, for colleagues in all career stages.
 Hence PDRAs, including those employed on externally-funded projects, receive induction and
 mentoring, and are encouraged to participate actively in research Themes, as are new staff
 entering at more senior levels. PDRAs are represented on SRC, and may attend a regular
 postdoctoral forum (established in 2019) to discuss issues of concern and build horizontal
 support networks. PIs who manage PDRAs receive detailed guidance on responsibilities under
 the Researcher Development Concordat, to help PDRAs cultivate independent research
 identities. We also launched a Peer Review College (PRC) in 2015, enabling BLS academic
 staff to receive detailed written feedback on their pre-submission papers and manuscripts.
 Although formed primarily to support ECRs, it is open to all colleagues, including non REF-
 eligible staff seeking feedback on practice-or teaching-oriented publications.

 Personalised career development support

 All staff receive personalised support via 1-1 meetings with various portfolio-holders. The
 DHoSSS offers individual progression-planning meetings for all staff seeking progression and
 promotion, also meeting those who have not been promoted for many years. REF-eligible staff
 also prepare a five-year research plan discussed with the HoR during annual meetings aimed at
 nurturing individual research development, while facilitating the School’s longer-term research
 planning. Every member undertakes an annual PDR (optional for PDRAs), reflecting on the
 previous year and setting short- and medium-term objectives (including for research funding and
 publication) arrived at in discussion with their reviewer. HoS reviews all PDR reports to identify
 support and training needs, including nominating colleagues for research and leadership training
 at College and University level (REF5a-3.4.4). All non-professorial staff receive regular
 mentoring from a senior member who has received specialised training, supported by a
 mentoring policy which clearly outlines minimum expectations, including the provision of
 detailed feedback on draft promotion applications. ECRs receive intensified mentoring to
 support probation.

 Impact Support


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Impact Lead (Boyron) meets all new staff individually to discuss their impact and public
 engagement plans. Individualised assistance is also provided by our Funding Lead (Young) (§3),
 who offers guidance on possible partnership and knowledge co-production opportunities with
 non-academic partners (§4). Impact support is also provided collectively, through induction,
 School seminars, and research ‘away days’. We offer and encourage impact training to all staff
 and have developed our own specialist School-level training in response to needs identified by
 our researchers. For example, we ran an impact event in 2018 – attended by over 40 people –
 addressing the risks of online public engagement, including abuse, harassment, and trolling,
 following unwelcome targeting of colleagues for their research on gender equality. As part of our
 research communications strategy (§1), we are committed to showcasing our research
 impacts fairly, equitably and inclusively. Our website, marketing materials, and social media
 feature a wide cross-section of staff and students, including images that reflect BLS’s diverse
 identity curated by our Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team (§2) following its website review in
 2018-19.

 Promotion

 BLS’s Promotions Committee, chaired by the DHoSSS, evaluates Senior Lecturer
 applications. It is gender-balanced with BAME representation and includes the School’s EDI
 officer as an ex officio member (§2(a)(iv)). Unsuccessful applicants receive detailed feedback
 from the Committee to guide and assist them in achieving promotion. Reader and Chair
 applications are assessed by CAL’s gender-balanced Promotions Committee, chaired by the
 Head of College. UoB has made research impact a prioritised criterion in promotion (REF5a-
 3.4.6), reflecting its central importance to our research. A bank of successful promotion
 applications is available (with consent) online to assist the writing of promotion applications, and
 we organise an annual promotion roundtable within our weekly seminar series.

    (iii)    Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion

 Since 2014, we have become a more equal, diverse, and inclusive law school. This is among
 our proudest achievements. In 2014, women accounted for 50% of research-active staff in BLS,
 and 42% of the professoriate (5 of 12). By July 2020, women comprised 61% of research-active
 staff, and 64% of the professoriate (14 of 22). Three professors are BAME, 3 identify as
 LGBTQAI+, and 14 are parents (9 with school-going age or younger children). At least 13% of
 our REF-eligible staff are BAME (4% of our colleagues do not identify their ethnicity), up slightly
 from 12% in 2014. Of the 46 Cat-A staff returned for this REF, 61% are women; 11% have a
 declared disability. BLS is considerably more diverse than legal academia generally, which
 Advance HE reports as 89.4% White, and 48.6% male. The latest HESA statistics indicate that
 5.8% of academic staff have a declared disability. Between 2015 and 2019, 16 men and 17
 women applied for promotion at BLS. (Some applied more than once). 44% of men’s
 applications succeeded, compared to 76% of women’s. Having discerned that women typically
 seek more feedback before applying for promotion than men, we encouraged men to do likewise
 to help them accurately appraise their likelihood of promotion.

 We adopt EDI best practices in recruitment. Candidates are not ranked until all information is
 collected (to avoid confirmation bias). Our selection panels are diverse. We participate in UoB’s
 BAME Network’s interview panel project, matching us with volunteer BAME external panel
 members. Candidates with declared disabilities who meet the essential criteria for a role are
 shortlisted. Our policy principles for pay offers to new colleagues are published on Canvas.

 EDI concerns have been considered in REF output selection. Our internal REF reading group
 (10 women and 5 men, all Professors or Readers) evaluates all published work proposed by
 REF-eligible staff; work is scored by two readers and moderated by a third. Our Output Selection
 Group (4 women and 1 man, all Professors or Readers) selects outputs for inclusion, with
 University oversight of the final selection. All Selection Group members and REF readers are
 trained in EDI, including in unconscious bias and the risks of overestimating significance due to
 self-citation. In line with the UoB REF Code of Practice (4.4), BLS actively supported colleagues

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to disclose circumstances affecting research productivity to EDAP and receive a corresponding
 REF output reduction. BLS also undertook an EDI analysis of its output portfolio in accord with
 the REF CoP, 4.1.4.g.

 We were granted an Athena Swan Bronze award in 2020. We used the application process
 proactively to reflect on the shortcomings of our response to inequality, identifying ways to
 improve our practices and infrastructure. Our Self-Assessment Team (SAT) included colleagues
 with caring responsibilities, experience of parental and bereavement leave and disability
 accommodations. It ran a staff survey to identify core concerns and hosted focus groups on
 caring, parenting, workload, and workplace culture, resulting in better integration of equalities
 work into BLS governance structures. EDI is now overseen by DHoSSS (Shahabuddin), and the
 Equalities and Diversity Officer (EDO) (Oakley). Student and staff-facing issues have been
 folded into a single EDI Committee, chaired by Oakley, who oversees progress on the AS action
 plan (a standing item on the School Committee agenda) and who ensures alignment with the
 University’s EDI policy (REF5a-3.4.5).

 We support parents by publicising parental leave information on Canvas, and by offering
 standardised support following notification of pregnancy or adoption. The HoS (i) undertakes a
 risk assessment, including risk of overwork in late pregnancy; (ii) refers staff to HR for leave
 entitlement advice; (iii) discusses cover arrangements to ensure smooth handover; and (iv)
 discusses Keeping in Touch days entitling individuals to be paid for work-related activity during
 leave. Maternity-leave periods are counted as eligible time in study leave applications. Since
 2016, those taking parental leave for six months or more are entitled to one semester’s
 remission for one ‘leg’ of their contract on return, giving them time to refocus on either teaching
 or research. Seven colleagues have used this. Breastfeeding support is available with three
 ‘nursing mothers’ rooms available nearby, and through ad hoc solutions including the installation
 of private office refrigerators to store breastmilk.

 Colleagues can apply for part-time or flexible working arrangements for any reason. These
 arrangements include compressed on-campus working days, health-related breaks, and
 timetable adjustments to accommodate school/nursery times and religious observance. Flexible
 Working Guidelines are published on Canvas, with individual arrangements made in discussion
 with HoS. The Athena Swan survey revealed that colleagues’ requests are accommodated.
 Some are granted adjustments to meet identified needs through occupational health or wellbeing
 assessments while others have arranged a phased return following illness. Where desired, we
 have enabled colleagues reducing their hours on approaching retirement to retain a substantive
 research connection to the School through fractional contracts.

 We recognise that a major stumbling block for achieving meaningful workplace EDI is
 inadequate transparency and accountability in the distribution of burdens and
 opportunities among staff. We advertise all substantial leadership roles (.2FTE or more)
 inviting applications, and, following interview, allocate roles based on availability, experience,
 and career development needs. College roles are also advertised, and we encourage our
 colleagues to apply. BLS Professors have acted as College Director of PGR (Dragneva-Lewers)
 and Education (Arnull) this REF period. The School’s application of UoB’s transparent workload
 allocation model (WAM) aims at ensuring equitable workload-sharing, with the model’s
 underpinning principles publicised in advance, enabling colleagues to benchmark against the
 School profile. We seek to avoid the normalisation of overwork, since it damages staff
 morale and welfare, and we aim to address hidden work that often deepens inequality. We
 encourage open discussions of workload, including at dedicated School seminars in 2017 and
 2019, and at the 2019 Education Away Day. Academics can raise overwork concerns with the
 HoS at any time. PDR forms ask staff to reflect on work-life balance, including whether annual
 leave was taken in the preceding year. Mentors are encouraged to discuss workload pressures
 with mentees, and to suggest strategies for addressing unreasonable workload.

 As a matter of BLS policy, research events do not ordinarily run after 4pm and our social events
 typically occur on-site during working hours. Our Internal Research Events Policy includes

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practical measures around disability and neurodiversity accessibility, equitable sharing of unpaid
 administrative and hospitality work associated with research events, curating diverse panels,
 and welcoming attitudes to childcare needs. To support EDI and fair working practices, we
 discourage funding applications that generate researcher contracts of under twelve months.
 Where such contracts arise, we seek to extend them to at least twelve months, with three such
 contracts renewed for 2020-21. UoB does not use zero-hours contracts for academics. All our
 UoA18 REF-eligible staff are on permanent contracts.

 b. Research Students

 The PhD programme is a crucial element of our research strategy. Our ambition is to equip PhD
 candidates with the skills needed to independently pursue rigorous, ethically-conducted
 research, thereby contributing to the sustainability and vitality of the discipline. Our PGR strategy
 seeks to (i) recruit talented PhD candidates, offering dedicated assistance in seeking funding
 support; (ii) ensure the provision of excellent supervision with a robust monitoring and
 progression framework; and (iii) nurture and sustain a vibrant, diverse and inclusive PGR
 community, supported by a dedicated career development programme, which is are well-
 integrated into the wider School and University community. To this end, we have invested
 significant resources to revitalise our PhD provision since 2014. Over the REF period, a total of
 61.35 PhDs were awarded, increasing from 8 in 2013/14 to an average of 10.5 per year between
 2016/17 and 2019/20. During the REF period our PhD students benefited from 45 full-time
 equivalent scholarships, from diverse sources including internal (UoB, College) and external
 funding (AHRC, ESRC, other). We did not award any research-based professional doctorates
 during the assessment period.

 Recruitment and admissions

 We aim to attract excellent PhD candidates via internal progression of BLS students and from
 elsewhere. We undertake various outreach activities, including open days, organizing annual
 ‘Spotlight’ events to provide UG and PGT students insight into PGR at BLS and academic
 careers more generally, presenting PhD possibilities at LLM induction talks, and running
 research proposal writing workshops for potential PhDs. Given that the PhD funding
 environment is dynamic and highly competitive, we offer personalised support to individuals
 seeking funding, particularly through the AHRC-M4C and ESRC.

 Supervision and training

 We have a robust framework for ensuring that PhD students receive high-quality supervision.
 Every student has a lead supervisor, with principal responsibility for intellectual direction, and a
 co-supervisor, providing complementary expertise. All supervisors undertake supervision training
 and take a bi-annual refresher course. Supervisions must occur at least monthly, with monthly
 supervision reports kept to ensure transparency and accountability. PhD students undertake
 annual formal progress reviews, enabling us to provide targeted support where needed,
 including from the School and College Welfare teams which include specialist PGR welfare
 tutors. As students near the end of their doctorates, we provide practice vivas additional to
 supervisor guidance.

 Attendance at weekly BLS research training and developmental workshops is mandatory for
 first-year PhD students. These cover methodology, ethics, data management, presentation
 skills, and the publication process, while providing a regular opportunity for students to meet and
 exchange ideas. Workshop materials/recordings are available on Canvas to assist distance-
 learning PhDs and those with caring responsibilities. Students also complete an annual
 development needs assessment, discussed with and approved by their supervisor, to identify
 specific training needs, including in academic writing, public engagement, impact, and specialist
 research methods. In their first year, all PhDs present their work to the BLS PGR Forum. They
 receive supportive, developmental comments by an academic staff member and a later-stage
 candidate from a similar field.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Nurturing community

 Fostering meaningful connections and a sense of belonging is foundational to our strategy to
 integrate PhD students into the School’s larger research community. In 2016, we created a new
 portfolio, Deputy Head for PGR Environment (Fairclough) who is responsible for cultivating a
 vibrant and supportive PhD environment. She offers mentoring to all PhD students, including by
 meeting with candidates individually every semester. We actively encourage PhD-led initiatives,
 including workshops, conferences, and lunchtime seminars, and active participation in Theme
 activities (§1). Together with PGR Forums, these offer PGRs valuable opportunities to develop
 their research presentation skills and receive constructive feedback from supportive, interested
 peers in an informal setting. These initiatives also foster research connections between PhDs
 and staff, helping integrate them into our larger research community. We endeavour to apply our
 staff-facing principles of flexibility, equality, and inclusion to our PhD students and support their
 participation in the wider research community beyond BLS, providing them with £22,884 during
 the REF period which enabled individual candidates to travel widely (including to Japan,
 Belgium, Ghana and Canada) for research purposes, including conference attendance to
 present their research and build networks, and to undertake fieldwork. PGR students can also
 seek funding from CAL’s PGR research support fund, of which at least £13,140 supported Law
 students during this REF period.

 Thanks partly to our inclusive outreach, our PhD community is highly diverse. For example, of
 the 66 PhD students in BLS at 31/7/20, 36 were women, 14 students declared a disability, 32
 indicated that their ethnicity was non-White, 20 were part-time, and 26 had Overseas-fee status.
 As full members of our research community, we provide PhD students with Leave of Absence
 from registration status for maternity leave, and other health and disability needs. Long before
 Covid-19, we offered supervision by Skype for students facing difficulties in attending in person
 due to caring responsibilities, ill-health or disability.

 Career development beyond BLS

 Following the identification of PGR students’ desire for better careers advice, PhDs now have
 access to specialist careers support provided by the Careers Network within the University
 Academic Service (REF5a-3.2). This offers a range of resources, including 1-1 meetings with a
 specialist PGR careers advisor. Career events are also regularly organized by the CAL
 Graduate School, including career planning advice both within and beyond academia. PhDs can
 access BLS developmental workshops on academic publishing and presentation, and many
 participate actively in CAL’s peer-mentoring scheme for doctoral researchers. PhDs co-lead our
 research Themes (§1), offering opportunities for research leadership, and they are supported in
 developing a publication record. Publications have included book reviews, book chapters, blog
 posts, case notes, joint-authored journal articles with supervisors (e.g. Trklja, International
 Journal of Speech, Language and Law 2019), and sole-authored journal articles (e.g. Marchant,
 Journal of Conflict and Security Law 2020, Preziosi, International Human Rights and Counter-
 Terrorism 2019). In this REF period, our PhD graduates have taken roles in law and public policy
 (e.g. Apedzi, Bishop, Gallagher, Kapardis) and academia (e.g. Bansal, Bendall, Collinson,
 Fairclough, Lawton, Lindsey, Marchant, McGuirk, Naqvi, Noble, Rowan).

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 Our impressive growth in research income, and in producing wide-ranging and significant
 research impact during this REF period, would not have been possible without an effective and
 responsive scholarly and operational infrastructure. Researchers thrive within enabling
 environments in which intellectual ambition and the desire to achieve impact that enhances
 human lives motivate them to apply for research funding. External grant income produces a
 multiplier effect, allowing our researchers to expand, diversify and deepen the scope and reach
 of their research, and supporting collaboration and engagement at national, regional and global
 levels. Impact is integral to this vision, including the provision of high-quality training and support

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to embed impact and funding-related skills across all career levels, and by diversifying funding
 sources to strengthen our resilience. The way in which we operationalise this approach, and its
 resulting outcomes, are described below.

 a. Income

 Since 2014, we achieved remarkable growth in research awards, from £262k in REF2014 to
 over £4M in REF2021. Although due partly to expanded staff, funding per REF-eligible
 member has nonetheless radically increased, from £7,952 to £91,232. External grant
 awards have ranged widely across all sub-fields and career stages: from small grants for
 first-time research (Bendall, Cavoski, Warwick) to prestigious multi-year awards (Clark,
 McAuliffe, McHale, Mitchell, Quigley, Trybus, Yeung) and prizes (Philip Leverhulme: de Londras,
 Harding, Rackley). Our funding success has enabled us to undertake intellectually- and
 methodologically-diverse impactful research, to develop international and interdisciplinary
 collaborations, to support the careers of 21 PDRAs, and to generate world-leading publications
 (including OA publications). The latter include many of our highest-quality research outputs,
 including those submitted for REF. Substantial grant capture includes Clark’s fieldwork in
 Bosnia-Herzegovina on war-rape, McHale’s work on cosmetic procedure regulation, and
 Yeung’s work on algorithmic regulation funded respectively by the European Commission,
 ESRC, VW Stiftung and the Wellcome Trust.

 External funding has also broadened the reach and significance of our research impact. As
 Mavronicola’s ICS demonstrates, ESRC IAA funding enabled her collaboration with Nils Melzer
 (UN Special Rapporteur on Torture). Their resulting work has produced a paradigm shift in UN-
 level understanding of the prohibition of torture. A British Academy Fellowship and Leverhulme
 prize enabled Harding’s ICS on legal capacity. Our strategic investment in interdisciplinary
 research has substantially enhanced our capacity to participate in major interdisciplinary and
 collaborative bids oriented towards applied research, particularly through University initiatives
 to support interdisciplinary, collaborative research via international partnerships (REF5a-2.1.8),
 through the IAS and IGI (REF5a-2.3) (§4). Our success in securing interdisciplinary funding
 awards from the Faraday Institution, Volkswagen Stiftung, and the Dunhill Medical Trust, has
 enabled us to work with national and oversees investigators from engineering, science,
 medicine, computing, neuropsychology, and political science. Funding competitions of this kind
 have grown in size and scale in recent years, based on widespread consensus that ambitious,
 interdisciplinary collaboration is needed successfully to address ‘grand societal challenges’,
 reflected in shifts in the UK funding landscape (including the Global Challenges Research Fund
 and attendant changes in UKRI). Our enhanced capacity to respond to these calls helps sustain
 our on-going and future research.

 To ensure resilience, and as a sign of our thriving research culture, our staff apply for, and are
 awarded, grants from diverse sources. In REF2014, our external grant income came from the
 UK Research Councils, the British Academy, and UK-based charities. We have since
 substantially diversified our sources, winning large awards from the European Commission
 (ERC and Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions), Wellcome Trust and overseas Research Councils,
 such as the Australian Research Council. Governmental and regulatory bodies also have
 provided significant research funding, including the Social Mobility and Child Poverty
 Commission, the Council of Europe, CILEx Regulation, and the Government of Gibraltar. We
 have also attracted funding in the form of benefits-in-kind, with the Birmingham legal community
 donating over £175,000 of in-kind support for CEPLER, including via pro-bono supervision and
 participation in research events since 2014 (§4).

 Our research-income strategy also includes winning funding to support PGRs. In this REF
 period, there have been 13 externally-funded (3 AHRC; 7 ESRC; 3 other) PhDs and 45 with
 UoB/College funding. BLS is home to Trybus’s EU-funded Innovative Training Network (ITN;
 £525,890 as UoB share) on EU Trade and Investment Policy (EUTIP), which provides
 supervision and training for 15 doctoral research projects. This involves the universities of


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 London City, Nottingham, Passau, Rotterdam, Speyer, Turin, and Zurich and partners including
 Business Europe, Baker McKenzie and RAND Europe.

 b. Infrastructure

 Training and support

 Our grant capture success reflects, in part, our adapted funding infrastructure. This was
 redesigned in the run-up to the last REF, creating the post of Funding Lead (Young) to support
 grant capture. Young provides 1:1 meetings to help all colleagues meet their funding ambitions,
 whilst helping match ideas with funding sources. He directs colleagues to relevant internal
 training opportunities, such as CAL’s grant-writing sandpits and training from the University’s EU
 and International Funding Support Team (REF5a-4.1). He assists with all stages of bid drafting,
 arranges mock interviews for those shortlisted for funding interviews and has developed a bank
 of successful grant applications, accessible to our researchers via Canvas.

 To coordinate our strategies for grant capture, impact and environment, Young serves on SRC,
 working with the Environment Lead (Talbot) and cooperating closely with the Impact Lead
 (Boyron), who reviews public engagement and impact plans. Together, they have supported 22
 colleagues win a total of £69,000 in ESRC IAA awards, and £98,000 in business-
 engagement income. In 2016, we created an ECR peer-review group, led by Young, to assess
 major grant applications, helping ECRs gain experience in funding review. Further impact and
 funding support is provided through PDR, mentorship, and annual research meetings (§2),
 facilitating proactive funding planning. A snapshot review of male/female funding rates by the
 Athena Swan SAT found that non-professorial women were less likely to apply for grants than
 male counterparts, prompting systematic data-collection to begin from 2020, with all researchers
 encouraged to include childcare costs in funding bids.

 Internal resourcing, prizes

 We internally resource time for staff to think, read, write, and generate research impact,
 protecting one-third of all REF-eligible staff workload as research time (§3). Probationary
 colleagues have additional protected time (50% in year 1, reducing to 30% in year 3).
 Colleagues may apply for a semester of research leave after every nine semesters, and a
 second semester has been awarded for especially ambitious projects. SRC offers feedback and
 support on study leave applications, monitoring them for equitable distribution by gender,
 race/ethnicity, and career stage. Since 2014, 41 staff (21 men, 20 women) have received a total
 of 55 terms of research leave, generating 35 journal articles, 5 monographs and 30 research
 funding applications (14 successful). All REF-eligible colleagues have a personal research
 allowance, which increased from £750/year to £1,000/year in 2017. From 2019, £500/year is
 allocated to each of our six themed research Themes, available to both PGR students and staff.

 CAL and UoB also provide research funding infrastructure (REF5a-4.1). CAL advertises funding
 opportunities by weekly email, and CAL funding officers work alongside applicants and the
 School Funding Lead to hone bids. Larger bids are submitted to college-level interdisciplinary
 peer review. College funding supports BLS’s RDO (§1), media and public engagement training
 for staff (§2), and an undergraduate research assistance scheme, which has provided 5,920
 hours of research assistance to BLS members for 32 projects during this REF period. Internal
 resources are available to build skills and confidence, and to pump-prime larger bids, including
 the CAL Impact and Research Fund and the Birmingham International Engagement Fund.
 Between 2014 and 2019, our impact activities were supported by over c.£101k of University and
 CAL funding (ESRC Impact Acceleration Account, £69,171; CAL Impact and Research Fund,
 £31,502.82). Internal funding is also available from interdisciplinary initiatives at the University
 level, including the IAS and IGI. During the REF period, our researchers have received £55,000
 from the IAS to run 18 interdisciplinary workshops including international participants. Since its
 founding in 2017, IGI has also provided support for seeding BLS projects. For example, in 2019
 Warwick and Campbell acquired IGI seed funding for a workshop on socio-economic rights in

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kenya. Warwick subsequently partnered with academics in Psychology and English to win a
 £1,867,627 inter-disciplinary Global Challenges Research Fund project on responding to
 episodes of mass violence, conflict, and displacement.

 CAL and UoB also support our research and impact work via prizes, providing both financial
 rewards and recognition to our colleagues. Since 2014, 5 UoA18 REF-eligible staff have won
 University prizes for research impact, all women (de Londras, Enright, Mavronicola, Rackley and
 Yeung). The University’s Heroes campaign has further raised our research impact profile,
 including a current ICS (de Londras) and pipeline ICS (Quigley). The Heroes campaign’s
 Strategic Planning Team offers training in Impact and Open Access publication. The University
 has also invested in infrastructure to enhance impact (REF5a-4.2.2), including a central impact
 fund for ECR training in impact (REF5a-3.3), and a Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research
 Impact) (REF5a-2.1.3) with whom Boyron works, supporting BLS colleagues while aligning
 school priorities with University initiatives. UoB provides institutional support for academic
 collaborations with business, social enterprises and charities (REF5a-4.1). This has helped
 institutional actors engage our researchers as consultants (e.g. Greene with the Organisation for
 Security and Co-operation in Europe, concerning reform of Moldova's counter-extremism
 legislation; de Londras’ work on reforming WHO’s abortion law guidance; Webley with CILEx on
 AI’s impact on the legal profession; and Lee’s review of sustainability duties for WWF).

 c. Facilities

 Substantial state-of-the-art redevelopment of the Frankland and Harding Buildings, adjacent
 to our historic Law Building, has brought all Edgbaston-based BLS colleagues together in one
 working space (two colleagues on teaching-only contracts work at the University’s Dubai
 campus). Costing £20.3 million, this redevelopment has provided 65 office spaces, five open
 workspaces, and PGR study space.

 BLS researchers benefit from a world-leading library collection, and support from a senior
 subject-specialist law librarian (Bird). We have invested heavily in both print and online
 collections. During the census period, £2,030,534 was spent to purchase information resources
 to support the School of Law (including interdisciplinary collections that benefit BLS). The 6-
 member Library Research Skills Team provides online and face-to-face training for all staff and
 students, covering areas such as curating an online publication profile (including ORCID and
 ethical use of research metrics), Open Research (including OA publishing), and tools for
 literature searching, bibliographic management, and research data management (REF5a-4.5).
 Colleagues and PGR students can also book 1-1 appointments with Research Skills Advisors.

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 Building on UoB’s history and mission as a civic university, BLS is deeply involved in research
 co-production and partnership. We are committed to helping ensure that our work reaches those
 for whom it can be influential and useful, including policy-makers, judicial actors, the legal
 profession, civil society, and the general public. Examples of the rich variety of socially-valuable
 collaborations and contributions undertaken by our researchers this REF period are provided
 below.

 a. Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 Externally-funded research has enabled impactful collaborations with researchers from many
 other universities, both nationally and internationally, across a wide variety of projects (§3).
 These include Lee’s work on lithium batteries (with Edinburgh, Liverpool, Leicester, Newcastle,
 and UCL); Warwick’s Performing Identities project (with Durham and Newcastle) and Yeung’s
 work on Responsible AI (involving 16 other university partners from Australia, USA, Germany,
 the Netherlands, and Denmark). Harding’s Leverhulme Prize enabled her work on supporting
 legal capacity with the European Law and Ageing Network. Child’s BA-funded interdisciplinary
 work on intoxication and the criminal law (with Sussex and Maastricht) involved experimental

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 psychology and neuroscience, and supported a post-doctoral researcher who subsequently took
 a permanent post at Sussex. Freedman’s work on the impact of the cholera outbreak in Haiti,
 funded by the Jacob Blaustein Institute (ICS), enabled her to convene a workshop in
 Birmingham attended by UN officials to construct a framework for reparations.

 Our researchers are also supported by both external and internal funds to engage in research
 capacity-building with international partners, including those in the Global South. Examples
 include Shahabuddin’s BA-funded writing workshops in Dhaka (designed for ECRs in South Asia
 and enabling two participants to develop PhD projects at world-leading universities); Nsoh’s
 workshop on Localizing Water-Energy-Food Nexus Innovation in Qatar; and Bedford’s IGI-
 funded workshop in Ecuador on socio-legal methods, resulting in a research collaboration on
 violence against women with the University of Azuay, and a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship
 application.

 We value the contribution that academic visits, both to and from BLS, make to the vibrancy of
 research networks, by enhancing the richness, reach and diversity of institutional environments,
 and helping to provoke new insight. To this end, University funding to support collaborations
 (REF5a-2.1.18) has enabled BLS researchers to visit or receive visitors with whom
 collaborations have emerged (e.g. Zhu, Urbana-Champaign BRIDGE funding; Olawuyi (Hamad
 Bin Khalifa University, Doha), hosted by Nsoh and supported by IGI). Since 2014, BLS
 researchers have led 13 IAS-funded workshops, leading to publications including journal special
 issues (Feminist Review 2020) and edited collections (Hybridity, Freedman ed. 2017). BLS’
 discretionary research funds have also supported inter-institutional collaboration in this REF
 period, including Möser’s workshop on high-cost debt in Cambridge, and Talbot’s research
 symposium resulting in the publication of Great Debates in Commercial and Corporate Law.

 In 2019, we revised our visiting scholars’ scheme to prioritise diversity in the profile of invited
 visitors, and enhance collaborations in strategic areas of research. BLS frequently welcomes
 high-profile women speakers, including Baroness Hale, Iryna Polyvets (WTO), and our alumna
 Sandie Okoro (World Bank). We encourage colleagues to accept honorary and adjunct
 positions and visiting fellowships in other universities, including Cryer (University of the Free
 State); Rubini (Freie Universität Berlin, World Trade Institute in Berne); Tripkovic (University of
 Glasgow); and Webley (University of Melbourne and Hong Kong University).

 b. Relationships with Research Users and Beneficiaries

 BLS researchers engage widely and extensively with civil society groups, businesses, and law-
 and policy-shaping actors, often resourced by external grants. Quigley’s Wellcome-funded work
 on Everyday Cyborgs led to a policy paper, as did McHale’s work with the Nuffield Council on
 Bioethics. Harding’s Leverhulme Prize has enabled her work with CHANGE and Advonet on an
 impact-focused project relating to supported decision-making (see ICS). Our impact strategy
 seeks to engage prospective research users and beneficiaries through all stages of our research
 process (§1). This has resulted in some research ‘users’ becoming research partners, often
 seeded from collaborative workshops convened by BLS colleagues (above). Much of our
 research concerning marginalised groups entails active collaboration with them (e.g. Enright’s
 work on gender-based abuse in Ireland, undertaken in collaboration with Justice for
 Magdalenes; Clark’s work with survivors of war-time sexual violence in Bosnia-Herzegovina,
 Uganda and Colombia), and in modes targeted towards mechanisms of justice and reparation
 (e.g. Gonzalez-Salzberg’s amicus briefs for the Inter-American Court of Human Rights;
 Shahabuddin’s Leverhulme-funded work on international law and minority rights, involving
 collaboration with the UNHCR, the Kutupalong Refugee camp, and the Bangladesh
 Government’s Office of the Refugee Relief and Repatriation Commissioner).

 Our researchers bring their expertise and insight to other organisations and institutions through a
 wide range of roles. Several colleagues are members of institutional advisory boards (e.g.
 Wade: legal expert advisory board of Fair Trials International, and the West Midlands Police
 Counter-Terrorism Reference Group). Others have been appointed to national policy-making

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bodies and government-aligned bodies (e.g. Delacroix: Law Society’s Public Policy Commission
 on the use of algorithms in the justice system; and Child: the Ministry of Justice Network of
 Experts). Some serve as experts on national and international law-making and policy bodies. For
 example, as a member of the EU’s High-Level Expert Group on Artificial Intelligence, Yeung co-
 wrote the EU Ethics Guidelines for Trustworthy AI, helped write various Declarations,
 Recommendations and Policy Reports issued by the Council of Europe (as an expert member of
 one of its sub-committees (MSI-AUT) concerning the human rights implications of automated
 decision-making) and, as one of three ethics experts for the Topol Committee, helped develop
 and write its advisory report to the Secretary of State for Health, ‘Preparing the Healthcare
 Workforce to Deliver the Digital Future’. Appointments of this kind enable colleagues to use their
 research insights to directly shape the content and direction of law- and policy-making initiatives.

 Parliamentary inquiries and consultations provide another important avenue through which
 colleagues have exerted meaningful influence on legislative reform. These include Trybus’
 evidence to the European Parliament on reforming the EU Defence and Security Procurement
 Directive, and Yeung’s evidence to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the
 impacts of AI for humanity. In relation to the UK’s constituent parliaments, our RDO proactively
 identifies consultation opportunities, circulating information and targeting engagement
 opportunities to relevant colleagues. In 2016 alone, we made eight parliamentary submissions
 and participated in six oral evidence sessions in Westminster. For example, McHale gave
 evidence to the Lords EU Home Affairs Sub-Committee, the Commons Health Committee, and
 the Health Select Committee Brexit inquiry, and presented her ESRC research findings to Sir
 Keir Starmer (then Shadow Brexit Secretary). Warwick consulted on Brexit for the Northern Irish
 Human Rights Commission, with his research informing subsequent amendments to the
 Common Travel Area. Yeung provided oral evidence to the House of Lords, Select Committee
 on AI, and the Parliamentary Committee on Standards in Public Life.

 We also seek to influence judicial actors through our research. Since 2014, BLS researchers
 have been cited 25 times by superior courts around the world, including the US Supreme Court
 (Wade), Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights (de Londras, Mavronicola),
 Supreme Court of the Netherlands (Orakhelashvili), the High Courts of Australia, Hong Kong,
 Malaysia, Singapore and Ireland (Enonchong) and the UK Supreme Court (McHale, Arnull), and
 by UN Special Rapporteurs (Mavronicola (torture); de Londras (protection of human rights while
 combating terrorism); Yeung (extreme poverty and human rights), and national human rights
 institutions (Warwick)). Our influence on judicial decision-making also takes other forms,
 because case citations, including the preparation of amicus curiae briefs (e.g. for the
 International Criminal Court (Cryer 2016, 2018) and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights
 (Gonzalez-Salzberg 2020)), and the provision of judicial training (e.g. Yeung’s involvement in the
 UN’s Global Judicial Integrity Network to help judges understand the constitutional threats posed
 by algorithmic decision-making systems within criminal justice contexts).

 To ensure the law’s continued capacity to dynamically adapt to changing social environments,
 we believe that mutual support and exchange between the legal profession and academia is
 essential. Building on our strong tradition of engagement with the legal professions through
 CEPLER (§1) we facilitate world-class research on the legal professions and legal education.
 CEPLER provides a welcoming environment for practitioners of all kinds, enabling the co-
 creation of impactful knowledge and exchange. Several leading practitioners have become
 honorary research fellows (e.g. human rights barrister Simon McKay and HHJ Harris-Short). Our
 Impact Lead works with CEPLER’s Research Lead to plan CEPLER’s impact strategy and
 identify impact support needs. Since 2014, colleagues associated with CEPLER have
 contributed to the vitality of legal education and practice through their scholarly outputs,
 including a working paper series with over 9,000 downloads and a series of annual workshops
 bringing together academics and practitioners to ‘reimagine’ the teaching of their subjects.
 CEPLER’s impactful work has been undertaken by REF-eligible colleagues (Lee, Gonzalez-
 Salzberg, Webley) and teaching-focused colleagues (Asmelash, Brown, Carroll, Eskauriatza,
 Flint, Guliyeva, Hunt, Lonbay, Lynch, Mapp, McConnell, McGuffin, Papettas, Parveen, Schnobel,
 Thomas, Tingle, Vincent). The collective work supported by CEPLER has included a major

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research project on the experience of litigants-in-person in accessing justice, conducted
 collaboratively with Birmingham Law Society, the Birmingham Civil Justice Centre, the Personal
 Support Unit, and Birmingham City University. It also includes the ‘Lost to Law’ project
 investigating why women leave the legal profession. CEPLER has also supported collaborative
 knowledge exchange workshops with The Judiciary Training Institute in Kampala, funded by
 BLS. Support for colleagues’ engagement with the professions was enhanced through Thomas’
 presidency of Birmingham Law Society in 2018-19, co-funded by a BLS teaching-buyout
 (approximately £32,000) and supported through UoB Emerging Leadership training.

 c. Wider Contributions

 Our civic mission underpins our larger contributions to society and the economy, well beyond the
 impact captured in our ICSs. In addition to the organisations and institutions already mentioned,
 those who use our research include international judges (Enonchong), local solicitors (Oakley),
 governments (Quigley), prosecutors (Wade), NGOs (Nsoh), activists (Enright), charities
 (Harding), and industry (Lee). The diversity and significance of our public engagement, the
 range of issues covered, and their global reach, demonstrate our commitment to ensuring our
 research contributes positively to society and the economy. Besides our ICS contributions, our
 research also helps (i) address injustice; ii) adapt legal adjudication processes; and iii)
 ameliorate the adverse impacts of new technologies.

    i)      Addressing social and economic injustices and inequalities

 BLS researchers are leading investigations to understand the implications of contemporary
 social and economic arrangements for law and justice. In work commissioned by the World
 Bank, Rubini created two comprehensive datasets from over 280 international trade agreements
 focused on subsidies and state enterprises. As part of the International Panel for Social
 Progress, Talbot advanced understandings of how corporate success devalues social progress
 and perpetuates economic inequality, presenting her findings in the House of Lords, Matrix
 Chambers, and public meetings hosted by civil society. Cavoski’s work with the Pesticide Action
 Network Europe was presented to the EU’s DG Santé and the European Food and Safety
 Agency. Building on AHRC and Horizon-2020 funded research, Dragneva-Lewers’ work on
 Russian economic influence in Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova and the Caucus States has been
 drawn upon to brief EU Commission officials, EU trade-delegation officials, FCO administrators,
 and the World Economic Forum’s unit responsible for government relations in Eurasia.

    ii)     Adapting processes of legal adjudication

 Our researchers have also influenced new modes of judicial working in diverse settings.
 Building on her expertise in public law mediation, Boyron was embedded in Grenoble’s Tribunal
 Administratif (2016-7) to study and provide feedback on its pioneering pre-mediation pilot,
 subsequently facilitating its expansion to 42 French administrative courts as member of the
 French national steering committee. The indicators Boyron developed for identifying mediation
 disputes were reproduced verbatim in judicial guidelines. Fairclough’s empirical work on the use
 of special measures for vulnerable witnesses in criminal proceedings was adopted in the CPS’s
 latest guidance on prosecuting those with mental health conditions.

    iii)    Ameliorating the adverse impacts of new technologies

 BLS has unique strength in investigating and responding to the adverse impacts of technological
 transformation. In addition to Yeung’s work on law and networked digital technologies (4(a) and
 b above), Delacroix’s research – funded in part through a Mozilla fellowship - investigates the
 potential of bottom-up data trusts to enable human-centered data governance. Child is co-
 director of the AHRC-funded Criminal Law Reform Now Network, which has recently proposed
 significant reforms to the Computer Misuse Act 1990, including a new public interest defence.
 Quigley’s work on conceptions of ownership of the body in light of technological innovations
 employs three PDRAs, with significant implications for medical device regulation.

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 d. Sustainability of the Discipline

 The sweeping societal transformations wrought by scientific advance across many fields means
 that the sustainability of law as a discipline increasingly necessitates engagement with
 interdisciplinary research and training. We provide collaborative and interdisciplinary
 teaching (e.g. the 'Innovation Toolkit' course led by Lee and delivered to Science PhD students
 in STEM doctoral training centres). BLS also contributes to the future sustainability of the
 discipline through engagement in doctoral training, examining more than 40 PhDs worldwide this
 REF period. Colleagues contribute to UK-wide doctoral training by offering sessions at IALS
 (Webley) and through the Birmingham-based Horizon 2020-funded training network on the EU’s
 Trade and Investment Policy. CEPLER engages BLS students as researchers and pro bono
 actors, thereby contributing to the diversity and sustainability of the legal profession.

 We encourage staff to share their experience and expertise widely, helping to sustain the
 discipline and its vitality. BLS staff have undertaken reviews for 29 funding bodies all over the
 world, and are members of the AHRC Strategic College (de Londras) and Peer Review College
 (Child, McAullife), UKRI Future Leaders Fellow Panel College, fellows of the ESRC Peer Review
 College (Child, Harding, Trybus, Webley), and reviewers for the cross-council Global Challenges
 Research Fund (Talbot).

 e. Wider Influence

 BLS researchers are involved in many scholarly and professional societies, academic journals
 and publishers, evidencing the School’s wider influence and contribution to sustaining the
 discipline of law. Our researchers contribute to scholarly societies in several ways. Harding,
 Lee, and Webley are Fellows of the Academy of Social Science. Harding chairs the SLSA.
 McAuliffe is a member of the Council for the Germanic Society for Forensic Linguistics. Nsoh is
 on the Development Team of the Natural Assets Knowledge-Action Network of Future Earth.
 Wade is a member of the Academy for Justice, Arizona State University. Talbot is a member of
 the steering committee of the Daughters of Themis: International Network of Female Business
 Scholars. Yeung is on the strategic advisory board of UKRI Trustworthy Autonomous Systems
 programme. Enright is a founder-member of Lawyers for Choice. Webley is on the Law Society’s
 EDI Committee; de Londras has the role for the SLS. UoB’s support of leadership schemes has
 helped staff undertake some of these influential roles; e.g., Harding became SLSA Chair after
 completing senior leadership training.

 Colleagues are active in journal editorship. Since 2014, BLS academics have been editors of
 more than 35 journals, including Journal of Law and Society (Lee), Public Law, Modern Law
 Review (Yeung), European Law Review (Arnull), Environmental Law Review (Cavoski),
 International Criminal Justice (Clark), Legal Ethics (General Editor, Webley), Journal of Medical
 Ethics (Quigley), International Journal of Law and Management (Dragneva-Lewers), Journal of
 Conflict and Security Law (Cryer), Journal of Human Rights and the Environment, Jurisprudence
 (Coyle), Environmental Policy and Law Journal (Nsoh), and Journal of European Integration
 (Trybus). BLS academics act as book series editors with Bristol University Press (Harding), the
 Irish Yearbook of International Law (de Londras), Elgar (Cryer), Bloomsbury (Coyle) and provide
 peer review for journals, monograph series and funding bodies worldwide.

 BLS researchers have delivered at least 10 keynote and public lectures each year throughout
 this REF period, including at scholarly conferences. Selected highlights include keynotes and
 public lectures delivered in Berlin (Delacroix, Gray, Trybus, Yeung), Melbourne (Talbot, McHale),
 Hong Kong (de Londras, Mitchell, Yeung) and New York (Dragneva-Lewers, Vaughan). BLS
 researchers were involved in the organisation of at least 26 conferences including policy-
 makers, industry and stakeholders including those organised in conjunction with the British
 International Studies Association (Dragneva-Lewers); the National University of Singapore
 (Enonchong); the Centre for Legal and Institutional Translation Studies (McAuliffe), Birmingham
 Law Society (Webley), and the Global Forum on AI for Humanity (Delacroix).

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We also seek to communicate our work to the general public through multiple avenues. Not
 only are we active in social media networks, such as Twitter (§1), we also communicate via
 traditional print and broadcast media (e.g. Yeung in ‘The Secrets of Amazon’, Dispatches
 (2019); Greene on Newsnight discussing pandemic-related legislation (2020)). We have taken
 our research directly to the public, both nationally and locally. Colleagues have given public talks
 at the 2015-2018 Hay Festivals, on topics ranging from capital punishment, dementia, abortion
 rights, female judges and Haiti’s cholera crisis. BLS researchers have also contributed to
 podcasts, broadcast and live media interviews to discuss salient events, enhancing the on-going
 relevance of our research, and they have hosted well-attended and live-streamed public panels
 in Birmingham, including via University research showcase events such as the Green Heart
 Festival.

 The wider contribution of our research, underpinned by our civic, global and diverse mission, is
 reflected and celebrated in three Philip Leverhulme Prizes awarded to de Londras, Harding
 and Rackley in recognition of their outstanding scholarship, international impact, and exceptional
 promise to produce further significant, original contributions to the discipline. They work at law’s
 contemporary frontiers to foster the pursuit of justice and enable human flourishing, epitomising
 our collective aspirations.

 They join other colleagues in a shared commitment to disrupt orthodox knowledge, pluralise
 legal understandings, engage different epistemological standpoints, and make the discipline of
 law more inclusive. Our researchers help reveal law’s problems, past and future, and work with a
 wide range of partners to offer creative and well-informed solutions that make society better.




                                                                                             Page 18
