Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Worcester

 Unit of Assessment: 24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 The submitting unit is located within the School of Sport & Exercise Science (SSES) which sits
 within the College of Business, Psychology and Sport. SSES is organised into three
 departments: PE & Coaching; Sport & Exercise Science; Sport Development, Management &
 Therapy. Its research covers the following areas: adapted physical activity, biomechanics,
 coaching, education and pedagogy, history, motor learning and control, nutrition, physical
 education, physical activity and health, physiology, psychology, sociology, sports injury and
 rehabilitation, and strength and conditioning. The number of staff in the submitting unit has risen
 from 14 (14.0 FTE) in REF 2014 to 18 (18.0 FTE) in REF 2021.

 The unit has well-established Research Interest Groups in the following areas: Coaching
 Pedagogy and Practice; Disability High Performance Sport; Gender, Identity and the Body;
 Physical Activity, Health and Wellbeing; Regulation of Performance. These RIGs are built
 around staff expertise and provide a supportive environment for staff to develop their research
 activity independently and collaboratively.

 The decision was taken in 2018 (as part of the academic restructure described in REF5a 1.4-5)
 to create larger interdisciplinary Research Groups that would create greater critical mass, draw
 together expertise from across Schools in a College and in some instances from different
 Colleges, but which would at the same time reflect the expertise in the RIGs. The following
 Research Groups emerged from this process and are reflected in this submission:
     • Inclusive Sport & Physical Activity – led by Dr Gyozo Molnar, the group seeks to critique
         research and practice embedded in traditional Western-based power imbalances, to
         challenge inequities and inequalities, and create opportunities for participation, reflection
         and empowerment for marginalised, disenfranchised and excluded communities. It has
         two key themes: Gender Identity and the Body (led by Edwards) and Inclusive Sport (led
         by Richardson)
     • Coaching & Performance – led by Dr Don Vinson, the group is a multidisciplinary body of
         researchers and practitioners seeking to aid the advancement of the human performance
         from a wide range of perspectives. Through collaborative research with some of the
         UK's most influential sporting bodies such as UK Sport, UK Coaching and The Football
         Association, we seek to help better understand how coaches, sport scientists and other
         practitioners might help athletes to learn, develop and perform to their best. The groups
         includes a focus on: inclusive coaching pedagogy and physical education (Vinson,
         Lasota, Foster); investigating pacing (A Renfree, Martin); nutritional supplements (Cook);
         sleep and recovery (Cook, Thomas); and developing strategies for optimal performance
         in hot environments (Mee, Thomas).
     • Living well across the lifespan - led by Derek Peters, Professor of Sport, Health &
         Exercise Science, the group is designed to achieve a critical mass of inter-disciplinary
         academic staff with aligned research interests in areas which reflect regional, national
         and international research priorities in health and social care. Specific areas for priority
         include ageing well, physical activity for health, and living well with long-term conditions.
         Members are drawn from Schools of Sport and Exercise Science, Allied Health,
         Psychology and Business.

 Overarching leadership of research in SSES falls to the Head of School (Mick Donovan). He
 works closely with the College Director of Research & Knowledge Exchange (who sits on the
 School Senior Leadership Teams for all Schools in the College) to drive forward the Research
 and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) agenda. The School has a research coordinator (Martin) who
 has operational responsibility for RKE.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SSES has an RKE Forum which brings together Head of School, College Director, Research
 Coordinator, Heads of Department and Research Group leads to discuss strategy and identify
 operational priorities for research. Strategic and operational objectives are disseminated to staff
 through regular School Research Away Days. Research Group leads, PhD Course Leaders from
 the School sit on the College-level RKE Committee, chaired by the College Director. This
 provides opportunity for the School to inform and influence college-level strategic and
 operational developments.

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy

 Unit’s strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 The unit’s REF 2014 submission identified two research areas for strategic growth: physical
 activity, health and wellbeing; and disability sport. To enable this growth, the unit would seek: to
 develop internal collaborations with colleagues in Health and develop strategic external
 partnerships with elite and grass-roots sports bodies, health and social care organisations, and
 relevant charities; and to enhance its research leadership in these areas.

 These objectives were elaborated and extended in the School’s Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Strategy (2014-19) which flowed from the institutional research strategy (REF5a 2.1).
 The School’s overarching strategic ambition was to deliver excellent research which would make
 a difference to the lives of its target communities. To achieve this, it would: enhance its research
 culture; recruit and develop excellent researchers at all career stages; and engage with key
 stakeholders, user groups and communities in the design, delivery and dissemination of its
 research.

 The unit has largely met its objectives as is evidenced through this narrative. It has expanded its
 research in the two identified areas, in particular, establishing a reputation in the broader area of
 inclusive sport. Whilst it has not made senior appointments in these areas, it has used visiting
 professors to enhance its leadership, has promoted staff into research leadership roles and
 appointed excellent ECRs (see section 2).

 The unit has strengthened its research culture. The development of the RIGs and subsequent
 Research Groups has played a key part in this. These groups have provided a regular forum for
 staff to discuss their research, share ideas and develop projects. More broadly, the School runs
 a monthly seminar series which staff and research students use as a testing ground for
 conference papers. Staff can also present at the College-level seminar series.

 The School actively supports external conference attendance and presentation (national and
 international) and has invested c.£15,000 per annum in this area. The School has also hosted a
 number of major research conferences over the assessment period: British Society of Sports
 History conference (Oct 2017), European Conference of Adapted Physical Activity (July 2018),
 Cluster for Research into Coaching conference (Sept 2019), and was due to hold in 2020 both
 the Teaching Games for Understanding conference (postponed until July 2021) and Women in
 Sport and Exercise conference (postponed until April 2021).

 Impact strategy

 Research in the unit ranges from basic research to research with the potential to transform
 policy, practice, performance and public health to applied research seeking to address specific
 real-world problems. The unit’s applied research is normally commissioned by or developed in
 partnership with sports bodies, health organisations, professional bodies or charities.

 The unit has adopted a number of approaches to enabling the impact of its research:
    • It has developed close working relationships with colleagues in the College of Health,
        Life and Environmental Sciences who have well-established links with health and social


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        care organisations, particularly NHS trusts, and links into practice in health and social
        care settings.
    •   It has developed strategic partnerships with elite and grass-root sports bodies, notably in
        the area of disability sport (e.g. Football Association; British Paralympic Association;
        British Wheelchair Basketball), coaching networks, and with global HEIs with a particular
        focus on disability sport (e.g. Beijing Sports University, China; Toin University,
        Yokohama, Japan; University of Tskuba, Japan).
    •   It created an “Impact Group” to provide support and guidance to researchers working
        with stakeholders and external partners throughout the research process. Early in the
        period the unit hosted an event to bring together research and practitioner staff to help
        identify individuals, external groups and organisations who might be interested in
        research areas and potential collaborative projects or dissemination of findings.
    •   It has provided training and development in developing impact which complements the
        University’s researcher development offer in this area.
    •   It has supported staff to present at practitioner conferences.
    •   It encourages the practice of publishing research findings in practitioner journals as well
        as academic journals.
    •   It promotes its research with the wider public through public lectures and mechanisms
        such as “Pint of Science” (see section 4).

 The selected Impact Case Studies show many of these approaches in action:
    • ICS1 - Enhancing health provision and informing lifestyle choices for young people
        experiencing first episode psychosis: the impact was underpinned by an applied research
        project developed in partnership with colleagues in health and a regional NHS Trust;
        findings from the project were widely disseminated to practitioner audiences through
        conferences and publications.
    • ICS2 - Enhancing elite/international disability sport performance through performance
        analysis research & knowledge exchange: the underpinning research was developed in
        partnership with British Wheelchair Basketball; findings were widely disseminated to
        potential stakeholders and user groups.

 Interdisciplinary Research

 The University Research Strategy 2014-19 set out to develop interdisciplinary research in 4
 specified Areas of Distinction (REF5a 2.1). A series of events were held in 2014/15 to identify
 areas of cross- and inter-disciplinary strengths within these areas. From this, emerged potential
 synergies around physical activity and ageing, dementia and mental health and synergies
 between exercise scientists and the Biomedical Research Group.

 The unit received University funding to support these synergies, specifically three PhD
 studentships: one in the area of sport and dementia; one in the area of physical activity and
 healthy ageing; and one focused on physical activity and bipolar disorder.

 These synergies have also led to joint projects (e.g. the SHAPE project described in ICS1) and
 to joint publications between sport scientists and biomedical researchers (e.g. Wadley, Alex,
 Holliday, Adrian, Morgan, R.G., Heesom, K.J., Aldred, S., Peters, D.M. , Bueno, Allain and
 Coles, Steven (2018) Preliminary Evidence of Reductive Stress in Human Cytotoxic T-cells
 Following Exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology, 125 (2). pp. 586-595).

 The University’s College Structure was developed as a further enabler of interdisciplinary
 research (REF5a 2.5). College Directors of RKE are tasked with identifying and developing
 interdisciplinary opportunities across Schools in a College but also between Colleges where
 appropriate. The Research Groups outlined above are interdisciplinary and multi-professional by
 design.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open Research

 The University is committed to an Open Research Environment evidenced by its resourcing of
 this important area (dedicated Open Access Advocacy and Support Officer; Open Access
 Funding) and its policy development (on Open Access and Open Data) (REF5a 2.6). This
 commitment is further reflected in its new Research & KE Strategy which identifies developing its
 Open Research environment as one of 5 underpinning principles of the strategy (REF5a 2.3.4).

 The unit echoes this commitment. It has worked closely with the Open Access Advocacy and
 Support Officer to raise awareness of the Open Access agenda, for example, through running
 dedicated training events as part of School Away Days. This has fed through into a very small
 number of outputs (just 3) authored in the unit over the assessment period being non-compliant.

 Five staff in the unit have also received funding for APCs through the University’s Open Access
 Fund (£8,200), publishing in journals such as PLOS One, Frontiers in Psychology, Physiology &
 Behaviour, Human Kinetics, and Orthopedic Journal of Sports Medicine.

 Research Integrity

 At University level, the University’s Research Integrity & Governance Committee has oversight
 of policies and procedures to support research integrity and its Chair is the University’s
 Research Integrity Champion. The champion is expected to embed a culture of integrity across
 University through developing training and support for staff but also raising its profile. Peters
 held this role until 2018.

 At College level, Research Ethics Panels are responsible for review of all staff and research
 student projects to ensure they are conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Panel Chairs and Vice Chairs are
 experienced researchers whilst panel reviewers are drawn from across the College; lay
 reviewers are also recruited to the panel. Molnar is the Chair of the College panel and all staff
 submitted in the Unit are reviewers. Training is provided to all reviewers at University level
 before they engage in the role. The unit has also provided specific training around ethics for all
 staff in the School. There is an annual audit of reviews to ensure the Panels are fulfilling their
 role.

 Future Strategic Aims

 The University’s new RKE Strategy 2020-25 was approved in summer 2020 (REF5a 2.3). The
 expectation is that Schools’ strategic objectives will flow from the University strategy but will also
 reflect disciplinary priorities, with Schools required to develop a strategy implementation plan
 accordingly. Inevitably, the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted on the development of this plan
 and aims set out here are consequently preliminary.

 The unit’s research strengths align with three of the area of challenge identified in the
 university’s strategy:
     • Physical activity, health and wellbeing with the Health and Wellbeing challenge
     • Inclusive sport and physical activity with the Social Exclusion and Identity challenge
     • Coaching and Performance with the Professional Education challenge

 The unit will seek to strengthen these areas by:
    • Strengthening its research leadership through recruitment, development and promotion
    • Building research capacity through recruiting and developing excellent ECRs
    • Increasing the PGR community in Research Groups through a combination of funded
        studentships (university and match-funded by businesses, sports bodies, etc.), fees only
        bursaries, and more effective “marketing” of unfunded PhD projects
    • Increasing RKE funding through development of strategic approaches to RKE income
        generation at the level of the Research Group

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Further developing external partnerships with other HEIs (nationally and international),
        key sports organisations and health bodies

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 In line with the University’s overarching strategy (REF5a 3.1.1-3), the unit’s approach to
 recruiting staff to standard academic contracts is focused on meeting current needs of UG and
 PGT programmes in the School, enabling curriculum development and addressing RKE
 objectives at school level, in particular seeking to recruit staff whose research feeds into existing
 strengths and areas identified for development. In line with the unit’s strategic research
 objectives set out above, there has been an increased emphasis on RKE in the recruitment
 process over the assessment period; staff recruited to standard academic contracts are normally
 expected to have a doctorate or to be working towards one.

 There are 39 Category A eligible staff in the unit: 92% are FT, 8% PT; 97% are on open-
 ended/permanent contracts, 3% on fixed term; 10% of staff are ECRs, 3 of whom are returned
 here. 20 staff were recruited to Category A eligible contracts over the assessment period (7 of
 whom have since left). 11 of these had a doctorate at the point of recruitment or were nearing
 completion of their doctorate. Over the period, the percentage of Category A eligible staff with a
 doctorate in the unit has increased from 47% to 59%. It is important to note that some staff are
 recruited primarily for their practitioner expertise in vocational subjects such as PE, Coaching
 and Sports Therapy. These staff are often “second career academics” without a doctorate and
 limited or no research experience (see REF5a 3.1.2). The university seeks to support these staff
 through the “Getting Started in Research” strand of its researcher development programme
 (REF5a 3.2.4). These staff are important to the unit’s research and impact strategy as they bring
 invaluable practitioner experience and have access to stakeholders and research users.

 The unit has made use of Visiting Professors in the areas of disability sport (Professor Nobuku
 Tanada and Professor Hayley Fitzgerald) and Basketball (Professor Mindaugas Balciunas).
 They have actively engaged with research at the university through mentoring staff, co-
 publication, and collaborative projects.

 Table 1 shows the balance between contract levels in the unit for both Category A Eligible and
 Submitted staff (see REF5a 3.1.6 for institutional comparison).

                                               % Category A            % Category A
                                               Eligible                Submitted
  Lecturer/Research Fellow (K0)                13                      22
  Senior Lecturer/Senior Research              46                      28
  Fellow (J0)
  Principal Lecturer/Principal Research 38                           44
  Fellow/Head of School (I0)
  Professor (F1)                            3                        6
                          Table 1: Proportion of staff by contract level

 The spread of staff across contract levels varies from the institutional spread (REF5a table 1)
 with a notably higher proportion of staff (for both eligible and submitted) at Lecturer and Principal
 Lecturer with the reverse true of Senior Lecturer and Professor. This reflects the fact the unit has
 recruited a higher proportion of junior academics than the University as a whole (although still a
 low number in total) and has also promoted a number of staff to Principal Lecturer over the
 assessment period. A proportion of these staff have been promoted based on their research
 performance and there is great potential within this group for further promotion; this is important
 because the unit currently has a single professor and is seeking to expand its research
 leadership. When comparing eligible to submitted within the unit, it is noted that SLs are under-

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 represented in the submitted group – this reflects the higher proportion of second career
 academics in this group.

 Staff development

 At appraisal, staff with SRR are asked to present a 3-year research plan (as set out in the
 REF2021 Code of Practice) which as well as articulating plans for project development,
 dissemination and funding applications, also identifies training needs.

 These training needs can often be met through the University’s Researcher Development
 Programme which is designed to support staff at all career stages (REF5a 3.2). Staff in the unit
 have consistently engaged with the University’s Research Leadership Programme, its Research
 Supervisor Development Programme, Bid Development training and Impact and Engagement
 training. Staff in the unit have also been active contributors to this programme.

 However, the unit has offered training to complement and extend that provided in the university
 programme (particularly subject-specific training) and has supported staff to access external
 training where necessary. It also provides a weekly facilitated “shut-up and write” session for
 staff and research students.

 Staff can also access the University’s Research Mentoring Programme (REF5a 3.2.4). Nine staff
 in the unit have accessed the programme. They can do so at any point from appointment
 onwards and at any career stage. This programme has also offered an opportunity for Mentors
 to develop their skills, with all mentors receiving dedicated training for the role. Three staff in the
 unit are mentors in the programme, supporting staff across the institution.

 ECRs have received active support for their development through the mechanisms outlined
 above but also through more informal support from senior colleagues:
    • Holliday was an awarded an ECR PhD Studentship in 2015, part of a University-wide
       initiative
    • Gerrett, at that point an ECR, was supported to take a Postdoctoral Fellowship in Japan
       (see section 3), her role being kept open whilst she took up the fellowship
    • Another staff member (Thomas) provides an excellent example of how formal and
       informal support has enabled staff to progress their research and their career. Appointed
       into a University Tutor role (teaching only) at the beginning of the assessment period, he
       worked closely with other researchers in the unit (both senior and ECRs) in a supporting
       role which enabled him to develop a publication record and transfer to a standard
       academic contract. As a Lecturer, he was able to access support for conference
       attendance and for small scale projects through the University’s Vacation Research
       Assistantship Scheme (see below) and to further develop his publication record. Now as
       a Senior Lecturer he is leading his own projects.

 The University was granted the HR Excellence in Research award in 2016 and is a signatory to
 the new Researcher Development Concordat. Staff and research students in the School have
 sat on the University’s Concordat Implementation Group from when it was set up early in the
 assessment period and have thus informed the development of the institutional action plan,
 whilst also feeding back on its development into the School.

 All staff in the unit have 20 days research and scholarly activity leave. This is complemented by
 individualised allocation of workloads for research based on performance and through the
 University’s research leave scheme (REF5a 3.2.3). 7 staff in the unit have been awarded leave
 through this scheme (Edwards, Faull, Joyce, Kohe, Piekarz, Roberts, Vinson)

 Research students




                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit has increased its PGR community over the assessment period. There are 11 current
 PhD students in the unit compared to 5 at the end of the REF 2014 assessment period and 8
 students on its Masters by Research programme.

 12 students supervised in the unit completed over the period (10.5 FTE), compared to 7 (6.5
 FTE) in the previous REF period. A number of these were co-supervised by staff in other units:
 UoA3 (dementia and sport), UoA4 (barriers to women’s participation in cycling), and UoA23
 (physical education).

 Recruitment to doctoral programmes is overseen by School-level PhD Course Leaders who
 work closely with the central Research School (REF5a 3.3.2-3). To increase its PGR numbers,
 the unit has taken a three-pronged approach:
     • It has increased its supervisory capacity. 17 staff in the unit are on the University’s
         Register of Approved Supervisors.
     • It has been successful in winning University-funded PhD studentships. It has been
         awarded 7 fully funded PhD studentships in the assessment period, one match-funded
         by British Wheelchair Basketball and one PT Fees only Studentship.
     • It has focused on growing numbers within its Research Groups.

 PhD Course Leaders also play a core role in oversight of research student progress. They sit on
 the University’s Research Degree Board and are responsible for annual monitoring of student
 progress within the School.

 Schools work closely with the Research School to ensure that research students are embedded
 within both the subject and wider research culture:
     • Research students are attached as affiliate members to one or more Research Groups.
     • They are encouraged to attend and to present at College-level research seminars.
     • A school-level Research Student representative sits on the College RKE Committee.

 Research students in the Unit are required to engage with the central Research Student
 Development Programme (REF5a 3.3.4). The programme has been mapped against Vitae’s
 Researcher Development Framework. The programme offers a suite of modules, short courses
 and workshops, delivered face-to-face or online, some of which are compulsory for all doctoral
 students, focused on the following core areas: planning and managing research; academic
 writing; research methods; data analysis; research integrity and ethics; dissemination,
 engagement and impact; careers and employability. The University also supports students to
 engage with external training where this is specialist and not available through the University’s
 programmes. Students are also able to access training offered through the GuildHE Research
 network. As part of the programme, students may also engage with Level-7 subject specific
 methods modules.

 Beyond the programme, the Research School offers additional development opportunities.
 Research Students have opportunities to teach, particularly those on a PhD studentship and can
 access modules and workshops to develop their skills in this area, with the opportunity to gain
 associate or full fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. The University offers research
 student-specific dissemination opportunities including an annual “Images of Research” exhibition
 and student-led PGR Conference. Further, the University provides funding opportunities for
 students to attend and speak at external conferences and events and separate funds to support
 students to develop inter- and cross-disciplinary networks, seminar series, conferences and
 events. The University is also a member of the Brilliant Club, a charity focused on improving
 access to University, which provides opportunities for doctoral students to go into schools and
 deliver tutorials in their area of expertise. The Research School also provides more ad hoc
 opportunities: for example, in 2019 the lead for the development programme worked with a
 student team to deliver a University programme for Pint of Science.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All supervisors are required to complete the University’s Research Supervisor Development
 Programme (REF5a 3.3.8-9). The programme has been in place for some 20 years but was
 rethought and relaunched in 2018/19. The programme offers a wide range of support for
 supervisors at various career stages on themes such as: introduction to supervision, supervisory
 styles, regulations and processes, supervising international students, PGR mental health and
 wellbeing, supporting student progress. New supervisors must complete the whole programme
 but more experienced supervisors must also engage with core elements and all supervisors are
 required to engage in regular refresher training (every 3 years). The programme is
 complemented by supervisor lunches that bring together supervisors to discuss key topics and
 challenges in supervision. The programme is aligned with UKCGE’s Good Supervisory Practice
 Framework. Staff are supported to apply for the UKCGE Supervisor Recognition scheme and
 Molnar was the first supervisor in the university to gain this recognition.

 Equality and Diversity

 The University has a fundamental commitment to equality and diversity (REF5a 3.4). It seeks to
 consider and apply equality and diversity principles in all that it does, from recruitment and
 selection, to appraisal and promotion, to staff development to flexible working and support for
 health and wellbeing. Its policies and processes are designed to disadvantage no-one and are
 subject to ongoing equality impact assessment to ensure this is the case.

 The unit’s approach flows from this, with the Head of School ensuring that the University’s
 principles and policies are fully enacted.
     • Recruitment of staff follows the institutional process, which require all those involved in
         the selection process to have undertaken equality training.
     • Internal recruitment to positions of research responsibility, such as research coordinator,
         PhD course leaders, Research Group lead also follow a formal application process to
         ensure equality of treatment.
     • Line managers are sure staff are aware of and are supported to engage with, for
         example, the University’s flexible working policy, its parental leave policies, its policies
         which support carers (such as its Critical Illness Policy) and its staff wellbeing initiatives
         (see REF5a 3.1.8).
             o Several staff in the unit have benefitted from the University’s flexible working
                 policy (REF5a 3.1.8), being able to change their working patten over time (e.g.
                 one staff member has moved from part time to full time).
             o Staff in the unit have taken parental leave in the assessment period. They have
                 received active support to transition back to work after the leave period, through
                 “keeping-in-touch” days, phased return, mentoring. It is ensured that where a staff
                 member takes parental leave this does not impact on research leadership or
                 supervisory roles.

 The unit is committed to the wellbeing of its staff and research students. To support this, both
 staff and research students have access to the university-wide mental health and well-being
 support, including (for research students) access to the support offered by the disability service,
 the counselling and mental health teams, and (for staff) the Employee Assistance Programme
 which provides counselling and 24 hour support.

 Staff in the unit are committed to equality and diversity. Staff in the unit were members of the
 University’s Athena SWAN self-assessment team; the University received its institutional Bronze
 Award in April 2018 and is committed to making departmental applications in the next 2 years.
 Staff are also engaged with various staff networks focused on protected characteristics and with
 the LGBTQ+ Allies scheme.

 In preparing this narrative, it was recognised that there are opportunities to enhance practice at
 unit-level. There has been no equality impact assessment of local funding processes (e.g.
 support for conference attendance) and, whilst there is no suggestion that any group is
 disadvantaged, this is a clear area for development.

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The unit has sought to increase its external funding over the assessment period from its REF
 2014 levels. Research Groups are expected to develop their own strategies for RKE income
 generation. They have been supported in this by the central Research Office and primarily, since
 the academic restructure, by a College Director of RKE and RKE Facilitator. The Director’s role
 is to provide leadership and guidance for Research Groups in developing their strategy, whilst
 the Facilitator works with Research Group leads to develop a bespoke funding opportunities
 service for members. Staff have also accessed training, general and bespoke, on bid
 development provided by the Research Office.

 It has had moderate success in winning funding, slightly increasing its average annual income
 from REF 2014 levels (£20,043 compared to £18,975). It is recognised that RKE income
 generation is a significant area for development going forward and is highlighted as a key
 strategic objective.

 The unit received funding from a variety of sources: NIHR Research for Patient Benefit, ESRC,
 British Academy, Erasmus+, Japan Society for Promotion of Science (JSPS), sports and
 coaching organisations.

 Examples of funded projects include:
    • Gerrett (PI), The influence of repeated metabolite accumulation on the control of regional
       sweat gland output during hyperthermia, JSPS Short Term Postdoctoral Fellowship
       (2014-15)
    • Vinson (PI), Investigating the culture of coach education structures in the UK:
       Implications for the development of under-represented groups, Sports Coach UK (2014-
       15)
    • Artz (Co-I), Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of outpatient physiotherapy after knee
       replacement: A randomised controlled trial, NIHR RfPB, (2015-18), led by University of
       Bristol with University of Plymouth, University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust,
       North Bristol NHS Trust.
    • V Jones (PI), G Renfree (Co-I), Gender Equality Toolkit for Generation Z (GETZ),
       Erasmus+ (2017-2020) with Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences, Netherlands;
       Molde University College, Norway; Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium; Swedish Sports
       Confederation, Sweden; European University Sports Association, Slovenia; Croatian
       Olympic Committee.
    • Molnar (PI), Broadening Perspectives in Adapted Physical Activity Research, British
       Academy Small Grants, (2018-19)
    • Faull (Co-I), Paralegacy 2020: Building Japanese research capacity around disability
       studies and sport to positively impact the lives of people with disabilities, ESRC-AHRC
       UK-Japan SSH Connections Grant (2018-20), led by Coventry University with University
       of the West of Scotland, University of Kent, Juntendo University, Nippon Foundation
       Paralympic Support Centre, Co-Innovation Laboratory, Tokyo, Hokkaido College of
       Medicine and Sports.

 These successes highlight the increasingly strong focus in the unit on inclusive sport.

 Infrastructure

 The University has significantly expanded its institutional infrastructure for supporting research
 and impact over the assessment period, establishing a RKE Directorate consisting of a
 Research Office, Research School and College RKE infrastructure (REF5a 4.1). It has also
 expanded support for researchers offered by Library Services.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Its RKE Directorate provides wide-ranging support and guidance for researchers around
 identifying funding (including access to funding databases, such as Research Professional), bid
 development, KE and impact generation (including use of Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker),
 project delivery (including contract negotiation, liaison with partners, financial and other
 reporting) and research governance (including data management, data sharing, protecting and
 exploiting IP). It also provides access for researchers to a current research information system
 (PURE).

 Library Services maintains a publication repository (WRAP – Worcester Research and
 Publications) and provides access to major citation databases (Scopus and Web of Science), as
 well as subject-specific databases such as Human Kinetics. Library services also offers support
 and guidance around Open Access and data management, archiving and sharing.

 The University offers a range of research support schemes designed to support researchers at
 all career stages and, variously, to pump prime projects, develop international collaborations,
 advance existing areas of work (REF5a 4.1.6). Staff in the unit have been successful in gaining
 funding from these schemes: 7 fully funded PhD studentship, one match-funded PhD
 studentship with British Wheelchair Basketball and one PT fees-only studentship; 24 Vacation
 Research Assistantships (VRAs).

 The studentships were in the areas of: performance analysis and wheelchair basketball, 2013-17
 (Peters); women, HIIT and weight loss, 2015-19 (Holliday and Peters); Olympic legacy (Kohe
 and Molnar); dementia and the power of sport to maintain identify, 2016-20 (Kohe and Dawn
 Brooker, Professor of Dementia Studies); physical activity, sedentary behaviour and mood in
 Bipolar Disorder, 2016-20 (Peters and Lisa Jones, Professor of Psychological Medicine);
 sociology of angling, 2017-21 (Molnar); basketball heritage in the UK, 2017-21 (Molnar and
 Kohe); women, ageing and physical activity, 2018-22 (Rhoden and Dr Alison Blank, SL in
 Occupational Therapy); coach decision-making, 2018-22 (Vinson). Four of the students
 appointed to these studentships have completed in the assessment period with all having
 published papers from their thesis and one leading to an impact case study.

 VRAs awarded in the period have enabled staff to develop projects, to establish and enhance
 cross-university collaborations and to publish. Some examples:
     • Kohe’s 2014 VRA on the legacy of the Olympic/Paralympics led to the subsequent
        funded PhD studentship in this area
     • Gerrett’s 2015 VRA on pre-cooling for intermittent activity in the heat on which she
        worked with Thomas, led to publication: Thomas, G. , Cullen, T., Davies, M., Hetherton,
        C., Duncan, B. and Gerrett, N. (2019) Independent or Simultaneous Lowering of Core
        and Skin Temperature Has no Impact on Self‑paced Intermittent Running Performance
        in Hot Conditions. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 119 (8). pp. 1841-1853.
     • A collaborative pilot project between the unit and the Biomedical Research Group at
        Worcester focused on characterisation of immune cell phenotype and function in
        response to moderate and high intensity exercise ultimately led to the following
        publication: Wadley, A., Cullen, T., Vautrinot, J., Keane, G., Bishop, N. and Coles, S.
        (2020) High intensity interval exercise increases the frequency of peripheral PD-1+
        CD8+ central memory T-cells and soluble PD-L1 in humans. Brain Behaviour and
        Immunity: Health, 3. Article no. 100049.

 Research support funding is also offered at School-level: for conference attendance (as noted in
 section 1); publication costs (e.g. extra page payments); and to support ongoing projects with
 direct research costs (e.g. transcribing, consumables).

 Facilities

 The Hive, the joint University and Public library (REF5a 4.2.2), provides a significant space for
 researchers to disseminate their research to the public, through public lectures, and other


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 events. Staff and research students in the unit have delivered public lectures (e.g. Peters) and
 contributed to the University’s annual Images of Research exhibition.

 The Library also hosts the National Basketball Heritage Archive and Studies Centre. This
 archive is the heritage partner for an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Studentship with UCLAN. It is
 also the primary source for a Fees Only PhD studentship awarded to the unit.

 The University Arena is a sports arena with the design to support wheelchair sports and the
 capacity to host major sporting events. It hosted the 2015 European Wheelchair Basketball
 Championships and is home to a British Basketball League team and Netball Superleague team.
 It thus provides first class facilities to support research relating to performance analysis of
 basketball, netball and disability sport during national and international tournaments.

 Researchers in the submitting unit have access to high quality research facilities. The Motion
 and Performance Centre (MPC) provides a facility for 3D motion capture and gait analysis. MPC
 is supported by two full-time engineers who provide specialist support for equipment, and data
 collection, processing and analysis. Provision for sports performance research includes two
 further laboratories supported by a specialist technician. Two performance analysis suites with
 extensive video camera and tripod equipment and specialist software have been further
 developed over the period, whilst successful bids to the University’s capital bids scheme have
 funded specialist equipment for specific research, for example: equipment for analysis of blood.

 The University’s McClelland Centre for Health and Well-Being provides therapy and fitness
 testing rooms which staff are able to utilise for research. Researchers from the submitting unit
 also have access to an environmental test chamber capable of recreating most climate types
 and environmental conditions worldwide, and the Biomedical laboratories which form part of the
 Darwin Building science facilities.

 The unit provides well-equipped specialist facilities to support its research. Laboratories in SSES
 and SSE make full use of the Universities annual capital bids to purchase new equipment to
 support research. Specialist technical staff support research activity across the unit through
 maintenance and calibration of equipment and sourcing of new equipment.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration

 Staff in the unit have engaged in collaborative research with other HEIs, both nationally and
 internationally, and a range of non-academic organisations.

 National collaborations include: Bangor, Birmingham, Brighton, Bristol, Brunel, Chichester,
 Coventry, Hartpury Leeds Beckett, Liverpool John Moores, Loughborough, Stirling, Swansea.

 International collaborations include: Alabama (USA), Auckland University of Technology (New
 Zealand), Agder (Norway), Beijing Sports University (China), Illinois (USA), Molde University
 College (Norway), Southern Denmark (Denmark), South Pacific (Fiji), Sunshine Coast
 (Australia), Vrije Universiteit Brussel (Belgium).

 Collaboration with other organisations: British Wheelchair Basketball, County Sports Partnership
 Hereford and Worcester, Football Association, Herefordshire and Worcestershire Fire and
 Rescue Service, The Lakeshore Foundation, Multiple Sclerosis Society, Shropshire Fire and
 Rescue Service, West Bromwich Albion FC, Worcestershire NHS Health and Care Trust.

 Contribution to the research base

 Staff have held the following positions in learned societies and relevant professional bodies:
 BASES Policy Review Task Group (2016-17), Executive Committee of International Society of

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Performance Analysis of Sport (2016-18), World Obesity Forum Corporate Relations Strategy
 Advisory Group (2014-15), Treasurer of the International Society of Performance Analysis of
 Sport (2012-16).

 Staff in the unit have delivered keynote and invited presentations at: Politics in the Olympics,
 Winter Olympics Workshop, France 2018, (Molnar); Effects of exercise on cognitive, perceptual
 and motor performance research seminar, Coventry UK (Joyce)

 Staff have been on the organising committee for national and international conferences:
 7th International Teaching Games for Understanding Conference, University of Worcester, 2020;
 7th International Society of Performance Analysis of Sport International Workshop, London Sport
 Institute, Middlesex University, 2017; World Congress of Performance Analysis of Sport XI,
 Alicante, Spain, 2016; International Society of Performance Analysis of Sport 6th International
 Workshop, ITC, Carlow Ireland, 2016; World Congress of Performance Analysis of Sport X,
 Croatia, 2014; International Society of Performance Analysis of Sport Workshop, Bredbury Hall
 Hotel, Manchester, 2014; EUCAPA, University of Worcester, 2018;

 Staff sit on external research committees, boards, advisory groups:
 Men and Boys Coalition, Male Psychology Network (Edwards); EIS Tokyo Heat Preparation
 Advisory Panel 2018-19 (Mee); Member of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on a Fit & Healthy
 Childhood (2014-); Women in Sport & Exercise Academic Network (G Renfree).

 Staff have acted as peer reviewers for the following UK and international research funders:
 Dunhill Medical Trust, Economic & Social Research Council (ESRC), LEaDing Fellows Post-Doc
 Programme, Leverhulme Trust, Medical Research Council (MRC), Netherlands Organisation for
 Scientific Research (NWO), Physiological Society.

 14 staff have acted as reviewers for a range of journals in Sports Science, Sports Coaching,
 Sport Sociology, Psychology, Nutrition and Education & Technology (Disability & Rehabilitation,
 Disability & Society, Adapted Physical Activity Quarterly, Psychology of Sport & Exercise, Body
 Image, Journal of Eating Disorders, Journal of Sport Sciences, The Sport Psychologist, Medicine
 and Science in Sport and Exercise, Sports Medicine, Frontiers in Exercise Physiology,
 International Journal of Sport Science & Coaching, Sport, Education & Society, Ethnography,
 Sport in Society, Journal of Contemporary European Research, Sociology of Sport Journal,
 International Journal of Performance Analysis, Qualitative Research in Sport, Exercise & Health,
 European Journal of Sport Sciences, Applied Physiology, Nutrition & Metabolism, Perceptual
 and Motor Skills, Nutrients (MDPI), Journal of Thermal Biology, Applied Physiology, Nutrition &
 Metabolism, Temperature) reflecting the diverse expertise in the unit.

 Staff have held editorial roles for the following journals/publishers: Frontiers in Exercise
 Physiology, MDPI Psychology Journal, Graduate Journal of Sport, Exercise and Physical
 Education, Sport in Society, Asia Pacific Journal of Sport & Social Science.

 Staff have received the following recognition and awards: Fellow of the British Association of
 Sport Sciences (Peters); Fellow of the European College of Sport Science (Peters); Young
 Investigator Award, American Journal of Physiology – Regulatory, Integrated, and Comparative
 Physiology, 2016 (Mee); Best presentation, Electronic Visualisation and the Arts conference,
 2016 (Golz); Best presentation, World Academy of Science, Copenhagen, 2017 (Molnar).

 Staff have contributed to external research degree programmes: through external supervision of
 research students at Bangor (Mee), Gloucestershire (Vinson), Wolverhampton (Rhoden) and
 University of the Basque Country (A Renfree); through external examining at Cardiff Met
 (Peters), Leeds Beckett (Vinson), Australian Catholic University (Peters) Canberra (A Renfree),
 Cape Town (A Renfree), Limerick (Vinson), Murcia, Spain (Vinson) and Otago, New Zealand
 (Molnar); and research degree validation panel at the University of Sunderland (Foster).



                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contribution to Economy & Society

 Staff in the unit are continuing to make significant contributions to economy and society beyond
 that described in the unit’s ICS. Examples of this are:
     • Rhoden and Joyce have engaged with community groups to develop research ideas and
          recruit participants for projects. In 2018 and 2019 they hosted an Active Ageing week in
          association with the International Council on Active Ageing, Sports Partnership
          Herefordshire and Worcestershire and u3a to promote active ageing through a diverse
          programme of public talks, interactive workshops and physical activity taster sessions led
          and underpinned by our research in dementia, nutrition, and self-efficacy. Rhoden has
          written a joint research application with clinicians from Integrated Care for Older People
          (Worcester) and has co-developed a project for exercise in care homes and the provision
          of physical activity taster sessions in collaboration with Public Health Worcester and
          Worcester Association of Carers.
     • Vinson and Cale have utilised their research and practice in coaching to set up a
          Grassroots coaching conference and National Coach Mentor development days for the
          Football Association.
     • Golz, bringing his expertise and research in dance and digital, has choreographed a
          series of three ballets for Brighton Digital Festival funded by Arts Council, England and
          Google (RISE award) which have subsequently been performed at the Royal Institution,
          the V&A and Amex Arena.
     • Edwards’ research on body image and masculinity has supported the work of artist Steve
          Wilson (Meadow Arts) with a public show ‘The Man in the Middle’ at NT Croome in May
          2019.
     • Harding has worked with researchers in Dementia Studies on a project on sporting
          memories collaborating with West Bromwich Albion FC and Wolverhampton Wanderers
          FC and practitioners from Edward Street Hospital to develop a Memories Group
          supporting football fans with dementia.
     • A Renfree has delivered a series of webinars for England Athletics in 2020 based on his
          pacing and decision-making research.

 Staff in the unit have contributed to public engagement activities, such as: Images of Research
 (2014-2019) and Pint of Science (2018). They have also presented their research at public
 events at the Hive.




                                                                                             Page 13
