Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution:
 Manchester Metropolitan University
 Unit of Assessment:
 D32: Art & Design: History, Practice and Theory

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 CONTEXT
 Manchester School of Art Research Centre (MSARC) encompasses research in architecture,
 art, design, fashion and media, including research themes of craft, performance and visual
 culture. As one of 14 University Centres for Research and Knowledge Exchange (UCRKEs), its
 key focus is to deliver impactful arts-based research through applied creativity, and a critical
 aspect of its ethos is the embedded nature of practice as a foundation for collaboration and
 innovation. As one of the largest arts-based research centres in the UK, MSARC provides the
 intellectual home for 133 staff (116FTE, 49% female, 51% male) and 136 doctoral researchers
 (56% female, 44% male). Through a strategic development plan, key successes during this
 assessment period include:
       More than doubled Centre membership to 133 staff (116.2FTE) in REF2021 from 64
        staff (54.6FTE) in REF2014
       Increased external research income by 800% to £5,529,825 in REF2021 compared to
        £694,792 in REF2014
       More than doubled the number of PhD conferments from 43 in REF2014 to 89 in
        REF2021 with a corresponding growth in doctoral researchers from 75 to 136 in the
        assessment period
         More than trebled our professoriate through internal promotions and strategic
          appointments from 5.5 in REF2014 to 17 in REF2021
 MSARC’s uniqueness resides in its combination of scale and diversity of disciplinary expertise
 that enables us to co-create social, cultural and economic benefit through interdisciplinarity and
 applied creativity in response to major cultural and societal challenges of global significance.
 The work of our researchers and professional practitioners is embedded in national and
 international creative and cultural landscapes where they challenge norms, set agendas and
 shape future research narratives towards real-world impact.
 Emerging from the Manchester Institute for Research and Innovation in Art and Design
 (MIRIAD), MSARC was established in 2016 as part of the formation of the new Faculty of Arts
 and Humanities, and the concomitant realignment of the School of Art’s research portfolio. The
 establishment of Manchester Fashion Institute (MFI) in 2016 led to the incorporation of its
 applied and industry-focused research into MSARC. In 2019, following the withdrawal from
 Manchester Met’s Cheshire campus, MSARC also integrated the work of the Performance and
 Contemporary Art Research group, bringing live performance and embodied practice research
 into closer dialogue with specialisms in art and visual culture.
 Staffing and strategy reflect the contribution of constituent disciplines to the School of Art’s core
 activities and strategic priorities. Led by Professor Martyn Evans as the founding Research
 Centre Head (RCH), the establishment of MSARC has led to 14 professorial appointments and
 promotions in architecture (Uduku, White), art (Brennan, Hunt, Ravetz), design (Evans,
 Niedderer), fashion (Barnes, Hackney, Tyler) and media (Drake, Heys, Koppel, Vis) resulting in
 a professoriate of 17 staff.
 Professorial Research Leads (PRLs) provide discipline-specific intellectual leadership for each of
 our five Research Hubs. This structure enables devolved research management by ensuring
 more bespoke and direct engagement with a wider community of researchers through discipline-
 based away days, seminars, and workshops and, at the same time, putting into practice the
 comprehensive intellectual vision of the Centre. Centre-wide activities (communication days,
 research seminars, exhibitions, training workshops, symposia and lecture series) complement
                                                                                         Page 1 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 discipline-based activities to optimise cross-fertilisation of expertise and knowledge. Given the
 scale of MSARC, the creation of a vibrant research environment relies on management
 structures that: 1) provide coherence and a collective centre of gravity while 2) fostering the
 intellectual and scholarly evolution of its constitutive parts.

 RESEARCH STRUCTURE
 The Centre’s five Research Hubs, led by discipline-specific PRLs, are:
    Architecture: Led by Professor Ola Uduku, the Architecture Research Hub comprises 21
     members of staff (20FTE) including two Professors, five Readers, 14 Senior Lecturers and
     16 doctoral researchers. Research is focussed around three thematic areas: Heritage,
     Engaged Research and Urban Futures, through which staff deliver both individually initiated
     and collaborative research. It draws upon a diverse range of practices and pluralities of
     knowledge as well as a broad range of methodologies. As a constituent member of the
     Manchester School of Architecture (MSA) – a strategic partnership between Manchester and
     Manchester Metropolitan Universities – the combined strengths of the School’s collective
     research income and citations situate MSA amongst the best institutions globally, as
     recognised by its QS world ranking. In 2020, the Architecture Hub contributed a major
     component of the faculty’s successful £1.35M bid to establish the Leverhulme Unit for the
     Design of Cities of the Future (LUDeC). The Hub supports ICS1, ICS6, and ICS9.
    Art and Performance (encompassing Visual Culture): Led by Professor Amanda Ravetz,
     the Art and Performance Research Hub comprises 45 members of staff (37.2FTE) including
     five Professors, nine Readers, 28 Senior Lecturers, two Lecturers and 42 doctoral
     researchers. Research expertise is rooted in the evolving fields of Contemporary Art Practice
     and Performance as well as Curating Contemporary Art and Visual Culture, including
     critical/historical writing. The Hub recognises the importance of both individual practice and
     collaborative, inter/trans-disciplinary work. It actively promotes the generation and
     development of art in digital and analogue idioms across real and virtual sites, platforms and
     realities, working at, and challenging, the boundaries of the live and/or liveness, the proximal
     and online. Staff embrace, interrogate and respond to contemporary issues from within a
     research environment clustered around rigorous intellectual research themes, which include
     archives, museums, cultural heritage and domestic histories; language, power, politics,
     protest, site and communities; arts and health; social practice; simulation, materiality, identity
     and fiction of the image; and composition, dramaturgy and laboratory training. The Hub
     supports ICS5.
    Design (encompassing Craft): Led by Professor Kristina Niedderer, the Design Research
     Hub comprises 27 members of staff (23.55FTE) including four Professors, three
     Readers/Principal Lecturers, 18 Senior Lecturers, two Lecturers and 24 doctoral
     researchers. Our approach to design and craft research influences positive change in
     cultural, social, material, technological and innovation contexts. The Hub has focused on
     increasing research income through collaborative projects while also supporting high-profile
     and large-scale exhibitions of practice-based research. There is a particular strength in
     applied and practice-led research, which is purposefully focused on the thematic areas: 1)
     Community, Culture and Heritage; 2) Design for Health and Wellbeing; 3) Design Innovation
     and 4) Material and Making. It supports considerable specialist breadth and is characterised
     by approaches that are collaborative, interdisciplinary, socially-conscious and challenge-led.
     The Hub supports ICS2, ICS3 and ICS4.
    Fashion: Led by Professor Fiona Hackney, the Fashion Research Hub comprises 14
     members of staff (13.11FTE) including three Professors, four Readers, six Senior Lecturers,
     one Research Associate and 24 doctoral researchers. Its capability spans all aspects of the
     discipline including: design; textiles; manufacturing; sustainability; garment-making; cultural
     history; community engagement; artisanal crafts; heritage and business. Collaborative
     research engages with a range of private and third-sector organisations. Specialisms
     include: Fashion Business Management Research fostering intellectual dialogue between
     the fashion business and management fields through innovative, collaborative and

                                                                                          Page 2 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     interdisciplinary research; Fashion Design Research employing a holistic interpretation of
     fashion design spanning social, economic and political perspectives across historical and
     contemporary dimensions; and Innovative Materials and Product Development contributing
     to design and development for functional apparel through state of-the-art facilities. The Hub
     supports ICS8.
    Media: Led by Professor Farida Vis, the Media Research Hub comprises 25 members of
     staff (22.4FTE) including four Professors, five Readers/Principal Lecturers, 12 Senior
     Lecturers, four Lecturers and 30 doctoral researchers. It supports five research themes:
     Expanded Documentary challenges our understanding of documentary through experimental
     forms of production, media and audience interaction; Research in Future Technology
     explores emergent audience-facing technologies and their uses in the fields of the arts,
     health, education and entertainment; User Experience investigates interweaving patterns in
     taste, hearing, smell and vision data to provide better insights into the multisensory nature of
     audience experience and interaction; Socially-Engaged Practice develops new and divergent
     techno- and creative cultures that better represent the pressing needs and rights of global
     publics as subjects, co-creators, participants and audiences; and The Visual Social Media
     Lab (led by Vis) specialises in interdisciplinary and cross-sector research on the role social
     media images play in society. Drawing on the subject disciplines from animation, film-
     making, music and photography the Hub will transition into the School of Digital Arts (SODA)
     in the autumn of 2021. The Hub supports ICS7.

 AIMS, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY
 Our mission is to be the leading comprehensive arts-based research centre in the UK,
 operating across the entire range of the creative disciplines found in a ‘full-service’ art school.
 This has driven the development, deployment and ongoing monitoring of our research strategy
 towards impactful research through applied creativity.
 Our ambition to foster a thriving, inclusive and sustainable research culture is guided by three
 interrelated principles:
     1) to conduct inclusive and impactful research through applied creativity that engages with
         critical issues of our time in order to contribute positively to culture, society and the
         economy
     2) to harness the potential of comprehensive arts-based research to promote
         interdisciplinarity, collaboration and innovation with the academy, industry and user
         communities
     3) to set agendas in research through practice, achieving international recognition as an
         innovator in the field
 As a strategic focus during the assessment period and over the next five years, these guiding
 principles informed the development of the following research objectives that support an
 integrated approach to the vitality and sustainability of our research environment:
    Optimise research quality: Increase the quality and quantity of research outputs
     underpinned by an inclusive and empathetic environment where staff and doctoral
     researchers at all stages of their development contribute to vitality and sustainability.
     – Through shared experiences (seminars, mentoring, case studies, etc.) increase
       understandings of what world-leading research is, and the strategies to produce such
       work (including awareness of quality indicators, such as output metrics, commissioning
       processes, publication strategies, etc.).
     – Given our depth of expertise in research through practice, provide tailored mentoring for
       Early-Career Researchers (ECRs) and Mid-Career Researchers (MCRs) to convey how to
       conduct high-quality practice-based research in a sustainable manner.

     – Develop an increased international outlook to provide opportunities to explore critical
       societal challenges of global significance (such as inclusivity, sustainability and resilience)
       and use this platform to attract international collaborators and visiting scholars.

                                                                                          Page 3 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Grow external income in a diversified yet sustainable manner: Building on the significant
     grant capture performance in this assessment period, continue to increase and diversify
     external income to foster a thriving, viable and robust research infrastructure and
     environment in line with our research strengths.
     – Ongoing development, implementation and monitoring of targeted training and mentoring
        to raise grant capture ambition and ensure that the quality of research and knowledge
        exchange bids are maximised through an effective peer review process.
     – Mentoring from discipline-specific experienced and successful staff will be complemented
       by engagement with faculty- and university-level support to provide a tailored funding
       environment that shares best practice, and increases a research funding literacy.
     – Develop a deep understanding of research funding agendas and, through membership of
       funding bodies, shape and better anticipate the funding trends and opportunities while
       working with strategic partners to lead, or contribute to, research consortia.
    Conduct externally-facing, engaged and impactful research: Embed impact and the real-
     world relevance of our research by optimising supportive initiatives that enable effective
     pathways to impact with beneficiaries and user communities.
     – Building on the significant platform of impactful research, use Research Hubs to develop
        and implement a discipline-specific impactful strategy that places user communities at its
        core in order to co-produce research that addresses real-world needs.
     – Embed our Co-Production Research Network to explore theoretical and applied arts-
        based approaches in order to identify opportunities for collaboration with, or secondment
        to, private, public, and/or third-sector organisations, regionally, nationally or
        internationally.
     – Continue to capture and share our impactful research in creative ways that are accessible
        to non-academic audiences and strive to generate research impact that has cultural,
        societal and economic benefit.
    Maintain a vibrant doctoral and postdoc community: Building upon our existing scale
     and expertise, foster an attractive, viable and inclusive doctoral and postdoc community.
     – Work closely with the University’s Graduate School (GS) and the faculty’s Postgraduate
       Arts and Humanities Centre (PAHC) to align research strengths and capacity to increase
       the number of doctoral researchers from 136 to 225 by 2026.
     – Continue to work towards securing Research Council Studentships while also seeking to
       identify alternative funding opportunities (for example, through industry-sponsored
       studentships) and to provide an attractive and engaging postgraduate research
       environment that can attract fee-paying students.
     – Seek opportunities that increase our postdoc community in a sustainable manner (such as
       the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)) funded CREATE Fellows: The North
       West Creative Economy Engagement Fellowships to enhance the potential for our
       doctoral researchers to progress into postdoc positions.
    Amplify opportunities for collaboration, inclusivity and interdisciplinarity: Promote a
     culture of inclusivity and interdisciplinarity that drives sustainable, impactful and mutually
     beneficial collaboration with a range of user communities including private-, public, and/or
     third sector organisations.
     – As one of the largest arts-based research communities in the UK, we already have
         extensive networks, connections and collaborators that afford a wide range of research
         opportunities. Moving forward, we will seek synergies between existing expertise and
         interests and future activities that demonstrate innovation in what we do, how we do it and
         with whom we do it.
     – Continue to prioritise inclusivity and diversity in a manner that recognises the challenges
         faced by marginalised and underrepresented groups while also identifying future
         opportunities to employ creativity and arts-based research to explore issues of social

                                                                                        Page 4 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        inequities and increasing societal atomisation.
    – Understand and communicate better the value of interdisciplinary research and
      incorporate into funding applications, collaborative projects and doctoral studentships in
      order to foster a culture of innovation that places our arts-based disciplines at the centre
      of emerging debates, applied agendas and theoretical developments.

 ENABLING IMPACT
 As a fundamental characteristic of our approach to impact, we are driven to understand the
 difference our research makes, to whom it makes a difference, and to capture and share the
 evidence of this difference. We utilise a range of mechanisms (Sec.2 People) to provide an
 effective environment in which staff are supported and encouraged to generate research with
 significant, demonstrable impact. These mechanisms include a Research Leave Scheme (to
 provide dedicated time to conduct impactful research); a Research Development Fund (to
 provide funding to undertake field research, visit collaborators, create artwork for exhibitions);
 and Research Mentoring (to enable peer-learning and knowledge exchange from experienced
 research staff and impact professionals).
 We have maximised the impact arising from our research in a number of ways:
       Much of our research is externally funded and provides best practice in how to amplify
        impact and increase its reach and significance with the widest range of user communities
        possible. For example, AHRC, British Council, and Arts Council England funding enabled
        Welsh (ICS8) and team to engage traditional craft communities in India and Thailand
        (directly engaging 511 creative participants and reaching global audiences of over
        300,000), leading to an increase in social wellbeing and economic sustainability; while
        AHRC and EPSRC (The Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council) funding
        enabled Brook (ICS1) and team to benefit the heritage sector through the statutory listing
        of post-war buildings, and protecting architectural assets by lodging them safely in
        archival collections.
       We engage with a wide range of user communities and beneficiaries to co-produce
        research and resultant impact. We do not see a separation between the originator and
        user (or end beneficiaries) of research, rather we see it as a mutually beneficial
        partnership. For example, Kettle (ICS3) empowered marginalised communities to engage
        with critical issues, such as refugee displacement, and interrogates textiles’ role in
        shaping identity, politics and society; meanwhile Dixon and Magee (ICS2) re-shaped
        conventional memorial-making practices by engaging participants as co-researchers and
        co-producers of new multi-media commemorative artworks thereby transforming
        marginalised individuals, volunteers and community groups from a passive audience into
        active and emotionally-engaged participants.
       We challenge accepted norms of how arts-based research can address notions of
        hierarchy or stigmatised subjects, such as mental health; and foster activism and give
        new voice to marginalised groups. For example, Ravetz (ICS5) explored non-hierarchical
        infrastructures for artist development and contributed to the organisational security of her
        collaborator, Axisweb, shaping national policy in the process; meanwhile Parkinson
        (ICS4) and team employed innovative arts-led and publicly-engaged interdisciplinary
        methodologies to shape care provision for mental and physical health, as well as co-
        creating novel modes of campaigning and activism.
 While impact characterises research, we continually adapt to ensure that impact is of value, and
 valued, by our user communities and end beneficiaries. We innovate the methodologies by
 which it is generated, communicated and shared, and engage in research that is at the cutting-
 edge of societal and organisational challenges with great potential for shaping policy agendas
 and identifying new and novel forms of arts-based research.
       We tackle cutting-edge societal issues that require a range of creative, participatory and
        innovative research methods that can ‘question the norm’ of how research should be
        undertaken. For example, Vis (ICS7) and team challenged existing understanding of how

                                                                                         Page 5 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        visual media literacy can tackle the ever growing problem of misinformation and in doing
        so created a step-change in how teachers, children and young people in high school and
        primary school in Canada, Colombia and the UK interrogate misleading images;
        meanwhile Sengupta (ICS6) and team generated new systems approaches and
        computational models to explore disruptive technologies within urban transformation
        research to inform early stage policy development better.
         Our research generates significant traction with policy-makers as it creates novel forms
          of insights that are human-centred, empathetic and visually rich, and as a result, provide
          new perceptions that shape contemporary and future policy agendas. For example,
          White (ICS9) and team undertook significant funded work to establish the ‘age-friendly
          neighbourhood approach’ to engaged design-research with older people, improving
          quality of life for 19,854 citizens across six communities in Manchester, and have
          critically shaped relevant policy and practice through partnerships with local government.
          Given its impact on policy – both in the UK and internationally (including the World Health
          Organisation) – the potential beneficiaries of the research have increased exponentially.
 While the above examples draw directly upon our nine ICSs, the approaches outlined are
 representative of our wider attitude to generating demonstrably impactful research. We: 1)
 foreground the potential of collaboration with our user communities and see their participation as
 a critical aspect of a co-production process leading to novel and highly innovative outcomes; 2)
 recognise the value of funding in amplifying the reach and scale of our research while also
 providing advocacy for the relevance and need for such activities; 3) welcome the opportunity to
 explore challenging and critical issues of our time that may not suit all forms of research
 methodologies, particularly those that cannot adapt to context, informed by user communities
 and shaped by experiential learning; and 4) engage purposefully with policy agendas towards
 shaping future contexts for the benefit of key stakeholders, end-users and the wider society.

 SUPPORTING INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH
 Much of our research is characterised by collaboration and engagement with other disciplines
 and a wide range of user communities. While this involves working with other arts-based
 disciplines, it increasingly involves direct engagement with the humanities; social science;
 education; computer science and engineering; and other disciplines within the University, with
 other national and international higher education institutions (HEIs); and the professions. This
 rich interdisciplinary culture results from inquiry-led research that addresses societal or
 organisational challenges without restricting creativity and innovation through disciplinary
 boundaries. Interdisciplinarity is fostered through a creative research culture that promotes: 1)
 blue-sky thinking by asking ‘what if?’ questions; 2) exposure to new and novel thinking within
 and beyond our ‘home’ disciplines; and 3) an environment that supports risk-taking,
 experimentation and (learning from) failure. Such a culture is supported and actively promoted to
 ensure that we are able to break out of conventional thinking and use applied creativity to
 question the norm.
 Interdisciplinary teams may form as a result of responding to particular funding opportunities that
 seek to address issues of critical importance. For example, Evans, in 2019, led a multi-
 institutional consortium to address the productivity and competitiveness of the UK regions’
 creative industries through the better use of productivity-enhancing digital technologies in an
 application to the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Strength in Places Fund programme. The
 successful Expression of Interest resulted in £50k of seedcorn funding to develop the £26.5M
 Creative City+ proposal, involving researchers and industry partners with expertise in audiences,
 behavioural economics, businesses and entrepreneurial support, creative industry policy,
 immersive analytics, user experience, service design, consumer behaviour and retailing,
 immersive content, people-centred innovation, data science and AI, digital transformation, digital
 trust and cyber security, and heritage and culture-led regeneration.




                                                                                         Page 6 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 TOWARDS AN OPEN RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT
 MSARC is committed to promoting Open Access (OA) and Open Research ensuring compliance
 with the Concordat on Open Research Data. Our Library Research Support team offers one-to-
 one mentoring; workshops and guides on OA; Research Data Management and Bibliometrics.
 We work closely with Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) and the Library to ensure we
 understand and meet the needs of our arts-based researchers. Journal articles and conference
 proceedings with an ISSN are deposited within three months of acceptance in Symplectic
 Elements, the University’s Research Information System, before being reviewed for eligibility
 and then hosted in our externally-facing e-space system for unrestricted open access. Regular
 training in the use of Symplectic Elements and e-space is provided and a review of OA
 compliance is included in annual research mentoring.
 Colleagues publish in journals with Green or Gold OA, building publication costs into external
 grants or accessing University funding to pay Article Processing Charges (APCs), including a
 UKRI OA support alongside £660k of institutional investment in the assessment period to make
 outputs accessible via Gold OA.
 Many colleagues contribute to an open data culture by sharing research data. Data, generated
 by research funded by UKRI or European grants, are shared in institutional, national and/or
 European repositories. Compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data is monitored by
 the University’s RKE team in collaboration with Library Services, who oversee the institutional
 repository. Contributions to open research through a culture of external-facing activities,
 including consultation, workshops, co-research, etc., and by freely sharing research outcomes
 with academics and non-academics, is frequent.

 COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS IN ETHICAL RESEARCH
 Given that much of our research is undertaken in collaboration with external stakeholders, we
 prioritise the understanding of the ethical implications of these activities. We are compliant with
 the Concordat for Research Integrity and ensure that staff and doctoral researchers are aware of
 ethical and legal responsibilities through annual briefing in the research mentoring process.
 Specialist support in research integrity and ethics across our disciplines is provided by our
 Professors and Readers, all of whom are members of the Faculty’s Ethics Review Panel and all
 have received special training. Ethical and legal issues are addressed in mentoring discussions
 (and formalised in the Five-Year Plans) at the earliest stage of research project development,
 and researchers must engage with the University’s ethical approval system before commencing
 new projects. Applications for ethical approval are submitted via EthOS, the University’s online
 system for ethical review, and all research undertaken in the University must secure ethical
 approval. Staff are also given training in GDPR and secure data storage.

 Section 2: People

 STAFF DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
 We place great emphasis on the development of our staff. As a result of a Centre-wide
 consultation process in 2016, to understand the specific opportunities and challenges regarding
 research support needs, we instigated a series of sustainable strategies and support
 mechanisms to foster conditions conducive to high-quality impactful research. Guided by the
 principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, our approach to
 enhancing our research environment and, in turn, the performance of our members at all career
 stages as benchmarked against relevant indicators (quality and quantity of outputs, research
 income, markers of esteem, etc.), capitalises upon Faculty and University processes and
 procedures while also providing discipline-specific developmental approaches that recognise the
 breadth of our specialist expertise. Approaches include:
       Research Mentoring: All Centre members are allocated a research mentor with whom
        they meet at least once a term to review their Five-Year Research Plan (see below),
        including the development of a publication strategy, future bidding, internal support (such

                                                                                        Page 7 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        as Research Leave, the University’s Good-to-Great Scheme, the Faculty’s International
        Research Partnership Scheme) and career progression.
       Five-Year Research Plans: A Centre-wide scheme requires all researchers to maintain
        a rolling Five-Year Research Plan reviewed regularly in dialogue with their mentor.
        Introduction of this process has enabled staff to plan research activities in a more pro-
        active and strategic manner by prioritising activities and development needs. In turn, it
        assists longer-term allocation of resources, budget setting and performance monitoring.
        All plans are reviewed annually by the Centre leadership team who provide feedback.
       Research Leave Scheme: Introduction of a research leave scheme in 2015 provides
        opportunities for staff to apply for full sabbaticals (buy-out from teaching for one term);
        mini-sabbaticals (to undertake a specific research task where leave from teaching,
        typically for 3-4 weeks, is required); or support for bid-writing (buy-out to focus on the
        development of a research funding proposal). Allocated on a competitive basis to staff at
        all career stages, irrespective of their fractional status, research leave allows for intense
        periods dedicated to the development and production of outputs and/or funding
        proposals. Researchers are entitled to a one-term sabbatical every three years. Since
        the introduction of the scheme, staff have been awarded the equivalent of 68 full
        sabbaticals, 20 mini-sabbaticals and 10 bid-writing sabbaticals equating to total
        investment in the assessment period of £520,750.
       Research Development Fund: Six bi-monthly bidding points provide opportunity to
        apply for internal funding to support the completion of publications, conference
        attendance, support for exhibitions, travel and other expenses. Up to two applications
        can be made in any given year by individuals or groups. While there is no absolute
        maximum amount that can be applied for, bids normally do not exceed £5,000. This Fund
        is a critical factor in enabling our researchers to be adaptable and flexible in an
        increasingly diverse and global environment. In 2019/20 our Research Development
        Fund was £132k shared across the five Hubs.
       Research Hubs: The establishment of five Research Hubs provided structured
        mechanisms to support, deliver and monitor discipline-specific individual research
        programmes and ongoing staff development. The Hubs are also a critical device for
        fostering debate and intellectual exchange, providing a forum for peer learning, and
        acting as a safe and supportive space where researchers are recognised as key to our
        overall ambitions.
       Research Training: As part of its annual planning, MSARC draws upon members’ Five-
        Year Plans, mentoring meetings, Research Hub events and leadership committee
        initiatives to develop a range of in-house training designed to complement centrally
        provided support. This training includes REF-literacy and bid-writing workshops,
        strategies for articulating research through practice, international networking, as well as
        impact and media training. Research training is reviewed annually and draws on best
        practice nationally and internationally through the invitation of keynotes, input from
        visiting researchers, and field trips to partner and competitor organisations.
 The above provides a range of support that not only accommodates researchers at all career
 stages and draws upon the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers but
 moreover aims to accommodate everyone who is engaged in research, not just those employed
 on research contracts. For example, we have created an Associate Mentoring Scheme designed
 to support colleagues (without significant responsibility for research) towards the acquisition of
 core Centre membership within two years.
 The Centre has ensured prioritisation of research activities within the annual almanac, with
 identified times and venues for meetings, workshops, seminars, etc. This ensures that the
 research agenda engages with the education and international portfolios in a timely and effective
 manner.
 MSARC members also benefit from the Central RKE office’s staff development schemes, i.e.
 including Good2Great (Heys); and Future RKE Leaders (Brook, Csepely-Knorr, Kelly, Na,

                                                                                         Page 8 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Jurack, Turner), as well as the Faculty International Research Partnership Fund (IRPF) (Vis &
 Heys). In addition, the University funds staff attendance at externally-funded schemes, including
 Advance HE’s Aurora initiative (Tan).
 Postdoctoral Researchers: As a result of the significant increase in external research funding,
 the Centre has grown a vibrant cohort of postdoctoral researchers. Postdoctoral researchers are
 automatically core members of the Centre and benefit from this membership through access to
 the Research Development Fund, the allocation of an experienced research mentor, and
 inclusion in Research Hub meetings and activities. One of our strategies has been to seek
 opportunities for postdoctoral researchers to secure, where appropriate, academic contracts
 where their expertise aligns with the research strengths of the Centre and the longer-term
 ambitions of the University. For example, in 2019, both Jackson and Na secured permanent
 lectureships and act as role models for personal and career development for postdoctoral
 researchers. The latter are also mentored by an experienced mentor who provides support and
 guidance towards the identification, development and submission of research funding
 applications, which aim to strengthen their research profile and grant-capture experience. This is
 seen as an important step towards becoming independent researchers (e.g. Sayem) and, while
 not all applications are successful, this enables personal development, increases resilience and
 enhances chances of securing research funding in the future.

 STAFFING AND RECRUITMENT STRATEGY
 A coherent staffing strategy (as outlined below) has resulted in our submission of 133 Centre
 members, equating to 116.26 FTE compared to 56.4 FTE in REF2014. Our staff profile is:
  F1 (Professor)           I0 (Principal Lecturer,   JO (Senior Lecturer)    KO (Lecturer,
                           Reader)                                           Research Fellow)
  16%                      17%                       57%                     10%
 The Centre supports the recruitment of academic staff across all careers stages and plays a
 critical role in the Faculty’s appointment and promotion processes. The Research Centre Head
 (RCH) and/or Professorial Research Leads, in dialogue with the Faculty ProVC, Faculty Head of
 Research and Knowledge Exchange, and respective Heads of Department, feed into the
 University’s annual strategic planning process through identification of the priority need for posts
 and their fit with Centre, Faculty and University’s strategy. Once posts have been secured
 through the planning process and/or through replacement posts, in line with University policy, a
 senior representative of the Centre is involved in shortlisting and also sits on the appointment
 panel.
 While the contribution of staff on short- and fixed-term contracts is highly valued, the Centre
 supports a move towards longer-term contracts wherever possible. We recognise the need to
 balance the nature of contracts to ensure that ECR are provided with employment opportunities
 that build their research experience and profiles with more secure and longer-term
 appointments.
 In terms of the effectiveness of the recruitment strategy, there has been a significant increase in
 the professoriate (from 5.5 in REF2014 to 17 in REF2021), an uplift in members of the Centre
 resulting from new appointments (50 appointments) with a significant proportion of ECR.
 In addition to feeding into the annual strategic planning process, the Centre supports and
 develops targeted applications to the University Strategic Opportunity Fund (SOF) that
 accelerates expansion in areas of particular strategic importance to the Centre. Three key SOF
 developments have been successful, led by Heys (aligned to SODA to extend expertise in
 immersive storytelling via SODA.I; £464k over three years); Evans (to enhance expertise in
 design-driven innovation via The Design Factory; £953k over three years); and Parkinson (Arts
 for Health: £25k over 18 months). These strategic developments ensure that the Centre: 1) can
 identify areas of national strategic importance aligned to research expertise (e.g. Industrial
 Strategy Challenge Fund, and Global Challenges Research Fund); 2) can have the agility to
 leverage existing strengths and extend them rapidly against evolving agendas (such as


                                                                                         Page 9 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 AI/AR/VR); and 3) is able to provide a step change in activities that recognise the evolving
 research context, both nationally and internationally.
 Through the appointment and internal promotion of 14 Professors in the assessment period, the
 Centre has been able to identify PRLs for its five Research Hubs and their respective
 Leadership Teams. In doing so, the Hubs are able to provide targeted leadership that benefits
 members, thereby empowering them with a voice to input into the strategic direction of the
 Centre and ensure that there is effective communication between the University, Faculty, Centre
 and researchers. This two-way dialogue has sought to address legacy issues with regard to
 communication between the previous research Centre (MIRIAD) and researchers, an issue
 identified in consultation after the review of research structures and management in 2015.
 The appointment of PRLs who, with the RCH, form the Centre Leadership Team, provides a
 forum for peer learning, strategy discussion and future planning alongside opportunities for
 shadowing and succession planning. We have mapped out and will monitor the tenure of
 members of the Centre Leadership Team to ensure a period of shadowing for staff coming into
 such roles. This aims to ensure the resilience and sustainability of Centre leadership and
 management although we recognise that this capacity-building is an ongoing process at all
 levels of the career stage. Ultimately, the Centre strategy has been established to empower
 members of the Centre at all levels appropriate to their career stage.
 A number of Professors have been recruited as a mechanism to reposition the expertise of the
 Centre beyond legacy research traditions in fine art, visual culture and craft by strengthening the
 constituent areas of the Centre, i.e. architecture, design, fashion and media. Appointments have
 been completed by internal promotions – from ECR to Reader and Reader to Professor –
 achieved through targeted mentoring and support mechanisms. This has provided a balanced
 range of professoriate and senior researchers that is more representative of our current research
 strengths and future ambitions, and thus can empower staff at all stages of their career.
 The Centre has developed strategies to recruit staff with expertise in grant capture to increase
 the ambitions and culture of applying for external research grants. By working beyond the pool of
 existing staff who have a funding track record, we have been able to develop and deliver
 initiatives including sandpits, intense bid-writing workshops and facilitated buy-outs for grant-
 writing. These strategies are led by staff who have already successfully secured external grants,
 including Evans, White, Heys, Niedderer, Uduku, Ravetz and Vis, and have fast-tracked
 successful grant-writing activities.

 SUPPORT FOR ECRs and MCRs
 The importance of ECRs to the sustainability and future vitality of our research environment is a
 priority and ECRs are embedded in many research support processes. The Centre adopts a
 broad definition of ECR status to ensure that such staff are effectively supported during this
 critical phase of their career. Experienced research staff are involved in the mentoring of ECRs
 via input into PDRs and provide targeted support via individual and group mentoring meetings.
 The Centre has an ECR group (established by ECRs) who co-create its agenda and draw in
 more experienced researchers on specific issues. This bottom-up approach is fully supported by
 the Centre with a dedicated member of its Leadership team providing a sounding board for the
 group. This group also provides a safe and rich environment for ERCs to discuss their personal
 and career development, and feed into annual training and development requirements.
 Each research Hub has a dedicated ECR representative that connects to the Centre Leadership
 Team. ‘ECR issues’ is a standing agenda item on research Hub and Centre meetings. The
 Centre has implemented a rule that, wherever possible, all doctoral supervisory teams include
 an ECR to ensure the development of supervisory capabilities via mentoring from experienced
 supervisors.
 We also recognise that for Mid-Career Researchers (MCRs) to extend and develop their
 experience, they need the opportunities and support to do so. We provide opportunities for such
 staff to take on responsibility for defined activities such as organising seminars and developing
 public engagement activities, etc., and encourage peer-learning across all research activities.
 For example, collaborative bids are encouraged with ECRs and MCRs in order for them to
                                                                                      Page 10 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 experience the bidding process. All bids are scrutinised by more senior colleagues (many of
 whom are members of Peer Review Colleges) who provide feedback on the proposed grant and
 overall bidding process.

 RESEARCH LEAVE
 All Centre members are eligible to apply for research leave annually. Since its introduction in
 2015, the Research Leave Scheme has provided an opportunity for staff to undertake full
 sabbaticals (£8,500: full buy-out from teaching for one term); mini-sabbaticals (£1,500: to
 undertake a specific research task where leave from teaching, typically for 3-4 weeks, is
 required); and support for bid-writing (£1,000: buy-out to focus on the development of a research
 funding proposal). Allocated on a competitive basis to staff at all career stages, irrespective of
 their contract status, research leave allows for intense periods dedicated to the development and
 production of research outputs and/or research funding proposals. MSARC researchers are
 entitled to receive a one-term sabbatical (or equivalent) every three years. As an alternative to
 full sabbaticals, a research assistant may be employed, in which case, the maximum funding
 amount available of £8,500 supports a 0.4FTE Grade 5 research assistant for nine months. In
 this assessment period, staff have been awarded the equivalent of 78 full sabbaticals, 24 mini-
 sabbaticals and 14 bid-writing sabbaticals equating to total investment in the assessment period
 of £520,750.

 EXCHANGE BEYOND ACADEMIA
 The Centre benefits from extensive relationships between the academy and external private,
 public and third sector organisations, and values the manner in which these relationships
 enhance the impact and relevance of its research, develop an understanding of the external
 environment and enable meaningful and mutually beneficial collaborations. We have experience
 of successful secondments (Hammond embedded in Greater Manchester Combined Authority
 and Ravetz with Alma Park Primary School); Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (Ravetz working
 with Axisweb); membership of advisory boards (e.g. Evans was appointed to the AHRC Advisory
 Board in 2019 for three years); and acting as policy advisors (Vis advising government
 organisations in the UK and Canada, and through working with the World Economic Forum);
 Brook to the Modernist Society; and Evans to Design Council). As the anchor institution to the
 region’s cultural and creative industries, researchers are embedded in, and foster exchanges
 with, in myriad ways in key organisations, such as HOME, Manchester Jazz Festival (e.g.
 Fairclough); and Manchester International Festival (Heys, Mitha, etc.).
 We have utilised our Research Leave Scheme and Research Development Fund to provide
 targeted time and seedcorn funding to stimulate exchanges between the academic and private-,
 public- and/or third sectors, which often leads to collaborative funding applications. For example,
 Evans collaborated with the Crafts Council to successfully develop the AHRC-funded Located
 Making project (AH/S00341X/1) with partners in China, including cultural development support
 agencies, to develop a practical framework for unlocking the potential of heritage-based making
 practices in China through the application of design expertise.
 We also employ Collaborative Doctoral Awards (CDAs) to stimulate exchanges between
 academic and external partners, particularly in areas where we have significant research
 expertise. For example, Brook and Csepely-Knorr have developed successful funded CDAs with
 the Landscape Institute Scotland, Historic England and BT Archives.

 SUPPORTING IMPACT
 We utilise a range of approaches to recognise and reward staff for carrying out research and for
 achieving impact. The annual Five-Year Plan process provides a structured opportunity for staff
 to capture and communicate their research and impact activities; this is used to inform research
 categorisation and, in turn, workloads to support research. Where particular impact activities are
 identified, staff may be provided with specific support and advice from the Faculty Impact Team
 to capture and maximise the reach of the impact. Each Research Hub has a dedicated budget
 that, at their own discretion, can be used to recognise and amplify research and impact

                                                                                      Page 11 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 activities. We recognise that by the nature of impact activities, there is a need to be flexible and
 agile in how and when support is provided as these opportunities can be time-bound.
 Key to the recognition and support of research and impact activities is the need to: 1) tailor the
 nature of support to the career stage of the member of staff; 2) be able to provide support in an
 agile and targeted manner to ensure opportunities are maximised; and 3) provide mentoring and
 guidance to ensure whatever may be needed to translate potential impact into a demonstrable
 and tangible form. As this often involves engagement with external partners, we are mindful to
 respect the needs and constraints of collaborators, and aim to work towards mutually beneficial
 outcomes that recognise the strengths or weaknesses of all parties. For example, Ravetz
 worked with Portraits of Recovery, directly supporting their successful bid to ACE’s Elevate
 programme, securing funding for strategic business planning for long-term organisational
 sustainability.

 DOCTORAL RESEARCHERS
 MSARC hosts and supports a substantial cohort of doctoral researchers increasing from 75 in
 REF2014 to around 140 in REF2021. PhD conferments have more than doubled from 43 to
 89 in the same period. In the 2019 Advance HE Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, for
 Creative Arts and Design we were ranked 2nd for Overall Experience, 3rd for Research Culture
 and 8th for Professional Development in the UK.
 We greatly value our doctoral research community and provide a range of strategies to integrate
 them fully into our research culture through participation in research seminars; exhibitions and
 conferences; high-quality and tailored training and research management; collaboration between
 researchers and doctoral researchers, often leading to co-authored research outputs; access to
 bi-monthly research funding; and involvement in funded research projects.
 MIRIAD was as an exemplar of practice-based doctoral research training with strong
 connections to staff research specialisms, and MSARC has worked to ensure that discipline-
 specific strengths enhance broader arts and humanities training. By carefully integrating arts-
 based training and development expertise into this wider arts and humanities context,
 opportunities for interdisciplinary research have been fostered and add significant value to the
 students’ learning experience. This ensures that, as a major provider of doctoral research, our
 training and development expertise, pioneered by MIRIAD for over 20 years, was critical to the
 establishment of the Postgraduate Arts and Humanities Centre (PAHC) in 2016.
 Our successful recruitment of doctoral researchers is prioritised and supported via:
    1) alignment between postgraduate taught (PGT) provision and research specialisms to
        maximise progression to doctoral study
    2) active engagement with the AHRC North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership
        (NWCDTP) and commitment to collaborative doctoral awards
      3) development of a coherent, externally-facing narrative regarding the breadth and depth
         of doctoral training expertise and capacity
      4) targeted international promotion of doctoral expertise through involvement in invited
         talks, seminars and symposia
 We continue to work closely with PAHC and the GS to provide a supportive research
 environment, achieve increased registrations where PhD supervisory capacity exists and fully
 engage with funding opportunities to support doctoral research. For example, the architecture
 and design research Hubs were centrally involved in the successful £1.35M Leverhulme Unit for
 the Design of Cities of the Future (LUDeC) which will fund 15 doctoral researchers over four
 years.
 In line with our commitment to equality and diversity, we recognise the importance of an
 inclusive recruitment strategy that attracts candidates with protected characteristics. We: 1)
 promote the AHRC NWCDTP ring-fenced studentships to all potential candidates; 2) are
 developing an application to the Office for Students’ (OfS) call to increase access for black,
 Asian, and minority ethnic (BAME) PGRs (Vis); and 3) are heading the establishment and

                                                                                        Page 12 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 leadership (Vis) of the Research Centre for the Study of Race and Racism, which will have a
 strong arts-based ethos and will be an important further mechanism to attract BAME students.
 Alongside University-funded Scholarships, we have been successful in securing 16 fully-funded
 Research Council studentships, including CDAs, in an increasingly competitive climate from the
 AHRC-funded NWCDTP. Research Council-funded studentships include two in 2014/15, five in
 2015/16, one in 2016/17, four in 2017/18, three in 2018/19, one in 19/20 and two in 20/21.
 Importantly this has required an increase in marketing activities, targeted support for staff -
 including staff undertaking University-funded doctoral research leading to more supervisory
 capacity, and a more effective and coherent online communication strategy.
 Hackney acts as Doctoral Research Champion for the Centre and each Hub has a Research
 Degree Co-ordinator who provides support for potential doctoral candidates in a coordinated and
 integrated manner in liaison with the relevant supervisors and, given our focus on
 interdisciplinary research, from the wider University as appropriate.
 We also recognise the value of securing external funding to support doctoral researchers’
 cohorts. For example, Evans was invited in 2017 by Manchester University (by the lead of the
 NWCDTP) to co-author the funding proposal to the National Productivity Investment Fund (total
 award £906k). The successful proposal led to the ‘Transformation NW’ cohort of 12 doctoral
 students across the consortium with three fully-funded students studying within Manchester Met.

 SUPPORTING OUR DOCTORAL RESEARCHERS
 The administration of doctoral research is overseen by the GS via the SkillsForge online system,
 which provides a central set of tools to support and guide students. Administration is provided in
 close collaboration with PAHC and Hub-level Research Degree Co-ordinators. Doctoral
 researchers have a supervisory team comprising of a Principal Supervisor, First Supervisor and
 Second Supervisor, the last of whom is usually an ECR (to develop expertise and supervisory
 capacity), who provide regular advice on research, and personal and professional development.
 One hundred hours of supervision per year is normally divided 60:20:20 between the
 supervisory team. Detailed records are kept of supervisions via SkillsForge, which provides a
 structure of support able to adapt to the developmental need of individual students. SkillsForge
 supports student progress and development (see REF5a) by recording official milestones,
 training and actions from supervisory meetings. An Application for Registration takes place after
 three months and a Progression Review/Transfer of Registration after 12 months (full-time)
 where independent reviewers scrutinise applications and support the development of the
 research. The latter includes an informal viva voce designed to prepare the student for their
 post-submission viva.
 Doctoral researchers participate in the annual PAHC Symposium at which they present their
 research and are given extensive feedback, prior to the event, on abstract design, and
 afterwards, on presentation and impact. PAHC is committed to the notion of doctoral research as
 a professional development that extends beyond a student’s delivery of their project. The
 systems we have in place are thus designed to nurture a broader professional portfolio, so that
 students are able to record and reflect on the benefits of research training, and workshop and
 conference attendance, their co-production of events, and more specific bespoke needs. These
 are addressed through an Annual Progress Review in which the student discusses such needs
 with independent scrutineers from the Centre in order to assess what can be done to support
 their progress most effectively.
 PAHC delivers an annual Research Training Programme developed in accordance with the
 Vitae Researcher Development Framework, consisting of over 50 sessions, including dedicated
 provision around practice-based methods; provocative theorising; digital research; collegiality;
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI); and employment after graduation. PAHC operates as a
 community of practice – a multidisciplinary research community dedicated to the development of
 our doctoral researchers. MSARC staff are actively engaged in bespoke arts-based training, and
 support and contribute to weekly sessions. The combination of interdisciplinary research
 training, well-being support, events and online discussion fora, as well as a meeting space for


                                                                                      Page 13 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ca.380 students from across arts, humanities and social sciences, fosters an engaged and
 interdisciplinary research community.
 Collectively MSARC and PAHC provide funding for doctoral researchers to devise their own
 training initiatives (e.g. reading and writing groups or specialist practice groups) with the aim of
 nurturing independent-minded arts-based researchers. Employability training is provided through
 workshops offering students hands-on advice for job applications and interviews, and via the
 University’s Postgraduate Passport scheme.

 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 Equality and Diversity matters are reported institutionally through the University’s Equality and
 Diversity Annual Report. The Diversity and Equal Opportunities Committee (DEOC) oversees
 the delivery of the University’s Equality and Diversity Policy and Strategy; the four Staff Equality
 fora (disability, gender, LGBTA+ and race); the Women’s Network; and the Working Parents and
 Carers Network, ensuring consultation and involvement in equality-proofing university policies.
 University level data indicates a higher proportion of female promoted staff compared to the
 proportion of female staff overall (57.2% of 54.8% staff in post), and a higher proportion of
 promoted staff who self-define as lesbian, gay, bisexual, or other, compared to the proportion of
 heterosexual staff.
 Comparing MSARC with this and other university- and sector-wide data, reveals successes in
 some areas, and the need for further work in others. Looking at gender parity across roles and
 seniority, more Readers are female than male (52% vs 48%). The figures are reversed for
 Senior Lecturers (48% vs 52%). The lowest proportion of female staff is at Lecturer level (38%
 vs 63%), closely followed by Professors, of whom 39% are female and 61% male.
 Data available for 120 Centre members show that 5% declared a disability, most (38%) being at
 Lecturer level and none at Professorial level, a lower percentage of disabled staff than that of the
 sector or amongst all university academics (7% and 6% respectively).
 Data on MSARC members’ racial diversity is held for 115 staff (87%); of these 8% identify as
 BAME, and 92% as White. In terms of nationality, 6% of UK members declared BAME identity,
 and 17% of Non-UK members; compared to 7% and 19% of sector-wide, and 9.5% and 37% at
 the University level respectively. The largest proportion of BAME staff are at Lecturer level (14%
 BAME vs 86% White), followed by Professorial level (12% BAME vs 88% White).
 The data held for 85 staff show the proportion of LGBTQ members in MSARC to be 11.8%,
 more than twice the 5% proportion of all university academics, reflecting Manchester Met’s 2019
 success in being ranked second in the English education sector on Stonewall’s Workplace
 Equality Index (WEI), 22nd in the WEI Top 100 (2019) and one of only 14 Stonewall Top Trans
 inclusive employers.
 The restructuring of the research centre into Hubs in 2016 created five leadership roles for PRLs
 with all those appointed identifying as women, and two also as BAME: this compares with a
 professorial leadership team over the last REF cycle and up to 2015 that was 100% male and
 White. By extending leadership roles to female and female BAME staff qualified to carry these
 out, the expectation is that the next RCH will be a women/BAME woman.
 Looking at promotions to senior research roles during the REF period, 19 members of staff were
 promoted to Reader and Professor; and out of five new professors, two were women (40%); out
 of 14 promotions to Reader, seven were women (50%).
 Following a Code of Practice centrally developed by the RKE team in consultation with HR and
 input of the University and College Union, and through consultation with all staff and other
 university stakeholders, all staff in the unit have access to support, mentoring, funding,
 sabbaticals and career development opportunities. All staff benefit from university-wide
 arrangements for supporting flexible and/or remote working, which are offered via Heads of
 Department and HR, as well as from the University promotions scheme, which ensures that
 colleagues are not penalised for taking career breaks. Expectations of research productivity
 (measured by number of outputs) are reduced to enable staff with protected characteristics (e.g.
 disabilities) and for staff and research students returning from periods of leave (including

                                                                                        Page 14 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 parental leave) or ill health, managing long-term illness, or with caring responsibilities, and with
 fractional contracts, to fully benefit from Centre membership status. Progression workshops are
 run annually for female colleagues, currently being expanded for BAME and other under-
 represented colleagues. We actively encourage and support applications for the Aurora HE
 development programme.
 Equality and diversity considerations are taken into account with regard to access to internal
 research funds, including conference attendance, sabbaticals and training. Centre members
 receive mentoring within their Hubs, with access to research support, activities, and internal
 funding. Recruitment processes are reviewed to ensure they are inclusive and that equality and
 diversity govern the make-up of recruitment and assessment panels. The Centre is developing a
 pilot scheme for staff and research students with caring responsibilities, ill health, etc., to apply
 for conference attendance and other necessary travel to support research, with applications
 evaluated against a transparent and systematic set of criteria.
 A number of mid-career researchers have benefited from the ‘Future RKE Leaders’ funding, with
 the awards being equally distributed between female and male colleagues, and two of the
 recipients (Brook and Jurack) have been promoted to Reader during this assessment period.
 ECRs have similarly benefitted from Research Accelerator Grants up to a total of £29,157. Of
 the six awards, four were given to female staff members.
 Csepely-Knorr was one of the female recipients of the award (in 2016), and was mentored by
 Brook, recipient of mid-career funding. They jointly received funding through Manchester Met’s
 International Visitor and Network Funding (£2,970), which then led to their joint successful
 funding applications to the Paul Mellon Centre and the AHRC (total income £147,688).
 Montague received the award in 2017, and successfully built on this to secure external funding
 from UKRI and the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851, with a total amount of £44,881.
 Kelly and Uduku both benefitted from the Global Challenges Research Funding, extending their
 international networks to West Africa and the Philippines, with Uduku researching West African
 modernism and two writing workshops, through the British Council, for writing workshops in
 Africa.
 MSARC members have developed peer-to-peer initiatives with an explicit EDI agenda, such as
 an ad hoc weekly ‘Power Hour’ run by, and for, BAME researchers, and The Common Room,
 set up by Centre member Tan, and ECR, and associate member Singleton, with a remit to
 decolonise teaching, learning, research and knowledge exchange. Staff have also been central
 to the development of a roadmap for change in the Faculty, and to adopt an actively anti-racist
 approach. It highlights ten ways in which it could do so. This roadmap and accompanying letter
 were signed by over 30% of the Faculty, with significant proportion coming from MSARC. The
 proposal set out in this roadmap was officially endorsed by DEOC, with a key focus on improving
 how the University collects and presents its diversity data, as well as committing to exploring the
 development of a Research Centre for the Study of Race and Racism (led by Vis).
 Following the processes set out in Manchester Met’s Code of Practice, equality and diversity
 issues have underpinned the selection of all outputs. All colleagues with significant responsibility
 for research, and who are working as independent researchers, have been included in the
 MSARC submission. To ensure the delivery of an inclusive submission, a fair, transparent and
 robust process was set up to allow colleagues to declare individual circumstances confidentially
 and to request a reduction in output expectation. All staff were made aware of the processes and
 were encouraged to apply. An independent appeals panel was in operation throughout the
 preparation for REF2021, with colleagues invited to appeal decisions about researcher status or
 REF inclusion in July and August 2020, so that the outcome of these appeals would be
 incorporated into our submission.
 Discussions about outputs and workloads have formed part of annual review and mentoring
 sessions. We have opted not to seek any reduction in the overall volume of outputs required by
 our submission, judging that there is sufficient scope within the rules for us to manage the
 impact of individual circumstances through our existing processes.



                                                                                         Page 15 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Outputs have been selected on the basis of quality, using metrics in line with the UK forum for
 Responsible Research metrics. We have engaged in an internal, double-blind peer-review
 exercise to recognise examples of good practice in our work and to identify the best quality
 outputs. Internally, assessment of outputs has been undertaken initially by colleagues, then by
 members of the Centre Leadership Team. We also ran a statistical analysis of the average
 scores by individual internal reviewers to ensure consistency across the reviewing cohort, and
 made any necessary adjustments. After ranking our outputs by quality, we have attributed
 outputs to their authors, based on the maximum and minimum quotient per staff member.
 We have paid particular attention to ensuring that equality and diversity are embedded into the
 development of the submission, taking account of equality and diversity issues data on the
 distribution of outputs across staff, by taking positive steps to maximise equality and diversity in
 the attribution of outputs where possible. Further improving equality and diversity is a core goal
 of the Centre.

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities

 RESEARCH INCOME
 As a key strategic focus, the research Centre has significantly improved its grant capture,
 leading to an extraordinary eight hundred percent (800%) increase in research income to
 £5,529,825 in REF 2021 (as reported in grant income reported in REF4b and officially recorded
 via the University’s research management system, Worktribe) as compared to £694,792 in REF
 2014. Diversity of income profile is as follows:
  BEIS Research       UK Charities,       UK Govt.             EU                  Non-EU Other
  Councils            Open                Industry & Other
                      Competition &       UK Sources
                      Other
  41%                 3%                  41%                  12%                 3%
 This has been achieved through a range of integrated strategies to sustain and increase external
 grant capture including:
        Intensive one-to-one grant writing with mentoring and feedback from experienced award
         holders to enable the development of high-quality finding proposals;
      Implementing a mentoring scheme that supports ECR and less experienced staff through
         the development of research bids;
      Horizon scanning of potential research funding calls (with expert input from the School’s
         BDM) to maximise the time available to develop research bids and form partnerships;
      Engagement with external expertise to increase the awareness of, and competence in,
         external grant capture (e.g. participation in the Manchester Met-funded Grant Academy;
         and hosting of the AHRC Next Generation Design Researchers Workshop (with
         contribution from the AHRC);
      Encouraging and supporting collaboration with successful investigators and HEIs
         (sometimes through seed-funding to establish and strengthen networks and
         partnerships);
      Development of a resource of exemplars of successful research applications made
         available to staff, and summarised in briefings that support the development of funding
         literacy.
 We have seen a demonstrable increase in external research income and, moving forward, we
 see successful grant capture support increasingly being led through the five Research Hubs
 towards interdisciplinary research funding applications. To support Research Hubs, we
 established a Strategic Research Bidding Group which highlight key funding opportunities and
 coordinate bidding activities across the Centre, University and externally with collaborators to
 ensure we are able to support ongoing grant capture.
 Selected awards (over £100k) include:


                                                                                         Page 16 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Ambition for Ageing: Heritage Lottery/GMCVO £10.2m (£444,000 to Manchester
        Metropolitan), 2017, White (Architecture).
       Audience with a Hero: Transforming the production of immersive encounters:
        Innovate UK, £696,855 (£223,990 to Manchester Metropolitan), 2019, Heys (Media).
       AXISWEB: Innovate UK (KTP), £140,242, 2017, Ravetz (Art & Performance).
       City Verve: Innovate UK, £10m (£337,000 to Manchester Metropolitan), 2016, Sengupta
        (Architecture).
       Dementia and imagination: connecting communities and developing well-being
        through socially-engaged visual arts practice: AHRC, £1.2m (£263,000 to
        Manchester Metropolitan), July 2013–August 2017, Parkinson (Design).
       Designing the I-Do access platform: Facilitating Inclusion and Empowerment of
        People Living with Dementia through Access to Cultural and Creative Activities:
        H2020-Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships, £163,795, 2020, Niedderer
        (Design).
       Developing an Action Plan for the Strategic Use of Design in the UK: AHRC,
        £557,935 (£468,096 to Manchester Metropolitan), 2017, Evans (Design).
       JENKIP: Innovate UK (KTP), £145,250, 2017, Wood (Fashion).
       Living Design: The effective use of design for sustainability in maker enterprises:
        AHRC, £464,639 (£189,329 to Manchester Metropolitan), 2016, Evans (Design).
       RESYNTEX: Horizon 2020 (£378,000 to Manchester Metropolitan), 2015, Tyler
        (Fashion).
       RightPlace: Exploring future housing aspirations through neighbourhood housing
        strategies, Centre for Ageing Better, £122,702, 2019, White (Architecture).
       SynchroniCity: Delivering an IoT-enabled Digital Single Marked for Europe and
        Beyond: Horizon2020, £271,010 to Manchester Metropolitan, 2016, Sengupta
        (Architecture).
       Visual Media Literacy for Combatting Disinformation: Analysing How Teachers
        Used the Questioning Images Resource During the 2019 Canadian Federal
        Elections: Department of Canadian Heritage, £114,426, 2020 Vis (Media).
 We see potential for grant capture through collaborative projects with colleagues in health,
 science and engineering, and humanities, etc. as well as significant relations with third sector
 and community organisations. Sources of income connected to the range of research themes
 contained within Centre include AHRC; EPSRC; ESRC; Leverhulme Trust; Innovate UK; British
 Academy; RIBA Research Trust Awards; British Council; Arts Council England; Wellcome; etc.
 Each Hub develops an annual grant capture plan, and monitors, promotes and targets specific
 calls as they emerge, with support from RKE.
 While we have achieved an impressive 800% increase in research income (as reported in
 REF4b), the nature of our arts-based research means that we have also secured significant ‘off-
 book’ funding that was not administered through the University’s Worktribe system due to the
 specific nature of this funding. For example, this may include commissions; Arts Council Grants
 for the Arts (secured by individuals not institutions); funding directly from industry; international
 funding, residencies, support for performances, exhibitions and instillations, etc. This includes:
      1) Financial support through commissioned work: Regional (£747,724), National
         (£1,057,386) and International (£299,421). Combined Total: £2,104,531
    2) Off-book research funding: £2,303,368
  Funding source                Regional      National International         Off-book         Total
  Arts Council England/         £183,000      £250,609      £48,706          £422,437      £904,752
  Wales
  British Film Institute         £30,000      £270,000               -       £100,000      £400,000

                                                                                         Page 17 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Creative                      £40,000          -               -          £7,500      £47,500
  England/Scotland
  Galleries/Museums/Art &      £183,257     £209,150        £122,822     £612,299 £1,127,528
  Creative Industry Orgs
  Councils/Local Authorities    £33,000          -               -            -         £33,000
  British Council               £75,000          -               -            -         £75,000
  BBC                               -       £191,000             -            -        £191,000
  Sky Arts                          -        £50,000             -            -         £50,000
  Foreign Government                -            -               -       £124,122      £124,122
  Bodies
  Universal Studios                 -          -                 -     £800,000   £800,000
  Other                        £203,467    £86,627          £127,893   £237,010   £654,997
  TOTAL                        £747,724 £1,057,386          £299,421 £2,303,368 £4,407,899
 Total off-book funding equates to £4,407,899 during the assessment period. Data was collected
 via a staff survey. A total of 102 surveys were completed, representing ca. 80% of staff, which
 means the figures presented here are conservative.

 INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORTING RESEARCH AND IMPACT
 Researchers benefit from significant levels of support from an expanded RKE Directorate, which
 includes full service support incorporating a GS to RKE Systems and support for IP,
 Commercialisation and Contracts as well as pre- and post-awards teams. The RKE Directorate
 includes a dedicated Research Development Manager, an International Research Development
 Manager and a Project Delivery Team including post-award specialists and legal professionals
 who support procurement, logistics and financial management (including engagement with
 funders). We have a Research Impact and Engagement Manager who manages a team of
 impact and public engagement professionals, a Research Ethics and Governance Manager who
 offers guidance, training and support. Engagement with business and industry is supported by a
 Business Development Manager, a Partnership Manager and an award-winning KTP team.
 We also benefit from support of a team who oversee RKE Systems including Symplectic which
 Centre members use to maintain records of their outputs, for open access compliance and web
 profiles; Worktribe which is used for the management of external funding applications; EthOS
 which is used for research ethics and governance and SkillsForge which administers manage
 doctoral research. RKE Systems also provide management reports and data that we feed into
 our annual review processes. Administrators and specialists in the GS work closely with our
 Research Degrees Lead and PAHC. We also have access to a dedicated press officer, a HR
 business partner, ISDS support and colleagues in Finance and Legal Services.
 The Centre’s research and impact activity is supported by a wide range of Professional Services
 staff working at the Faculty. This includes a 4FTE Faculty-based RKE team that provides post-
 award project support (procurement, logistics, travel, contracting, engaging workers and
 management of finances) as well as supporting ethics, governance and the administrative
 functions of the Research Centre. MSARC also has dedicated resources via two Digital
 Archivists (1.6FTE) and a Research Associate supporting the capture and articulation of
 practice-based research (1FTE).
 At a Centre level, the following organisational infrastructure supports research, knowledge
 exchange and impact:
       The MSARC Leadership Team meets six times a year (twice each term) and oversees
        the strategic and operational planning of the Centre, including generation of high-impact
        research outputs; research income strategy; research support budget; development of
        Early-, Mid-Career and Senior staff; and development, implementation and monitoring of
        ongoing research support mechanisms.
       Financial management is overseen by the MSARC Head with administrative support
        provided by the Faculty RKE Administrative team. In 2019/20 the total Centre budget
                                                                                     Page 18 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        was £422K – Research Leave Scheme (£150K); Research Development Fund (£132K);
        Architecture Research Hub (£20K); Art & Performance Research Hub (£30K); Design
        Research Hub (£28K); Fashion Research Hub (£10K); Media Research Hub (£22K);
        MSARC (£10K); plus institutional support for the Centre (£20k).
       Research Leave Scheme supports full-sabbaticals (buy-out from teaching for one term);
        mini-sabbaticals (to undertake a specific research task through teaching leave, typically
        for 3-4 weeks) and support for bid-writing (buy-out to focus on the development of a
        research proposal). Annual budget of ca. £150k; total investment in assessment period:
        £520,750.
       Research Development Fund via six bi-monthly bidding points provides the opportunity
        to apply for funding to support research activities, such as development of outputs;
        completion of publications; conference attendance; support for exhibitions; research-
        related travel, etc. Annual budget of ca. £132k; total investment in assessment period:
        £412,000.
       Research Environment Funding is allocated across each Research Hub to enable
        them to provide discipline-specific support including events, visiting speakers, seminar
        series, PhD training, etc. In 2019/20 the total budget was £110k (Architecture, £20k; Art
        & Performance Research, £30k; Design, £28k; Fashion, £10k; Media, £22k). Total
        investment in the Research Environment Development Fund across the Research Hubs
        in the assessment period was £205,000.
 Evidence of areas where there has been significant investment includes:
    •   Institutional and GMCA investment in the School of Digital Arts (SODA) (£35M in
        total) to drive ideas and innovation across all forms of creative content in a school of
        future storytelling.
    •   Institutional investment via Strategic Opportunity Funding (SOF) for: 1) SODA.I:
        Immersive Storytelling, £446,154 over three years (Heys), 2) The Design Factory:
        Design-Driven Innovation, £951,930 over three years (Evans), and 3) Arts for Health,
        £25,000 over 18 months (Parkinson). Total funding £1,441,084 across three awards.
    •   International Research Partnership Fund to collaborate with New York University and
        Columbia University around: 1) Critical AI and Online Visual Cultures, and 2) Digital
        Storytelling led by Vis and Heys over two years. Total Funding £80,000 across two
        strands of one award.
    •   Research Accelerator Grants are funded by the University for applications of up to
        £5,000 leading to a full submission to an external funding stream where applications from
        ECRs pursuing New Investigator awards or similar are particularly encouraged. Total
        funding £29,157 across six awards.
    •   Research Development Fellowships for applications up to £5,000 to support
        researchers to gain experience of undertaking research at an organisation from another
        sector or in another country. Total funding £16,612 across five awards.
 The university has been strategic in its investment in MSARC to ensure it is able to support a
 vibrant and sustainable research environment. Total investment in the assessment period
 exceeds £2,704,603 (includes Research Leave Scheme; Research Development Fund;
 Research Environment Funding; Strategic Opportunity Funding; International Research
 Partnership Fund; Research Accelerator Grants; Research Development Fellowships).

 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 The University Library provides 24/7 opening across the academic year, alongside extensive
 access to online resources. Subject librarians from the Arts & Humanities Library Team work
 with academic colleagues to offer support and a vital link between library and researcher, often
 advocating and lobbying for extra resources on their behalf. In addition, librarians contribute to
 workshops on the Postgraduate Arts & Humanities Centre Research Training Programme.
 Library Research Support staff provide workshop content on the GS Doctoral Researcher

                                                                                       Page 19 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 training programme. The Library’s open InfoSkills workshops are also available to all staff,
 students and researchers. Requests from researchers for monograph additions to the collection
 are encouraged. Journal titles and online resources are reviewed annually. Inter-Library Loan
 requests are free to all users and can be submitted online. Researchers are able to utilise the
 SCONUL Access network to facilitate access to other university libraries, and eduroam allows
 easy network connections.
 The Art and Design section of the Library holds an extensive range of material across all art and
 design disciplines. Strengths of the collections lie in both their historical and contemporary
 coverage, including a large collection of exhibition catalogues, and research material, which
 supports the unique Special Collections. Current and retrospective journal holdings are
 comprehensive, both in print and online form. In addition to the huge range of multi-disciplinary
 online services, the Library subscribes to many specialist art and design resources.
 Researchers within MSARC are fully supported with world-leading facilities and resources. A
 mixture of specialist, bespoke and general spaces, with research specific equipment ready to be
 made available to all researches, is one way the Centre is able to achieve its aim ‘to harness the
 potential of comprehensive arts-based research to promote interdisciplinarity, collaboration and
 innovation in the academy and with industry’. Research staff, spaces and resources in each of
 the research Hubs are fully supported by a technical support team.

 Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 SUPPORT FOR COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
 MSARC benefits from a number of distinctive factors including our location (the key arts-based
 provider in the city, and arguably the region, affords us unparalleled collaborative opportunities);
 strong connections to key creative and cultural stakeholders (organisations, partners and
 collaborators in the city and more broadly regionally, nationally and internationally); the scale
 and breadth of our research base (as a full-service arts-based research Centre); and our
 underlying research focus (arts-based research through applied creativity).
 In this assessment period, we have developed a wide range of partnerships and collaborative
 activities that supports a flourishing collaborative research environment. Internal collaborations
 among Centre members and within the University enable research interests and strengths to
 coalesce to give staff the resources and foundation from which to work. With this basis, Centre
 members have been able to establish a significant number and range of external collaborations
 with academic, public and business partners. Foremost among them range collaborations with:
       African Cities Research Consortium (with the Global Development Institute Manchester,
        London School of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, the IIED and Universities across Africa
        (Uduku)
       Art and Design, Health & Social Change: researchers work with the following partners to
        develop solutions for health and wellbeing: healthcare and policy partners in Manchester;
        Nottingham; London; Germany; Luxemburg; Netherlands and Spain, including Alzheimer
        Europe; Alzheimer Society; Alzheimer Gesellschaft; Dementia UK; Alexianer St Hedwig
        Hospital; INTRAS; Zorggroep Sint Maarten and others (Parkinson, Niedderer)
       Engaged research in arts and crafts: researchers work with underrepresented
        marginalised communities (immigrants, women, children, etc.) in countries worldwide
        (e.g. UK, Philippines, China) to help them find a voice or develop the skills and
        confidence to make a living (Dixon, Kettle, Ravetz, Welsh)
       Engaged research in Design and Architecture: researchers work with the public in
        Manchester to enable a shift in the power relationship to facilitate public involvement in
        planning and policy-making (White, Threlfall, Hackney)
       Environmental engagement in fashion design and technology to reduce material waste
        and pollution, and combat climate change (Tyler, Sayem)
       Visual media literacy for combatting misinformation: Consultation with the Canadian,
        Colombian and UK governments (Vis, Faulkner)
                                                                                        Page 20 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Policy and business innovation through design: Design Council; Crafts Council; Heritage
        Crafts Association; Beijing Institute of Fashion Technology; Chinese Academy of Social
        Sciences (Evans, Na)
       Performance: Working with major Manchester theatres (such as the Royal Exchange and
        HOME) to develop future models of theatre-making and performer training (Pinchbeck)

 RELATIONSHIPS WITH RESEARCH USERS, BENEFICIARIES, AUDIENCES AND
 COMMUNITIES
 Our research interacts with a wide range of user communities, and our networks provide a
 number of ways of developing relationships with key users, audiences and wider beneficiaries.
 Our practice-based researchers exhibit regularly (Biswas, Kettle, Dixon, etc.), while other staff
 present their research through performance and engaged practice (Brennan, Pinchbeck, etc.).
 These publicly-facing activities enable our research to reach significant audiences and raise the
 profile of arts-based research at the University with non-academic audiences. Presentation of
 research through conferences, keynote addresses and workshops provides non-practice-based
 researchers with a range of fora to garner feedback on their research.
 Some of our researchers engage with key stakeholders as experts who provide input into the
 research process itself. For example, Evans and Na conducted five regional workshop (Belfast,
 Cardiff, Glasgow, London and Manchester) with over 100 participants, regarding the drivers and
 barriers to the strategic use of design as part of the research, which informed the development
 of the AHRC-funded Design Action Plan. This approach is typical in inquiry-led collaborative
 research projects conducted by staff.
 Members actively participate in RAH! (Research in Arts and Humanities), an award-winning
 public engagement programme organised by the Faculty of Arts and Humanities. RAH! Is
 supported by £50k per year and a full-time Public Engagement Assistant. The RAH! programme
 directly supported impact activities, through bespoke public engagement, facilitation of
 evaluation, impact capture and the extension of our reach through extensive networks and social
 media presence. RAH! aims to bring people into the University who would not usually attend an
 academic event, so it offers so much more than public lectures: it consists of fashion shows;
 exhibitions fairs; film screenings; readings and even pub quizzes. Building relationships is at the
 heart of the RAH! programme, which encourages collaboration within the University across
 disciplines and also across region’s community groups, sub-cultures and cultural venues.
 To ensure that we are able to engage with communities and the public through our research, we
 pay close attention to engaging with a diverse set of hard-to-reach and marginalised
 communities while also providing the opportunity to engage with groups that are more likely to
 engage with arts-based research. We employ two main strategies: 1) engaging diverse groups in
 the community directly in our research, and 2) drawing in different audiences through high-
 profile, innovative public-facing research events. For example, Kettle employed innovative
 research approaches to engage with, and empower, displacement refugees through textiles,
 generating 678,783 visitors to date in her Thread Bearing Witness project.
 During lockdown we have been able to provide wide access to our online events and have been
 mindful to make events available to those who were unable to attend via online repositories. For
 example, our Bunker Talks series, led by Pinchbeck, has involved over 60 online research
 discussions with practitioners and researchers from the institution and beyond. We have also
 used the shift to online events to our advantage by extending the reach and scale of our events,
 as exemplified by the Provocations series led by Lucas, which facilitate thematic debates on
 contemporary issues in architecture with innovative engagement between speakers and
 audiences.

 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
 Based on extensive collaborative networks and activities, the Centre has developed a range of
 thematically-led research strengths, including Art and design, health and social change; arts-
 based engaged research and policy to combat misinformation; and climate change; as well as
 for design-based innovation and business development. A number of Centre members are
                                                                                      Page 21 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 concerned with societal and environmental welfare aiming to contribute to a more equitable,
 healthy and peaceful world. Highlights in this work include the following:
       Art and design, health and social change: Parkinson leads our Arts for Health initiative
        bringing together arts-based, and health and wellbeing research, since its establishment
        in the University the 1970s; through the MinD project Niedderer designs for people with
        dementia, mindful self-empowerment and social engagement; while White is co-
        researching with residents how age-friendly their neighbourhood is, and how to make it
        better via the Ambition for Aging project.
       Engaged research for social welfare: Kettle empowers marginalised groups, including
        immigrants through socially-engaged textiles research; a wide range of researchers
        (Dixon, Evans, Hackney, Kettle, Kelly, Mitchison, Welsh) engage craft communities
        internationally, including weavers, potters and artists, to support good work and social
        equity; while White and Threlfall work with the public in Manchester to enable a shift in
        the power relationship to facilitate public involvement in planning and policy-making.
       Policy through applied creativity: Vis is combatting the visual basis of misinformation
        via consultation with UK and Canadian policy makers; Evans is informing national design
        policy through the development of an action plan for the strategic use of design in the UK
        in collaboration with the Design Council; while Tyler is fostering environmental
        engagement through fashion design and technology to reduce material waste and
        pollution, and combat climate change.

 CONTRIBUTION TO THE DISCIPLINE AND INDICATORS OF WIDER INFLUENCE
 Researchers engage in activities that influence and shape the discipline locally, nationally and
 internationally, through ground-breaking research, but also by participation on grants committees
 and research councils; presenting and exhibiting, nationally and internationally; and, through
 significant service to academic boards and review panels, influencing policy development and
 membership of sector organisations, making substantial contributions to the vitality and
 sustainability of arts-based disciplines. Key activities include:
 Awards and Prizes: Our research reputation has been recognized through a range of national
 and international awards and prizes. In this assessment period prizes members have won
 include: 2016 AHRC Research in Film Award, Utopia category, for Wonderland (Ravetz); 2018
 National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement Images Contest Award for Culture Change
 (Tan); 2016 Winner of the International Leslie Scalapino Award for Innovative Women
 Performance Writers (McLeer); 2018 RIBA Ethel Day Award (Aston); 2020 Textile Society
 Critical Writing Award (Setterington); 2014 Government Sponsored Heritage Heroes (Stone);
 2017 Hungarian Landscape Architect of the Year (Csepely-Knorr); 2016 Nature Visual Science
 Award at Imagine Science film festival with Loop (Moore); 2019 Best British Film at the London
 International Animation festival with Bloomers (Moore); National Retrofit Prize from Architect's
 Journal (McCusker); and Best Producer at Underwire (BAFTA recognised film festival) (Dunn).
 Residencies: During this assessment period, researchers have engaged in a number of
 residencies and visiting fellowships (23 in total), including at The University of Cologne
 (Pinchbeck); Sanskriti Foundation, New Delhi, India (Jurack); NTU Centre for Contemporary
 Arts, Singapore (Tan); 'Orheiul Vechi' International Painting Residency, Moldova (Copsey);
 Odessa International Art Residency, Ukraine (Copsey); Academic Lead British Council Creative
 Residency, Thailand (Welsh); Residency at Ontario College of Art and Design Toronto (Kelly);
 The Swedish Embroidery Forum, Sätergläntan College, Sweden (Kettle); Artist In Residence,
 Hanshan Art Museum, China (Kettle); Nakanojo Biennale Japan (Mitha); Designer in Residence
 at the Modernist Society (Hitchen); Artistic Residency with Theatre Group Studio 7, Schwerte,
 Germany (Campbell); The Tetley Leeds and Extreme View Artist in Residence - Art Gene
 (Adkins); University of New South Wales, 2017 (Parkinson); Visiting Professorships: Middle
 Tennessee State University (Fairclough); Bournemouth University (Evans), University of
 Wolverhampton (Vis).
 Grant Reviewing: Nationally, at least seven members have been part of the AHRC peer review
 college (Evans, Niedderer, Ravetz, Blain, Turner, Hackney, Tan), with Evans serving as an
                                                                                     Page 22 of 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 AHRC Strategic Reviewer (2017-2020). Hackney has been involved in a wide range of UKRI
 and AHRC calls as an invited peer reviewer. Grant reviewing, awards panels and mentoring
 activities include: NERC (Niedderer); selection panel Contemporary Applied Arts (Kettle);
 selection panel Radical Craft Pallant House Gallery and Craftspace (Kettle); Hothouse Mentor,
 Crafts Council (Kettle); Hand and Lock Prize Mentor (Kettle); Northern Artist Film Award and
 Judge for DBACE Award (Daniels); Wellcome Trust Arts Awards (Moore); Lush Film Fund
 (Dunn); British Council Film (Dunn); BFI (Dunn); Wellcome Trust Strategic Awards Committee
 (Parkinson); ESRC (Sengupta, Vis), EPSRC (Evans, Vis); and Innovate UK (Sengupta).
 International Grant Reviewing: Staff have reviewed for EU Horizon 2020 (Evans, Niedderer);
 The Academy of Finland (Ravetz); Annual Artist in Residence at the Museum of Art and Design,
 New York (Biswas); The Global Board of Contemporary Art, Brussels (Bal); and Irish Research
 Council Laureate Awards (Drake).
 Editorial Positions and Reviewing: Several staff are involved in academic journals as Editors,
 including as Founding Editors (e.g. Niedderer, The Journal of Craft Research). Other Editorships
 include: Journal of Graphic Novels and Comics (Ormrod); Journal of Design Research (Evans);
 Performance, Religion and Spirituality (Edelman); Animation Practice, Process & Production
 (Moore); Open Screens (Suarez); Journal of Dress Historians (Wild); and Journal of Fashion
 Marketing & Management (Barnes). MSARC members are involved in over 30 journals as part of
 Editorial and Advisory Boards, and review 120 different academic journals across a wide range
 of disciplines, as well as for high-profile presses.
 Examination of Doctorates: Centre members have examined over 100 doctorates in 70
 institutions across six continents, including in the UK and Australia, Brazil, Italy, India, Portugal,
 Spain, South Africa and United States.
 Keynotes and plenaries: Staff have given over 80 invited keynote and plenary addresses
 nationally and internationally.
 Boards and Committees: Staff serve and have served on numerous national and international
 boards and committees, including the British Fashion Council (Jenkinson); The Textile Society
 (Slater); Chair of Manchester Jazz Festival (Fairclough); UK Adult ADHD Network (Tan); Textile
 Institute Council (Tyler); Elected Deputy Chair and representative for Europe on Executive
 Committee of International Foundation of Fashion Institutes (Barnes); Royal Musical Association
 (Blain); Manchester Crafts and Design Centre (Mitha); Craft Scotland (Mann); World Economic
 Forum, Global Agenda Council for Social Media (Vis); World Economic Forum, Global Futures
 Council on Information and Entertainment (Vis); Director Open Data Manchester (Vis)
 Professional advice and Select Committees: MSARC researchers are regularly called on for
 their professional advice. Examples include: Government’s parliamentary KE unit on disability
 (Tan); Ellen MacArthur Foundation (Tyler); GMCA Authority Textile Alliance Project (Barnes);
 House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee: Fixing Fashion: Clothing, Consumption
 (Hackney); All Party Parliamentary Group on Arts, Health & Wellbeing Research Methodology
 Inquiry (Parkinson); Advisor to the Design Council (Evans); House of Lords Select Committee
 Political Polling and Digital Media (Vis).
 In conclusion, the University has invested strategically and with great confidence in MSARC
 enabling it to deliver impactful research through applied creativity. We have developed a vibrant
 and sustainable research environment that in the assessment period has: 1) more than doubled
 membership to 133 staff (116.2FTE) from 64 staff (54.6FTE); 2) increased external research
 income by 800% to £5,529,825 compared to £694,792; 3) more than doubled the number of
 PhD conferments to 89 from 43; 4) more than trebled our professoriate to 17 from 5.5; and 5)
 secured £4,407,899 of off-book funding. These achievements characterise an increasingly
 dynamic, ambitious and inclusive research environment that fosters world-leading impactful
 research that makes a real difference to the academy, industry and society. Our commitment
 moving forward is to ensure we further embrace equality and diversity in all that we do.




                                                                                         Page 23 of 23
