Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Institution: Swansea University
     Unit of assessment: 17 - Business and Management Studies
     Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

     Unit context and structure
     Submission to this UoA is almost entirely constituted of School of Management (SoM)
     staff - one colleague is included from the College of Human and Health Sciences
     (CoHHS). Our vision is to make a difference to society and the economy, locally,
     nationally and globally, through excellence in research and research-led teaching.
     SoM comprises over 120 academics, 90 professional services staff, and 68 PhD
     students, all working and studying at the £450m Bay Campus which opened in 2015.
     The academic community includes 53.05 full time equivalent (FTE) Category A staff
     (a headcount of 56), all of whom are submitted to REF2021. Despite the challenges
     that two changes in leadership have presented during the current REF period, the
     vitality and sustainability of our research environment has remained intact. We have
     witnessed considerable successes this REF period in the areas of research funding
     (375% growth in total research income when compared to the total reported in
     REF2014, and 700% growth within the current period; i.e. from 2014 to 2020), PhD
     completions, interdisciplinary collaboration (particularly with healthcare), and in
     influencing Welsh Government (WG) policy in areas such as air pollution, digital
     rollout, economic development, and labour market policy. Furthermore, impact from
     research activities has extended internationally in areas such as Indian government
     policy, entrepreneurship training in Malaysia, and healthcare management across
     Europe.

     SoM comprises three departments, eight research centres, two think tanks, and four
     major embedded projects (see figure 1):




1
    Figure 1: SoM Research Structure

    SoM’s research centres each have a defined remit, and are cross-departmental, open
    to postgraduate research (PGR) students and academics from other disciplines. We
    encourage researchers to pursue their own research interests in line with our research
    aims, and we encourage centre membership on the basis that an individual can make
    a meaningful contribution. Within each department, there are also informal, groupings
    of academics who share research interests. Research centres often emerge from
    these groups, such as CREMMF. The research groups encourage collegiality creating
    a space to share ideas and collaborate. This structure provides a continuation of
    research activities in key areas which, thereafter, strengthens the sustainability of the
    research strategy. Moreover, SoM has developed a greater spectrum of research
    interests, including a tourism team, and a broadening of the traditional Economics
    research base so that it includes a greater emphasis on how contemporary topics (e.g.
    wellbeing at work) contribute to economic development.

2
    Progress since REF2014
    In 2014, SoM stated its vision to be a research-led, internationally focussed centre of
    excellence capable of supporting and sustaining research of the highest calibre. These
    aspirations underlined our broad goals, as evidenced in table 1.

     Goals 2014-2020             Evidence of achievement
     To promote staff            The number of academics with responsibility for
     research activities in a    research within the unit has remained constant during
     strong, collegiate          the current REF period. We have achieved notable
     research environment        publication success with many academics publishing in
                                 world leading journals. SoM provides a package of
                                 support measures for researchers including a
                                 generous research support allowance, protected time
                                 for research, highly skilled support teams, and world-
                                 class facilities at the Bay Campus. Furthermore, staff
                                 on other pathways (e.g. Enhanced Teaching) are given
                                 hours in their Workload Allocation Model (WAM) to
                                 undertake research. The aim being to encourage a
                                 research-driven culture within SoM that is inclusive of
                                 all academics.
     To develop staff, and       SoM introduced an ECR academic mentoring scheme
     particularly early career   to offer each ECR a point-of-contact in the senior
     researchers (ECRs), to      academic team. The mentor’s role is to support and
     enable them to excel        encourage ECRs, giving them the confidence to
                                 maximise their research potential. The mentoring
                                 scheme runs alongside other ECR support, including
                                 targeted training sessions mapped to the Vitae
                                 framework, an annual probationary review for new
                                 academics, and a bi-annual professional development
                                 review. Over the REF period, five Category A staff
                                 were promoted to Senior Lecturer. Furthermore,
                                 several PGR students have progressed their academic
                                 careers within SoM, including one who completed his
                                 PhD in 2013 and progressed to Professor in 2019. Out
                                 of the nine ECRs submitted to REF2021, seven serve
                                 on PhD supervisory teams. In 2019, we established
                                 the SoM Research Conference, a one-day staff event
                                 to foster research culture.
     To obtain research funds    During this REF period, SoM has achieved a
     from a range of private-,   significant increase in research income, from £1.6m in
     public- and third-sector    REF2014 to over £7m. We have attracted funding from
     sponsors to enhance the     entities such as WG, public sector bodies, and the
     research infrastructure     private sector. Engaging with these bodies has
     and deepen engagement       enabled us to create structures, including advisory
     with business and policy    boards, that have enabled external networking
     makers                      opportunities resulting in activities that are critically
                                 relevant to public and private sector objectives.

3
                                  Funded projects have included £13m+ for AgorIP
                                  (funded until 2023), which investigates the
                                  commercialisation of ideas/products by providing
                                  support for intellectual property development, and the
                                  Bevan Commission (£2.7m+) which looks to forge links
                                  between research and the healthcare sector across
                                  Wales. This contributed to an impact case study on the
                                  Welsh Blood Service which details significant efficiency
                                  improvements across Wales.
     To maintain a strong and During this REF period, we have increased investment
     growing postgraduate         in recruitment of PGR students globally. Thus, SoM
     research student             PhD student numbers have grown from 25 in 2013/14
     community                    to 68 in 2019/20. Since 2014, SoM has supervised 86
                                  PhD students to completion, implemented an annual
                                  Postgraduate Research Conference, and provided
                                  resources for students to attend national and
                                  international conferences. Many PhD students have
                                  achieved publication success, (e.g. Work,
                                  Employment and Society (WE&S), International Small
                                  Business Journal (ISBJ), and Journal of Business
                                  Research (JoBR), with some attaining academic
                                  employment in SoM or elsewhere, (e.g. Bristol, Cardiff,
                                  Manchester, and at international universities in China,
                                  Saudi Arabia, and Turkey). Others have proceeded to
                                  work in public sector organisations such as the Office
                                  for National Statistics (ONS) and the technology
                                  industry.
    Table 1: Progress since REF2014

    Since 2014, SoM has raised the profile of our research through liaison with SoM
    marketing and media relations teams. Evidence of our commitment to this aim is
    highlighted through success stories such as the widely publicised research results on
    Russian attempts to influence election results in the US and UK through use of bots.
    This research appeared in the New York Times and brought requests from the UK
    Cabinet Office for further information. Research on the fitness industry by C4PO was
    covered by media throughout Europe and the US and featured on BBC Radio 4.
    CHEMRI’s research on roadside pollution in Wales and implications for health
    management/policy was covered widely, including by bbc.co.uk. Internationally,
    EMaRC’s work with the Indian Government resulted in coverage in national
    newspapers, potentially reaching millions of citizens. In 2014, SoM proposed
    investment in a research centre to study African, Chinese, and Indian markets. This
    resulted in the formation of EMaRC in 2015 to undertake research on developing and
    emerging economies.

    Future Strategic Aims
    In line with SoM’s vision (see page 1), our future research strategy seeks to benefit
    society and the economy by producing world-leading research across broad
    management disciplines. We will be responsive and flexible in a changing world with


4
    a research environment that supports dynamic, creative, and innovative ways of
    working. Key future goals include:
        Address areas of global concern aligning with strategic areas of importance
           both globally and nationally, including economic, social, and health
           inequalities, climate change and sustainability, and rapid advances in the
           digital technologies.
        Build on interdisciplinary research strengths with healthcare, engineering, and
           computer science, and establish new areas of interdisciplinary excellence with
           humanities and law.
        Further embed and promote research impact as an integral part of
           management research, and build on SoM relationships with policy and decision
           makers in the UK and overseas.
        Support our researchers at all levels to excel by continuing to provide research
           support resources and seeking feedback from staff and PGRs to identify gaps
           in this provision.
        Diversify our research income generation streams to ensure we can sustain
           our future research ambitions.

    In 2020, the University initiated a process of faculty reorganisation which will result in
    a new set of strategic priorities (REF5a, section 1). Hereafter, SoM will be part of a
    larger faculty comprising the College of Arts and Humanities, and the Hillary Rodham-
    Clinton School of Law. This provides an opportunity to build and enhance our research
    groups and, as indicated previously, develop closer interdisciplinary collaboration.

    Research impact
    SoM has sought to establish an impact-driven research culture which is embedded
    through aims to:
         Grow local and global engagement/collaborations.
         Identify/encourage research staff to serve in strategically important funding
           bodies.
         Improve quality of management, leadership, and entrepreneurial skills to help
           drive productivity within the Welsh economy.
         Protect and exploit a pipeline of commercialisation opportunities from our IP
           portfolio.
         Participate in knowledge transfer/collaboration agenda.

    We encourage researchers to consider how their work will provide benefit and change
    beyond academia, with an emphasis on industry collaboration and influence on
    governmental policy. They have support from a UoA-specific impact team comprised
    of one academic and two professional services personnel, plus a central research
    support team who ensure impact is a primary consideration of all new project
    proposals. Furthermore, we offer training on identifying, evidencing, and
    communicating impact, and have the support of an Impact and Engagement Officer
    who plays a key role in facilitating relationships with external organisations. SoM is
    also embedding a culture of evidencing impact from project initiation so that all benefits
    are captured; experience has taught us that collecting this data retrospectively is not
    an effective way of telling a complete impact story. This is achieved through
    awareness-raising activities including individual meetings with researchers at the

5
    outset of new projects, research support presentations at departmental away days,
    development of evidence logs, and general communications activities.

    During the current REF period, impact activities have been a key requirement for all
    SoM’s research centres. As shown in table 2, four of our five submitted case studies
    to REF 2021 have emerged from research carried out within them:

     Case study title                           Produced by
     Influencing UK and Welsh Government        Welsh Economy Labour Markets
     policies in the areas of employment and    Evaluation Research Centre
     public sector pay                          (WELMERC)
     Influencing policy and reducing barriers   Emerging Markets Research Centre
     to citizen adoption of critical            (EMaRC)
     government digital services within
     Indian communities
     Swansea Bay City Region Innovation         Swansea iLab
     Ecosystem: Creating the conditions for
     ideas to thrive in South West Wales
     Challenging exploitative employment        Centre for People and Organisation
     practices in the fitness industry:         (P&O)
     supporting company policy change and
     improved terms and conditions for
     personal trainers
     Improving the Process Efficiency of the    Prof Nick Rich/Bevan Commission
     Welsh Blood Service and International
     Blood Processing: Reducing Waste and
     Improving Blood ‘Flow’
    Table 2: REF2021 impact case studies

    SoM continues to upskill all researchers so that everyone can contribute to the impact
    agenda. In 2018, support staff working on impact began a programme of one-to-one
    meetings to identify potential work for development into impact activities. These
    meetings were aimed at ECRs, but other individuals were also included. We will
    nurture and support these embryonic projects to ensure they achieve optimum impact
    in coming years. SoM is also positioning impact as an activity that extends beyond
    REF exercises; we perceive it as a crucial element of the modern researcher’s work
    that ensures the vitality and sustainability of research in the broadest sense.

    Interdisciplinary research
    The global challenges identified in our research aims (page 5) cannot be meaningfully
    addressed by management studies alone; however, the cross-cutting nature of
    management-related subjects lends itself to interdisciplinary research. Our Bay
    Campus location has enabled SoM researchers to develop extensive research
    collaborations with Engineering and the Computational Foundry, with projects such as
    ‘Re-designing the coast: The Morphodynamics of Large Bodies of Sediment in Macro-
    tidal Environment (MORPHINE)’ and the ‘Cherish DE’ project which is delivering
    innovative digital economy work. Furthermore, our other interdisciplinary research
    strength is within health, as demonstrated by the City Deal (pages 24/ 25), the Pfizer


6
    partnership (see page 24), and the SoM location of the Bevan Commission (see page
    24). These projects and initiatives have resulted in recruitment of SoM staff with a
    medical background, including two Professorial appointments. In 2019, SoM hosted a
    workshop on Artificial Intelligence (AI) attended by colleagues from disciplines
    including physics, computer science, and mathematics which resulted in research
    publication and influence on policy. SoM also provides a base alongside other Welsh
    Universities) for WISERD, a national ESRC-funded interdisciplinary social research
    institute, designated by the WG as a national research centre.

    Open Research
    Within SoM, academics are expected to make all research outputs available through
    the institutional repository, Cronfa. We hold workshops for academics to ensure they
    understand routes to compliance, and they can use our Research Information System
    which feeds data to the repository. Investment in research support means SoM is also
    phasing in a full deposit service through our research support office. This is already
    increasing compliance (98.5% of UoA17 outputs submission is compliant) while also
    reducing the administrative burden on researchers. The research support office is also
    part of a University working group which is developing an Open Scholarship strategy
    and culture across both campuses. Within SoM, the A&F department uses pre-print
    Working Paper websites such as IDEAS to acquire feedback on their draft papers from
    the academic community. ECRs have reported finding this useful and note that their
    papers are accepted more readily. Since 2017, A&F papers on this site have received
    6,900+ page views and 2,300 downloads.

    Research integrity
    Our Research Committee oversees research integrity, ensuring all academics are
    aware of policy requirements, ethical obligations and changes to practice. SoM
    operates its own Ethics Committee which follows guidance provided by the University
    and reports to the SoM Research Committee. All research projects must seek ethical
    approval from the Ethics Committee before data collection begins. SoM’s procedure
    addresses six key principles of ethical research identified by the ESRC covering work
    undertaken by students and staff. There is a two-stage process: first, an ethics
    evaluation form for all research projects. Second, a full ethical approval form to be
    completed if directed by the Chair of the Ethics Committee. Furthermore, all SoM
    academics and PGR students involved in research are required to complete a
    Research Integrity training course. As of 2020, UoA17 has a 91% completion record
    among its research staff.




7
    Section 2. People
    Table 3 provides a breakdown of SoM staff and PhDs by department at the REF
    census date of 31 July 2020.

     Staff and PhD students
     Department                  Cat A staff FTE                         PhD students
     Business                    25                                      42
     Economics                   15                                      12
     A&F                         12                                      14
     TOTAL                       52 (+1 from CoHHS)                      68
    Table 3: Breakdown of departments at census date

    SoM has invested in creating a positive staff culture and in 2018 appointed a
    permanent full-time Staff Engagement Officer (SEO). The SEO has worked to improve
    the induction process for both academic and professional services staff so that new
    starters are effectively prepared for their role. The SEO also promotes wellbeing and
    has improved signposting to support services across the institution by ensuring line
    managers have up-to-date information on available resources.

    Staffing strategy and staff development (including recruitment)
    SoM is organised and managed to ensure all academics have the collegial
    environment, organisational support, resources and time to undertake quality
    research. Furthermore, the recruitment, retention and development of high-quality staff
    is central to the sustainability and vitality of our research environment. We recruit staff
    to the research pathway on the basis that applicants can evidence that they meet the
    University criteria for that post and have the capability to produce internationally
    excellent research.

    Since 2014, there has been a significant increase in staff submitted to REF, from 27.9
    FTE in 2014 to 53.05 FTE in 2020. SoM currently employs two Research Assistants
    and three postdoctoral researchers, although not eligible as Category A staff. This REF
    period has witnessed staff excel with publication in world-leading management-related
    journals (see page 27).

    During the current assessment period, 11 Category A staff returned to REF2021
    achieved promotion to Senior Lecturer, Associate Professor, or Professor. We strive
    to achieve a balance of staff at different levels of their career to ensure a pipeline of
    talent that will sustain our future research ambitions. We offer mentoring and guidance
    to staff at all levels and this has witnessed several ECRs progress from PhD to
    academic roles within SoM. The career demographic of SoM researchers at the
    census date is shown in figure 2 (note this is total staff numbers, not FTE):




8
    Figure 2: Career demographic at census date

    The number of female staff has increased slightly from 2014 (16% to 17.4%) with six
    currently at Associate Professor and Professor level. The proportion of staff by
    ethnicity is broadly representative of 2014, with 38% of SoM’s Category A staff
    currently identifying as BAME; this compares to 25% across the University overall.

    SoM employs two international professors on a fractional basis from the University of
    Texas San Antonio and Normandy Business School who specialise in the fields of
    management information systems (MIS) and finance respectively. These renowned
    scholars have developed close relationships with SoM, sharing their academic
    knowledge and experience with staff and students. They have hosted seminars,
    bringing in guest speakers, and act as supervisors for PhD students and mentors of
    ECR colleagues. The professor aligned to Accounting and Finance has enhanced
    senior expertise in this discipline within SoM. The MIS professor is a leading expert in
    this field, whose work regularly features in leading journal MIS Quarterly. Furthermore,
    SoM has nine Emeritus Professors, including Professor Alan Hawkes whom one of
    our research centres is named after. Professor Hawkes, and other Emeritus, continue
    to publish regularly and actively engage with SoM.

    The University provides training for researchers and covers topics ranging from
    managing projects to research contracts, and from digital tools for researchers to
    developing IP. For further information, please see the institutional statement (REF5a:
    section 3.1). All researchers also take part in the University’s Professional
    Development Review and Performance Enabling process to ensure that support and
    training requirements are identified to deliver optimal staff performance and
    development.

    Early Career Researchers
    Furthermore, SoM adopts an active approach to ECR development. Meetings take
    place between ECRs and the Directors of Research (DoRs)/Heads of Department
    (HoDs) to discuss individual research strategy, publication, research grant application
    plans, and research career development. This provides an enabling environment to
    develop research and publication plans. ECR workloads are also reduced by 25% with
    limited (mainly shadowing) administrative duties for two years to encourage

9
     productivity and publication. In 2019, we consulted with ECRs to ascertain the
     effectiveness of current initiatives and identify additional support requirements. This
     led to the creation of a new, ECR-specific mentor role within SoM to further enhance
     available support. For staff not previously involved in PhD supervision, there is also
     the opportunity to shadow experienced colleagues in the PhD viva voce, and to act as
     informal internal assessors on supervisory teams to gain experience. Out of the nine
     ECRs submitted to REF2021, seven are currently on a doctoral supervisory team. We
     have also seen progression of staff from the Enhanced Teaching pathway to
     Enhanced Research, with a notable example of a female academic who produced
     sufficient research output to switch pathways and achieve promotion from Lecturer to
     Senior Lecturer.

     Several other mechanisms are in place to support SoM researchers: a WAM ensures
     that 50% of staff time is protected for research activity (temporarily reduced to 40%
     due to COVID-19), and recruitment of new staff has reduced average teaching loads.
     Substantial financial resources are provided to support research activities; each
     individual with significant responsibility for research can access an allowance of £3k
     per year (pro-rata for part time staff) to support conference attendance, data collection
     activities, research training, and other research-related costs. Research centres
     receive funds annually to assist in achieving their specified goals and to help deliver
     impact. Further funding is available through AgorIP for pump-priming research start-
     ups, plus we provide funds to support SoM and group-level research seminars (see
     Section 4), and offer facilities for visiting academics.

     In line with the University policy on sabbatical leave (REF5a, section 3.1.1), and on
     agreement of a satisfactory research activities plan, all academics are entitled to apply
     for a period of leave, during which they are free from teaching and administrative duties
     in order to further their research. In the current REF period, one individual was granted
     leave to pursue the development of his impact case study with the Welsh Blood
     Service, and another was granted a period of research leave to pursue research
     interests on the housing market. This led to the publication of a paper that Urban
     Studies chose for a special edition that highlighted the most important work it had
     published on spatial housing economics over the past 50 years.

     Research Students
     We offer an established PhD programme that has seen significant growth in numbers
     over the assessment period. In 2013/2014, 30 students were enrolled and by
     2019/2020 this increased to 68. In the current period, we introduced an MSc by
     Research to provide a non-traditional route into PhD programmes that prepares
     students for doctoral studies. From 2021, we are introducing a professional doctorate
     (DBA) to our executive education portfolio. In our Business Plan (and, consequently,
     research strategy) we have ambitious aims to increase doctoral numbers as part of
     our mission to expand and build capacity.

     Evidence of postgraduate success is detailed in figure 3 (also see dataset REF4a)
     showing an increase in completions in this REF cycle compared to previous
     assessment exercises:



10
     Figure 3: PhD completions

     SoM attracts doctoral candidates globally from countries including China, India, and
     Saudi Arabia, in addition to the UK and Europe. It provides a stimulating and supportive
     environment for doctoral students across its disciplines, with active encouragement to
     transcend those discipline-based boundaries. SoM has a PGR Director and the
     doctoral programme receives oversight from the Research Committee. Student
     Administrative support is provided on a day-to-day basis through a dedicated
     Postgraduate Research Administrator.

     The aim of the doctoral programme is to recruit high-quality candidates based on well-
     articulated research proposals. We only make an offer of a place when there is a good
     match between the proposed topic and two supervisors’ research interests/expertise.
     Research supervisory teams are given protected time in the WAM to ensure they have
     adequate time to discuss and develop the thesis.

     We undertake the support and supervision of doctoral students within a robust
     framework to ensure effective induction and engagement with both the University and
     SoM. Each student is supervised by staff who have the requisite training and
     experience. Staff new to supervision must complete a specific training programme to
     ensure they have the skills to carry out this role effectively. Supervisory meetings are
     constructed in the spirit of guidance and encouragement, but also play a vital role in
     ensuring the student maintains progress. We use e-Vision to formally monitor the
     progress of research students, a dedicated meeting record system where supervisors

11
     and students log monthly reports. Attendance is checked monthly by the supervisory
     team, and every three months either a supervision or progression report is produced.
     The six-monthly progression reports are evaluated by both SoM’s Postgraduate
     Progress Committee and the University Progression Board. SoM has agreed detailed
     progression criteria that are contained in student handbooks. SoM shares PhD
     candidates with supervisors in other faculties, encouraging an interdisciplinary
     approach to study. SoM also offers a PhD research collaboration with Hochschule der
     Medien Stuttgart, which uses joint supervisors drawn from both institutions. Where
     necessary, SoM has also used informal, third supervisors from outside the institution
     either to provide continuity when a supervisor leaves, or to add specialist expertise. In
     2017, a Professor in SoM was included as one of the five finalists for the Times Higher
     Education ‘Outstanding Research Supervisor of the Year Award’ and won the 2019
     Brunel University London ‘Alumni of the Year Award’, owing to his supervisory track
     record.

     There is a comprehensive University training programme for PGRs including courses
     such as literature reviews, research tools, presenting at conferences, and specific
     sessions on different methodologies. PhD students are also able to attend
     postgraduate taught modules, with the Research Methods course proving popular.
     PhDs have access to a Postgraduate Allowance of £1,500 for the duration of their
     course which can be spent on specific training requirements and other research
     development activities. Students are invited to participate in the bi-monthly PGR
     Committee and/or become a PGR representative. These initiatives are designed to
     empower students so that they can have their voice heard in any decision-making that
     may affect them. In particular, the committee provides an opportunity to share best
     practice, contribute to the strategic direction of PGR, and raise any concerns. Students
     are encouraged to participate in SoM’s various research seminar programmes, and
     present working papers on their research at an annual Postgraduate Conference. The
     conference also provides an opportunity to attend talks from external and internal
     speakers focusing on research topics such as publication and methods.

     In addition, SoM is part of the ESRC-funded Wales Doctoral Training Partnership
     (DTP) and has two pathways in Business and Economics. This has attracted high
     quality applications and provides students with additional training and secondment
     support through the DTP. Secondments include placements at Yale University, the
     ONS, and WG. Joint funding has been received from the WG and large multinational
     companies, including British Telecom, to partially fund students. SoM has secured
     PhD funding for students through the external Knowledge Economy Skills
     Scholarships (KESS) initiative which provides opportunities for postgraduate study in
     collaboration with a business partner. It is supported by European Social Funds (ESF)
     through the WG and involves all universities in Wales, led by Bangor University. KESS
     projects are tailored to a research area which is of interest to the business partner,
     combining research and development with real-world application. Since 2018, SoM
     has secured seven scholarships, giving students the opportunity to work
     collaboratively with companies such as Cambria Tours, the Llangollen Music Festival,
     and homelessness charity, The Wallich. In 2018, the University began its own
     postgraduate scholarship scheme (SURES) and SoM has secured funding for two
     projects thus far.


12
     PhD students are provided with paid opportunities to be involved in teaching as part
     of their career development to enable progression to an academic career. They are
     provided with training and additional support via PhD supervisors. In 2018 and 2019,
     workshops were held with PhD students who teach to discuss support and a senior
     (principal fellow HEA) academic was appointed as a mentor. PhD students who teach
     receive regular communications regarding training and development opportunities for
     teaching and scholarship.

     During the current REF period, many SoM PhD students have published papers and
     presented at conferences. Several have won ‘best paper’ awards, including at the 10th
     Innovation, Entrepreneurship, Knowledge Academy Conference, the I3E 2018, and
     the 4th International Conference on Organisation and Management 2019. Others have
     completed their studies and then continued their academic careers with great success.
     Significant achievements in the period include one of our alumni who is Professor in
     Digital Marketing at University of Bradford, another is Vice Dean of the College of
     Business Administration at Umm AlQura University, Saudi Arabia, and another is
     Associate Professor at the School of Economics and Management at Harbin
     University, China. Two of these three examples exemplify the achievements of our
     female students. Within the UK, graduates have also progressed to academia with
     universities including Bristol, Bradford, and Reading. Many also choose to continue
     their careers with SoM which means we generate a pipeline of talent for more senior
     roles which, in turn, helps to ensure the sustainability of our research environment.

     Main panel C supplementary information: please note that no disaggregated figures
     are provided as we have not awarded any research-based professional doctorates.

     Equality and Diversity (E&D)
     SoM strives to be an inclusive and diverse place to work/study and is continually
     seeking to embed the principles of equality, diversity, and inclusion across all facets
     of the SoM. This is evidenced in our staff recruitment policy where we always seek
     balance in the make-up of both interview and shortlisting panels. If we are unable to
     create a diverse panel from expertise within SoM, we will seek to bring in appropriate
     and qualified individuals from other faculties. We are mindful of ensuring committees
     within SoM are diverse; in 2020, the research committee constituted 14 males and 10
     females, and included ECR representation from each department. SoM’s Ethics
     committee, although smaller, is evenly split in terms of its gender balance.

     SoM recognises the need for, and benefit of, flexible working patterns. Requests for
     part-time working are duly considered and granted wherever possible, and we support
     remote working when required. The majority of our PGR/PhD courses are also offered
     on a part time basis. Most meetings and events are held within core hours (10am-4pm)
     and following feedback from staff with caring responsibilities, our research seminar
     series now finishes no later than 4pm so that everyone can attend. By providing staff
     with flexible hours, we are enabling them to continue to make contributions to the
     research output of SoM, while also ensuring a healthy work/life balance. For staff who
     need longer periods of sick leave, we can offer a phased return to work and, if required,
     revised duties for a period.


13
     We seek to support our staff by providing permanent contracts. This not only offers
     our researchers security but helps us retain talent. In 2019/2020, just 1% of our
     Category A staff were employed on fixed-term contracts.

     In 2014, we highlighted the institution’s Athena SWAN award and outlined our
     commitment at SoM level. In 2019, SoM was awarded its own Athena SWAN bronze
     award as a result of our continued efforts to create a diverse and inclusive working
     environment by focusing on four key areas: Career Progression, Communications,
     Data, and Organisation and Culture. Athena SWAN within SoM is led by a self-
     assessment team, the importance of which is recognised in the WAM through a time
     allowance. This ensures academics who wish to get involved have the capacity to
     make meaningful contributions. The self-assessment process for Athena SWAN has
     raised awareness of historic issues of gender imbalance and provided impetus to
     address these, particularly at senior levels. The current gender balance of Category A
     staff within SoM is 67% male and 33% female.

     To ensure the final selection of outputs in our REF submission is fair and equitable,
     our procedures are underpinned by the University’s Code of Practice. The main
     principals of this code are transparency, consistency, and accountability. This has
     been achieved in SoM by a) ensuring outputs have been pre-assessed in a consistent
     manner by qualified, experienced individuals from appropriate fields, b) consulting with
     research staff on the final submission by circulating the draft submission and providing
     the opportunity for amendments as part of detailed optimisation process. In line with
     the University’s Code of Practice and our unit Statement of Intent, the team making
     the decisions on the final selection of outputs all received mandatory unconscious bias
     training as well as targeted REF specific training on the fair and transparent selection
     of outputs for inclusion in the submission. The submission comprises the one best-
     quality output from each Category A submitted staff member with the balance made
     up of the best-quality outputs from the available pool of eligible outputs that includes
     outputs of former eligible colleagues.

     Supporting staff and PGRs through COVID-19
     The University responded quickly to the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020. Critical
     COVID research was prioritised and a detailed process was implemented to facilitate
     this research without comprising the safety and wellbeing of staff. Wherever possible,
     staff were required to work from home so we ensured our research staff had equipment
     and software. This enabled many to continue their work from offsite locations and
     meant PhD supervision, vivas, research seminars, and other meetings continued. We
     extended the supply of equipment to research support staff, ensuring they could
     continue to provide support around essential activities such as grant applications,
     ethical approval, and administration. For some researchers, including PhDs, access
     to the SoM building was necessary for research purposes (e.g. certain datasets or
     software are only available on campus); in these instances, we followed University
     procedures to provide special access via a permit system. We also promote the
     University’s wellbeing activities and run our own weekly online social via Zoom. Online
     social activities are also organised for PGRs and are done so at times to include those
     currently living in different time zones owing to the pandemic. We also adopted a


14
     flexible approach towards doctoral applicants, allowing a number to defer for 12
     months because of COVID restrictions.

     Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

     SoM Research income (REF4b)
     In SoM, research income generation is key to delivering the objectives outlined in
     Section 1 and is crucial to maintaining a vibrant research environment. Achieving
     research income is recognised in all research staff’s key performance indicators (KPI)
     with an expectation to regularly bid for external income and achieve funding. A healthy
     and diverse income stream contributes to growing the number of ECRs and
     postdoctoral researchers, and can reflect SoM’s growing influence in both the public
     sector (policy) and on industry. We have achieved 375% growth in total research
     income when compared to the total reported in REF2014, and 700% growth in
     research income within the current period; i.e. from 2014 to 2020. In 2018/19 and in
     2019/20, we achieved over £2m of research income each year (see figure 4 and
     dataset REF4b):




     Figure 4: Research income


     SoM’s strategy for grant award generation has been informed by the research priorities
     of the ESRC, WG, UK Government, and the European Research Council. Recent
     grants include AgorIP (£13m) funded until 2023 by EDRF and WG and matched by
     Swansea University, the Bevan Commission (£2.7m) funded by the WG, WISERD
     (over £1m) funded by the ESRC, and Pfizer (£600k). Further grants have been
     awarded from funders such as the Leverhulme Trust, the Pasold Research Fund, and

15
     the Trades Union Congress. SoM can evidence a notable increase in grant successes
     during this REF period (see figure 5), achieving 152 in total with notable returns in
     2017/18 (57 awarded), 2018/19 (36) and 2019/2020 (31). This represents an increase
     of over 400% across the current REF period.




     Figure 5: Grants awarded

     SoM has achieved significant success in attaining funding from EU and UK
     government bodies, with highs of £1.4m and over £800,000 in 2018/19 and 2019/20
     respectively. Like other UK HEIs, we are aware of the potential impact Brexit is likely
     to have on future funding streams and are actively planning to mitigate this by
     considering alternatives. We encourage and support researchers to apply for larger
     Research Council funds, but as competition for these is increasing, we are seeking to
     diversify income through greater use of corporate partnerships and developing IP from
     research. Income from industry has grown from just over £1,000 in 2017 to over £200k
     in 2020, and IP income generation for the University has increased from around
     £50,000 p/a to £500,000 p/a since AgorIP was established in 2016. This is expected
     to be a significant growth area for SoM, as demonstrated by the investment in the Agor
     project which is described in section four. Private sector funding has included
     investment from Pfizer to establish a Chair in Enhanced Innovation and Engagement
     within SoM. In addition, British Telecom has fully funded a PhD scholarship to examine
     the issue of information technology availability in geographically challenging locations
     in Wales.

     SoM can evidence additional income generation through consultancy including
     completed projects with British Council, the Malaysian government, Colombian and


16
     Nigerian Universities, public sector and private sector organisations, and learned
     societies. This work has typically involved supporting organisations through training,
     undertaking evaluations and providing expert advice. During the 2019/20 academic
     year, consultancy activities attracted income of in excess of £200K.

     Strategies for generating funding and supporting staff (including impact)
     SoM works with the central research office team to generate projections for both
     applications and awards. These are reported bi-monthly to SoM’s research committee
     so that any potential shortfall against targets is identified early. Where this is the case,
     additional support is sought from HoDs to encourage researchers at every level to
     regularly submit for funding opportunities. As previously noted, this drive for increased
     bid submission is supported by the annual staff performance development review
     system which includes specific funding-related objectives in (KPIs), and through the
     provision of a professional services team. This team includes a dedicated research
     support office comprising three members of staff; Research Support Officer (RSO),
     REF Officer, and a PGR Administrator. Support with grant management and
     applications is available through the Bay Hub research compliance office, which is also
     home to a Research Development Officer whose remit is developing bids with
     researchers, and an Impact and Engagement Officer who plays a vital role in assisting
     our researchers to identify and connect with external audiences and beneficiaries,
     such as local businesses, policy makers, and community organisations. On a monthly
     basis, the RSO collects information on submitted and successful bids and reports this
     in a monthly e-newsletter. We also benefit from a School-level marketing function that
     promotes our research successes which, in turn, helps demonstrate our research
     capability and helps attract funding.

     Operational and scholarly infrastructure
     Research governance: Formal governance procedures are overseen by SoM’s
     Research Committee which reports to SoM’s Executive Committee. Following
     meetings, minutes are available to all SoM staff on a research support site on Teams.
     This ensures a culture of transparency and information sharing regarding research
     activity. Both postgraduate research and ethical issues are reported to this committee.
     The PGR Director and Chair of the Research Ethics and Governance Committee are
     also standing members of the Research Committee, as are the HoDs, Directors of
     Research Centres, the Research and Innovation Hub Manager for the Bay, Director of
     Learning and Teaching and the REF UoA Leads for Outputs, Impact and Environment.
     In addition, there are ECR members of the committee present to represent the views
     of this group. The RSO supports the ongoing operation of the committee. The role of
     the DoRs is to foster progress, review, and promote research activity and infrastructure
     in SoM, and to develop and implement strategies, policies, practices and governance
     to facilitate the delivery of SoM’s research objectives. The PGR Director role is to
     manage postgraduate research provision and experience within SoM. The role of the
     Chair of the Research Ethics and Governance Committee is to oversee the ethical
     review process for all research activities. All individuals must complete an ethical
     approval application process detailing their research project and related activities
     which are submitted to the Ethics and Governance Committee for consideration and
     approval.



17
     Research development: SoM staff have access to support from the Bay Hub research
     support team which assists researchers throughout the research project lifecycle and
     provides expertise in collaborating with external stakeholders. The Hub offers
     development workshops to support staff in identifying costings, the approval process
     for new projects, using the internal award management system, initiating the process
     of grant applications, and the process of obtaining funding. Regular communications
     are provided regarding funding opportunities. Specific sessions are held for staff on
     applying to funding bodies such as the British Academy or Leverhulme. This has
     resulted in successful grants such as funding from the British Academy to study scuba
     diving tourism in Turkey with collaborative partner Akdeniz University, and funding
     from Leverhulme to study social alienation and economic reform in India.

     Scholarly support: SoM benefits from a team of four subject-specific librarians whose
     role is to source and collate scholarly materials at the request of staff and students.
     This includes ordering books either as a permanent addition to the library collection,
     or via a cross-institutional book loan scheme. They source journal articles if
     researchers are unable to access them online, and promote the use of subject-specific
     databases, including Scopus, to assist researchers broaden their literature searches.
     Training and one-to-one meetings are available to staff at all levels who want to learn
     more about these resources.

     Equality and diversity considerations
     SoM strives to achieve gender balance across its governance structure (see Section
     2). Membership of the research and ethics committees is reviewed as necessary, and
     an emphasis placed on underrepresented groups when calls for new members are
     sent out. Our other operational and scholarly infrastructure has equality and diversity
     embedded within it by ensuring that people can access the support they need,
     regardless of circumstances. For example, most training sessions run by the library
     and the Bay Hub can also be delivered as individual meetings to ensure that nobody
     misses out on crucial skills and information. Furthermore, most resources are now
     available online which means they can be accessed from anywhere at any time. This
     has proven essential during the COVID-19 pandemic, allowing our researchers to
     continue their projects remotely with limited disruption. Staff who are less confident
     using online tools are supported by a School-level IT function to help with technical
     problems, and also the library teams for specific training needs.

     Physical infrastructure
     The SoM building houses the departments, think tank, and research projects noted
     previously in Section 1. The SoM building itself (see figure 6) was developed as part
     of the £450m Bay Campus investment. It provides world-class facilities with an
     impressive communal atrium, teaching rooms, meeting rooms, and IT equipment. SoM
     offers quality conferencing and event capacity which has attracted several high-profile
     research events, notably, an event on ‘EU Funding Post-Brexit’ with speakers from the
     WG, and several workshops hosted by EMaRC, which gained global media attention.
     SoM also uses these facilities to host the annual PGR Conference and other events
     such as the UK Regional Studies conference. They are also used for SoM’s visiting
     scholars’ seminar series that invites world-renowned scholars to deliver lectures
     discussing their latest research. Notable examples include sessions from Viswanath


18
     Venkatesh from the University of Arkansas, Leah Boustan (Princeton University), Ran
     Abramitzky (Stanford University), and Vicky Pryce, the Chief Economic Advisor at the
     Centre for Economics and Business Research.




     Figure 6: SoM Building

     Within the new building, we have a large dedicated PGR suite, providing
     postgraduates with IT and kitchen facilities. On the ground floor, there is also a state-
     of-the-art media suite which is available for staff and students. In 2018, the EMaRC
     organised a live online conference which included presentations from the suite itself
     and other live-streamed contributions from locations as far-reaching as India.
     SoM encourages internal collaboration by creating supportive conditions for
     researchers to meet and exchange ideas. Activities include open research seminars,
     ‘sandpit’ events, and providing shared social spaces. The new campus is planned to
     become a global exemplar of how a research-intensive university can work effectively
     with industry, helping to drive economic regeneration and value-added employment
     opportunities.


     Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
     society
     SoM encourages an environment of collaboration to produce high quality academic
     outputs that address societal challenges. As demonstrated by the sections below, we
     produce quality research that is highly cited by others, and translate that into direct
     impact and contribution to society.

     Metric highlights
     The following research performance metrics have been captured on SciVal using
     Scopus data between 2014-2020. It is inclusive of all 56 current Category A staff
     included in our UoA17 submission:
          Field Weighted Citation Impact is 2.87 – anything above ‘1’ is above average
            in relation to academic discipline.
          Outputs in Top 10 Citation Percentiles: 215 (28.9%) publications in the top 10%
            most cited publications worldwide.
          Publication in Top Journal Percentiles: 225 (34.7%) publications in the top 10%
            journal by CiteScore.




19
     Examples of our top-citing papers include: ‘Factors influencing adoption of mobile
     banking by Jordanian bank customers: Extending UTAUT2 with trust’ (2017),
     International Journal of Information Management (IJIM) with 244 Scopus cites, ‘Social
     commerce constructs and consumer's intention to buy’ (2015) in IJIM with 242 cites,
     and ‘Re-examining the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology
     (UTAUT): Towards a Revised Theoretical Model’ (2019), Information Systems
     Frontiers, with 223 cites. One of our researchers has been included within the 2020
     Highly Cited Researchers list from Clarivate. This list includes researchers who
     produced multiple papers ranking in the top 1% by citations for their chosen field and
     year of publication.

     Figure 7 on collaboration has been generated from the same SciVal dataset:




     Figure 7: SciVal collaboration data


     Furthermore, the Scival data tells us where in the world our academic collaborators
     can be found. The blue highlights on figure 8 below show our international reach:




     Figure 8: International collaborators

     General arrangements to support collaboration

20
     Working with others is a philosophy underpinning how SoM delivers its research
     strategy. SoM researchers can apply for allowances to support research visits, and the
     research centres receive funding to enable collaboration. As previously noted, visiting
     scholars are fully resourced, and research centres are encouraged to invite leading
     scholars to events/seminars to initiate collaborative projects.

     Our research centres play a key role emphasising the cross-cutting nature of
     management-related research with other disciplines. Our interdisciplinary strength is
     in relation to health, with the SoM forging strong relationships with WG, health boards,
     and academics from UoA1 (Medicine), UoA3 (Allied Health Professions, Dentistry,
     Nursing and Pharmacy), UoA4 (Psychology), and UoA20 (Social Policy). This work
     has been led by iLab, CHEMRI, WISERD, and Bevan Commission. Table 4 shows
     collaborative highlights from the research centres:

      Centre name              Highlights from period
      CHEMRI                   In support of our interdisciplinary strength in this area,
                               the director of CHEMRI is an eminent genetic
                               toxicologist. Bringing expertise into the School has
                               helped to translate this health and environmental
                               research into improved management strategies by
                               informing policy change. Thanks to the work of this team,
                               the centre’s director has become an advisor to WG’s
                               clean air working groups, and an academic advisor to,
                               and member of, the WG cross party group, A Clean Air
                               Act for Wales.
      C4PO                     C4PO research into the evolution of the low fare airline
                               model has informed the Civil Aviation Sector Social
                               Dialogue Committee (2014), the European Parliament
                               (2014) and Dutch Government (2015). This research
                               project forms the basis for a new project focussed on the
                               impact of remote air traffic control towers on work in civil
                               aviation. Ongoing research into migrant integration in
                               South Wales – the Hiraeth project – has received
                               international attention with several invitations to present
                               at seminars in the UK and Denmark.
      CVER                     Research from the centre has facilitated the ongoing
                               development and implementation of the Michigan
                               Tourism Strategic Plan on behalf of the Michigan
                               Economic Development Corporation and the Michigan
                               Travel Commission, a plan that continues to guide the
                               direction of the state's $22+ billion tourism industry. This
                               resulted in presentation of the ‘Outstanding Achievement
                               in Michigan Tourism Award’ to the CVER Director by the
                               then-Governor Rick Snyder in recognition of contributions
                               to the tourism industry in the state.
      EMaRC                    Researchers have collaborated with academics in
                               several emerging markets and developing countries
                               including Bangladesh, China and Fiji, to produce

21
                         research outputs on topics such as e-Government,
                         supply chain, and sustainable tourism. Other
                         collaborative activities have included organisation of
                         international conferences in India, Ghana and Kuwait
                         (IFIP Conferences), joint PhD supervision in India and
                         Mauritius, conducting author and paper development
                         workshops in Malaysia and at various institutions in India.
     Hawkes Centre for   In 2019, a researcher from the Hawkes Centre worked
     Empirical Finance   with the College of Engineering to secure EPSRC
                         research funding of over £500,000 (£75,000 came to
                         SoM). Engineering approached our researcher after she
                         developed several statistical/mathematical models to
                         help the raw reeling silk industry in China reduce
                         financial costs. The new collaborative project is looking at
                         developing similar models to assist with the design of sea
                         defences.
     Swansea i-Lab       Research collaboration both within SoM and with
     (Innovation Lab)    external partners including Cardiff University led to the
                         development of an Open Access Open Innovation
                         approach to support the growth of the Knowledge
                         Economy in Wales. This work was used by the WG and
                         health system stakeholders, leading to the creation of
                         ARCH (A Regional Collaboration for Health) and
                         AgorIP/Accelerate (pan-Wales technology transfer
                         initiatives). This bought together a wide range of policy,
                         public sector, and academic stakeholders to address the
                         health challenges faced by Wales. Thereafter, this
                         contributed to the signing of Swansea Bay City Region
                         Deal (see page 25), worth £1.3bn in public sector
                         investment for the region.
     WELMERC/WISERD      Research from the centre influenced the UK debate on
                         regional public sector pay and influenced the way the
                         ONS measures the public/private sector wage
                         differential. WISERD is designated as a national
                         research centre by the WG and is funded by the ESRC. It
                         brings together researchers from universities across
                         Wales to effect change by influencing the development of
                         policy and practice across a range of sectors. WISERD
                         was also successful with Swansea Medical School in
                         bringing the £5.5m Administrative Data Research Centre
                         (ADRC) to Swansea, another major ESRC investment
                         with an emphasis on health and wellbeing.
     CREMMF              Established in 2020, CREMMF has established
                         collaborative links, including a project with the University
                         of Dhaka, funded by the World Bank, to study monetary
                         policy and banking sector reform in Bangladesh, and
                         another with Fudan University (Shanghai) and Cardiff
                         University, funded by the UK ESRC and National Natural

22
                                 Science Foundation China, to examine shadow banking
                                 and the Chinese economy.
     Table 4: Collaborative highlights from research centres

     SoM researchers are collaborating internally and externally outside the remit of
     research centres. For example, researchers from economics are working with the
     College of Science to develop topological data analysis tools within the business
     discipline which has already resulted in publication. The work drew attention in relation
     to Brexit voting data with commentary appearing on the UK ‘Changing Europe’ website
     and Wales Online.

     Working with key research users, beneficiaries, and other audiences
     AgorIP: A key finding of the SoM research underpinning the City Deal was the need to
     commercialise academic research for use in industry. This led to the creation of
     AgorIP, a government-funded initiative supporting researchers to bring their ideas to
     market. AgorIP does this by undertaking market research to assess the commercial
     viability of an idea, creating contracts between researchers and users of
     research/associated outputs, identifying what IP protections are required, and
     assigning a commercial lead to assist researchers pitch their idea to industry. In 2018,
     AgorIP was recognised by Spinouts UK as an exemplar organisation. To date, AgorIP
     has achieved £2m of private investment, £1m in research grants, and filed 119 patents.
     The then Welsh Finance secretary Mark Drakeford stated, “this project will support the
     transformation of research with the potential for commercialisation in universities and
     health boards…helping drive forward new concepts and research to grow our
     knowledge economy, putting Wales on a global platform”. There is also a symbiotic
     function between the research commercialisation function of AgorIP and SoM’s
     research strategy. Bringing research innovations to market is a largely unknown
     landscape so the academic team involved with the initiative are actively using AgorIP
     as a data source and ‘laboratory’ to investigate how universities can exploit IP
     opportunities. This has resulted in several research outputs, including publication in
     Journal of Strategic Marketing.

     Bevan Commission: In 2016, Welsh health think tank the Bevan Commission,
     relocated to SoM from Cardiff University. Bevan works to interpret, analyse, and advise
     on health-related matters in Wales, and provides expert advice, informed by evidence
     and consensus of the authoritative opinion, to Vaughan Gething, Minister for Health
     and Social Services in WG. The Commission is chaired by the previous Medical
     Director and Chief Scientist at the UK Department for Work and Pensions. It has
     developed links with ARCH partners, including researchers within SoM. Research for
     the Welsh Blood Service has helped the WG achieve its targets regarding the
     accessibility to safe and available blood stocks. This led to SoM creating an online
     training module for the European Blood Alliance which is currently being rolled out
     across its members in the EU.

     Fujitsu: Swansea University has a unique partnership with Fujitsu, including SoM and
     Medicine, building upon collaborations in fields ranging from High Performance
     Computing to Assisted Living Technologies. Aligned with the City Deal, Fujitsu has
     established a development office with 15 staff working from the Bay Campus that


23
     deliver projects with ABMU Health Board, the University, and wider industry across the
     region and further afield. Fujitsu has also opened its new technology-focused
     Education Innovation Hub in SoM. The hub equips schools, colleges, and universities
     with high performance solutions to support digital skills development; it aims to
     enhance teaching and to unleash students' potential by putting technology at the heart
     of education. Furthermore, Fujitsu has sponsored a PhD with SoM in Open Innovation.

     Pfizer: As part of the City Deal (see below), Swansea is seeking to become a UK hub
     for Life Sciences and Digital Innovation with the goal of creating interconnected eco-
     systems joining academic, business, health, and data spheres to cross-pollinate and
     sustain each other to improve patient outcomes and scale health innovation globally.
     Pfizer (globally and in the UK) has provided funding (£600k+) to establish a Chair in
     Enhanced Innovation, Engagement and Outcomes, based within SoM, with the aim of
     improving patient outcomes and in particular to develop the understanding and
     application of Value-Based healthcare (VBHC) for the life-science industries that can
     be scaled across global markets. This has already seen the production of journal
     outputs assessing the value of VBHC.

     Wider contributions to the economy and society
     Swansea Bay City Region City Deal: In March 2017, the then Prime Minister Theresa
     May visited SoM and signed the Swansea Bay City Deal, worth £1.3bn to the region.
     SoM researchers produced several research papers and reports that informed the
     development of the different strands of the Deal. Through ARCH (A Regional
     Collaboration for Health), the deal combined several stakeholders in the region,
     including the local authority areas of Swansea, Carmarthenshire, Pembrokeshire and
     Neath Port Talbot, joined by Abertawe Bro Morgannwg and Hywel Dda University
     Health Boards, Swansea University and UWTSD, and private sector partners. The
     investment brought is stimulating economic and technological growth across south and
     west Wales; in July 2019, initial funding of £18m was released by the UK and WG for
     the Yr Egin and Swansea City and Waterfront Digital Districts projects. In addition to
     the City Deal, the Morgan Academy, with WISERD, held two conferences in 2019 with
     100+ participants at each including Members of Parliament and WG, senior civil
     servants, leaders of City Councils, academics and members of the public. These
     conferences were themed around the different types and impacts of City Region Deals
     internationally and within Wales.

     Within SoM, researchers are collaborating with the Engineering faculty on water
     purification projects and the AgorIP project is aligned with IP capture from Engineering
     research. A SoM researcher is working with the Engineering research centre ESRI to
     assess the environmental and economic impact of new technologies that have been
     designed with the purpose of recovering, recycling, or converting by-products
     emissions from steelworks. Researchers are collaborating with the Medical School on
     areas such as environmental management and through projects such as HTC
     (Accelerate) and BUCANIER (Building Clusters and Networks in Innovation and
     Education Research). Accelerate is a pan-Wales university partnership of Cardiff,
     Swansea, UWTSD and Life Sciences Hub Wales, providing facilities, personnel, and
     resources to support commercialisation of life sciences and health innovation.
     BUCANIER supports small businesses and social enterprises across west Wales and


24
     southwest Ireland to collaborate and with universities to enhance innovation capacity.
     Another SoM researcher is collaborating with the Centre for Innovative Ageing at
     Swansea University which seeks to provide solutions for an ageing society. Some
     areas have been led by SoM including methods for managing dementia care, as well
     as Warner technologies which transmit patient status and allow remote monitoring of
     patient health. A SoM researcher is the Chair of the Health Foundation: Virginia Mason
     Partnership, which is a £5m programme evaluating the importation of American health
     care practices to the UK. This collaboration seeks to understand whether lean
     practices, developed in Japan by Toyota and practised by the Virginia Mason medical
     organisation, are transferrable into the NHS.

     Engaging with diverse communities and publics
     Internationalisation is a key philosophy that underpins SoM’s research strategy and
     encourages our researchers to ‘think globally’ and engage with a diverse range of
     partners. SoM can evidence scholarship with international colleagues from Africa, the
     Americas, Asia, Europe and Oceania/Australia that has resulted in journal articles,
     edited books, and guest edited special issues. SoM’s reach extends beyond academia
     with links to international organisations such as the International Monetary Fund and
     the Indian and Malaysian Governments. Our outward-facing, global approach means
     exciting work is emerging such as the provision of research-based insights on China’s
     transition to a market-based energy economy. SoM is also partnered by the University
     of Santiago de Compostela on several European Union projects. New strategic
     partnerships are being developed in India, Malaysia, USA, and Vietnam. Policy advice
     has been provided to the Malaysian Government in the area of development of
     entrepreneurial skills, and to the Indian Government on improving the take-up of e-
     Government services. Research on productivity has also been discussed at the United
     Nations, and research on skills feeds into policies developed in this area by the
     European Commission.

     SoM has developed relationships with local and national businesses, including MoL
     Group, an international oil/gas company, who invited a SoM researcher to present their
     findings on longer working lives to its HR professionals in 2018. CHEMRI has worked
     with local organisations that engage and educate children on the issues of air pollution
     by developing ‘education packs’ using technology developed in the group by a KESS-
     funded PhD student. CHEMRI also worked with WAWR, a not-for-profit organisation
     that focuses on how technologies can be used to enhance societal wellbeing and help
     children improve their understanding of issues like air pollution at a community level;
     this led to an event at Ysgol y Bedol in 2019 where education packs showed real-time
     data of air pollution. In collaboration with the Morgan Academy, CHEMRI also
     participated in the Youth Summit on Climate Change in 2019 hosted by Wales
     Observatory on Human Rights of Children and Young People. The technology
     education packs were used in the ‘Lleisiau Bach/Little Voices’ approach which
     empowers children as researchers and advocates. This approach aims to embed
     human rights in children’s everyday places and to enable age-inclusive co-production
     of change. SoM encourages its researchers to engage with both local and national
     audiences through public engagement events, such as Pint of Science and the
     Swansea Science Festival, and by using social media and blog spaces. Our
     researchers and research centres are active on Twitter and Facebook with one


25
     researcher having over 2.8K followers. SoM researchers publish regularly with online
     accessible research magazine The Conversation and UK newspapers to discuss the
     implications of their research. An example being an article on India becoming a
     cashless society featuring in the Independent in 2016.

     Sustainability      of   discipline,     interdisciplinarity,  responsiveness        to
     priorities/initiatives
     Our strategic research direction is linked to Welsh and UK government priorities,
     thereby ensuring a ‘market’ for SoM research outputs. We invest in support staff and
     training to help researchers take their findings beyond academia which helps build
     partnerships with beneficiaries so that we can be responsive to genuine needs. In
     2018, a SoM ECR was invited by the Journal of Rural Studies to be part of a panel of
     academics that met to discuss Brexit in relation to rural Wales. This resulted in them
     contributing to a report on this subject which was launched at the House of Lords in
     December 2018.

     COVID-19 research: SoM researchers have developed a significant body of published
     work examining the impact of COVID in several different contemporary contexts. First,
     a study in IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management exploring the adoption of
     COVID-19 Digital Contact Tracing Apps. Secondly, two CEPR working papers entitled
     ‘COVID-19: Narrative economics, public policy and mental health’ and ‘Cultural and
     economic discrimination by the Great Leveller: The COVID-19 pandemic in the UK’. A
     further study was undertaken exploring impact of COVID in terms of information
     management research and practice in the IJIM. Additional studies explored the
     adoption of COVID on online teaching. Finally, a study in Internet Research examined
     the linkage between social distancing, cognitive dissonance, and social networking
     intensity as a result of COVID.

     In 2020, SoM hosted a webinar entitled ‘Impact of COVID-19 pandemic on information
     management research and practice: Transforming education, work and life’ with the
     Symbiosis Institute of Business Management Pune, India.’ The webinar featured 24
     professors from 10 countries representing 20 universities globally. The event
     addressed over 500 participants from 29 countries. This event was reported in media
     sources globally. Our researchers are undertaking further research on the impact of
     COVID on female entrepreneurs with caring responsibilities. It is noteworthy that
     protocols developed within the airline industry to combat COVID drew upon a previous
     study from SoM researchers (Harvey and Turnbull (2009)) which examined the
     responses of airlines to the financial crisis.

     Contributions to research base
     In the current REF period, SoM has produced over 1,000 published research outputs,
     including 895 peer-reviewed journal articles, 20 authored books, 13 edited books, and
     83 book chapters. During this REF period, SoM has published in world-leading
     management-related journals across the full range of business management fields
     including, British Journal of Industrial Relations (BJIR), British Journal of Management,
     Journal of Business Ethics (JBE), MIS Quarterly, Organisation Studies, American
     Economic Review, Tourism Management, and the Journal of Corporate Finance.



26
     Several studies included in the REF submission focus around specific business areas
     including health care, e-government and the impact of social media on various forms
     of business behaviour. Healthcare studies have been published in elite journals such
     as MIS Quarterly, BJIR, and International Journal of Operations and Production
     Management. In terms of e-government, studies evidence the adoption of such
     technologies in many different contexts. A further area of focus is the impact of social
     media on various forms of business behaviour which is evidenced with publications in
     Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Computers in Human Behavior,
     JoBR, European Journal of Marketing (EJM), Industrial Marketing Management, and
     JBE.

     In terms of books, staff have produced a wide range of texts including single authored
     books, methodology books, textbooks, and edited books. Highlights include textbooks
     such as International Standards for Design and Manufacturing: Quality Management
     and International Best Practice, authored books include Health at Work, methodology
     books such as Collecting Qualitative Data Using Digital Methods, and edited books
     including Handbook of Research on Integrating Social Media into Strategic Marketing
     and Entrepreneurship and the Sustainable Development Goals. Notably, the edited
     book Social Media: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly has been downloaded 442k times
     to date.




                          Figure 9: Examples of books from Cat A staff

     We have organised several significant conferences and workshops including the IFIP
     6.11’s 15th IFIP e-Business, e-Services, and e-Society (I3E) Conference in 2016. SoM
     also hosted a two-day workshop to celebrate Emeritus Professor Alan Hawkes 80 th
     birthday. Professor Hawkes developed the Hawkes process that has been adopted
     within the business world. Speakers at this event included academics from Oxford
     University and ETH Zurich, and senior management from Credit Suisse. In 2017, SoM
     hosted the 2nd International Place Branding Association Conference. EMaRC has
     hosted several events during this period including a workshop on AI with a keynote
     from Lee Waters AM. The AI event attracted attendees such as the Government of
     Tamil Nadu, India, the Welsh Government, Innovate UK, Airbus, Cisco, Fujitsu, and
     several academic institutions including the University of Edinburgh, Indian Institute of
     Technology, Delhi, and Copenhagen Business School. It has also led to some exciting
     research developments for SoM in this growth area.


27
     SoM researchers regularly present their research at both national (e.g. Academy of
     Marketing, BAM, ISBE, UKAIS) and international conferences such as Academy of
     Management, EGOS, Americas Conference on Information Systems and Pacific Asia
     Conference on Information Systems.

     Wider contributions to/recognition by the research base
     Three SoM researchers are Editor-In-Chief for leading business journals; IJIM, Journal
     of Destination Marketing and Management, and International Journal of
     Entrepreneurial Behaviour and Research. Several others hold editorial positions such
     as Associate Editor at Government Information Quarterly (GIQ), EJM, International
     Journal of Operations and Production Management, and the JoBR.




                           Figure 10: Journals with Cat A staff as Editor-in-Chief

     SoM researchers act as editorial board members on several well-regarded journals
     including Applied Economics, Human Relations, JoBR, WE&S and the Journal of
     Travel Research. Our researchers acted as referees for a variety of leading journals,
     including Journal of the American Statistical Association, Nature, Journal of Economic
     History, Econometrics, JBE, Risk Analysis and the Annals of Tourism Research. SoM
     reviewers have won several reviewing rewards for excellence, including annual best
     reviewer awards.

     Two SoM researchers are book series editors; one for the Emerald Book Series
     Contemporary Issues in Entrepreneurship Research (nine books published in REF
     period) and the Springer series Advances in Theory and Practice of Emerging Markets
     (five published). The Springer series was created following an EMaRC workshop in
     2017 on Emerging Markets from a Multidisciplinary Perspective. SoM researchers
     have guest edited many special issues in high quality journals including International
     Marketing Review (35/2) (2018), GIQ (36/2) (2019), EJM (53/6) (2019), and
     Information Technology and People (32/5) (2019).

     Our researchers have been recognised with several prizes and awards. Highlights
     include the selection of five SoM papers by Urban Studies for its most significant
     papers on housing economics over 50 years. Just 31 papers featured on the list and
     the five SoM papers were authored/co-authored by SoM academics. In 2020, an article
     entitled ‘Aesthetic labouring and the female entrepreneur: Entrepreneurship that


28
     wouldn’t chip your nails’ was voted by the ISBJ as the best overall paper published in
     2019.

     Our researchers are regularly invited to give keynote speeches/addresses for both
     national and international events. These have included invitations from the UK
     Government, EU parliament, the Enterprise Education Forum in Beijing, Brazilian
     Education Ministry, British Academy of Management, Chinese Economic Association,
     and the Academy of International Business. They are regularly invited by institutions
     both nationally and internationally to present at research seminars, including
     Groningen University, United Nations University in Portugal, and the University of
     Verona. A SoM researcher has been elected as Chair of the prestigious IFIP
     (International Federation for Information Processing) Working Group 8.6, an
     international group concerned with the diffusion, adoption and implementation of
     information and communication technologies, comprised of academics and
     practitioners.

     Our academics are regularly invited to act as external assessors on international PhD
     viva voce examinations. In this REF period, these have included the University of New
     South Wales, Auckland University of Technology, University of Malay, and the
     University of Valencia, among others. In a UK context, SoM academics have acted as
     external examiners for leading universities including Liverpool University, Brunel
     University, and the University of Aberdeen. Our leadership in research subject
     networks is demonstrated by a board trustee member of the Institute of Small Business
     and Entrepreneurship, a board member of Kogan Page, advisory board membership
     with the Faculty of Economics, Business and Tourism, University of Split in Croatia,
     and the Centre for Applied Research in Data Science, Indian Institute of Management,
     Trichy, India. SoM researchers have also acted as grant evaluators for BA/Leverhulme
     Small Research Grants, Horizon 2020 and ESRC grants.




29
