Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 17: Business and Management Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Overview

 LSE’s Business and Management Studies (BAMS) submission consists of three departments –
 Accounting, Finance and Management – which collaborate in relevant areas of synergy and
 have international reputations in their academic disciplines. The departments have two research
 centres – the Financial Markets Group (FMG), which is affiliated with the Department of Finance
 and includes the ESRC-funded Systemic Risk Centre (SRC), and the Centre for Analysis of Risk
 and Regulation (CARR), which is affiliated with the Department of Accounting – and a number of
 active area-specific research groups. The shared objective across these units is to produce and
 disseminate world-leading research in business and management with a distinctive social
 science foundation. The research excellence of the three departments is evidenced in world
 rankings. For example, Accounting and Finance are ranked fourth globally in the QS university
 rankings, while Management is ranked eleventh. The research conducted by LSE’s BAMS draws
 upon a diverse range of disciplines and methodologies.

 DoA (Department of Accounting) has 19 research active faculty members and 7 PhD students.
 Research is organised around two groups: (i) the Accounting, Organisations and Institutions
 (AOI) group, whose members study the interrelation between accounting, organisations and
 institutions using primarily qualitative methods and theories grounded in sociology and
 organisational studies; and (ii) the Economics of Accounting (EoA) group, whose members
 investigate accounting issues from an economics perspective using mostly quantitative
 approaches. Both groups are committed to conducting world-leading research and to enhancing
 the DoA’s visibility among academics, regulators and practitioners alike. Since the last REF, the
 DoA has strengthened the EoA area to ensure a more balanced presence in all areas of
 accounting. The membership of CARR has also been expanded to facilitate collaboration and
 intellectual exchanges between the two areas of research. As a result, CARR’s study of
 institutional, regulatory and risk aspects of accounting has become more interdisciplinary.

 DoF (Department of Finance) has 28 research active faculty members and 35 PhD students.
 Research is organised across two main areas: Asset Pricing and Corporate Finance. These
 areas communicate closely with each other, and a number of Finance faculty work at their
 interface. The DoF has significant visibility and recognition within the regulator and practitioner
 communities. Such outside visibility is achieved primarily through the activities of the Financial
 Markets Group (FMG). Among other things, the FMG runs academic/practitioner conferences,
 hosts renowned academic visitors and practitioners, provides research and data assistance, and
 supports the development and management of research grants. Since the last REF, the DoF has
 continued to increase its strengths across all areas of Finance, achieving a balance between
 Asset Pricing and Corporate Finance as well as between theoretical and empirical work.

 DoM (Department of Management) has 51 research active faculty members and 10 PhD
 students. The DoM is organised into six groups, reflecting its size and the heterogeneity of its
 research areas: Employment Relations and Human Resource Management (ERHR), Information
 Systems and Innovation (ISI), Managerial Economics and Strategy (MES), Marketing (M), an
 embryonic Operations Management Group (OM) and Organisational Behaviour (OB). Since the
 last REF, the DoM has undergone a series of changes, resulting in a more cohesive, synergistic
 department that pursues a strategy of making appointments with cross-group interests. Some of
 the groups have been restructured and new ones formed. For example, the former Management
 Science group has moved to the Department of Mathematics, reflecting its increasing orientation
 to applied maths; instead, an Operations Management group has been established in the DoM
 focusing more directly on management issues. Marketing has successfully transitioned from an
 incubator group into full independence, currently consisting of seven faculty with further

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expansion anticipated. Faculty in Entrepreneurship Studies have been distributed across the
 groups reflecting their multidisciplinary nature. The DoM federal structure is coordinated through
 a departmental research committee with departmental seminars and other cross-group activities
 encouraging integration. Six colleagues from the Department of Psychological and Behavioural
 Science with particular interest in management issues and publishing in management journals
 are also included in the BAMS submission.

 The research centres affiliated with the DoA and DoF are financially supported by both internal
 funding and external grants (e.g., Horizon 2020, ESRC and UK Foreign and Commonwealth
 Office grants in the case of CARR; and European Research Council (ERC) and ESRC grants in
 the case of the FMG). They are overseen by management committees to ensure that the centres
 meet their stated research objectives. Both centres are seamlessly integrated into their affiliated
 departments, organising workshops and conferences and engendering academically-excellent
 and practically-relevant research.

 While the UoA consists of three different departments, research sometimes cuts across them.
 For example, there are a number of collaborations between faculty in Finance and Management,
 such as between Paravisini (DoF) and Rappoport (DoM) on the effect of credit crunches on
 economic activity, and de Meza (DoM) and Webb (DoF) on selection effects in financial markets.
 Faculty in BAMS also work with colleagues in the Economics Department, e.g. Garicano (DoM)
 and Vayanos (DoF) work with Reis (Economics) on the design of European safe bonds (see
 impact case study); similarly Eyster (Economics) and Madarasz (DoM) work on behavioral
 economics; and Yuan (DoF) and Zhang (Economics) on security design. PhD students likewise
 interact frequently, including attending courses across the BAMS departments and in
 Economics. Finally, there is also collaboration with departments that are scientifically more
 distant. For example, some researchers in CARR (e.g., Mennicken) work with colleagues in
 Sociology and Government. In 2022, the three departments will be moving to a new building with
 state-of-the-art research and teaching facilities, which will encourage further collaboration
 among the departments.

 In addition to the co-authorships across the three departments, there are extensive co-
 authorships within each department. Co-authorships within the DoA include the work of: (i)
 Cascino and Correia on default prediction and business groups; (ii) Cascino, Correia and
 Tamayo on disclosure in alternative financing markets; (iii) Cascino and Tamayo on labour
 market effects of licensing; (iv) Mennicken and Miller on organizations; and (v) Palermo and
 Power on risk culture. Co-authorships within the DoF include the work of: (i) Kondor and
 Vayanos on liquidity and arbitrage capital; (ii) Lou and Polk on co-momentum and on high-
 frequency returns; (iii) Gonzalez-Uribe and Paravisini on entrepreneurship and tax incentives;
 and (iv) between Oehmke and Zhong on capital structure. Co-authorships within the DoM
 include the work of: (i) Thomas and Stanton on online labour markets; (ii) Li and Narasimhan on
 cash compensation; and (iii) de Meza and Reyniers on insurance. All of these papers have
 either been published in world-leading academic journals and are included in the BAMS
 submission or are under revise-and-resubmit in such journals. In addition to the successful co-
 authorships between faculty members, there are equally successful co-authorships between
 faculty members and PhD students (examples in Section 2). The large number of co-authorships
 within departments reflects a vibrant exchange of ideas as well as a collegial and nurturing
 environment.

 Strategic Aims and Achievements

 The three BAMS departments share the objective of producing world-leading, impactful
 research. The UOA is not prescriptive as to the specific topics that faculty work on, or the
 methods that they use, but quality is at the forefront of what we do. Importantly, the emphasis on
 quality, as opposed to merely quantity, of research is now well embedded among all research
 faculty in the three departments.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The number of publications in leading journals submitted by the three departments to this REF
 assessment is indicative of an ambitious research culture. Notwithstanding the limitation of
 journal rankings, the number of publications in journals ranked 4* by the Chartered Association
 of Business Schools (CABS) since the last REF is 23 for Accounting, 58 for Finance, and 66 for
 Management; the number of publications in the next highest category of CABS 4 journals are 15
 for Accounting, 15 for Finance, and 55 for Management. Faculty often serve as editors or
 associate editors in those journals, which is testimony to the international standing of our faculty.
 The grants that faculty in the three departments have secured also reflect the strength of the
 research that is being conducted. For example, six personal ERC consolidator grants of up to
 €2m each have been awarded to BAMS faculty during the REF period. Finally, the impact case
 studies in the BAMS submission are also an indicator of the strength, relevance and diversity of
 the research that BAMS faculty conduct.

 Going forward, the main objective of the three departments is to further enhance the research
 environment to ensure that both new recruits and current faculty continue to flourish.

 Supporting Research and Impact

 The three departments, as well as the School, are mindful that the production of world-leading
 research is facilitated by the right research infrastructure and a supportive environment. Aspects
 of research support include:

    •   Active seminar series: The three departments separately run weekly seminar series with
        external speakers, as well as periodic informal seminars in which faculty present their
        work in progress. Seminars foster productive interactions between faculty members in
        the three departments, as well as with external speakers from leading universities around
        the world. While the mix of speakers vary across seminar series, typically more than half
        of the speakers come from North American universities, and there is also a good
        representation from the UK and Europe. Given the diversity of research interests, some
        of the external seminar series cater to specific groups within a department. In addition,
        some seminars are run jointly with the School’s research centres. For example, the DoM
        holds a weekly seminar in conjunction with the Centre for Economic Performance (CEP)
        in which leading international speakers present their work. Finally, the three departments
        conduct weekly seminars with their PhD students.
    •   Academic and policy conferences: The departments host a series of conferences. The
        DoF organises or co-organises an average of four academic conferences per year,
        mostly via the FMG, as well as some policy conferences. The DoA typically organises
        two academic conferences annually (e.g. the most recent on Blockchain in collaboration
        with a leading academic journal) and, under the auspices of CARR, frequent workshops
        and highly selective regulator forums. DoM co-organises an annual entrepreneurship
        conference with CEP and STICERD. Single conferences have been held on trade
        diversification in the UK and Canada, mobile money, and financial development. The
        conferences hosted by the three departments and their research centres attract high-
        profile academics, regulators (e.g., governors of central banks around the world,
        accounting standard setters), politicians and civil servants (e.g. ministers of finance or
        economics, or top civil servants in such ministries) and a wide variety of practitioners
        depending on the topic.
    •   Visitors: The departments have visitor programmes under which selected external
        visitors are provided with financial support and desk space to spend time at LSE. Past
        visitors include, in DoA: Wayne Landsman (North Carolina), Maria Lumiotti (UT Dallas)
        Danielle Macciocchi (Utah), and Naomi Nordstrom (Melbourne); in DoF: Jonathan Berk
        (Stanford), Pete Kyle (Maryland), Antoinette Schoar (MIT), Stan Zin (Carnegie Mellon);
        and in DoM: Eric Hurst (Chicago), Sara Lombardi (Florence), Jugal Garg (Saarbrücken),
        Hironobu Sano (Rio Grande do Norte).
    •   Data: A sizeable fraction of the research conducted in the departments is empirical,
        which the departments support by: (i) making funds available to faculty to acquire data as
        part of their individual research budgets; (ii) using departmental funds to buy data when

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the data are of use to multiple faculty members; and (iii) working with the School and the
        LSE Library to acquire and support databases when these are of use to multiple
        departments.
    •   Financial assistance to fund research: Faculty receive discretionary research funds from
        their departments (£5K-£10K per year) to purchase data, hire research assistants, travel
        to conferences and visit co-authors in other universities. Funding is also available from
        the research centres for the areas in which these specialise, and from sources outside
        the three departments such as other centres in the School (e.g. STICERD) or the
        School’s general funds. Research proposals by faculty in the early stages of their career
        receive special consideration and support in all of the above schemes.
    •   Research committee: As mandated by the School, each department has a Research
        Committee, in which the above arrangements are reviewed annually, and new ideas and
        initiatives proposed.

 Approach to impact: The UOA believes that real-world impact often arises organically from
 first-class research and, hence, supports such research via the means indicated above. In
 addition, BAMS actively promotes interaction between academics, policy makers and
 practitioners with the twofold aim of increasing awareness of real-world problems among
 academics and of disseminating the academic research conducted in BAMS to these audiences.

 Some impact case studies in BAMS have indeed grown from first-class research conducted
 within the departments. For example, Ian Martin’s leading work on extracting market beliefs from
 derivatives prices, published in the Journal of Finance and the Quarterly Journal of Economics,
 attracted the attention of members of the Bank of England’s monetary policy committee and of
 their counterparts in other central banks. Other impact case studies have grown out of more
 direct interactions between academics and policy makers or practitioners. For example, the
 impact case of Cascino started as a collaboration with the European Financial Reporting
 Advisory Group (EFRAG) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (ICAS), who
 initially funded the research and consequently organised a series of engagement events to
 disseminate the findings.

 The beneficiaries of the research conducted within BAMS include policy institutions in the UK,
 such as the Bank of England and the Financial Conduct Authority; international policy
 institutions, such as the European Central Bank and the European Commission; regulatory and
 professional bodies, such as the International Accounting Standard Board; national
 governments, and practitioners in various sectors of the economy. More details on the projects
 and the beneficiaries are in Section 4.

 The interaction with policy makers and practitioners is promoted in several ways:

    •   Conferences and public events that bring together academics from BAMS with policy
        makers and practitioners. These conferences are organised primarily by the research
        centres (FMG, SRC, CARR). For example, in recent years FMG has organised
        conferences with the Bank of England, the Financial Conduct Authority, and the Bank of
        International Settlements; CARR has run regulator forums with participants from, among
        others, the Financial Conduct Authority, Bar Standards Board, Legal Services Board,
        Food Standards Agency and the General Medical Council.
    •   Faculty are also encouraged to achieve impact by interacting with policy makers and
        practitioners, e.g. by funding their travel and covering the cost of practice-focused
        events. Some of the funding comes from the School through its Knowledge Exchange
        and Impact (KEI) funding and training initiative. Additional funding comes from the
        departments. For example, the DoM makes resources available to its faculty to support
        development and implementation of innovative initiatives related to KEI. KEI funding is
        allocated on an open call basis inviting applications from the faculty, fellows and PhD
        students.
    •   National and international media coverage of research within BAMS helps make our work
        accessible to wider public audiences. High-profile media coverage has included

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        extensive discussion of work by Willcocks on automation, by Canonico on home working,
        and by Riza on career satisfaction and success. Public engagement with research via
        media coverage is also an important feature of several of our submitted impact case
        studies, for example by Garicano and Vayanos et al. on Eurozone bonds. As measured
        by Altmetrics, LSE seems to have the highest media attention of any UK BAMS unit.

 In line with the School’s wider approach, the departments recognise and promote the importance
 of an open research environment. UoA members deposit their research in LSE Research Online,
 with items deposited with a full-text increasing by just over 25% for this REF period. Our
 research is made available online in other formats e.g. through research centre discussion
 papers series.

 Members of the UoA regularly deposit research data into trusted data repositories. Examples
 include, Matteo Gallizzi who has deposited with the UK Data Archive and Saul Estrin who has
 deposited with Harvard Dataverse. UoA members have also used Open Science Framework
 (OSF) to deposit and share research data openly (e.g. Ilka Gleibs). In addition to sharing within a
 recognised data repository, faculty also strive to make data more discoverable by sharing code
 and data on their website and publishing in journals with an open data requirement.

 Finally, BAMS follows the standards of research integrity set by the School, including ethical,
 legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Research involving human
 participants or identifiable personal data is subject to scrutiny under the auspices of the LSE
 Research Ethics Committee. New faculty receive mandatory training on Equity, Diversity and
 Inclusion (EDI) and have the opportunity to undertake additional training.

 The LSE Library provides support and advice on using data for research. It subscribes to a
 range of high impact datasets including, Bloomberg, Compustat, Datastream, CRSP, ICPSR and
 Orbis to support the BAMS faculty’s research, the last of which also includes Orbis Historical, a
 resource that LSE is the only UK university to subscribe to.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 The DoA faculty consists of 8 Assistant Professors and 1 Lecturer, 5 Associate Professors and 5
 Professors. In DoF, there are 7 Assistant Professors and 1 Lecturer, 9 Associate Professors and
 11 Professors. In DoM, the breakdown across the ranks is 18 Assistant Professors, 16 Associate
 Professors and 17 Professors. The distribution of faculty across the ranks in BAMS is balanced
 and is less top-heavy than the School average. Assistant Professors/Lecturers comprise 33% of
 the faculty (against 28% in the School). Conversely, Professors comprise 36% of the faculty
 (41% in the School). The percentage of Assistant Professors/Lecturers is higher than in the last
 REF, reflecting significant recruitment effort at that rank, cultivating new blood and future
 promise.

 Since the last REF, the DoA has hired three Associate Professors in the EoA area and four
 Assistant Professors across different areas of accounting research. The DoF has hired seven
 Assistant Professors, five Associate Professors, and one Professor. The DoM has hired eleven
 Assistant Professors, three Associate Professors, and two Professors. In their recruitment
 activities, the three departments strive to achieve a balance across academic areas within
 respective disciplines, as well as across seniority ranks.

 All three departments recruit in the global market through world-class recruitment and
 appointment processes. Recruitment of new Assistant Professors is done via campus visits with
 a seminar presentation. A shortlist of 20-30 candidates is decided by each department, and
 these candidates are interviewed at the meetings of the corresponding associations, or so-called
 ‘rookie camps’. For the DoA this happens at the European and American Accounting Association
 camps; for the DoF at the meetings of the American Finance Association; and for the DoM at the

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 meetings of the Academy of Management (where LSE holds an annual reception) and the
 American Economic Association or the European Economic Association. Recruitment for
 seasoned faculty takes place after an extensive search for candidates who fit the required profile
 in terms of field and seniority. Candidates are generally flown in to spend time in the department
 and to give a seminar. All faculty are involved and provide input into the appointment process.
 Throughout the recruitment and promotion processes, careful consideration is given to equality
 and diversity. All departments adhere to strict EDI policies. The departments work directly with
 the Pro-Director of Faculty Affairs and the Vice Chair of the Appointments Committee to promote
 gender balance and inclusivity on short lists.

 Supporting faculty, particularly at the junior level, is a critical aspect of a successful recruitment,
 retention, and promotion strategy. Newly hired Assistant Professors enjoy reduced teaching
 loads (typically, half of the normal load for two years). They are also provided with extra
 research funds, and their applications for departmental research funds are commonly given
 priority. The administrative duties of Assistant Professors are kept to a minimum and are
 designed to increase their visibility in the profession (e.g., by organizing the seminar series) or to
 integrate them further in the life of department (e.g., by assigning them to critical committees but
 shielding them from the work). All Assistant Professors are assigned a senior mentor to advise
 them on their research trajectory, on how to respond to comments from journal referees, and on
 how to improve visibility in the profession. Formal feedback is given annually by the Head of
 Department, based on input from the mentor and other colleagues. Feedback increases in detail
 and frequency after five years into the appointment, before Major Review in the eighth year. In
 the last three years before Major Review, a committee of Professors reads the work of each
 Assistant Professor under consideration and provides detailed comments on research progress
 and on the likelihood of passing Major Review. Major Review hurdles are of an international
 standard with the final decision taken by a School committee in the light of extensive external
 assessment and internal reading. The faculty not supported for promotion at the Major Review
 stage must leave LSE.

 Since the last REF, the DoF promoted two out of seven faculty members who were at the major
 review stage. Over the same period, the DoA promoted two out of six faculty members, and the
 DoM four out of seven faculty members, to Associate Professor. The remaining faculty members
 moved on to reputable academic institutions at different ranks, including: as Professors to the
 University of Leicester and the University of Warwick; as Assistant Professors to Boston
 University, Cass, Maryland, Rutgers, Queen Mary and the University of Bath; and as a Lecturer
 to King’s College.

 In addition to these provisions, junior faculty benefit from several services provided by the
 School. These include: (i) a central orientation programme and training for the postgraduate
 certificate in teaching offered by EDEN (LSE’s Educational Enhancement unit); and (ii)
 workshops offered by EDEN and HR under the LSE Academic Career Development Scheme to
 support early-career researchers in conducting their research, strengthening their impact, and
 managing their career. The School also offers sabbatical leave of one term after eight terms
 served; generous parental leaves; and research leaves that can be accrued for completion of
 well-defined, funded projects. Faculty may also be granted leave of absence to stimulate and
 facilitate exchanges between academia and business, industry, or the public sector. For
 example, Veronica Rappoport (DoM) was given leave to return to her native Argentina to take up
 the post of Deputy Governor of Argentina’s Central Bank for a limited period.

 Success in research and impact is acknowledged in internal newsletters by the Heads of
 Department and in the annual Academic Staff Contribution process resulting in contribution pay
 as appropriate and equitable. The School’s policy on Personal Financial Rewards also rewards
 faculty who have been successful in obtaining external grants.




                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research students

 Research students are an integral part of the three departments’ dynamic research culture.
 There is an infrastructure of general skills training and provision for research students at School
 level (the PhD Academy) complemented by departmental support. Initially, students enrol into an
 MRes programme for one or two years (depending on their background). During this time, they
 take a variety of courses in economics (or other appropriate subject), statistics and econometrics
 as well as doctoral level subject-specific courses. Training involves the development of
 quantitative as well as qualitative skills. Upon successful completion of the MRes, students are
 transferred to the doctoral programme and are required to complete their thesis within four years
 (or less). The DoM offers them the opportunity to be appointed as Research Fellows for one
 additional year after the PhD completion to strengthen their research portfolio before entering
 the academic job market.

 When PhD students join the programme, they are assigned a supervisor. The supervisor is the
 Director of the PhD programme for the first two years, which is when the PhD students mostly
 take courses. After the second year, PhD students find a main and a secondary supervisor
 depending on their research interests. Meetings with the supervisors take place regularly
 (multiple times in a term).

 In addition to the supervisory arrangements, student progress is actively monitored in the
 departments through PhD Assessment Reviews and reported to the Research Degrees Unit.
 Timely reviews provide early warnings of any problems and inform re-registration and upgrading
 decisions. A termly meeting is held in which the progress of each PhD student is reviewed.
 Students have to complete and submit a form summarizing their progress ahead of each
 meeting. This meeting is in addition to the feedback that students receive when meeting with
 their supervisors (every few weeks) and when presenting at the PhD workshop (once a year and
 possibly more often).

 Research students are fully integrated into the departmental activities. PhD students are invited
 to attend the departments’ internal and external seminar series and often meet external
 speakers (for example, for breakfast). In all three departments there is also a weekly seminar
 series where PhD students present their work. Supervisors are required to attend the
 presentations of their PhD students and to provide feedback to the students just after the
 seminar. PhD students are also encouraged to join the research centres. Finally, there is
 occasional co-authorship between PhD students and faculty, leading to journal publications.
 Examples of such collaborations are Martin’s paper in the American Economic Review with PhD
 student Kremens (DoF), Chabakauri’s paper in the Journal of Financial Economics with PhD
 student Han (DoF), Cascino and Tamayo’s paper in the Journal of Accounting Research (2021)
 with PhD student Vetter (DoA) and Ashwin’s prize-winning paper with PhD student Alexander in
 the ILR Review.

 All three departments require PhD students to do some teaching and course marking, and to
 complete a course on teaching skills through EDEN, with the view of improving their teaching
 and presentation skills. The departments also provide additional interview training for PhD
 students in the year when they go to the job market.

 The PhD programme in the DoM has undergone a major reorganization to unify practices,
 provide a common taught core and raise admission standards. The programme was suspended
 for two years, and then relaunched as an integrated programme in Management, offering
 specialisms in Employment Relations and Human Resources, Organisational Behaviour,
 Marketing, and Information Systems and Innovation. A key feature of the new programme is that
 during their first two years research students rotate and work across different Faculty Groups to
 gain from a broad exposure to their research interests, while at the same time taking a set of
 seminars and coursework intended to develop the ability to conduct rigorous academic research.
 Students also become familiar with some of the key research methods used in areas of study
 other than their own. This approach promotes an interdisciplinary perspective as well as social

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interaction among the students, and provides a distinct departmental identity. In addition,
 reflecting one of the School’s major strengths, a new PhD programme in Economics and
 Management is being initiated with the Department of Economics at LSE. Starting in 2022/23,
 taught courses will be provided by both departments and taken in common with students from
 Economics. Supervisors will be drawn from both departments.

 Placement of PhD students in BAMS has been successful. Since the last REF, 13 PhD students
 graduated from the DoA. Out of those, 11 were placed in academia and 2 in government or
 industry. Placements in academia include INSEAD, King’s College, Lancaster University,
 University of Illinois at Chicago, and University of Mannheim, while placements in government or
 industry include The British Council and Goldman Sachs. There were 23 PhD students who
 graduated from the DoF, of whom 16 obtained placements in academia and 7 in government or
 industry. Placements in academia include London Business School, INSEAD, Stockholm School
 of Economics, University of Amsterdam, Washington University at St Louis, University of
 Maryland, University of Washington, and University of Hong Kong. Placements in government or
 industry include the Bank of International Settlements and Citibank. Thirty-two students
 graduated from the DoM. Twenty-five obtained placements in academia, and seven in
 government or industry. Placements in academia include Henley Business School, University of
 Liverpool, Portland State University, Bournemouth University, Bocconi University, IE Madrid and
 University of Surrey Business School. Industry jobs include Vice President for Global
 Technology at JP Morgan Chase in New York; Managing Director of Education at Elsevier; and
 posts at Deloitte, Morgan Stanley, Bank of China, and Santander Bank.

 Selection criteria to our PhD programmes are stringent. In each of the three departments, the
 Director of the PhD programme allocates applications to at least two faculty members, who
 scrutinize the assigned applications carefully. Decisions are made on the basis of the
 evaluations of the selectors and the PhD programme Director. In the DoA and the DoM, PhD
 applicants are also invited to present their research proposals and meet the faculty as part of the
 selection process.

 Financial support for PhD students comes from several sources. One important source is ESRC
 scholarships. There are also scholarships provided by the School and by funds that departments
 raise through charitable giving and other sources. Roughly 60% of the BAMS PhD students are
 funded by the departments, 20% by LSE Scholarships, 10-15% by ESRC, and the remaining 5-
 10% by named privately-funded scholarships.

 Equity, Diversity and Inclusion

 BAMS is committed to EDI in recruitment and promotion processes, and actively seeks out
 minority applicants. The gender balance is roughly comparable with the rest of the School (34%
 of the faculty are female, compared with 37% in the School), and the percentage of BAME
 faculty is significantly higher than in the rest of the School (31% in BAMS compared with 17% in
 the School). Benchmarking exercises that were conducted within the three departments indicate
 that they compare well relative to competitors in terms of gender balance.

 The three departments follow School policies in leave arrangements for caring responsibilities,
 health conditions and other personal circumstances, and subsequently support their return to
 work by providing further time for research via extra research leave (usually one term). Similar
 provisions apply to research students whose studies can be interrupted.

 The BAMS interim and final portfolio selection of outputs was monitored for EDI balance among
 the authors of those outputs. It was found to be representative of the UOA’s composition in
 terms of gender, but slightly unrepresentative in terms of ethnicity (26% of outputs were from
 BAME authors who make up 31% of the faculty). The latter imbalance, however, is due to the
 fact that several of the BAME authors are Assistant Professors who have had less time to
 develop their output portfolio, especially given the long publication lead times in our academic
 areas. Overall, our portfolio selection appears to be representative conditional on each faculty’s

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outputs. To eliminate any subjectivity bias, we also used several bibliometric measures.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 BAMS raises a substantial amount of research income from external (normally peer-reviewed)
 sources, which fund individual faculty research as well as research centres. A dedicated
 Research Development group within the School’s Research and Innovation Division works
 closely with the three departments on developing innovative strategies to secure funding for
 research. The School’s policy on Personal Financial Rewards provides a powerful incentive for
 faculty to seek grants, as the ability of the departments to grant buyouts is limited (DoF does not
 grant buyouts; the DoA and DoM grant limited buyouts only, typically up to a limit of 25%). Since
 the last REF, the BAMS area has received approximately £16.6m in research grants, from which
 £1.8m in DoA, £9.9m in DoF, and £4.9m in DoM.

 In the DoA, most of the external funding is obtained through the Centre for Analysis of Risk and
 Regulation (CARR), which is integrated in the department as an interdisciplinary research hub.
 CARR has attracted over £1.5M in research income over the REF period. Funded projects
 include: (i) collaborative work on “Transboundary Crisis Management in the EU” funded by a
 Horizon 2020 award (CARR €600,000; total award €2.4m); (ii) collaborative work on
 “Quantification, Administrative Capacity and Democracy” funded by an ESRC Open Research
 Area (ORA) grant (CARR €662,000; total award €2.3m); and (iii) work on “Regulation of
 Logistics Infrastructure in Brazil” funded by a UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office Prosperity
 Fund (£247,533). CARR received additional funds from the British Academy, Deutsche Bank,
 ESRC, Food Standards Agency, Research Council of Norway and UK Statistics Authority
 amounting to £307,023. Individual faculty members have also received funding from several
 sources, including LSE’s HEIF allocation, ICAEW, ICAS-EFRAG, Inquire Europe, Institute for
 Fraud Prevention, Principle Responsible Investments, and Risk Institute. The total grant revenue
 for the DoA during the REF period has been close to £1.8m.

 The DoF received £9.9m of research grants during the REF period. Most of the funding came
 through the FMG, the department’s research centre. A major source of funding is the European
 Research Council (ERC): five DoF faculty have been awarded an equal number of grants,
 totalling £4m (Yuan, Martin, Kondor, Oehmke, and Paravisini). Another source of funding is the
 Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC): the SRC (co-directed by Danielsson and
 Zigrand) is funded by an ESRC grant, and two additional DoF faculty (Dasgupta and Zhong)
 have been awarded ESRC grants as well, amounting to a total grant value from the ESRC of
 £2.4m during the REF period. Additional revenue to promote research comes from private
 donors, such as Paul Woolley, who has founded the Centre for the Study of Capital Market
 Dysfunctionality, included within the FMG. Paul Woolley’s donation to the centre during the REF
 period has been £2.3m. These revenue streams have been complemented by smaller grants
 from public and private sources. Whereas DoA hosts the administration of CARR activities, FMG
 has, due to its size, a dedicated administrative team to lend support to research grants,
 seminars and projects.

 The DoM received £4.9m of research grants during the REF period. Funded projects/schemes
 include: (i) Yuchman’s Research Professorial Fellowship from the British Academy (£749,557);
 (ii) Macchiavello’s work on “Sharing Gains from Trade: Global Markets and Farmers Welfare in
 Developing Countries”, funded by ERC (£1,663,340); (iii) a collaborative project with UCL on
 “Interface Reasoning for Interacting Systems” funded by EPRSC (Venters, £632,509); (iv) a WV
 grant for work on “Changes in the Governance of Garment Global Production Networks”
 (Ashwin, £168,182); (v) an EPSRC funded project on “Delivering Digital Drugs” (Cornford, £717,
 415); and (vi) Barkema’s project on “Multipliers for Employment Creation: the IT-Industry in
 Kenya” funded by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (£394,828).

 Research projects funded with external funds have directly led to journal publications. For

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example, in the case of the DoF, the five ERC grants have supported 11 publications so far in
 Economics and Finance journals. The Paul Woolley Centre within the FMG accounts more than
 35 publications in those journals since its inception in 2007, half of which date from 2014
 onwards. In the case of the DoA, the funds raised through CARR and individual grants have
 supported four publications in Accounting and Finance journals, while in the DoM publications
 arising from external funding include articles in the Quarterly Journal of Economics, the
 International Labor Relations Review and Journal of Business Ethics.

 Importantly, many of the funded projects have had a significant impact on non-academic
 audiences, as evidenced by a series of impact case studies submitted to REF 2021 in which the
 research was externally funded. An example is the ICS by DoF’s Martin on using derivatives
 prices to estimate market expectations about future returns and tail risks, which draws on his
 ERC-funded research. In the DoA case, the research of Cascino on the conceptual framework
 was externally funded by EFRAG and ICAS while the work of Palermo and Power on risk
 cultures was supported by the Chartered Insurance Institute (ICI), Chartered Institute of
 Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Lighthill Risk Network. For DoM, a safety culture
 methodology developed by Reader, supported by EUROCONTROL and the HORIZON2020
 fund, has been utilized by Air Navigation Service Providers, Airlines, Airports, and Airframe
 manufacturers across the EU. Other policy assessments funded by the EC, the FCA and Bank
 of England have been undertaken by means of specially designed experiments.

 Research Infrastructure and Facilities

 The three Departments, as well as the School, endeavour to provide the research infrastructure
 necessary to conduct world-leading research and foster collaborations among faculty, PhD
 students and visitors. This is delivered through a combination of departmental facilities and
 seminar spaces, as well as data libraries, IT infrastructure and dedicated support, including a
 department-dedicated Academic Support Librarian and IT experts. In addition, the School is
 investing considerably in external servers as part of a big data project, which will provide
 extensive data storage. This will be particularly valuable for BAMS faculty given the extensive
 amount of empirical work that is being undertaken and the large datasets that are being
 analysed.

 Our affiliated research centres (CARR and FMG) also play a pivotal role in the provision of
 research infrastructure. They offer dedicated spaces to conduct research and hold seminars,
 conferences, and meetings as well as to host research fellows and officers, visitors, and PhD
 students, thereby enriching the intellectual environment of BAMS. The provision of databases by
 the research centres and, more generally, the School is very good.

 An important pillar of our research infrastructure is the Behavioural Lab for Teaching and
 Research (BL), which was founded by DoM and is now directed and administered by DoM and
 the Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science (PBS). With the growth of
 experiments in social science, this has just become a School-wide resource. The BL is a
 purpose-built lab designed to study human behaviour in a controlled environment. It facilitates
 world-class behavioural research by providing state-of-the-art physical and online facilities for
 researchers. The BL is open to researchers from across LSE and beyond and is the cornerstone
 of an interdisciplinary research community in behavioural science. The BL has a large (N=
 3,940) and diverse active participant pool for both physical in-lab as well as online studies. The
 pool is unique in its diversity across age, nationality, and profession. The BL participant pool is a
 microcosm which is ideally suited to test EU-wide and global interventions and behaviours. The
 Lab has strict ethical standards and terms of reference and expects participants to be treated
 fairly and be appropriately compensated for their time (the hourly participant fee is £10). It has
 recently acquired various cutting-edge technologies such as virtual and augmented-reality
 equipment, as well as artificially intelligent voice-assistant systems. Work conducted in the BL by
 a PhD student, Heasman, won the Economic and Social Research Council’s (ESRC) Future
 Promise prize in 2018.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 BAMS supports KEI activity in a number of ways. In DoM, a dedicated communications team
 supports the dissemination of departmental research. For example, an agreement with Forbes
 magazine enables faculty research to be posted to the Forbes.com platform. The
 Communications team partners with a PR company that specialises in the promotion of
 academic research and expertise. This partnership has resulted in various types of media work,
 including interviews, comments, features, op-eds, podcasts, videos. A blog entitled
 “Management with Impact” is organised to disseminate research findings originating from the
 department. The DoM also has dedicated research web pages that act as a ‘shop window’ for its
 activities. The Communications team keep track of noteworthy stories pertaining to faculty
 research and in collaboration with LSE’s central Communications and Press offices helps write
 news stories to promote LSE management research. The Communications team also works
 closely with the editor of LSE’s Business Review publication, the Knowledge, Exchange and
 Impact team, and the Public Affairs office – all of whom help in the promotion of departmental
 research to wider audiences. Amongst a variety of School KEI grants to BAMS, funds enabled
 the dissemination of public management methodologies to Latin America (Barzelay, £29k) and a
 project at the Science Museum (London) where over 2000 adults and children played a
 spending game devised as part of “Live Science” in January and February 2019, helping to
 break down the taboo around talking about money (Kappes, £14K).

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The three departments have several procedures in place to support collaborations between their
 faculty and researchers in other institutions. As noted in Section 1, all three departments have
 visitor programmes under which selected external visitors are provided with financial support
 and desk space to spend time in the departments. Co-authors of faculty in the three departments
 often visit within these programmes. Faculty in the three departments also have discretionary
 research funds to visit other institutions.

 The extent of research collaborations is reflected in the departments’ publication record. For
 example, there are about 30 researchers from European institutions and the same number from
 North America among the co-authors on the DoF’s 58 publications in CABS 4* journals. For the
 DoA, 16 of its CABS 4* publications are co-authored with faculty across the world, while all 44 of
 DoM’s CABS 4* publications have at least one co-author from an overseas institution.

 Faculty in the three departments not only engage with colleagues in other universities but also
 with policy makers and regulators, as well as with practitioners across a wide swathe of the
 private sector. The extent of this interaction is reflected in the impact case studies as well as in
 other research projects.

 DoA faculty often engage with regulatory and professional bodies such as the IASB, EFRAG,
 European Commission, CIMA, ICAEW and SNAI, as well as practitioner constituencies such as
 Grant Thornton, Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, BNY Mellon, National Bank of Greece, Bank of
 Portugal, RBC Global Asset Management, Citadel, Citigroup Global Markets, and AQR Asset
 Management. For example, Cascino’s research on the IASB Conceptual Framework, which was
 sponsored by ICAS and EFRAG grants, has informed the ICAS and EFRAG’s responses to the
 revisions to the Conceptual Framework. Likewise, Palermo and Power’s work on risk culture in
 financial organisations has been used by banks when reassessing their risk management
 strategies. The DoA’s research on responsible investments and corporate social responsibility,
 which has been published in the Journal of Finance, the Review of Financial Economics and
 Management Science, is also attracting considerable interest among practitioners and
 regulators. For example, Li and Tamayo have both given keynotes at the Biscay ESG Submit
 and BNY Mellon, among others, and Tamayo has been a contributor to the Summer School on
 Sustainable Finance of the European Commission aimed at practitioners and researchers. Other
 engagements with EU bodies include: (i) Kamath’s advisory role to the PANA committee (set up
 by the European Parliament) on the independence of auditing, tax advice and legal services; (ii)
 Kamath’s study, commissioned by the EC, on administrative burdens of micro companies; and
 (iii) Mennicken’s engagement with the European Commission (Regulatory Scrutiny Board) for

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 her work in quantification. More generally, the DoA’s work on regulation and accounting has
 been noticed by professional bodies, financial institutions, and regulators. Examples include the
 ICAEW (e.g., Correia for her work on leases; Tamayo for her work on real effects of accounting),
 IASB (Cascino for his work on the conceptual framework), Bank of England (Mennicken for her
 work on accounting and global financial governance), Barclays Bank (Bhimani for his work on
 digitalisation and finance), and Shanghai National Accounting Institute (Van der Stede for his
 work on corporate governance). Van der Stede also serves on the CIMA President’s Advisory
 Board as the sole academic among several top executives of major private and public sector
 organisations (e.g., from Balfour Beatty, Diageo, HSBC, NHS, QinetiQ, Rolls Royce, and
 Unilever).

 DoF faculty engage routinely with policy makers and researchers at the Bank of England (BoE),
 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and other UK government agencies. Examples of
 research that prompted this interaction or benefitted from it are: (i) Martin’s work—published in
 journals such as the American Economic Review, the Journal of Finance, the Journal of
 Financial Economics, and the Quarterly Journal of Economics—on backing out the beliefs of
 market participants about future market returns based on the prices of financial derivatives has
 attracted the attention of members of the Monetary Policy Committee at the BoE. (ii) Vayanos’
 work—published in journals such as Econometrica and the Review of Financial Studies—on
 evaluating the price impact of demand shocks on the term structure of interest rates has
 attracted the attention of policy makers and researchers at the BoE and other central banks,
 interested in evaluating the effects of quantitative easing on the term structure of interest rates.
 (iii) Paravisini’s work on consumer lending—published in journals such as the Journal of
 Financial Economics, the Review of Economic Studies and the Review of Financial Studies—
 has benefited from data provided by the BoE, and attracted much attention by researchers there.
 (iv) Gonzalez-Uribe’s work on public policies to promote entrepreneurship—published in the
 Review of Financial Studies—has attracted attention by officials in the Department of Business,
 Energy & Industrial Strategy, the HMRC, and the British Business Bank.

 DoF faculty also engage with the practitioner community. Research exemplifying that interaction
 is Lou and Polk’s work on a measure that identifies how “crowded” a trade is. Their measure has
 been incorporated into indices of crowdedness by several investment banks. The Lou and Polk
 paper, currently in second review at the Journal of Political Economy, was a runner-up at the
 prestigious AQR Insight research award.

 In the DoM, Ignacio Palacios-Huerta’s research, published in the American Economic Review,
 has led FIFA to experiment with his ABBA penalty-kick sequence in professional football games
 and is under consideration for general adoption in international games. Faculty from DoM have
 advised companies on digital transformation. This includes work undertaken by Sorensen for
 Huawei, Rackspace & Gowling and Mastercard. Whitley has carried out research for the World
 Bank on Financial Inclusion and Digital Identity and on alternatives to biometrics to determine
 identity uniqueness. Estrin wrote a field guide for DfID on privatization policy in developing
 countries that has also been adopted by the World Bank. In addition, Estrin received a grant
 from Leverhulme to work on the impact of mobile money and financial development. The
 research was presented at a major conference at LSE in 2017. Participants included academics,
 central bankers and regulators, DfID and other public sector and business representatives.

 Kappes’ Live Science residency project at the Science Museum provided education in financial
 literacy engaging with children aged 8 and up on their spending money plans. She also
 conducted a project studying the roots of financial resilience in childhood at the V&A Museum of
 Childhood working with children aged 4-12 and their parents. The Behavioural Research Lab
 organises annual Junior Researcher Days inviting children to take part in activities designed to
 enthuse them about behavioural research.

 Research from DoM faculty has led to numerous advisory roles. Janardhanan is a member of
 the HR Advisory Council for the Dhan Foundation. Ashwin is a member of the Tesco advisory
 group on Human Rights; an organiser of the New Conversations Project concerning working

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conditions in the apparel industry with participation from principal stakeholders; a member of the
 Fashion Question Time panel of the House of Commons, of the UN Global Forum on Business,
 and of the Human Rights panel on ‘Labour Governance in the Garment Industry’. Soane advises
 ITV studios and Datacom. Scott’s co-authored book on the international payment system is
 routinely used for staff induction at SWIFT. She has also engaged with various financial service
 professionals on digitization in the financial services industry. Steinberg acted as a Project Lead
 on a National Audit Office project to evaluate the UK’s 4G spectrum auction. He was also a
 Supporting Advisor on the resulting NAO report to Parliament. Whitley advises GOV.UK on
 personalisation; is a member of a consortium developing an Online Age Checking Code of
 Practice (PAS 1296) for BSI; a consultant to the Department of Digital Culture Media and Sport
 (DCMS); a member of the Open Policy Making Process for the Digital Economy Bill; has
 undertaken research for the Financial Services Consumer Panel of the FCA; and is a member of
 the Open Banking Consumer Forum. Gallizi is a member of the Research Ethics Panel of the UK
 Financial Conduct Authority. Liebenau has engaged with various governments on digital
 economy initiatives, e.g. the Lithuanian government and the Indonesian government and central
 bank. Soane’s work with the Bank of England has contributed to wider discussions about
 remuneration policy.

 The influence of BAMS research beyond academia is demonstrated by Altmetric Explorer data.
 During the REF period, research by BAMS faculty generated over 13,000 links (not just
 mentions) in outlets including policy documents, news stories, Twitter, blogs, and Wikipedia.
 This is well in excess of other UK BAMS entries. Examples of work attracting attention are
 Yuchtman’s Understanding Mechanisms Underlying Peer Effects: Evidence From a Field
 Experiment on Financial Decisions; Vayanos’ Bond Supply and Excess Bond Returns; Kappes’
 Estimating the Reproducibility of Psychological Science, and de Meza’s Neither an Optimist Nor
 a Pessimist Be: Mistaken Expectations Lower Well-Being.

 BAMS faculty contribute significantly to their wider profession through their participation in
 editorial boards of academic journals, organizing committees of conferences, committees
 awarding prizes and grants, and so forth. They also receive recognition for their research in the
 form of fellowships in academic societies, best paper awards, career and service awards, among
 other acknowledgments.

 DoA faculty have served as Editors or Associate Editors in Accounting, Organizations and
 Society (Miller, Power), Contemporary Accounting Research (Van der Stede), European
 Accounting Review (Correia, Tamayo), Journal of Business Finance and Accounting (Tamayo),
 Management Accounting Research (Van der Stede, Editor-in-Chief); and on the editorial boards
 of the Accounting Review (Li, Van der Stede), Accounting, Organizations and Society (Bhimani,
 Mennicken, Van der Stede) , Review of Accounting Studies (Correia, Li), European Accounting
 Review (Cascino, Mennicken, Van der Stede). Van der Stede was also on the Board of Directors
 of the American Accounting Association (2017-20). More generally, the contributions of DoA
 faculty are often recognised by peer academics. For example, Miller and Power became Fellows
 of the British Academy during this REF period and Tamayo a CEPR Research Fellow, while Van
 der Stede was the recipient of the 2019 Outstanding International Educator award of the AAA.
 Several faculty members have been awarded Honorary Doctorates: University of Aalto
 (Bhimani); University of Paris-Dauphine and Copenhagen Business school (Miller); and Turku
 University (Power). In addition, DoA faculty have been awarded numerous best-paper prizes.
 For example, Van der Stede was awarded for the second time the American Accounting
 Association Notable Contribution to Management Accounting Literature Award (2017); Li won
 the Principles for Responsible Investment Forum Best Article Award and the International Centre
 for Pension Management Research Award (2018); Raghunadan won the best paper award at
 the Review of Accounting Studies 2020 conference; and Tamayo won the BlackRock Prize
 (2015), and European Corporate Governance Institute Prize (2016) for her 2017 Journal of
 Finance article, which is the most cited article published in the journal since 2016.

 In the DoF, Jenter, Kondor, Oehmke, Paravisini and Polk have served as Associate Editors of
 the Journal of Finance. Kondor, Martin and Paravisini have served as Associate Editors of the

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Review of Economic Studies, on which Vayanos has served as Managing Editor and
 subsequently Director. Axelson has won the prize for the best corporate-finance paper published
 in the Journal of Finance (Brattle prize) in 2014 and 2015, and Martin has won the prize for the
 best asset-pricing paper published in the Journal of Finance (Dimensional Fund Advisors prize)
 in 2019. Polk won the prize for the best asset-pricing paper published in the Journal of Financial
 Economics (Fama-DFA prize) in 2018. Lou and Polk were runners-up in the AQR Insight award
 in 2014, and Martin was a finalist for the same award in 2017. Gonzalez-Uribe and Paravisini
 won the Jaime Fernandez de Araoz award in 2017, and Martin won the Wharton School –
 WRDS Best paper award that year. Vayanos was elected as a Fellow of the British Academy in
 2014. He also served as a Director of the American Finance Association during 2012-15, and as
 a member of the organizing committee of the Nobel conference on Money and Banking.

 DoM faculty also serve on multiple editorial boards: Management Science (Thomas), Journal of
 Political Economy (Yuchtman), Economic Journal (Yuchtman), Economica (Macchiavello,
 Yuchtman), Review of Economic Studies (Yuchtman), Strategic Management Journal (Thomas),
 British Journal of Industrial Relations (Marsden, Booth), MIS Quarterly (Scott), People Gender &
 Society (Ashwin), Human Relations (Booth), Work, Employment and Society (Kuruvilla),
 Industrial and Labor Relations Review (Kuruvilla), Information Technology and People (Whitley),
 AIS Transactions on Replication Research (Whitley, Senior Editor), Journal of the Association
 for Information Systems (Whitley), Journal of Law Economics and Organization (Macchiavello,
 co-editor), Journal of Development Economics (Macchiavello ), Production & Operations
 Management (Steinberg, senior editor), Academy of Management Discoveries (Dobrow),
 Academy of Management Learning & Education (Dobrow), Academy of Management Review
 (Dobrow), Personnel Psychology (Dobrow), Journal of Risk and Uncertainty (Gottlieb, co-editor),
 Perspectives on Public Management and Governance (Barzelay), Policy Design and Practice
 (Barzelay), Evaluation and Program Planning (Barzelay), and Journal of Business Venturing
 (Estrin).

 Coyle-Shapiro is currently President of the Academy of Management (AoM) and has recently
 been elected an AoM fellow. Booth is a member of the Executive Committee of AoM Gender and
 Diversity in Organisations Division. Sorensen is Trustee of The Association of Information
 Technology Trust (AITT). Yuchtman is President of The Association of Comparative Economic
 Studies. Jia a board member whilst Estrin was President of the European Association for
 Comparative Economic Systems (2014-2016) and was recently elected a Fellow of the Academy
 of International Business.

 Prizes include best paper, American Association of Wine Economists (de Meza) and Riza and
 Weisman won the Best Overall Paper Award in the Careers Division at the AoM Conference.
 Booth received the Labour and Employment Relations Association (LERA) 2020 John T. Dunlop
 Outstanding Scholar Award. A paper authored by Narasimhan was a finalist for the INFORMS
 Society for Marketing Science Long Term Impact Award. The paper by Ashwin and Alexander
 won the LERA 2021 James G. Scoville Best International/Comparative IR Paper Award. Soane’s
 co-authored book Employee Engagement in Theory and Practice, Abingdon, Oxon: Routledge
 won the prize for Best Engagement Book awarded by the Employee Engagement Network.
 Janardhanan received “Emerging Global Academic Excellence Award" conferred by Institute of
 Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Whitley is the Association for Information Systems Sandra
 Slaughter Award winner. Yuchtman was awarded a British Academy Global Professorship
 (2019-2023).


 All three departments regularly contribute to LSE’s public lectures, blogs and podcast series
 covering a wide range of areas of interest. Some of DoM’s public lectures include Caroline
 Webb’s lecture How to Have a Good Day in 2016 (attendees: 460, full capacity), Eric Schmidt’s
 From LEO to DeepMind: Britain's Computing Pioneers in 2018 (attendees: 460, full capacity),
 Saj Jetha’s Work Smarter Not Harder: Hacks to Take You a Long Way at Work in 2019
 (attendees: 400, full capacity). The public lectures are recorded and available online, e.g. total
 number of downloads for the lectures held during AY 2019-20 was 67,000. DoM faculty routinely

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 write blogs for various platforms, e.g. LSE Business Review, Behavioural Science, LSE Network
 Economy Forum, NEMODE, LSE Human Rights Blog, Management with Impact, and contribute
 to podcast series (e.g. LSE IQ).

 The faculty from the three departments have engaged in many consulting projects in the public
 and private domain. For example, Cordella’s work on industry analysis undertaken for the Inter-
 American Development Bank (2018) helped to generate new knowledge and create new
 capacities in the Bank to successfully introduce Information and Communications Technologies
 (ICTs) in the justice systems in the region of Latin America and the Caribbean. Reader and
 Gillespie’s research for the Behavioural Insights Team led to the development of a complaints
 analysis tool for the West Midlands Police. Barkema conducted a qualitative study for the Cherie
 Blair Foundation for Women to develop evidence-based insights and an evaluation of the Road
 to Women’s Business Growth in Nigeria project.

 BAMS faculty have been actively engaged in KEI activities during the REF period made possible
 by KEI funds from the School. Recent examples include the development of a podcast to
 disseminate new research in organisational economics; interactive workshops with alumni and
 HR professionals to disseminate findings of surveys and case studies concerning workplace
 conflict; customised content development for management training modules for SMEs in
 emerging markets; collaboration with the Instituto Republica Centre for Governance to
 disseminate across Brazil the latest research and training in public administration; disseminating
 findings on financial reporting quality indices; applying research findings to corporate
 governance at LSE; research with the UK’s Food Standards Authority to strengthen regulation,
 improve food safety and protect public health in the UK; work on the effect of Brexit on the UK
 Financial Sector and the City of London, and engaging children with the principles of financial
 decision making.




                                                                                            Page 15
