Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Brighton
Unit of Assessment: C24 – Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism
1 Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context and structure
The University of Brighton (UoB) has an international profile and research tradition spanning 40
years in the interrelated fields of sport science and medicine, and the social science of sport,
leisure and tourism. Our long-standing goal has been to create a multidisciplinary research
environment that combines the highest quality basic and applied science with critical social science
to create new knowledge with far-reaching influence, benefiting decision makers, citizens,
grassroots organisations, elite sports, everyday participants, and marginalised sportspeople on
global, national and local scales.

Our ambitious vision over the REF2021 period has been to build on successful REF2014 results
to further strengthen our vibrant and purposeful environment by i) developing and expanding our
global research profile in science/medicine, and sport and leisure cultures; ii) growing our values-
based tourism, hospitality and events research; iii) expanding our partnerships to further mobilise
our roles as international actors that shape research agendas and create impact globally; and iv)
reinforcing our long-standing international reputation for distinctive multi-disciplinary, theoretically
innovative and methodologically rigorous research on ethics, values, social justice and well-being
across sport, tourism and leisure.

To deliver our vision we have invested £3.2M in our research infrastructure, especially in our four
specialist and state-of-the-art laboratories (see 3.3); recruited and developed high-calibre
researchers, expanding our staffing submitted to REF2021 by 50% compared to REF2014;
substantially enhanced our postgraduate researcher (PGR) environment through participation as
partners in two UKRI Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs); grown PGR completions by 75%;
increased external income by 36%; and supported researchers to obtain leading positions in their
fields (4.2).

Our researchers and doctoral students based in the School of Sport and Service Management
(SaSM) are organised in three Research and Enterprise Groups (REGs) that span thematic
fields across the UoA24 descriptor. These groups act as intellectual hubs providing the
infrastructure and developmental processes to build researcher excellence:

Sport and Exercise Science and Sports Medicine (SESSM, 13.4 FTE). SESSM staff undertake
basic and applied research promoting and protecting the health of top-level athletes and
addressing major ethical and integrity issues facing elite international sporting competition,
especially the detection of drugs using ‘omics’ technologies; the integration of intersex and
transgender athletes; and the use of technology that enables athletes, including para-athletes, to
better deal with the increasing demands of elite sport. This field-leading research looks to preserve
equitable sporting competition and has generated important new insights and applications in a
range of occupational settings, addressing significant public health issues in the process.

Sport and Leisure Cultures (SLC, 9.4 FTE). The multi-disciplinary perspectives and
interdisciplinary studies of SLC researchers challenge historical orthodoxy,
question gender stereotypes, critique racism in the structures and practices of sport, expose
corrupt practices in sport governance, critique sport media discourse and reveal the contribution of
sport and leisure to enhanced wellbeing and values-based sporting practices. SLC’s agenda-
setting research has made a substantial contribution to developing new modes of intellectual
enquiry, including centring race in leisure practices, and generated significant impact in developing
equitable sporting practices [Impact Case Study ICS_Football4Peace].

Tourism, Hospitality and Events (THE, 7.8 FTE). We have strategically developed this third REG
– a research area in which we submitted two staff in REF2014 – by recruiting new staff and
                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
developing our existing staff (1.2).THE produces distinctive critical research, establishing new
interdisciplinary directions at the intersections of tourism studies, management and sustainable
development; and members develop novel participatory, ethnographic and visual methodologies
that are used to collaborate with international bodies, national and local agencies to advance
sustainable tourism development in sub-Saharan Africa and Europe [ICS_Tourism].

1.2 Research and impact strategy
Our vision has been delivered through a consistent and ambitious strategy based on the five
Research and Impact Strategic Goals (RISGs) below, stated in our REF2014 submission. We
adjusted these goals in 2016 in response to two key UoB interventions:
    • In 2016, our researchers actively shaped the new University Strategy (REF5a) that
       emphasises UoB values of inclusivity, sustainability and partnerships. This enabled us to
       successfully make the case for expanding our distinct partnership-based research in THE
       with its particular focus on sustainability and inclusion.
    • A new UoB 2017-21 Research and Enterprise Strategic Plan (REF5a) enabled us to
       advance our interdisciplinary research and expand our impact activities by working with the
       cross-university interdisciplinary Centres of Research and Enterprise Excellence (1.5) and
       the Brighton Futures thematic partnership development initiative (3.2).

Our globally-driven strategy now integrates research and impact. It is managed by the School
Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC 3.2), which reports on progress and successes
against Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) agreed with the University. Evidence of our
achievements in the five RISGs is outlined below.

1.3 Achievement of our strategic goals
RISG1: Increase investment in our REGs to strengthen their well-established
multidisciplinary research excellence that influences international research agendas. Since
2015 we have grown Quality-related Research (QR) funding across the three REGs to total £2.6M
and appointed seven new staff from a range of disciplines (2.1). This has further strengthened our
multidisciplinary research in SESSM and SLC by the strategic deployment of QR to fund
permanent talented Professors and Research Fellows (Webborn and Wang in SESSM; Doidge in
SLC). Webborn, a professor in SESSM, is a world-leader of international epidemiological work on
para-athlete injuries, as recognised by the award of Officer of the Order of the British Empire
(OBE) in 2017 for services to Paralympic sports medicine and the British Paralympic Association
(4.3). Webborn’s recent research in the British Journal of Sports Medicine has shaped policies of
the medical committee of the International Paralympic Committee (IPC), of which he is a member
[ICS_GlobalCompetitorHealth]. Wang, QR-funded Research Fellow in SESSM, works with
Pitsiladis and Guppy in our state-of-the-art OMICS Lab, a strategic investment in 2014 (3.3) that
applies high-throughput genetic analysis to important biomedical challenges. Pitsiladis and Wang
have published field-defining research on sport and exercise genomics and genetic testing in the
British Journal of Sports Medicine, BMC Genomics and Physiological Genomics. The pioneering
research of Pitsiladis and Webborn has led to their membership of the most prominent
committees governing elite sport, including the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Medical and
Scientific Commission, the Executive Committee of the International Sports Medicine Federation
(FIMS), the Scientific and Education Commission of the European Federation of Sports Medicine
Associations, the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) Health Medical Research Committee and
List Expert Group, British Paralympic Association (Chair Webborn), and FIMS Scientific
Commission (Chair Pitsiladis). In these influential positions they guide international
recommendations, rules and policy for the implementation of medical care of athletes at global
sporting events including Olympics and Paralympics. In SLC Doidge, QR-funded Principal
Research Fellow, is part of a multidisciplinary social science team supported by QR to advance
international research agendas through the publication of 8 REF2021-submitted monographs that
challenge orthodoxies concerning social justice in sport and leisure. Carter’s book The
Anthropology of Sport: Bodies, Borders, Biopolitics, based on a QR funded sabbatical, is described
as a ‘foundational text’ in a review in Journal of Anthropological Research. Doidge’s book
Collective Action and Football Fandom: A Relational Sociological Approach was identified by the
                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Nordic Sport Science Forum as ‘a comprehensive and sophisticated theoretical framework for
studies of the culture of football supporters’. The strategic expansion of THE involved investment in
two new appointments (Lucena de Mello and Rakić) and the strategic promotion of UoB talent
(Novelli). Rakić’s work on visual methods was identified by Equality in Tourism International as
one the top 20 books by women academics in tourism (4.3). Novelli was promoted to professor in
2015, providing senior THE leadership and her research on sustainable tourism in seven African
countries was recognised through an Africa Tourism Leadership Special Award (4.3).

RISG2 Optimise internal structures to provide support and gain external recognition for
early and mid-career staff and deliver the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers (the Research Concordat). We have enhanced support for junior and mid-career
colleagues as part of the strategic strengthening of our REGs and the expansion of THE. Our
staffing strategy has extended our mentoring provision for all staff, invested QR in career
development and ring-fenced seed-funds for early career researchers (ECR) (2.1, 2.2). Our
nurturing of early career talent was central to the expansion of THE and included supporting 6
REF2021 submitted staff to complete PhDs (2.1) subsequently published in innovative papers in
leading journals, including Jones on tourism and the Ebola crisis in Journal of Sustainable
Tourism. We have optimised structures (3.1) to enable junior colleagues (eg Ford and Jones) to
obtain their first grants and mid-career staff to take up external leadership roles (4.2). Our strategic
support and mentoring for mid-career staff (2.2) has led to high-profile external recognition.
Maxwell’s research on environmental extremes in the Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
influenced the athlete-cooling strategies of England Rugby and Team GB at Tokyo 2021
[ICS_GlobalCompetitorHealth]. Brickley was the British Association of Sport and Exercise
Sciences (BASES) Applied Practitioner of the year (4.3).

RISG3: Develop the next generation of researchers by increasing our PGR completions and
enhancing the environment for Doctoral research students. We have created a vibrant and
dynamic PGR environment (2.3) through three strategic activities: i) participating in two UKRI
funded DTPs: the ESRC South Coast (lead: Southampton) and AHRC technē (lead: Royal
Holloway); ii) targeting the recruitment of more full-time students; and iii) attracting additional
funding for PGR studentships including a UoB investment of ~£610k and further funding from a
wide range of partners such as the English Institute of Sport (EIS) (3.1). In this enhanced
environment PGR completions in the REF2021 period increased to 39.33 compared to 22.5 in
REF2014.

RISG4: Increase research income from international agencies, UK research councils, and
charities/foundations to expand our research activity based on our distinctive research on
ethics, values, social justice and well-being. We have encouraged staff to apply for research
funding through mechanisms to support bid-writing including mentoring, allocation of workload
time, and use of University internal sabbatical and ECR funds (2.2). Funding from international
agencies, UK research councils and charities/foundations combined has increased five-fold
compared to REF2014 (3.1). Funding sources that support our distinctive values-based research
have been successfully targeted, enabling projects probing the ethics of competitive sport and
doping (Pitsiladis, IOC), demonstrating the inequalities of sport and leisure provision (Tomlinson,
ESRC; Doidge, British Academy; Carter, British Council), and promoting models of sustainable
tourism development (Novelli, World Bank). Pitsiladis has produced field-changing outputs based
on funded research in the Lancet (evolutionary mismatch hypothesis) and Nature Communications
(genetic polymorphisms of a major biomarker of mortality and morbidity).

RISG5: Expand our international influence through increased collaborations and
partnerships that deliver impact with a range of non-academic partners and users. To deliver
our strategic impact ambitions we have focussed on maintaining existing partnerships, developing
new international collaborations and supporting staff at all career stages to generate impact (2.2).
Our three REGs, working with the cross-university Brighton Futures (REF5a) and the University
Impact Manager, have funded regular workshops, fieldwork and networking events to build
partnerships. We now work in partnership with over 150 non-HEI organisations in generating
                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
impact (4.1). Central to our international partnership development activities has been the use of
QR funds to support Football4Peace (F4P), a vehicle for developing peace-building through sport
partnerships in divided societies across four continents [3.2 and ICS_Football4Peace]. F4P, led by
Carter, expanded existing work in Northern Ireland, Israel, and South Africa, and established new
interventions in The Gambia, Colombia and South Korea. Our two other ICS involved
collaborations with leading international and national partners including World Bank, Millennium
Challenge Corporation, European Parliament [ICS_Tourism]; and the IPC, Team GB Tokyo 2021
and England Rugby [ICS_GlobalCompetitorHealth]. All 3 ICS are based on our distinct ethics,
values, social justice and wellbeing research. Staff supported by QR seed-corn funding and
mentoring have achieved significant impacts recognised by external awards. Research by
Maxwell, Richardson, Smeeton and Watt on environmental extremes has changed safety
guidelines and packages protecting the lives of firefighters across UK services and internationally,
and Richardson was awarded the Institute of Fire Engineers’ UK Fire Research Project of the
Year 2018 (4.3).

1.4 Enabling interdisciplinary research
We have continued to appoint staff from varied science and social science backgrounds, and our
REGs host workshops and seminars to stimulate innovative interdisciplinary approaches. The
success of our approach is evidenced by 23 of our outputs (29.8%) in this REF submission being
marked as interdisciplinary on the basis of the research approach. Researchers in all three REGs
have utilised opportunities to enable interdisciplinary research provided by the budgets of UoB
cross-university Centres of Research and Enterprise Excellence (1.1 and REF5a):
   • SESSM’s collaboration with UoB Centre for Stress and Age-Related Disease has combined
       the expertise of both clinically and exercise-orientated researchers resulting in papers by
       Watt and Richardson on exercise, diabetes and health risks across the lifespan in leading
       interdisciplinary journals including Experimental Physiology and Journal of Diabetes
       Research.
   • Novelli with UoB Centre for Change, Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management,
       University of Ghana Business School and local tourism practitioners integrates arts,
       humanities, geography and business research generating impacts that improve livelihoods
       in impoverished neighbourhoods in Accra [ICS_Tourism].
   • Tomlinson in UoB Centre for Arts and Wellbeing was Brighton lead on What Works
       Culture, Sport and Wellbeing, an ESRC-funded project that combined sociological, cultural
       and psychological skills from Brunel, Brighton, LSE and Winchester in systematic
       interdisciplinary reviews published in BMJOpen and Journal of Applied Arts and Health.

1.5 Ethics, integrity and open access
The University is committed to the Concordat on Open Research Data through its new PURE
research repository developed during REF2021 period (REF5a). Advice on Open Access
publishing, open data and reproducibility is provided through university workshops. Open Access
compliance for this UoA since 2018 is 85%. Of the completed projects involving submitted staff for
which we are able to make data available, 92% have shared data either through our Brighton
Open Research repository or through an external one.

Our researchers aim to advance forms of open access by sharing data and findings with
international partners and networks. Guppy is a founder and current member of the Steering
Committee of SportRxiv, the open access subject repository for sport, exercise and health
research (Society for Transparency Openness and Replication in Kinesiology). Webborn and
Pitsiladis share data on Olympic and Paralympic studies with the IOC, FIMS and the IPC.
Members of SESSM engage with the Open Science Framework through preprints submission.

SaSM is committed to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, in line with the University’s
Codes of Practice on Research Integrity and Research Ethics (REF5a) and the appropriate ethical
guidelines of professional bodies (eg Health Research Authority and the Global Code of Ethics for
Tourism). The University introduced a three-tier system of ethical review in 2014, supported by a
central Ethics and Governance Manager (REF5a) and managed by SaSM ethics lead (Watt) to
                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ensure rigorous management of ethics applications and to run training workshops for staff. All our
researchers gain approval for projects at university level (tier 2) and we are experienced at
adopting rigorous ethical standards to undertake research with vulnerable groups including
refugees (Doidge), victims of abuse (Khomutova) and racism (Burdsey), trafficked people
(Carter) and para-athletes (Webborn).

1.6 Strategy to 2026
We have revised our RISGs to align with the UoB refreshed strategy to 2025 (REF5a). Our revised
goals build on our recent successes and actively reflect the University’s targets. We will
concentrate on maximising our international influence on research agendas, and simultaneously
responding to the COVID-19 pandemic challenges to sport, leisure and tourism. We will achieve
this by continuing our staffing strategy (2.1, 2.2), mechanisms for PGR support (2.3), and
commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity (2.4).

Deliver impactful research findings to national and international stakeholders and
beneficiaries.
We will:
   • continue to integrate basic and applied research to shape international research agendas
       on athlete health and safety; responsible sport and tourism governance; firefighter safety;
       and fatigue, health and wellbeing.
   • work with new and existing international partners and end-users to double external
       research income and effect research-based solutions to ‘real-world’ problems.

Increase our international influence by expanding our interdisciplinary research and
partnerships.
We will:
   • collaborate with researchers in other HEIs and external stakeholders, harnessing
       interdisciplinary opportunities to develop new knowledge that strategically advances our
       research agenda on the contribution of sport and tourism to health and wellbeing in post-
       COVID society.
   • prioritise development of at least three large-scale interdisciplinary UKRI grant applications
       (one per REG) involving international partners.

Enhance our equal and inclusive research culture and develop research leaders for the
future.
We will:
    • increase our investment in new and early-career staff by expanding budgets for internal staff
        support schemes (2.1) and using workshops during UoB ‘ECR Development Month’ to
        promote international leadership opportunities (eg learned society committees).
    • use equality impact audits annually to review staff recruitment, mentoring and QR support;
        increase participation in the UoB Leadership Programmes for female and BAME staff; and
        utilise our Athena SWAN action plan to address gender imbalances.
    • expand and further strengthen our vibrant doctoral community by increasing our numbers of
        PGRs by 50% and optimising PGR recruitment to the new ESRC Brighton Sport, Leisure and
        Tourism pathway in the South Coast DTP (approved in 2021).

Invest in the REGs to enhance research sustainability.
We will:
   • utilise the UoB’s new algorithm for QR following the outcome of REF2021 that will give
       Schools and REGs greater autonomy in future expenditure (REF5a) to invest in our four
       laboratories.
   • continue the expansion of THE by investing in new staff.
   • fund three new joint interdisciplinary projects and PGR supervisions between our THE
       researchers and staff in Brighton Business School.


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
Staff and staff development are our top priority in expanding our research capacity and
international profile, supported by £2.6M of QR allocated to SaSM based on REF2014 results. Our
staffing strategy and two strategic staffing goals (SSG) have been pivotal to the 50% increase in
the number of our staff submitted, the growth of the REGs and the growing volume of our work
(465 outputs during REF2021 census period, an average of 15.5 per FTE). Each REG has at least
one professorial member. Staff are balanced across career stages: Professor, 13.4%; Principal
Lecturer/Reader/Principal Research Fellow, 50.6%; Senior Lecturer/Senior Research Fellow,
32.7%; Lecturer/Research Fellow, 3.3%.

SSG1: Grow our critical mass of researchers by recruiting talented new staff and
developing existing staff to become excellent researchers. Early in the census period we
invested in seven talented new staff members across our three REGs (4 male, 3 female): in
SESSM, Guppy, Wang and Ford; in SLC, Channon and Khomutova; in THE, Lucena de Mello
ECR and Rakić. New appointments are introduced to the research culture through induction and
membership of a REG, allocated a mentor, encouraged to apply for ring-fenced funds (2.2) and
given reduced administration loads to enable publication. The new researchers strengthen the
quality and dynamism of each REG with their pioneering research, including Ford in SESSM on
perceptual-cognitive skill training, and Channon and Khomutova in SLC on sexual identities and
martial arts. Twelve existing staff not submitted to REF 2014 have been supported to advance their
research skills to publish in high-quality publications and generate impact, enabled by QR funding
for research release, conference presentation and writing-up of publications (2.2). Six of these
existing staff were early in their careers, having been recruited from relevant industry backgrounds,
and are now enhancing our research outputs after UoB support to complete PhDs (Jarvis, Jones,
Lucena de Mello, McEnnis, Pantelidis and Williams). They have subsequently produced novel
publications including Williams’s netnographic scrutiny of rock concerts in Leisure Studies and
McEnnis on sports blogging in Journalism Practice.

SSG2: Retain and reward researchers at all levels of their careers. To ensure the development
and sustainability of our research environment we follow a policy of nurturing and rewarding our
researchers. As part of longer-term succession planning, we recognise staff for their intellectual
leadership profiles (eg Burdsey, Carter, Maxwell, and Smeeton promoted to Reader and Novelli
to Professor). Staff wishing to apply for promotion are allocated a mentor to advise on their
application and attend promotion workshops. Of the 32 submitted staff, 17 (10 male, 7 female)
were promoted during REF2021 including Weeden, Beale, Dekerle, Rakić, McEnnis, Gilchrist
and Guppy to Principal Lecturer. We seek to retain and develop our staff by providing leadership
opportunities. REG leaders are non-professorial staff to prepare for more senior roles (Watt,
Carter and Rakić). We strive to minimise the use of fixed-term contracts and 97% of submitted
staff have permanent contracts. With a staffing profile balanced across all career stages we have
recognised and retained a generation of emerging and established researchers with the skills to
sustain positions of leadership and responsibility in future.


2.2 Staff development
Strategies to support the career development of ECRs and PGRs have been significantly
strengthened and embedded in SaSM and across the University, in line with UoB’s Research
Concordat Implementation, Athena SWAN and Race Equality Charter action plans (REF5a). This
includes all staff having a contract minimum of 20% of time for research, an annual staff
development review to identify research objectives and from 2020 providing researchers with 10
days per year of professional development. We utilise four main forms of intervention to support
staff development from ECR to the Professorial level:

Stimulating research excellence and international profile through internal University
funding initiatives. The UoB Sabbatical scheme, Rising Stars (ECR), Innovation Fund, Impact
                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Development Fund and GCRF/QR interdisciplinary awards are competitive schemes funded by
central UoB QR (REF 5a). Our ECR and mid-career staff have been successfully mentored by
senior researchers to apply and over 40% of staff have won support from these initiatives. The 15
projects awarded to our researchers (11 male, 4 female) amounted to £142,610 over the REF2021
period. Successful outcomes increasing our high-quality publications and international profile for
distinct social justice research included Burdsey’s interdisciplinary monograph Race, Place and
the Seaside: Postcards from the Edge, supported by a sabbatical and described in the Oxford
Institute of Population Ageing Journal as ‘a ground-breaking book’. Carter’s use of GCRF/QR
funds to develop new partnerships in Colombia directly underpins research and impact described
in [ICS_Football4Peace]. Novelli’s support from the Innovation Fund developed new theoretically
and empirically grounded knowledge on overtourism published in the Journal of Sustainable
Tourism and created impact through work for the European Parliament and Airbnb [ICS_Tourism].
Rising Stars funds led to novel insights on ethics and power in unregulated combat sports by
Channon in International Review for the Sociology of Sport.

Supporting the career trajectories of ECRs and Postdoctoral Research Fellows (PDRFs).
Early career development at UoB is central to the goals of the Research Concordat and ECRs are
represented within all levels of research governance. The University-wide ECR support scheme
provides a comprehensive training programme for ECRs and a biennial Futures Bright conference
with career development workshops (REF5a). ECRs in SaSM are given no significant
administrative responsibility during the first 2 years in post and paired with established supervisors
to enable mentored PGR supervision. Recent and current ECRs in this submission (Channon,
Doidge, Khomutova, Lucena de Mello, Pantelidis, Williams) have contributed to our research
excellence and international reputation through support from the UoB ECR programme, and SaSM
QR funding for conference presentation, release from teaching, and research administrative
support. Khomutova, funded by ECR funds (2.2), developed new insights into athlete migration
from the Western Sahara to Scandinavia in International Journal of Sport and Exercise
Psychology. All PDRFs receive tailored research career development mentoring and teaching
opportunities to expand their portfolios. Doidge was the 0.2 FTE University ECR ambassador
2015-16 developing ECR activities, organising an ECR Network and sitting on all University-level
research committees.

Mentoring staff for research excellence and new knowledge generation. In 2016, UoB
established a research mentoring framework and commissioned mentor training from leading
external agency, KMP+ House of Mentoring (Copenhagen). To deliver this framework in SaSM,
Burdsey is School Research Mentoring Lead and manages mentoring pairing, so all staff who
request it can access one-to-one guidance on funding proposals, publications and career
progression. Twenty of our submitted staff have benefited from the mentoring scheme. Successful
outcomes include advances in urban parkour research (Gilchrist in Leisure Studies) and novel
insights on sustainability, ethics and cruising (Weeden in Hospitality and Society).

Stimulating innovation through transparently re-investing QR. Our research quality lies in the
talent our researchers, and the funding from our REF2014 success has been re-invested in staff at
all career stages. The UoB has a fully transparent process for allocating QR funds and streams
nearly two-thirds of QR income directly to schools. A review by UKRI selected this as an example
of good practice (REF5a). Spending decisions are made by our SREC, which includes staff at all
career stages, PGRs and REG leads. QR allocated by the SREC has been invested in three key
staff development initiatives to which researchers submit funding bids, resulting in achievements
linked to our distinctive international research on ethics, values, social justice and wellbeing:
     • ECR ring-fenced support: ~£20,000pa for awards to support expansion of doctoral and
        post-doctoral research including ECR Lucena De Mello’s paper on gay and lesbian
        partnered family travel and wellbeing in Annals of Leisure Research.
     • PGR support: ~£28,000pa for PGR national and international conference presentations,
        and career development (2.3 details beneficiaries developing career skills in Brazil, Bali
        and Sweden).


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   SASM Research Development Fund: ~£20,000pa funds support staff returning from
       parental leave, staff buyout and pump-priming, including networking, specialist laboratory
       needs, away days, and grant-writing workshops; Giannopoulou received support for
       research into non-exercise and binge eating published in the leading journal Nutrients.

2.3 Research students
2.3.1. PGR recruitment and progression
Providing and sustaining a supportive, vibrant, and academically stimulating research environment
for our PGR students is key to achieving our strategic research and impact goals. Our involvement
in the ESRC SCDTP since 2017 and AHRC technē DTP since 2014 further enhances our high-
quality PGR environment along with University and SaSM support for PGR professional futures
and the training of supervisors. All PGRs are registered with the Brighton Doctoral College (BDC),
which oversees the application-to-graduation process for all students with school management by
the SaSM PGR Coordinator (Dekerle). Our enhanced support for PGRs (2.3.2) has increased
annual PGR completions (see Table 1). During the REF2021 period 44 students supervised by our
researchers completed doctorates which, represented by FTE supervisory input, totals 39.33, a
75% increase on REF2014.

In 2013 we were reliant on self-funded part-time students and full-time students comprised only
16% of our student community. To support a more vibrant PGR environment we have targeted the
recruitment of full-time funded students so that by 2020 40% of our PGRs are full-time. We have
recruited a full-time AHRC Capacity-building award student (Tomlinson) and 5 students to full-
time DTP studentships supervised by our researchers, comprising AHRC DTP technē studentships
(Tomlinson, Carter) and ESRC South Coast DTP studentships (Gilchrist, Burdsey, Novelli).
The new Brighton Sport, Leisure and Tourism pathway approved in 2021 by ESRC for
incorporation in the South-Coast DTP and technē’s success in securing funding of £18 million for a
further five cohorts starting in 2019 provide major opportunities to expand our involvement in
DTPs. Since 2013 UoB has also invested in 9 SaSM PGR studentships linked to each of our REGs
and a further 5 studentships are fully supported by external funders (Savoy Educational Trust x2,
Saudi Arabian government, Iraqi government, and East Sussex Health Care Trust). Part funding
of up to 50% of the costs of full-time studentships has been received from international and
national bodies including Tackle Africa, British Swimming, EIS, the European Community, the
American Institute of Bisexuality, Kaatsu Limited, Wilderness Safaris and the Canadian Social
Science and Humanities Research Council. These diverse forms of funding demonstrate the global
profile of our PhD environment. In our recruitment to full-time studentships we have actively
encouraged applicants from a range of backgrounds so that 50% of our 31 ongoing PGR students
are female compared to 39% in 2013 and 19% identify as BAME compared to 15%.

    Table 1: PhD awards by year (2019/20 affected by COVID-19 see REF5a, Professional
    Doctorates not offered in UoA, fractions reflect cross-school supervision).

    Year          2013-     2014-     2015-     2016-     2017-     2018-     2019-     Total
                   14        15        16        17        18        19        20
    Conferrals     2.00      2.50      4.50     10.00     5.00      9.17      6.17      39.33


2.3.2. PGR support and skills development
SaSM has responded actively to the expansion of full-time PGRs, ensuring they all have personal
desk spaces shared across spacious accommodation in its four laboratories and study suites. PGR
induction includes introduction to doctoral processes, milestones and REGs; and to the
University’s wider research environment and wellbeing services, including a dedicated PGR
counsellor. Annual Progress Review meetings provide a rigorous monitoring process including
objective review by experienced researchers outside the supervisory team. Mentors (2.2) support
staff to become supervisors by undertaking the BDC supervisor training course and all supervisors
must undergo refresher training every three years. PGR students are embedded within SaSM
                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
governance structures: elected PGR representatives sit on the SREC and REG management
groups, and play an influential role in organising REG seminar series involving international
speakers. SaSM QR (2.2) provides PGR funding for laboratory work, fieldwork, networking, and to
present at least one national and one international conference. Recently, our students have
presented at major international conferences such as the 35th FIMS World Congress of Sports
Medicine (Rio de Janeiro) and the European College of Sport Science (Prague).

PGR career and skill development is supported by BDC workshops and the annual UoB
Postgraduate Research Festival. PGRs complete an annual Training Needs Analysis and the BDC
provides formal training through a comprehensive Postgraduate Research Development
Programme (PRDP) (REF5a). Our PGRs also benefit from the BDC subscription to University of
East Anglia Online Training. The University provides accredited training mandatory for those PGRs
who teach. Under COVID-19, BDC worked to ensure that all doctoral students have continuity of
support through the crisis. Specific measures included: additional stipend payments and fee-
waivers of up to six months for all students disrupted by COVID-19 in their final year which went
beyond UKRI requirements; a Doctoral Resources Fund to purchase items to facilitate remote
working. This provision was recognised by two awards to the BDC from the University Alliance, for
professionalism and integrity.

In SaSM we offer a teaching scheme open to all PhD students that each year funds 6 part-time
teaching instructors and 6 hourly-paid lecturer contracts. We encourage our PGRs to establish and
lead initiatives in external scholarly networks, for example the 2021 British Sociological
Association’s Postgraduate Regional Forum led by THE and SLC PGRs planned for March 2020,
held online a year later. Our PGRs are supported in developing skills for careers beyond academia
through UK placements and SaSM QR funding to collaborate on international impact activities with
staff. Recent PGR placements include Wilderness Safaris Africa, Brighton & Hove Albion FC and,
on altitude acclimatisation, Mount Chacaltya, Bolivia. Research students and supervisors (leads
named) have been supported through QR (2.2) to develop skills, working with research
beneficiaries in Rio de Janeiro favelas to increase community safety (Carter); among communities
in Bali to involve more local residents in community-based tourism (Novelli); with Syrian Muslim
refugee women in Sweden to integrate them within the host community (Burdsey); and alongside
practitioners in the World Olympians Association-funded study on the rehabilitation of Olympians
(Pitsiladis). Maxwell was awarded an EIS studentship for a PGR to work with Olympian Sir Mo
Farah before the 2016 Rio Olympics.

The career destinations of our PGRs demonstrate that our support strategies are working. Since
2014, 10 PhD students have gained academic positions in UK universities and 14 employment in
the sport industry including commercial director at a Danish Superliga football club.

2.4 Equality and diversity and inclusion (EDI)
UoB is one of only 17 HEIs to hold a Bronze Race Equality Charter, is a Disability Confident Level
2 employer, holds Athena SWAN institutional Bronze, and, in its latest submission, was in the
Stonewall Top 100 (REF5a). SaSM achieved a Bronze Award from the Athena SWAN Charter in
2019. The charter’s principles are embedded in our research community and approach; and its
equitable, open and transparent processes are now overseen by a School Equality & Diversity
Committee (Giannopoulou lead) reporting to the School Management Group.

Aligning with the UoB institutional policy we pursue EDI goals through our SaSM Athena SWAN
Action Plan, and via our future research and impact goals (1.5). These are designed to address
our current gender imbalance. In REF2021 23% of submitted staff are female, compared to the
Advance HE sector average for the subject area of 37%. Key leadership roles in SaSM are now
occupied by females: Novelli, as Professor and Brighton Futures lead; Dekerle, as Postgraduate
Research Co-ordinator; Weeden and then Rakić as leader of THE; Giannopoulou as EDI officer.
Consistent with UoB REF2021 Code of Practice, EDI factors were central to the preparation of this
submission. The Output Review Panel and Unit of Assessment Leadership team undertook
unconscious bias training and calibration exercises to ensure judgements were consistently

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
applied. Our REF2021 submitted staff reflect our international profile and comprise researchers
with diverse heritage from Greece, Italy, France, Germany, Ukraine, Brazil, China, Canada, and
the USA. In future we will continue to recruit research talent from a wide range of backgrounds. We
are also committed to nurturing a diverse international community involved in our research through
our impact activities involving extensive international networks of partners (1.2). Our commitment
to the UoB Race Equality Charter Action Plan is managed by Burdsey as a member of the UoB
race equality group; and the UoB runs workshops, seminars and support groups on race allyship
and equality.

SaSM promotes the University’s employment protocols, with all staff involved in the recruitment
process required to complete equality and diversity, and unconscious bias training. Senior SaSM
staff have undertaken additional workshops on unconscious bias run by the Advance HE Equality
Challenge Unit. We work to minimise the use of fixed-term contracts (2.1), offering redeployment if
posts cannot be made permanent. All central research initiatives (2.2) have been monitored via
annual Equality Impact Assessments (EIA) since 2017 and the SREC monitors the allocation of
SaSM QR research development funds. University promotions and staff policies reward both
research and impact performance, and ensure that career progression is not disadvantaged by
absence or disruption (REF5a). We adjusted the SaSM laboratory environment for a disabled
member of staff and 13.1% of REF2021 submitted staff have a disability declared above the
Advance HE sector average for the subject area of 4.3%.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Strategies for income generation and achievements
Developing a balanced portfolio of external income has been central to achieving our research and
impact goals and ensuring the sustainability of our impactful research. We took strategic actions to
reduce our over-reliance on UK/EU government funding sources that accounted for 62% of grant
spend in REF 2014 and to gain more funding from international bodies. Working through our
REGs, using QR funds and supported by mentoring (2.1), we have encouraged staff to apply to a
wider range of funding sources, targeting international agencies, research councils and charities in
keeping with our research and impact strategy (RSIG4 1.2). UoB’s Research, Enterprise and
Social Partnerships team (RESP) provides expertise on grant application and bid proposals. RESP
manages an internal peer review panel drawing on staff with successful track records in grant-
winning and/or research council reviewing that we have utilised to diversify our funding sources.
This strategy has contributed to a sustained record of securing competitive funding, embracing all
REGs and staff at all career stages.

Grant spend of £1,360,048 for the census period represents an increase of 37% compared to
REF2014 and an average of £45,035 per FTE. In the first year of REF2014 grant spend was
£113,847 and by 2018-19 this had risen to £340,663 from six funding sources. Our targeting of
funding from international agencies was particularly successful and 45% of grant spend in the REF
period came from Non-EU/Non-UK sources.

UK Research Council funding has been secured in a range of grants from large consortia
reviewing major fields to smaller networks developing new research areas. These have included:
Tomlinson working with Brunel and LSE on Culture, Sport and Wellbeing, and Culture, Sport and
Communities (ESRC £1.2million, £208,102 to Brighton see 1.3); Medical Research Council (MRC
£24,714) funding for Smeeton’s work on a unified mechanism for functional neurological
symptoms; and ESRC research networks on international volunteering and lifestyle sport.
Research council grant spend rose to £297,678 in this submission having totalled £92,095 in
REF2014.

International governing bodies of sport have been targeted for funding in order to create policy
impact through our pioneering research on the health and safety of sporting events and
competitors in the Olympics and the Paralympics. Grants for Pitsiladis have totalled more than
£500,000 for research that protects the health of top-level athletes and preserves equitable

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sporting competition funded by international bodies such as the IOC, WADA, and FIMS. Webborn
has gained IPC funding for novel work on shoulder-injury prevention.

International non-government organisations (INGOs) income includes a Millennium Challenge
Corporation /Abt International award of £49,267 to Novelli for research on the impact of
international tourism development in Namibia. The Gambia Ministry of Trade/World Bank awarded
Novelli £48,600 for the evaluation of the tourism impacts of World Bank interventions.

Industrial funding has come from diverse bodies, including £56,000 from the Fire Brigades
Union, the Fire Service Trust and Firefit for Richardson’s work on firefighter safety; and £15,000
from The Football Association to Ford for research into football skills development.

Charities, foundations and professional bodies have funded staff at all career stages for
personal projects embodying our values-driven research. These include a British Council grant of
£20,000 to Carter on sport and soft power; a British Academy ECR Rising Stars Engagement
Award (£14,966) to Doidge studying refugees and football and a Wellcome Trust grant (£11,109)
to study sport and health; and a British Association of Sport and Exercise Medicine (BASEM)
bursary to Webborn and Smeeton for work on sensitivity to exercise in children with Autistic
Spectrum Disorder.

UK Government via Innovate UK and the Department of Trade and Industry funded Knowledge
Transfer Partnerships (£131,000), including a multi-disciplinary project enabling Jones early in
career to work with private business to develop the first formalised coaching framework for BMX
freestyle.

3.2 Organisational and scholarly infrastructure
The SaSM research and impact infrastructure is managed by the SREC which implements the
research and impact strategy (1.2). Chaired by Burdsey as Deputy Head of School (Research and
Enterprise), SREC has inclusive membership in terms of gender and career stage, and comprises
the Head of School, REG leads, ECR, PDRF and PGR representatives. The SREC provides a
platform for supporting the distinctive research of the REGs (1.2) by administering QR funds
devolved to Schools, monitoring laboratory investment, and managing research integrity,
researcher development and local delivery of the Research Concordat.

We strategically invested ~£35,000pa QR in SaSM impact and enterprise infrastructure. This
included a 0.5FTE F4P administrator to build on our REF2014 ICS described in panel C26
feedback as ‘outstanding in terms of reach and significance’. The F4P initiative (1.2) represents a
highly distinct organisational platform promoting values-based coaching, enabling worldwide
access to our research-led F4P methodology and providing a facility for the adoption of our peace-
building model [ICS_Football4Peace]. The administrator has supported 7 staff during the REF2021
period to work across 6 countries, benefitting 532 coaches/volunteers and 4,699 young people
[ICS_Football4Peace]. Sugden and Tomlinson’s monograph Sport and Peace-Building in Divided
Societies presents the context to our F4P impact and strengthens our pathways to impact,
described in a review in the International Journal of Sport Policy and Politics as ‘valuable to
researchers, practitioners and academics’ alike.

The cross-university Brighton Futures thematic initiative represents a strategic UoB investment in
organisational infrastructure to grow external partnerships (1.3 and REF5a). Novelli is a Brighton
Futures lead and has fostered collaborative research and network-building with partners in Kenya,
Ghana, South Africa, Tanzania, Namibia and Rwanda. This has established pathways to policies
for community-led sustainable tourist development in Africa [ICS_Tourism)]. Watt has contributed
to a Healthy Futures network that enabled industrial partners, sports participants and charities to
benefit from use of our extreme environments laboratory (EEL) including Cross Bridge Scientific
Ltd to develop thermoregulation devices, the Para Monte Adam Savory Memorial Fund Altitude
Awareness, and athletes from club to Olympic level [ICS_GlobalCompetitorHealth].

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.3 Investment in specialist laboratories and facilities
The SESSM research environment has benefited from more than £861,000 of new UoB
investment in laboratories during the REF census period. The four specialist SESSM laboratories –
Fatigue and Exercise Tolerance (FET), Exercise and Cognitive Neuro-Science (EXCeL),
Environmental Extremes (EEL), and OMICS – are central to the production of our high-quality
research and its impact-generating outcomes, including those linked to Olympic and Paralympic
sport [ICS_GlobalCompetitorHealth]. EXCeL was refitted in 2019 to advance work on
psychological and physiological connectivities and new eye-tracking equipment was purchased to
support interdisciplinary research projects. FET benefited significantly from air conditioning to
upgrade biochemistry analysis and the installation in 2019 on the SaSM campus of a new
gymnasium, conditioning and pool-based equipment providing high-quality facilities for specialist
studies. Investments in the ExCeL laboratory include an immersive screen (IGLOO) and hardware
for interactive immersive sport and exercise simulations; a remote temperature measuring device
(iButtons) for environmental extremes research; the update of the environmental chamber and
servicing for the facility; actigraphs for remote monitoring in free-living situations and the
measurement of activity using wearable technology; and a Siemens S3000 ultrasound shear-wave
elastograph supporting innovative research into tendon injuries building evidence-based
approaches to rehabilitation and injury recovery.

SESSM received significant funding from central UoB sources, including Research Capital
Investment Funds, to support innovative molecular research and £212,500 to equip the OMICS lab
in 2014/15. The OMICS laboratory, utilising advanced high throughput state-of-the-art molecular
methods, has been instrumental in Pitsiladis attracting over £500,000 external research funding
during the census period into the ‘OMICS’ of drug detection and response to training (including
altitude training). The international standing of the ‘OMICS’ lab and its high-profile research outputs
has attracted significant external investment in new cutting-edge analytical approaches for
demonstrations, training and research. Two key examples include the genome sequencer
(DNBSEQ-G400RS from BGI, Shenzhen, China) and the gene microarray scanner (GeneChip
Scanner 3000 from Affymetrix, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Santa Clara, CA, USA); combined value
over £500,000.

Recently all staff benefitted from £24,000 of QR funding in 2020 that enabled the formation of the
Creative Methods Suite providing technologies for socially distanced fieldwork in continuing and
(post)-COVID circumstances.

3.4 Collaborations and sharing research infrastructure
Reciprocity of access to facilities with academic colleagues, PGRs and practice-based partners is
an important principle within our research ethos. The research environment is shared via
international networks, visiting scholars, professional associations, sports participants and industry
partners (see 3.1). We share our facilities to build capacity in other countries especially in the
Global South, and have established strong relationships with collaborators in South America, North
America, Africa and Europe. The OMICS Laboratory has hosted staff from Waseda University,
Japan for a 12-month visit supported by Japan’s Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science
and Technology; and a WADA and IOC-funded PGR from the Italian University of Sport ‘Foro
Italico’ to work with Pitsiladis and Guppy on new anti-doping approaches for implementation at
the Olympics. Facilities in the EEL have been made available to industry partners (eg British
Airways) and athletes for pre-competition preparation, including Marathon des Sables runners
annually who all completed the event in the Sahara/Morocco, none incurring heat-related illness.

Interdisciplinary collaborations have been developed with visiting scholars including research
fellows and professors from Brazil, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Spain and the USA (eg
Prof. Jules Boykoff from Pacific University, USA; and currently Dr Anna Kavoura, funded by the
Finnish Cultural Foundation to work on the Transforming gender boundaries in sport project).

We have enabled our researchers to access national and international off-site specialist
infrastructure. Tomlinson was supported by QR funds to access archives at the National Football
                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Museum, the FA, UEFA and FIFA enabling production of the monograph Sir Stanley Rous and the
Growth of World Football, called by author and journalist David Conn a ‘superb football history
book’. Pitsiladis has been supported jointly by QR and funding from WADA, the IOC and industry
to work on successful collaborations in South Africa, Kenya, and Ethiopia focused on the genetic
makeup of elite athletes, detection of drugs in sport, responses to training at altitude and the use of
wearables to quantify training and recovery.

4. Collaboration and contribution to research base, economy and society

Our researchers stage field-shaping events and processes stimulating innovative thinking,
establishing extensive collaborations with stakeholders and academic partners. Our researchers
have presented 66 keynote addresses at international conferences and our researchers hold more
than 40 editorships and editorial board memberships. These activities and connections have
enabled us to engage with a global research community, shape ethical sport and sustainable
tourism research agendas, and provide new opportunities for our academic researchers and PGRs
to influence key social and economic challenges.

4.1 Collaborations with academic colleagues, research users and non-academic
beneficiaries (NABs)
Establishing and sustaining academic collaboration is critical to the vibrancy of our research. We
do this via joint research; our presence at international conferences; our own Brighton-based
events (4.3); and an international profile that has been established through joint projects with
researchers in, for example, France, Germany, Italy, Brazil, China, South Korea, Australia, New
Zealand, Canada, the USA, the Gambia, Greece, Portugal, South Africa. Pitsiladis, from the base
of the OMICS laboratory, has collaborated with an international network of 26 research
laboratories worldwide, sharing a mission to promote best practice sport medicine principles for
athlete care and active living. Wang as a SESSM PDRF has also participated in these networks.
Pitsiladis holds visiting professorial positions at the University of Cape Town and the University of
Rome ‘Foro Italico’, facilitating worldwide networks of research on Olympics-related sport integrity
issues. Burdsey is visiting associate professor at the University of Toronto. Novelli holds a
professorial position at Università Tor Vergata, Rome. Webborn is Honorary Clinical Professor at
Loughborough University; and in collaboration with international peers and through the IPC’s
Medical Committee, has conducted studies with fellow scientists at universities including Harvard,
Stellenbosch, Uppsala and Ottawa, establishing unique databases on the epidemiology of para-
athlete injury and illness.

Developing and cementing co-operation with NABs has been a consistent goal. Overall, our
researchers have worked in partnership with more than 150 NABs from 22 countries, from
international organisations such as IOC, IPC and World Bank (see 1.2) to NGOs central to our ICS
in each of The Gambia, Colombia, and South Korea. In the UK Doidge works with local NGOs and
grassroots organisations concerning anti-discrimination, inclusion and support for refugees (eg
Sanctuary on Sea, Sussex County FA and Amnesty International). Supported by the University’s
COVID-19 urgency fund, Richardson works with 8 UK health trusts investigating the effects of
remote exercise rehabilitation and monitoring on recovery from critical care in COVID-19 sufferers.

4.2 Contributions to disciplines and professional bodies
Through mentoring and QR funding (2.1) we support all staff to become active in their professional
fields, contributing to discipline-based, multi-disciplinary, and interdisciplinary professional
associations across the sport and exercise sciences, sport, leisure and tourism

Journal positions: Seventeen researchers across our 3 REGs and at all career stages have held
editorial positions, including:
    • SESSM: Brickley, editorial board, Journal of Science and Medicine in Sports;
        Giannopoulou, editorial board review member, Frontiers of Nutrition; Maxwell, editorial
        board, Frontiers in Physiology; Pitsiladis, Associate Editor, British Journal of Sports
        Medicine, Current Sports Medicine Reports, editorial board/scientific committee, Medicina
                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Dello Sport, Apunts Medicina de l’Esport; Smeeton, Consulting Editor, Human Movement
       Science; Watt, editorial boards, Physiology Journal, International Journal of Molecular
       Sciences; Webborn, Associate Editor, British Journal of Sports Medicine.
   •   SLC: Burdsey, Associate Editor, Sociology of Sport Journal; Carter, editorial board
       International Review for the Sociology of Sport; Channon, editorial board, Sociology of
       Sport Journal; Doidge, Frontiers in Sports and Active Living (editorial board review
       member); Tomlinson, Associate Editor, Theory, Culture & Society.
   •   THE: Weeden (editor-in-chief), ECR Lucena de Mello and Pantelidis (co-editors),
       Tourism and Hospitality Research; Merkel, editorial board, Asian Journal for the History
       and Culture of Sport; Novelli, co-editor, Tourism, Planning & Development, editorial board,
       Documenti Geografici; Rakić, editorial board, Finnish Journal of Tourism Research.

Professional bodies: Seventeen researchers have been supported to develop responsibilities
and leadership roles in 23 professional bodies across a range of disciplines, enabling us to provide
intellectual leadership and influence research activities across the main fields of the UoA24
descriptor, including:
    • SESSM: Webborn (IPC Medical Commission) and Pitsiladis (IOC Medical and Scientific
         Commission) hold leading positions on scientific committees shaping global governance
         and scientifically-based policy responses including to COVID-19. Webborn is Chair of the
         British Paralympic Association and sits on the Prohibited List Expert Group of WADA;
         Maxwell is on BASEM’s steering committee of the Special Interest Group on COVID-19,
         Brickley on its Accreditation Committee. Smeeton is chair, and Ford secretary, of the
         Expertise and Skill Acquisition Network. Watt represents the University of Brighton at the
         Physiological Society.
    • SLC: Channon is on the special advisory group of UNESCO’s international centre for
         martial arts and youth engagement. Doidge and Tomlinson convene, respectively, the
         British Sociological Association’s Sociology of Sport, and Leisure and Recreation, study
         groups. Gilchrist is founder of the Sport and Politics interest group of the Political Studies
         Association. Khomutova, was on the safeguarding review panel of England Boxing.
    • THE: Novelli is a board member of the West Africa Tourism Organisation. Pantelidis
         chairs the Council for Hospitality Membership. Rakić is honorary secretary of the Royal
         Geographical Society’s Geographies of Leisure and Tourism research group. Weeden is
         co-chair of the Association for Tourism in Higher Education.

Reviewing for councils/foundations: Twelve researchers have reviewed for research councils
and grant-awarding bodies in the UK and beyond. These include four research councils
AHRC/BBSRC/ESRC/MRC (Burdsey, Carter, Channon, Doidge [AHRC Peer Review College],
Novelli, Pitsiladis, Tomlinson); the Wellcome Trust/Leverhulme Foundation (Wang, Watt); the
European Commission (Giannopoulou); and the Multiple Sclerosis Society (Maxwell). Reviews
have been provided for research councils in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany,
Hungary, Norway, Poland and Portugal.

4.3 Awards and recognition of contributions
Our research and impact have been recognised by high-prestige awards nationally and
internationally, reflecting the academic pedigree and quality of research in all our REGs.
    • Webborn was made Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the Queen’s
        Birthday Honours List June 2017, for services to Paralympic Sports Medicine and the
        British Paralympic Association; and named in the Shaw Trust Power 100 (listing Britain’s
        most influential disabled people) for three consecutive years, 2015-17.
    • Novelli received a special award for her Contribution to Sustainable Tourism Development
        in Africa at the 1st African Leadership Forum in Ghana, August 2018.
    • Tomlinson and Sugden are 2 of only 3 UK scholars made Research Fellows of the North
        American Society for the Sociology of Sport (NASSS) at the inauguration of the award in
        November 2017.


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Pitsiladis received the Green Pass Award in the European Final of the 2019 China (Jinan)
       New Kinetic International Talent Innovation and Entrepreneurship Competition, Hamburg,
       Germany.
   •   Rakić’s co-edited volume An Introduction to Visual Research Methods in Tourism was
       listed by Equality in Tourism International (2018) in the top 20 books by women academics
       to have changed tourism research.
   •   Brickley was named Applied Practitioner of the Year 2019 by the British Association of
       Sport and Exercise Science (BASES) and awarded a BASES Fellowship in 2016.
   •   Richardson won the Institute of Fire Engineers’ UK Fire Research Project of the Year,
       2018.
   •   Wang won a Poster Award for Excellence (2017) at the Next Generation Sequencing
       Conference, Glasgow.

4.4 Wider influence and contributions to the research base
Responding to priorities: Our local and global research agendas respond to international societal
priorities. In SESSM, Webborn and Pitsiladis have developed research programmes embedded
in the policy needs and priorities of the IPC and the IOC (1.2). Richardson has extended the work
of the Environmental Extremes Laboratory to answer the needs of fire services across the world by
influencing policy on fire exposure limits, preparation, recovery, and delivering a unique firefighter
health educational platform. Watt, Maxwell and Hayes have developed work on heat acclimation
for a wide range of users in sport/exercise [ICS_GlobalCompetitorHealth]. In THE and SLC critical
qualitative analyses of sport and tourism have tackled issues of access, participation, inequality
and social division, promoting sustainable tourism policies in African communities, and values-
based sport coaching for divided communities. Doidge and Carter share Brighton’s F4P research
with European partners from the Czech Republic (Palecky University) and Germany (Paderborn
University) in the Erasmus+ network, Global Sport for Development and Peace Knowledge
Collaboration Programme.

Events: We promote vitality through critical debate and professional dialogue on the nature of our
disciplines and interdisciplinary fields, staging events and engaging in networks that create and
sustain collaborative partnerships and outcomes. THE researchers organised the conference
Contemporary Perspectives in Tourism and Hospitality Research: Policy, Practice and
Performance (2015, ~100 attendees) in collaboration with the Regional Studies Association and
hosted the Association for Tourism in Higher Education’s 24th annual conference (2017). SLC’s
conference on Sport and Social Justice (September 2013) combined practitioners and
researchers, identifying key issues of equality and access. The symposium Transforming Sport:
Engaging Critical Proactivism in Sport Research (2018) brought together leading global academics
and researchers in interconnected fields and was held alongside the publication of Transforming
Sport: Knowledges, Practices, Structures (eds. Carter, Burdsey and Doidge, contributions from
16 current and former SLC researchers, PGRs and visiting scholars). Under COVID-19,
Khomutova led the online 2020 Global Sport Research Conference on edgework and risk-taking
in sport, in partnership with Arizona State University’s Global Sport Institute. SESSM researchers
contribute regularly to the conferences of professional associations, for example the FIMS World
Sports Medicine Congress, the IOC World Congress in Sports Medicine, Wearable Technologies,
and national events organised by BASEM, as well as collective breakthroughs such as the
Olympia Declaration (Pitsiladis) and a position paper highlighting the main sport integrity issues
facing Olympic/Paralympic sport. Smeeton, as Chair of the Expertise and Skill Acquisition
Network, brings together 100 delegates biannually, including researchers, coaches, performance
analysts, sports directors and athletes for discussions promoting research advances in skill
learning. In 2020 delegates from 23 universities, 14 sports organisations and 8 countries attended.

4.5 Contributions to policy and public engagement
We have used QR and University funds (2.2) to support our researchers to deliver impact at
international, national and local level by providing expert advice and evidence to practitioners,
citizens, policymakers and industry.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Governments: Internationally, Merkel provided a template for the Government of the Republic of
Korea on inter-Korean co-operation at the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics; and Novelli has
advised the European Parliament Transport and Tourism Committee on policy directions to
address over-tourism. In the UK, Doidge has represented the interests of young refugees in
presentations to the UK Home Office and the All-Parliamentary Group on Refugees. Burdsey
presented to the Government Office for Science, at a workshop on ‘The Future of the Seas’.
Maxwell has addressed a House of Lords Select Committee on heat sensitivity in breast cancer
survivors and contributed to a UK government report on the value of exercise and sport for
individuals and communities. Richardson has presented at the UK Home Office Centre for
Applied Science and Technology, advising national and international emergency services on
physiological monitoring of staff.

INGOs (International Non-Government Organisations): For the World Bank and the Millennium
Challenge Corporation (Washington DC), Novelli has evaluated tourism development models for
Africa (Namibia/Ghana/The Gambia). Tomlinson provided the expert’s report at a Council of
Europe motion on football governance, business and values. Sugden was invited to address the
United Nations (New York) group on sport development and peace on sport, identifying principles
for effective interventions in peace-building through sport.

SINGOs (Sport-based International Non-Government Organisations): Webborn and
Pitsiladis lead scientific and sport medical agendas at the IPC and the IOC, WADA, and FIMS,
covering anti-doping strategies, adverse weather conditions, intersex and transgender, and
comprehensive guidelines for a roadmap for the staging of the postponed Tokyo 2020 event.
Khomutova has advised the European Judo Union on safeguarding measures and girls’ retention
in sport. Jarvis has provided guidelines on event planning and bids to the Federation of Gay
Games.

National bodies: Jones has presented to the Team for Japan 2020 (Mitsubishi UFJ Research &
Consulting) on transport control at Olympics. Pantelidis and Jones presented a sustainable
development model to Cyprus Tourism for the all-inclusive tourism sector [ICS_Tourism].
Maxwell, Brickley, Hayes, and Watt share expertise on heat acclimation and
performance/competition with UK Sport, England Rugby, GB Hockey, EIS, Team GB/BoA (British
Olympic Association), and the Brazilian Olympic Association [ICS_GlobalCompetitorHealth];
Richardson shapes heat safety policies for the UK Fire Brigade Union.

Framing public discourse: We disseminate our research to multiple constituencies as part of our
commitment to impactful research. Pitsiladis, Novelli, Tomlinson, Doidge, Burdsey, Maxwell,
Brickley, Merkel, Jarvis and Weeden have regularly disseminated their research in national,
regional, and international broadcasting and print media. Pitsiladis published numerous well cited
opinion/consensus papers in Sports Medicine and the British Journal of Sport Medicine
demonstrating his opinion leader status in the field. Tomlinson was Distinguished Speaker (2015)
at the University of Colorado (Denver) event in the Daniels Fund Ethics Initiative, presenting on
‘The Ethical Misadventures of FIFA’. Our engagements with wider audiences communicate our
long-standing and distinctive international research focussed on ethics, values, social justice and
wellbeing. Since 2014 we have successfully delivered our research and impact strategy
maintaining a strong upward trajectory in research excellence so that we are well-placed to
continue our leading role in addressing global challenges related to sport, leisure and tourism.




                                                                                           Page 16
