Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University of Cambridge

  Unit of Assessment: UoA 33 (Music)


  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Overview
The Faculty of Music, established in 1947, is one of eight faculties within the School of Arts and
Humanities in the University of Cambridge. As of 31 July 2020, the Faculty core of UoA 33
comprised fourteen full-time permanent staff (University Teaching Officers), five College Teaching
Officers with significant contractual responsibility for research (4.5 FTE) and eight research-only
staff based at the Faculty and at individual colleges (6.5 FTE). In comparison with REF 2014 there
is an 11% staffing uplift at the census date, from 23.4 to 26.0 FTE.
       The UoA comprises overlapping research clusters in:
          • Creative Practice (bringing together composition, musical performance studies, film-
              making)
          • Early Music (song, notations, sacred music, early modern culture)
          • Ethnomusicology, Popular Music, Sound Studies (jazz, biocultural approaches,
              multiculturalism, historical technologies of sound)
          • Music, Science, Technology (music cognition, digital musicology)
          • Nineteenth-century Studies (cultural history, theory and analysis, opera studies,
              source studies)
          • Twentieth-century Studies (France, Soviet cultural history, jazz).
       We host two major centres of collaborative research and facilitation:
          • Centre for Music and Science (CMS, 2003-, Section 3)
          • Cambridge Centre for Musical Performance Studies (CMPS, 2015-, Section 3).
       Since REF 2014 we have become home to two European Research Council projects:
          • ‘Sound and Materialism in the 19th Century’ (2015-20 PI: Trippett with three
              Research Associates)
          • ‘Past and Present Musical Encounters across the Strait of Gibraltar’ (2018-23 PI:
              Machin-Autenrieth with two Research Associates and a PhD student).

The Unit’s research and impact strategy is directed by the Faculty Research Committee, chaired
by the Director of Research and overseen by the Faculty Board. This committee drives new
initiatives, acts as a peer-review college, spearheads and monitors impact activity (including
funding applications to School and University funding streams), assigns mentors to colleagues
working on research proposals, and promotes sustained engagement with Open Access. Mentors
address the intellectual, budgetary and impact-related aspects of research proposals in conjunction
with our Impact and Outreach Officer, who also attends the Research committee ex officio,
facilitates colleagues’ impact events, advises on their design and delivery, and follows up on data
collection.
         The UoA’s centres and projects reflect our continuing strategy of fostering cross-faculty
and multi-institution initiatives alongside lone-scholar research which is itself often
interdisciplinary. The CMS, CMPS and the ‘Sound and Materialism’ ERC grant illustrate the
increasing depth of the Unit’s interdisciplinary culture. Recent work in the CMS has involved
collaboration with colleagues in Engineering, Linguistics, Education, Experimental Archaeology
and Psychology. Publications by CMPS members are embedded in Digital Humanities but also


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
range across experimental psychology and ethnography. The ‘Sound and Materialism’ team has
encompassed British cultural history, the history of science and technology, and the history of
medicine. Our Medieval specialists routinely work with/in Palaeography (History), while Causton’s
most recent major work, Transients, was co-produced with Engineering. Other UoA colleagues and
research students now regularly engage with the University’s Centre for Material Texts (English),
and contribute to research programmes run by Modern and Medieval Languages and Linguistics
staff and by the Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH),
which fosters interdisciplinary dialogue and is one of the largest humanities institutes in the world.
We use these close links to benefit postgraduate students and ECRs in three major ways: 1) we
encourage the drawing in of specialist cross-disciplinary colleagues for PhD interim reviews and
vivas; 2) we invite cross-disciplinary colleagues to contribute to ECR career development; and 3)
we have built flexibility into our MPhil so that students can gain specialist skills outside Music
(recently, Neuroscience, Philosophy, Computer Science and Palaeography) as a credited part of
their research preparation degree.

In line with University policies on research integrity, the Faculty has a well-established system
(overseen by its Research Ethics Subcommittee) for ethical review of all research. Most research
conducted in the UoA gives rise to no substantive ethical issues. However, experimental research
and fieldwork benefit from the review process, which serves as a filter and as opportunity for
revision. Where issues arise, independent review is sought via a School-level Ethics Committee,
with ultimate reference to the University's Research Ethics Committee (on which Cross recently
served a five-year term).
         The promotion of equality and diversity within the UoA received a significant boost in
November 2018 through an Athena SWAN Bronze Award. Cambridge was the first unitary Faculty
of Music in the UK to receive this award. We have interpreted this success as an invitation to
embed a commitment to diversity across the board.


Achievement of strategic aims and objectives, August 2013–July 2020
    •   We continue to produce ‘research of international significance in major areas of the
        discipline’ (REF 2014). In REF 2014 the Unit cited five international awards; during the
        REF 2021 period we have more than doubled that level of success. Our output-specific
        prizes spread widely across the UoA in terms of career stage, Faculty/College role, sub-
        disciplines and research clusters (Sections 2, 4). In addition, three ECR colleagues won
        prizes for outstandingly promising research projects.
    •   We have successfully increased our baseline ECR population (reaching a high point of 8.0
        FTE based in the Faculty in 2019, plus six College-based Research Fellows) (Sections 1,
        2). Since REF 2014 we have been awarded eight externally funded postdoctoral
        fellowships. A further five Research Associates were embedded within our ERC grants;
        two more ECRs were funded by the Mellon Foundation and Wellcome Trust.
    •   We have implemented a new, collectively designed staffing strategy to increase the
        diversity of our research over the next REF period (Section 2).
    •   We have transformed the AHRC-funded Centre for Musical Performance as Creative
        Practice into the Centre for Musical Performance Studies (Dir. Rink; Section 3).
    •   We have transformed the structure of our MPhil, reinforcing its primary role as research
        preparation and repositioning it to maximise international student mobility (Section 2).
    •   We have created within our workload model a Director of Research role, to facilitate
        strategic thinking and effective oversight of new ventures (Section 2).



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Other major goals mentioned in REF 2014 (notably relating to new buildings) remain long-term
projects. They have however been given new impetus by the appointment in 2019 of a School-
level Development Officer.

In addition to the strategic aims listed in 2014, we have significantly expanded our commitment to
the open public dissemination of research, through broadcasting, face-to-face engagement and
Open Access publication venues and databases (Section 4). Rink has served as the University’s
Director of Digital Humanities (2017-19). Significant Digital Humanities achievements within the
Unit include:
    • Establishing a new peer-reviewed open access online journal Music & Science (Editor-in
          Chief: Cross)
    • Development of the Chopin Online portal (Director: Rink. Funded since 1998 with over
          £1.2M (over £175K of that since 2013, from the Mellon Foundation).
    • Building of the ‘Restoring Lost Songs: Boethius’ Consolation of Philosophy’ website
          (Barrett), funded by the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust and other public bodies.
Other ventures indicate the broad spread of OA activity across the Unit. Machin-Autenrieth’s ERC
project has a multi-lingual website (English, Arabic, French, Spanish), and all project-related
publications from his and Trippett’s ERC research are necessarily OA; Marston is a Contributing
Scholar to Schenker Documents Online; Ellis is co-director of France: Musiques, Cultures, 1789-
1918, which publishes OA datasets and French-language research resources. A Faculty research
blog brings together the work of the UoA and beyond: PhD students, teaching-only and College-
based staff, and permanent Faculty colleagues. Many of these projects have been enabled by our
Outreach and Impact Coordinator, whose post the UoA supports.
          Finally, we have focused energies on leveraging the opportunities offered by the
collegiate University and its affiliated institutions. Since 2019, a donation to Christ’s College for
PhD study in Music has enabled the Faculty to welcome Greenhalgh PhD studentship-holders. The
eligibility requirements for this studentship map directly on to the UoA’s strengths in opera and
nineteenth-century studies. Research in Composition has been boosted by the King’s
College/Hartley Rogers/CBSO Scholarships in Orchestral Composition (Section 3) and by the
presence of the Ligeti Quartet as the first holders of the Cambridge Chamber Music Residency,
funded jointly by Homerton College and the Radcliffe Trust, and followed in 2020 by the Amatis
Piano Trio. Causton curated our partnership in composition and new music with Kettle’s Yard
during the REF 2021 period. As part of our Visiting Scholars programme, Faculty colleagues are
now being joined by College staff as designated mentors; and the arrival at Christ’s, King’s and
Trinity College of Librarians with significant expertise in musicology (two are former British Library
music staff) has further enhanced research synergies.


Future strategic goals
Sustaining academic excellence: We shall continue to improve our facilitation of research
leadership among colleagues at all levels and across our full range of music studies. We shall
cultivate existing research clusters while encouraging, through strategic replacement of retiring
staff, the organic development of new ones. Within a relatively small community where some
research areas are represented by a single member of staff, we are keen to sustain inclusivity,
irrespective of whether colleagues are part of a research cluster. Academic excellence will remain
the guiding factor.
         To these ends we shall complete the implementation of a revised Staff Review and
Development (SRD) scheme within the Faculty (Section 2), take advantage of enhanced School-
level support for research grant applications (individual and collaborative) (Section 3), and optimise
the timing and clustering of sabbatical leave under the University scheme (Section 3). The new

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
SRD scheme will bring more structured advice on career direction, particularly in relation to the
University’s new Academic Career Pathways, which are expected to succeed the Senior Academic
Promotions scheme from 2021-22. We shall also embed conversations about longer-term impact
plans within the SRD scheme, as part of our strategy to maintain a rolling programme of impact
initiatives, to share best practice, and to support funding bids. The pilot year of the new SRD
(2019-20) resulted in 100% success in the subsequent promotions round.

Development and expansion of research base: In line with the findings of the University General
Board’s Teaching and Strategic Research Reviews (2016, 2017), we have developed a staffing
strategy (Section 2) that will expand our research and teaching base while sustaining and building
on our core strengths. Our most recent appointments have resulted from implementation of this
general approach. Their presence has already created a new research cluster in Sound Studies
(Trippett, Varwig, McMurray): 'Sonic Cultures', an interdisciplinary reading group established during
2018-19, has become an official CRASSH network on 'Auralities', including colleagues in English
and Anthropology. In addition, synergies between the work of Trippett (who arrived in 2015) and
Walton have yielded a co-edited collection on opera’s technological history—another new area.
Forthcoming appointments will see us continue this combination of innovation and extension in
respect of our research base. Specifically, we shall aim to expand our work in Composition and
contemporary studies, and to embed popular music expertise more deeply within the Faculty.
        Recruitment and support of high-quality postgraduate students and ECRs remains central
to Faculty strategy, as does constant improvement in supporting them towards academic and non-
academic career paths alike. We shall strengthen current provision by building more professional
development workshops and ‘pathways to impact’ training into our existing Postgraduate
Researcher Careers and Skills days.
        We shall continue to pursue ways for College-only personnel, including ECRs, to be
integrated into the research, impact and teaching life of the UoA. We shall encourage such
colleagues to opt into the new Staff Review and Development scheme, and we shall look to
increase our ranks of research-active Affiliated Lecturers. The Faculty research blog, social media
and news pages are rapidly expanding into sites reflecting the entirety of the UoA. Our plans for
further development include a regular bulletin to aid community cohesion, a reciprocal advertising
system for College- and Faculty-based research events, and enhanced representation of College-
based staff at the weekly Colloquium.

Diversity, equality, and inclusivity of research culture: We shall expand work on diversity and
gender representation, building on our Athena SWAN Bronze Award (2019) and associated action
plan. The Faculty’s first Equality and Diversity Officer began work in 2019. We embrace the
University's Equal Opportunities Policy and the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, e.g.
by including E&D as a standing item at all Faculty committee meetings.
        Despite the recent appointment of two women to the Faculty (Ellis, Varwig), gender
representation at Faculty and UoA level remains male-dominated (66% and 75% male
respectively) and our ethnic diversity is weak. As new permanent appointments arise, we shall
engage in affirmative action, personally encouraging applications from suitably qualified candidates
in under-represented groups and ensuring that we implement our EDI training throughout the
selection process. More generally, through our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee,
we shall work to improve inclusivity (and perceptions thereof) in tangible ways that will be reflected
in improved results in our biennial Athena SWAN surveys.

Open access and research dissemination: Embedding OA progressively across the community
remains a strategic aim. We see further opportunities to develop online forums particularly with
respect to long-form research, research in progress, and publication of data collections. Creating

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
online research venues for (and curated by) our students and ECRs is under discussion,
specifically the possibility of publishing outstanding dissertations by students at all levels. The
University’s Apollo Repository is a potential venue for this work, along with the other research
outputs that we routinely deposit there. We shall also expand our online presence via video
recordings of significant public events. Three professorial inaugural lectures (Frolova-Walker,
Marston, Ellis) and similar events (Cook on Coleridge Taylor) are already available on YouTube
and have garnered over 7,000 hits since October 2015, while Rink’s YouTube videos on Chopin
have garnered over 31,000 hits since 2013. We now plan to post more regular videos of research
colloquia and distinguished lectures.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  2. People


Staffing strategy
The period 2021-27 will see six retirements among established Faculty staff, including current
specialists in Music & Science, Medieval Music/Notation, Nineteenth-Century Studies, Musical
Performance Studies, and Theory & Analysis. These retirements offer an invaluable opportunity to
reshape the Faculty’s research profile for the mid-twenty-first century. Moreover, in 2021-22 we
shall introduce a new undergraduate curriculum that addresses decolonising imperatives,
broadens student choice, and diversifies course content.
         The staffing ambitions outlined in REF 2014 were recognised in the University General
Board’s Teaching and Research Strategy Reviews (2016, 2017), which encouraged a flexible
approach to appointments. The reviews highlighted strategic needs in Composition, Music &
Science, Ethnomusicology, Popular Music (and contemporary studies more generally) and
Performance Studies. They also underlined the desirability of recruiting scholars able to straddle
sub-disciplines. We have since appointed permanent colleagues in ethnomusicology, sound,
media, and popular music studies (McMurray), and in sound studies, cultural history and reception
studies in early modern music (Varwig).
         Our staffing strategy for 2021 onwards has been designed by non-professorial Faculty
members as a way of ensuring that they have an appropriate stake in long-term strategies. We
shall use retirements to increase the representation of contemporary cultures within the research
base while ensuring that we sustain existing strengths in Early Music, Music & Science,
Nineteenth-Century Music, and Performance Studies. For all appointments we are proactively
seeking suitably qualified candidates from underrepresented groups.
         Within this strategy, external fundraising for certain kinds of post (e.g. Composition) has
emerged as a realistic response to the current economic climate in HE. With Development support
from the School of Arts and Humanities, the Unit should be well placed to generate funding on this
basis.


Staff development
Within the UoA we offer a supportive environment for academic and research staff development
across the range of seniority. All new academic staff receive individual Faculty inductions to
complement University online/group provision. University induction entails a briefing on duties,
opportunities, and policy/procedure. All academic staff undertake Unconscious Bias and Equality &
Diversity Essentials training. Since its reconfiguration in 2017, Faculty induction has involved
meetings with key Faculty personnel (Faculty Chair, Director of Research, Library staff, Mentor),
the timetable organised by the Faculty manager in consultation with the new staff member. As part
of our community-building efforts we have extended the scheme to College-based ECRs. At least
one designated mentor is available to help newly appointed staff. We recommend termly mentor-
mentee meetings.
        All ECRs (including college-based) have a Faculty mentor who offers support with skills,
research, and career development, linked to the University's training programmes in Academic
Practice and Personal and Professional Development. ECRs can and do access Faculty impact
and research support funds. Regular updates from the Research Committee, and from mentors,
keep them informed about OA requirements and the REF, as well as about funding opportunities.
        A biennial Staff Review and Development (SRD) scheme, revised and launched in 2019,
covers all academic staff on permanent contracts. Individuals select from a mixed-gender panel of
trained reviewers, with confidential discussions covering research, publication, teaching and

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
administration, career development, impact activity, and work-life balance. Researchers on fixed-
term contracts are reviewed within the University's Employment and Career Management Scheme
for Researchers, based on the Researcher Development Concordat.
        A workload model covering all aspects of Faculty activity (including, since our Athena
SWAN application, outreach and committee work), enables us to manage the effort of all
permanent staff, with particular care taken not to overload early career colleagues. As a rule, new
appointees are given a lighter administration load in their first year.
        All permanent staff have access to promotion advice. Faculty staff have both contributed
to and benefited from the University’s CV mentoring scheme for academic promotion candidates.
Promotion is available before probation has been completed. Teaching, administration and service,
research and impact activity are all key components of the University's annual Senior Academic
Promotions process. Since REF 2014, four Faculty members have been promoted to Reader
(Barrett, Causton, Trippett, Walton), and three to Professor (Causton, Frolova-Walker, Marston).
        All permanent academic staff take advantage of a generous sabbatical entitlement of one
term in seven. Faculty flexibility in the timing of sabbatical leave maximises its research value while
also allowing colleagues with caring responsibilities to plan ahead. Major administrative roles in the
Faculty attract additional leave and/or teaching remission. Teaching Associates on annual
contracts are paid for the full academic year to enable them to pursue research in the summer;
they are eligible to apply for research funding from the Faculty and they participate as equals in the
Faculty’s research culture.
        The University has taken steps to strengthen representation of women at senior levels,
including development workshops, leadership programmes and mentoring schemes specifically for
female researchers. The Athena SWAN process has helped the Unit diagnose problems, tackle
them, and via mentoring install safeguards against discrimination, particularly for non-professorial
female staff. The Unit is also focusing attention on anti-racism and mentoring support for minority
staff and students, aided by the University’s BAME Staff Network and initiatives relating to the
University’s Race Equality Charter Bronze Award; within the Unit we are overhauling our induction,
training and incident reporting procedures.
        The University’s provision for both maternity and paternity leave exceeds legal
requirements. In the last five years, four men took paternity leave, with a further two men (both
ECRs) taking periods of shared parental leave in 2017. We can and do arrange flexible part-time
arrangements for colleagues with dependents. For academic and research staff, we actively
promote the University’s Returning Carers Scheme (RCS), which supports conference travel and
teaching, and helps returning carers to engage crucial research support to rekindle project
momentum. Since REF 2014 we have successfully supported two members of research staff (one
male, one female) with RCS applications. These grants have enabled the production of major
publications. Returning staff can also apply for flexible working, or for the Graduated Return
Scheme (staggered return from a minimum of 20% to full-time over a period of 12 months).

A stable permanent establishment is complemented by a mobile postdoctoral researcher
community. Since 2014 we have won fellowship awards from the British Academy (4, including
one Newton International Fellowship), the Leverhulme Trust (5), the Mellon Foundation (1), the
Wellcome Trust (1), and the European Research Council (7). Machin-Autenrieth was both an ECR
and a PI managing his own team. The Unit’s strategy has been to advertise widely, and for a
Research Committee sub-group to place top candidates with their chosen mentor to refine the
application before submission to the national competition. The resulting high quality is indicated by
the fact that one successful candidate was offered both BA and Leverhulme awards, while another
was offered a permanent post elsewhere before the Cambridge-based Leverhulme fellowship
began. During the same period, nine ECRs in Music have won College-based Research
Fellowships.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        We have since 2013 more actively integrated College-based ECRs into the Unit’s research
culture. Their rights to research facilitation (including School-level grant-writing support and grants
for conference organisation and attendance) are the same as those of permanent staff. In addition,
our career development for ECRs includes regular mentoring, staff review and development
meetings, work-in-progress sessions and reading groups. The Cambridge Postdoc Academy
coordinates support across the University, while there is a dedicated careers consultant for
humanities and social sciences researchers. ECRs have their own committee within the Faculty,
which aids focused and timely support.
        During the assessment period, we have extended Work-in-Progress research seminars to
ECRs, thereby enhancing inclusivity and cohesion. ECRs attend the Colloquium series and would
normally present at least once; some are also involved in CMPS and/or CMS, and they are of
course included in social events. Many of them also teach, including designing and delivering an
undergraduate course and/or co-convening with a senior member of staff the core musicology
course at MPhil level. In response to generally lower take-up of paid teaching opportunities by
female and diverse ECRs and PhD students, we have begun sending personal email invitations to
such colleagues to apply to join the Supervisors’ Register. This initiative has been well received
and effective, and we shall continue it.

We see the nurturing of Early Career Researchers as one of our key functions. During the
assessment period our former ECRs have been appointed to positions in major research
universities including Aberdeen (Machin-Autenrieth), University of Birmingham (Owen), UC Dublin
(McAuley), Leeds (Pritchard), Manchester (Alaghband-Zadeh), Baylor (Ingalls), RAM (Clinch) and
Utrecht (Kamp). Their success in winning Faculty teaching prizes (Machin-Autenrieth, Cole,
Alaghband-Zadeh, Mordey, Valenti) speaks for itself.
        Our ECRs have won major musicological and interdisciplinary prizes for output submissions
to REF 2021, from the AMS (Alfred Einstein Award – Curran), RMA (Jerome Roche Prize –
Curran), Music & Letters Trust (Jack Westrup Prize – Vella), and Society of Dix-Neuviémistes
(Bentley). Vella won the 2016 Rotary Club of Parma International Verdi Prize for a monograph
project; Gur won a best paper award from the Austrian Musicological Society; Owen co-edited a
special issue of the leading peer-reviewed journal 19th Century Music. In addition, our systems of
Faculty- and School-level support for ECR research grant applications have underpinned a
successful European Research Council Starting Grant (Machin-Autenrieth, 2017) and a British
Academy Rising Star Engagement Award (Vella, 2019).


Research students
The Faculty is a major provider of advanced education in music for both UK and overseas students
in a wide range of fields. At both MPhil and PhD levels, postgraduate students are key members of
our research community. In REF 2014 we reported a near doubling of MPhil student numbers
(from 12 to 22). During the REF 2021 period our master’s cohort has expanded further, averaging
28 annually from 2013 onwards and reaching 40 in 2018-19—an 81% increase on the REF 2014
highpoint. PhD recruitment has averaged eight students per year (and a completion rate of 7.3 per
year) of whom 50% are funded externally or via our research grants (HERA, ERC); the current total
PhD enrolment is 37. During the assessment period, Cambridge offers an unusually large number
of internal funding sources. They range from University, College, or related schemes (including
Gates Cambridge Trust; Cambridge Home, EU and International Scholarships Schemes;
Cambridge Commonwealth and Overseas Trust) to AHRC, Canada International Scholarship, and
other UK- or overseas-based sources.
        We aim to improve gender representation among PhD students—and not just in
Cambridge. We actively support female and gender-diverse students who excel in the early stages

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of the MPhil course in applications to PhD programmes suited to their strengths and interests, and
to present their work at conferences as soon as they are ready: in 2020, four Cambridge MPhil
students had proposals accepted at the BFE/RMA Research Students’ Conference (two male, two
female) alongside two PhD students (both female). We are also committed to increasing female
and diverse staff representation as one way of cementing a more inclusive research and teaching
community. Our Faculty research blog is a key venue for this initiative.

Postgraduate students are formally represented on the Faculty Board and on the Postgraduate
Teaching Committee and may also raise their concerns at their own Staff-Student Committee. In
2019, the Faculty also instituted two academic Welfare Champions for postgraduate students, to
raise awareness of issues relating to resilience, wellbeing, and the importance of maintaining a
good work-life balance. Alongside our EDI Officers, these colleagues also act as sounding-boards
for individual student concerns, including anything relating to the Dignity at Work policy. Mindful of
the narrowing academic market for permanent jobs, we are expanding our careers-based provision
to include input from PhD-holders who have forged non-academic careers.
         Master’s and PhD students may apply to the Faculty for up to £500 per year for research
purposes. PhD students not only present their work at international conferences but also organise
conferences of their own (the University runs a Postgraduate Conference Organisation Scheme
which our students have accessed). Our weekly Colloquium series is run by PhD students elected
by their peers, ECRs and Faculty members, with oversight from senior members of the Faculty.
         To monitor progress and troubleshoot problems quickly, we review PhD students in each of
years 1 and 2 with a mock viva led by specialist assessors (including externals). Since 2013 we
have increased formal monitoring in years 3 (including a compulsory research presentation) and 4.
All doctoral students maintain a skills logbook, reviewed annually. Dedicated postgraduate facilities
have been upgraded since 2013, with a study space next to the Pendlebury Library now
supplementing facilities already available in the Centre for Music and Science.
         Supervisors are keenly aware that intending academics among their PhD students need
publications; they factor in the necessary time and advise students on strategy. Supervisors also
expect to act as referees for their students and former students. For those wishing to apply for
postdoctoral positions we have established support systems led by a sub-group of the Research
Committee. There are also extensive opportunities for doctoral students to contribute to teaching:
we provide discipline-specific training in supervision of undergraduates, giving students important
career skills and experience in addition to welcome financial support.


Master’s students
The MPhil is a taught master’s programme with a substantial research component, as reflected by
the 55% weighting of the dissertation, composition portfolio, or recital/essay package. The primary
though not exclusive aim of the MPhil is to provide a foundation for doctoral studies. Enhancing
student mobility nationally and internationally is as important to us as sustaining throughput within
Cambridge. A high proportion of our undergraduate students stay for our MPhil (over 30% of each
MPhil cohort since 2016); many then proceed to PhD programmes internationally. Incoming
doctoral students who lack the comprehensive grounding provided by our MPhil programme attend
selected methods or thematic seminars: the former comprise an increasingly extensive skills
postgraduate training programme covering contemporary musicological thinking, discography,
source study, sonic ethnography, digital musicology, writing and presentation skills.
       The MPhil structure is designed to be flexible in meeting student needs, including the taking
of specialist or methods courses in other faculties. In line with similar courses in the University, in
2018-19 we shortened it from 12 to nine months to facilitate international mobility for students
wishing to begin PhD programmes immediately on graduation. We are monitoring and mitigating

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the attendant intensification of workload with careful redistribution of deadlines, merging of short
bibliographical and critical tasks, and earlier setting-up of dissertation/portfolio work.

Student achievement: We can evidence our research students’ successes through prestigious
prizes, commissions, publications, and appointments. Prizes include the Frederick R. Selch Award
of the American Musical Instrument Society (Pardoe), Orion Orchestra’s Composition Prize
(Roche), Galpin Society Debut Paper Prize (Asimov), and the Otto Mayer-Serra Award (Izquierdo
König). Commissions include works for the LSO (Brennan), Greek National Opera (Koutsogiannis),
and Milton Court Opera (Randle); other students (e.g. Woo) have won professional-level
performance competitions. Students have placed their research in Cambridge Opera Journal
(Alexander, Bentley), Music & Letters (Jordan), and 19th Century Music (Asimov). Since 2013 our
former doctoral students have progressed to teaching or research posts at Boise (Becker), Texas
at Austin (Gabrillo), Durham (Hambridge), Manchester (Hyland), Goldsmiths (Alexander), Limerick
(Giraud), Cornell (Gotham), Victoria (Clausius), Utrecht (Schuiling, Kamp), Polonsky Academy in
Jerusalem (Ottersen), Dresden (Bravo), Witwatersrand (Dalamba), Pontificia Universidad Católica
de Chile (Izquierdo König), Manitoba (Woo), Aalto (Himberg), Queen Mary (Knight), Oxford
(Pavarini and Varelli), Boston (McKean), Leuven (Bleisch), KCL (Rindom), Madrid (Llorens), and
Brussels (Asimov).


Research events and professional support
Since 2013 we have enhanced our organisation of the Faculty Colloquium series, resulting in
better advertising and significantly better attendance (by staff, students and visitors). Pre-Covid,
the surrounding social events served as a platform for networking, knowledge exchange and
debate. The Colloquia have a vital role in building and sustaining the research community across
all constituencies. Students and staff collaborate to maximise diversity among speakers, but the
final arbiters are the Student Committee. Smaller in scale but just as important for postgraduate
development are specialist reading groups or seminars organised by individual colleagues: at the
CMS, in medieval music, and in opera studies.
        The Composition Network has developed into a programme that offers students
professional immersion from an early stage, in addition to regular Composer Workshops with high-
profile guests, collaborative work with the New Music Ensemble, and projects with college and
University partners. The Hartley Rogers/CBSO Scholarships in Orchestral Composition are unique
in a UK HEI, allowing two student composers to write, refine and record a piece for the full CBSO.
Since 2013, students have also had opportunities to work with Ensemble Recherche in Freiburg,
the Birmingham Contemporary Music Group (BCMG and BCMG NEXT, their training programme),
and the Britten Sinfonia. Further integration into professional practice (performances and
presentations alike) comes through festival programming: Causton featured student composers in
the Birtwistle Festival Secret Theatres (2014); his jointly curated series ‘Living Notes’ at Stapleford
Granary does similarly.
        Beyond the Faculty, students have access to language and IT training, and to a wide-
ranging Postgraduate Development Programme that covers teaching and supervision, academic
publication, communication, personal development, and networking. Training opportunities across
the institution are brought together via a University Skills Portal, while the Careers Service provides
students, for life, with a comprehensive guidance and job vacancy service. For specialist needs,
the Faculty Postgraduate Handbook lists training opportunities within the Faculty, the University,
and nationally, and the Faculty runs an annual Professional Development Day covering publishing,
HE, and non-academic careers.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Research income
In REF 2014 we reported c.£1.8M (£1,787,140) research income. REF 2021 shows an overall total
of c.£4.2M. Since 2013, colleagues at all levels have received major funding, from an increasing
diversity of sources: AHRC (2), DAAD (2), Leverhulme Trust (9), British Academy (10), Royal
Society (2), HERA (1), Isaac Newton Trust (5), SSHRC (1), John Templeton Foundation (1),
Mellon Foundation (1), Wellcome Trust (2), Medical Research Council (1), Fondation Wiener-
Anspach (1), Wolfson Foundation (1), ERC/Marie Curie Actions (2) and Society for Renaissance
Studies (1). Two ERC Starting Grants deserve special mention: one on music and materiality
(Trippett c.€1.5M, 2015-20); the other to investigate musical encounters across the Strait of
Gibraltar (Machin-Autenrieth c.€1.5M; 2018-23).
         Our applications success rate for the assessment period is 40%, the second highest in the
School of Arts and Humanities. Beyond the peer review and close mentoring of the Research
Committee, grant applicants expect and receive specialist support from the Faculty Manager (for
local financial and HR help) and from School Research Facilitators (for the discussion of research
needs and large-scale budgeting), and from the University’s Research Operations Office. Pump-
priming funds are available via dedicated University schemes (e.g. Cambridge Humanities
Research Grants Scheme, which distributes £300K p.a.) and grants from individual Colleges up to
c.£1,8K p.a. per colleague). During the assessment period, colleagues have been awarded over
£62K from such sources.
         The Faculty-allocated proportion of overheads from FeC grants supports our research
infrastructure. Our policy is to invest research overheads in people, buying them time and
enhanced research resources. For example, we extended the contract end date for an ECR to
offset time taken out during their fellowship for parental leave (c.£15K); funded an additional 20%
of UTO time to enable 100% focus on research for the duration of an ERC-funded project
(c.£15.5K); and bought out 5% of a Senior Research Associate from an ERC-funded project to
allow for career development in the form of specialist PhD supervision outwith the ERC project
(c.£3.5K). Overheads from grants have also allowed us to fund the Impact element of the Faculty’s
Outreach & Impact Coordinator (c.£5K).
         Since 2013 we have revised the allocation of Faculty Trust Funds across our budget to
optimise research utility within the terms of each gift. This reorganisation has allowed us to support
the creation of a new permanent Faculty position (10 years’ initial investment at c.£75K p.a.), and
to create part- or full-fee bursaries for MPhil and PhD students. We invest £6-8K annually to
support the Faculty Colloquium and to facilitate a programme of distinguished speakers to work
with staff and students.
         Faculty Trust Fund monies also support research travel and materials for postgraduate
students and staff (c.£11K p.a.). The current annual norm for Faculty research funding per
colleague is £500; but more is available, at the Research Committee’s discretion, for special
projects. For these we ring-fence a budget of around £5K p.a. In recent years, this fund has
facilitated conference hosting and overseas composition projects for postgraduate students.
Specialist materials purchases for the Pendlebury Library account for £1.5K p.a. of support
targeted particularly at research student needs.


Infrastructure supporting research and impact
The Faculty benefits from outstanding physical infrastructure and facilities in a purpose-built
and wheelchair-accessible space with a 499-seat Concert Hall at its core. Our late-1970s building

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
was extended in 2002 to add a 75-seater Recital Room and a home for the Centre for Music and
Science. The Faculty's equipment ranges from a collection of period and reproduction instruments
to a fully equipped recording room linked to the concert hall. Its dedicated music library integrates
the main Faculty building and the adjacent Victorian house, which contains offices and meeting
rooms. In 2018 the building’s public areas underwent extensive refurbishment. Reorganisation of
the top floor of a linked Victorian building has opened up office space for the expanding Faculty
ECR community; when Covid-related guidelines allow, we plan to create a staff common room.
         The Faculty’s Pendlebury Library has four specialist music librarians, its management being
fully integrated with that of the nearby University Library (UL), which itself has a Music department.
The Pendlebury includes a dedicated microform and facsimiles room (our collection of digitised
medieval music sources is among the world's largest), and a collection of 78 rpm records for
discographic training. In addition to a comprehensive range of electronic resources available on
site and remotely, combined Faculty/UL music holdings include around 80,000 books and scores,
15,000 sound recordings, a significant collection of rare printed music from before 1800, and
special collections relating to such figures as William Alwyn, Arthur Bliss, Hans Keller and Roberto
Gerhard. These are complemented by important collections within College libraries—including the
Parker Library (Corpus Christi), Wren Library (Trinity), Rowe Library and Archive (King’s). The
Fitzwilliam Museum and Kettle’s Yard gallery/venue also offer significant research and impact
possibilities.

Investment in dissemination and impact: Re-tooling of the Faculty’s lecture spaces for
livestreaming during the Covid pandemic has transformed the accessibility of our special lectures,
Colloquia, concerts, practice-as-research events and conferences. With investment of c.£100K of
which c.£60K was secured from the central University, we have converted one seminar room into a
permanent studio for lecture capture, and our customary Colloquium venue can now be made
accessible to self-isolating and care-giving members of the research community. The new
equipment will be invaluable for impact activity and for the wider dissemination of our research
more generally. We are supported in these ventures by a dedicated IT Officer.
        To facilitate knowledge exchange and impact generation, in 2017 the Faculty established a
pump-priming Impact Fund open to Faculty and College-based staff; this Fund has awarded
£3,500 in grants since its inception. In addition, UoA staff and postgraduate students apply to the
University for funding, aided by our Outreach and Impact Coordinator. Since 2013 the University
Arts and Humanities Impact Fund has aided four large-scale impact projects within the Unit: over
£24K, including funds for Impact Case Study (ICS) preparation by Barrett and Trippett. The Vice-
Chancellor’s Research Impact and Engagement Awards and the University Public Engagement
Starter Fund account for another £2,100 of grants, including to a PhD student presenting
collaborative work on music and physics.

Research centres and research facilitation
Our two Centres are essential hubs for research activity within the UoA and beyond it. Their very
existence attracts ECRs and PhD students, and their interdisciplinarity renders them an invaluable
meeting point for internal and external researchers.
The Centre for Music & Science (Dir. Cross) has been home to around 80 postgraduate students
and postdoctoral research affiliates, complemented by visiting students and scholars. Funded
research activities since 2014 have focused on how musical engagement can ameliorate socio-
affective capacities. CMS-related grant capture over the REF 2021 assessment period amounts to
over £600K (Templeton Foundation, Isaac Newton Trust and Wellcome Trust Career Re-Entry
Fellowship); Cross was also Co-I on an AHRC-MRC Global Public Health Partnership Award
(c.£150K) for research on perinatal health in The Gambia.
        Since 2013, 20 MPhils and 17 PhDs have been completed within the CMS, which has also

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
held three international conferences, the most recent being Tacit Engagement in the Digital Age
(June 2019). Over the same period, CMS members and affiliates have published around 50 journal
articles (in a wide range of peer-reviewed journals including Scientific Reports, Emotion,
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B, Journal of Music & Mathematics, Early Music,
etc.), two dozen book chapters or papers in conference proceedings, and two books. Cross and
emeritus Professor Sarah Hawkins between them have given some 45 keynote speeches at
international events since 2013.

The Centre for Musical Performance Studies (CMPS, Dir. Rink) continues from CMPCP (AHRC-
funded, 2009-15), hosted by the Music Faculty. A national hub for Musical Performance Studies
research, it combines publication activity with networking, research student support, and public
engagement. In 2017-18, OUP published five books in the series ‘Studies in Musical Performance
as Creative Practice’—all related to CMPCP and CMPS work. Rink has also given 19 keynote
papers at international conferences since the end of 2013 along with virtual lectures at international
piano masterclasses in 2020. During the current REF cycle, CMPS has run a
postgraduate/postdoctoral reading group and a termly Research Masterclass series in
collaboration with the Institute of Musical Research and the Guildhall School of Music & Drama in
London. These international events have brought PhD researchers into dialogue with specialists
from Cambridge, RAM, RCM, Sibelius Academy (Helsinki) and the Orpheus Institute (Ghent).
CMPCP/CMPS has also hosted ‘In Conversation’ public engagement events, ‘keynote sessions’ at
PSN conferences, and Side by Side events with members of the Academy of Ancient Music.
         Externally, CMPS supports an international Performance Studies Network (PSN; over 700
e-list subscribers) led by Rink. The PSN has organised biennial international conferences attracting
c.150-160 delegates to Cambridge (2014), Bath Spa (2016), Oslo (2018) and Huddersfield
(originally 2020; Covid-postponed to 2021). In addition, the PSN hosts ‘off-year’ research forums.
The CMPS also supports the Cambridge Interdisciplinary Performance Network (CIPN) by
providing a Faculty advisor and an annual subvention.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Research collaborations
The Unit’s collaborative work extends across several research clusters, including Early Music,
Nineteenth-Century Studies, Ethnomusicology, and Music & Science. International collaboration is
integral to our two ERC projects, whose Research Associates have come from Germany, the
Netherlands, the USA, Morocco and the UK. Machin-Autenrieth’s ‘Past and Present Musical
Encounters’ project also involves collaboration with the University of Manchester through the
employment of Samuel Llano as Senior Researcher, and partnerships with the Woolf Institute
(Cambridge), ICTM Med Studies group, the Matheson Trust (London), La Peña la Platería
(flamenco club in Granada), and the Tangier American Legation and Institute for Moroccan Studies
(Morocco).
        For the ‘Sound Memories’ (SoundMe) project, Co-I Rankin works with colleagues in the
Polish Academy of Sciences, Ruprecht Karl University, Heidelberg, Charles University, Prague,
and University of Utrecht. Associate project partners include ensembles specialising in early music
(Anonymous III, La Morra, Trigon Ensemble), chant (Schola Gregoriana Pragensis), and jazz
(BASTARDA group). These groups act both as ‘users’ of the project research and as transmitters
in performance of that research, bringing it to new audiences. The SoundMe sub-project ‘The
Presence of the Past’ has also engaged young composers from the Czech Republic, Belarus,
Brazil and Slovakia, bringing an additional dimension to a project that already places sound
studies, historical musicology and practice as research in close collaboration.

Among ECRs within the Unit, Vella is a founding member of a 2016-19 Leverhulme-funded
interdisciplinary research network ‘Re-imagining Italianità’, a collaboration between UCL,
Cambridge, Brown, and Universidade Estadual de Campinas (Brazil). McMurray has worked with
the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science (Berlin) on the project ‘Epistemes of Modern
Acoustics’. Rojo Carrillo’s involvement in the research group ‘El canto llano en la época de la
polifonia’ at Universidad Complutense de Madrid is longstanding. Duncan Elbaz is affiliated with
the Paris Centre de Recherches Moyen-Orient Méditerranée. She is also a consultant to the 2019
Ahbab Festival in Cambridge, and as founder of KHOYA (Jewish Morocco Sound Archive),
engages in collaborations with the National Library of Israel and the University of Agadir.
        Ellis’s co-directed France: Musiques, Cultures network includes over 200 musicologists,
librarians and literature scholars across Europe, North America, Asia and Australia, with annual
conferences since 2013 taking place in Paris, Rochester and Boston. Trippett’s ERC project
networks include the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science, Harvard, the Paris
Philharmonie and the Cologne Hochschule für Musik und Tanz. In addition, Trippett’s Sardanapalo
project links his ‘Sound and Materialism’ project to the worlds of public performance, with
premières in Weimar (Karabits/Staatskapelle Weimar) and Lerici (Bruno/Festival Suoni dal Golfo),
and publishing (Editio Musica (Neue Liszt Ausgabe), Schott).

Our combination of staff expertise and varied resource base across the collegiate University
attracts a steady flow of visiting students and scholars. Visitors range from musicologists to
music scientists and from ethnomusicologists to composers. They add significantly to the
intellectual and artistic diversity that characterises the Unit: during the REF period the Faculty has
hosted around 40 academic visitors and visiting research students, from four continents.
Distinguished invited lecturers and artists attract cross-disciplinary and non-academic audiences:
during the assessment period James Webster, George E. Lewis and Suzanne Cusick each


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
delivered a Wort Lecture Series; Suzannah Clark and Sir Harrison Birtwistle gave the Robin Orr
Lectures; and Murray Perahia and Sir John Tomlinson held Humanitas Visiting Professorships. As
part of the Athena SWAN Bronze Award action plan, we shall continue recent patterns of invitation
to distinguished lecturers, which have since 2016 directly addressed the need to ensure diverse
representation among our guests.

Collaborations with the music industry underpin much creative practice and related research.
Castelvecchi’s work as General Editor of the Rossini Edition connects staff in Chicago, Turin and
Rome with a German publisher (Bärenreiter). Wingfield’s recent Martinů editions (also Bärenreiter)
have been performed in Prague and Brno, and at the 2017 Proms. Rink’s role since 2012 as
Editor-in-Chief of The Complete Chopin – A New Critical Edition involves extensive collaboration
with Edition Peters and an international team of contributors.
        Causton collaborates with the CBSO through the Rogers/King’s Scholarship scheme, and
with the Ensemble Recherche, Freiburg, funded by the Art Mentor Foundation. Davis acted as
consultant to film producers, including a 2015 exhibition in the Chisenhale Gallery London. Within
Cambridge itself, valuable links between the Faculty, the collegiate University and professional
ensembles have been forged with the vocal group VOCES8 and College chapel choirs (especially
in delivery of our master’s-level curriculum), via research talks and practice-as-research events
with the Academy of Ancient Music, and through composer workshops with the Ligeti Quartet and
Amatis Trio. Even closer research links exist with the internationally famous medieval ensemble
Sequentia, whose sustained engagement in the ‘Performing Lost Songs’ project (CS-33-708) has
resulted in a commercial CD alongside videos that have together attracted over 725,000 hits.

The UoA’s public engagement profile involves members at all levels of seniority working to
enhance general understanding of the arts and humanities. Trippett’s Sardanapalo project (CS-33-
709) has reached millions following mass media exposure in the UK, US and Germany, and
performance at the 2017 Cardiff Singer of the World competition. The eleventh-century music
reconstructed by Barrett and Sequentia has also caught the imagination of millions of newspaper-
readers, internet viewers and radio listeners worldwide (CS-33-708). Frolova-Walker was guest
musicologist at the 2018 Bard Festival and is the current Professor of Music at Gresham College,
London (CS-33-710). The College, founded in 1597 as an institution of free public education,
livestreams 140 public lectures annually. Skinner’s award-winning ensemble Alamire has gained
national traction on BBC Radios 3 and 4 (Today programme), BBC Breakfast, ITV News at Ten,
Classic FM, The Times, Telegraph and Guardian.
        Barrett, Castelvecchi, Cross, Machin-Autenrieth, Marston, Rankin, Trippett and Varwig
have all contributed to Radio 4, including to flagship programmes such as Today and Front Row.
Barrett, Frolova-Walker, Trippett and Walton have appeared on Radio 3, where Frolova-Walker is
a regular guest for the Saturday recordings review feature Building a Library. Duncan Elbaz and
Machin-Autenrieth have appeared variously on local radio, the World Service, BBC Arabic (over 1
million views), and Spanish TV. Machin-Autenrieth interviewed for the China Morning Post, while
Marston’s expertise in Beethoven sources featured prominently in The Times and The New York
Times in December 2016 in connection with a much-disputed manuscript sale. Der Spiegel
interviewed Marston and Walton for Beethoven 2020.
        We bring our research to public audiences from the local to the international, at the
Cambridge Festival of Ideas (Aguilar, Causton, Cole, Machin-Autenrieth, McAuley, Monaghan,
Trippett, Varwig, Vella), the British Science Association (Aguilar), and the Cambridge Science
Festival (Cross). Causton has spoken at round tables at the South Bank and at composition
seminars in Italy, Germany and the USA. Trippett has lectured at the Library of Congress;
Castelvecchi at Glyndebourne; Ellis at the Berlioz Society. Vella’s programme notes for


                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Glyndebourne Touring and the Royal Opera House are complemented by her feature-essays for
Opera magazine.

The social embeddedness of our composition work is exemplified by both Causton and
Thurlow. Causton’s carol ‘The Flight’, commissioned for the 2015 King’s College Festival of Nine
Lessons and Carols, was set to a George Szirtes text re-imagining Holy Family as modern-day
refugees. The carol prompted USA bloggers to debate the place of politics, timeliness and
timelessness in new sacred music; a YouTube posting generated over 7000 views and some
poignant comments on the work’s contemporary relevance. Causton has also brought his music to
new audiences via the King's College series ‘Chapel Lates’. His Nocturne for 21 Pianos featured in
2017, after which all 21 instruments were given away to local schools, colleges and community
groups. BBC Radio 4, the World Service and local TV covered the event. Thurlow’s Light – Dark –
Sea was premiered in 2015 at a Heritage Lottery Fund festival to mark the decommissioning of the
lighthouse at Orford Ness. A community project, this ensemble piece included ambient sound and
light generated by primary schoolchildren as part of an exploration of local experience of the sea,
erosion and global warming.

The Unit’s wider influence and contributions to the research base must necessarily be
described synoptically. In addition to CMPS- and CMS-related keynotes, UoA members at all
levels of seniority have delivered over thirty keynote papers or named lectures/series, including in
Amsterdam, Beijing, Berlin, Ithaca, Lisbon, Notre Dame, Shanghai, St Petersburg, and Warsaw,
plus many other invited (funded) conference appearances across the globe. Similarly, they have
organised around twenty conferences, often interdisciplinary, in Cambridge and elsewhere, thereby
contributing to the vitality and shaping of the discipline.
         Collectively, the Unit contributes significantly to the emergence of new research areas and
the consolidation of existing ones, especially through the leadership activity of coordinating essay
collections (10 since 2013) and special issues of journals (two in 19th Century Music; one in
twentieth-century music). We are influential via editorships and membership of editorial or advisory
boards, which we encourage across our staff base. Here, the Unit is an international leader: since
2013 we have fulfilled over 30 editorial and oversight roles at over 20 journals and book series,
including Music Analysis, 19th Century Music, Jazz Research Journal, JAMS, Radical Musicology,
Music and Science, Music & Letters, Revue de musicologie, Nineteenth-Century Music Review,
Transposition: Musique et Sciences Sociales, twentieth-century music, Plainsong and Medieval
Music, Early Music, Early Music History, Cambridge Opera Journal, Encyclopedia of Islam, ‘Music
in Society and Culture’ (Boydell), ‘Studies in Musical Performance as Creative Practice’ (OUP),
Eccles Collected Edition (A-R Editions) and the Henry Bradshaw Society for the publication of
liturgical books. Varwig serves on the Councils of the Bach Network and the Internationale Heinrich
Schütz Gesellschaft; Howard on the Purcell Society committee; Wilford on the British Forum for
Ethnomusicology national committee and the Ethnomusicology-Ethnochoreology committee of the
Royal Anthropological Institute; Rink was a steering-group member of the Groupe de recherches
expérimentales sur l'acte musical (Strasbourg, 2011-16).

Indicators of esteem/recognition: Ellis was a Director-at-Large of the AMS, Chair of its
Communications Committee, and an AMS 50 dissertation grants award panellist; Frolova-Walker
has chaired the AMS Lewis Lockwood Award committee. Castelvecchi has directed the Center for
Italian Opera Studies, Chicago. Competition jury memberships include Causton (Mendelssohn
Scholarship, International Franco Evangelisti and Camillo Togni Composition Competitions), Rink
(17th ‘edition’ of the International Fryderyk Chopin Piano Competition in Warsaw (2015)), and
Walton (the 2015 Tosca Prize). Unit members are routinely in demand as expert assessors of
submissions to international peer-reviewed journals, as PhD examiners in the UK and Europe, and

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
as assessors for promotion applications in the UK & Ireland, Australia, USA, mainland China and
Hong Kong, Finland and Israel, mainland China and Hong Kong, and Australia.
        Further to the prizes won by our Early Career Research Fellows, outputs submitted by
permanent UoA staff to REF 2021 have received other major awards: the American Bach Society’s
William H. Scheide Prize (Varwig); AMS Early Music Prize (Rankin); Music & Letters Centenary
Prize (Marston); Times Best Classical CD, Gramophone Early Music Prize, Australian choral CD of
the Year (Skinner); International Rostrum of Composers, run in association with UNESCO and the
International Music Council, leading to performance of Causton’s Ik zeg: Nu in 27 countries. In
addition, Trippett and McMurray held Philip Leverhulme Prizes during the assessment period, and
McMurray received an honourable mention for the RMA Jerome Roche Prize.

Distinguished honours and recognition by the research base since 2013 fall into three main
categories: institutional recognition, dissemination to new audiences (including via translation), and
special events or publications centring around our research. Rankin’s work on ninth-century
notation was the subject of an all-day seminar at the Institut für Musikforschung, University of
Würzburg, in October 2015. Work by Rink and Marston respectively is the subject of a major
chapter in each of David Damschroder’s Harmony in Chopin (CUP, 2015) and Harmony in
Beethoven (CUP, 2016). Articles by Castelvecchi, Ellis and Marston have been reprinted in
anthologies; Cook’s work has been translated into Polish, Chinese and Vietnamese; Rink’s into
Polish, German, and Chinese; Trippett’s into Russian, with a Korean translation in progress.
Among honours, we count our third Fellow of the British Academy (Frolova-Walker), two honorary
degrees (Cook), election as Honorary Member of the Society for Musicology in Ireland (Rink),
Corresponding Membership of the AMS and Corresponding Fellowship of the Medieval Academy
of America (Rankin), and membership of the American Philosophical Society, as one of only three
non-USA-resident musicologists elected since its foundation in 1743 (Ellis).

Collectively, the Unit’s international achievements, service and external expressions of esteem
stretch from research students to established colleagues and extend across all six of the Unit’s
research clusters. We view them as indicators of a research culture that successfully underpins
excellence at all levels and in all areas of our work, and which fosters a plural and sustainable
research environment in Cambridge while also enabling global networking, collaboration, and
dissemination.




                                                                                             Page 17
