Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Birkbeck College

 Unit of Assessment:18 LAW

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 How we structure our research

 Birkbeck’s UoA 18 submission maps to the School of Law, which celebrated its 25th anniversary
 in 2018 and is globally recognised for the Critical Legal Theory research and pedagogy we have
 fostered over decades. Following the strategic aim identified in our REF2014 submission, the
 School has developed and diversified its research portfolio significantly over this census period,
 creating a new Department of Criminology in 2016 and fully integrating the Institute for Crime &
 Justice Policy Research (ICPR) into the School in 2017 (see 1.2.2). ICPR’s assimilation into the
 School fulfilled our strategic objective to complement and supplement the School’s existing
 critical legal and criminological research with empirically grounded research. The achievement of
 our plans resulted in an increase of staff from 27.24 FTE in 2014 to the current 44.1 FTE.

 We expanded our research portfolio in the fields of critical environmental law, technology law,
 and law and activism, and increased our expertise in law and critical race; gender; law and
 anarchism; human rights, postcolonialism; law and humanities; and law and political economy.
 Expansion brings its own challenges, including the integration of new colleagues without
 destabilising our distinctive combination of theoretically informed, policy oriented, and socially
 engaged knowledge. One strategy was to create six research clusters to support collaboration
 across our three components (Law, Criminology, ICPR), and to help PGRs, Centres, and
 Institutes increase public engagement and knowledge exchange activities.

 In the current assessment period, we increased research outputs to 490 (a 20% rise relative to
 the REF2014 assessment period), excluding media-related publications (see 4.7); hosted over
 150 research-related events (lectures, conferences, symposia, workshops) registering over
 15,000 participants; and were awarded £3,695,949.67 in research funding as shown in REF4b
 (64% increase relative to the REF2014 assessment period).

 Our six research clusters are:

       Critical Legal and Criminological Theory
       Human Rights
       Law and Humanities
       Policy, Practice and Activism
       Race, Gender and Culture
       Regulation, Risk and Surveillance

 They represent areas of common interest across our three components, with most staff
 contributing to more than one cluster. Clusters are used to identify suitable PGR supervisors and
 facilitate supervisory collaborations across our three components [see 1.2.2 and 1.2.6 (d)]. Our
 strategic aim during the next assessment period includes using the clusters to increase internal
 research collaborations and interdisciplinary work (see 1.3). Cluster members participate in
 research events organised by the School, and contribute to the College’s Institutes and Centres.
 They complement and extend our more formal Research Centres and Research Institutes:

       The Centre for Law and the Humanities (founded in 2010)
       The Centre for Research on Race and Law (founded in 2017)
       The Centre for the Critical Study of European Law (founded in 2015)
       The Institute for Crime and Justice Policy Research (ICPR) (with us since 2010)




                                                                                             Page     1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Centres and Institutes pre-date our research clusters, and primarily focus on hosting
 seminars, lectures and symposia, fostering collaborations within and outside the College and
 building networks with external stakeholders.

 Upon the retirement of its director, and other staff changes, the Centre for Research in Political
 Theology was closed in 2019.

 The School collaborates with the College’s principal research institutes [the Birkbeck Institute for
 the Humanities (BIH), the Birkbeck Institute for Social Research (BISR), the Birkbeck Gender
 and Sexuality forum (BiGS), the Birkbeck Institute of the Moving Image (BIMI) and the Birkbeck
 Institute for Data Analytics (BIDA)], as well as other cross-College research centres, e.g. the
 Birkbeck Centre for Political Economy and Institutional Studies (CPEIS).

 1.2 Our research objectives during this assessment period

 The strategic objectives described in our REF2014 submission were to:

 (a) strengthen the School’s contribution to the field of law and the humanities;
 (b) complete the integration of ICPR;
 (c) develop in-house publishing initiatives;
 (d) extend our knowledge-exchange activities;
 (e) increase grant income; and
 (f) increase PGR numbers and awards to foster academic careers nationally and internationally.

 NB: For the avoidance of repetition, (e) is evidenced in section 3.1

 1.2.1. Law and Humanities

 We met our 2014 objective to strengthen our contribution to the field of law and humanities by
 building on the successes of the Centre for Law and the Humanities; enhancing research in the
 area of law and visual studies, including leveraging an AHRC-funded research project on the
 judicial image (Moran); and strengthening our research in law and post-colonial studies.

 The Centre for Law and the Humanities focussed on an alternative strategy to develop its
 interests in critical race and postcolonialism, new technologies, and media and visual culture.
 The Centre hosted fifteen research related events and five Artists in Residence during the
 assessment period. We believe we are the only UK Law School to have an Artist in Residence
 programme, providing collaborations between artists, academics and postgraduate students.
 Pressing socio-political themes addressed included race and incarceration (Bain, 2020); digital
 capital and misinformation (Kern, 2019); migration and detention (Chak, 2017); law and truth
 production (Chaudhari, 2016); and law and theatre (Dwan, 2014-6). The Centre for Law and the
 Humanities supported Birkbeck’s collaboration with NYU with a public lecture by Feldman
 (NYU), jointly organised with NYU’s Department of Media, Culture and Communications.
 Another international collaboration between Columbia University and our Centres for Law and
 the Humanities and Research on Race and Law gave rise to a public event at which renowned
 MacArthur Fellow Hartman (Columbia) discussed her research on slavery, critical race studies,
 and gender theory.

 Moran successfully completed his AHRC-funded project on the judicial image, producing one
 public lecture and three workshops, publishing a special edition in the International Journal of
 Law in Context (2018), and his book Law, Judges and Visual Culture (2020). Moran’s
 collaboration with visual artists introduced Carey Young to the School. Young drew on Moran’s
 work in her film Palais de Justice (2017), prompting us to appoint her as Honorary Research
 Fellow to collaborate on image-based knowledge within law and justice.

 We advanced our research on law and visual culture, an area of long-standing expertise
 (Aristodemou, Douzinas, Guardiola- Rivera, Haldar, Loizidou, Macmillan, Moore, and

                                                                                             Page       2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Moran), by using visual media to present our work to a wider public. ECR Menis’s interest in
 women’s prisons led to collaboration with artists Hisazumi and Vigna, in an Arts Council
 National Lottery Project-funded art exhibition at the Crypt Gallery, raising awareness about
 tensions between the penal system’s aims and its effects upon female inmates. The exhibition
 attracted over 300 visitors and was re-exhibited at the Idea Store at Whitechapel Gallery. Ertür’s
 expertise in political violence and Turkish politics led to collaboration with the Forensic
 Architecture Unit at Goldsmiths College (where she was appointed as Senior Researcher) to
 produce a multi-media video on identifying suspects in the killing of Tahir Elçi. This project was
 cited by Turkey’s Public Prosecutor, attracted global media attention, and raised awareness of
 political violence in Turkey. ECRs S. Turnbull and Bhatia (both experts in criminal justice and
 migration) collaborated with artist Tings Chak (2017 Artist in Residence) to produce visual
 representations of migrants and asylum seekers in detention centres, making publicly visible the
 racism and injustices faced by migrants, asylum seekers and refugees.

 Developments in the field of humanities-based critical race and postcolonial legal studies
 exceeded the strategic objectives set out in REF2014, with the resulting establishment of the
 Centre for Research on Race and Law to carry forward further research, whilst bringing
 together socio-legal and humanities-based methodologies [see 1.2.6 (a)].

 We produced 67 publications in the field of law and humanities including Crime Fiction and
 Law (2017), Aristodemou, Macmillan and Tuitt (eds), with contributions from the editors
 alongside School and College colleagues (Guardiola-Rivera, Fitzpatrick, McCabe, Schütz).
 Innovative research on law and art included Guardiola-Rivera’s A defence of Armed/Art
 Struggle (2019) on theories of aesthetics and resistance; and Motha’s Archiving Sovereignty
 (2018) which reveals the legal fictions sustaining violence and postcolonial legalities. Motha was
 also responsible for producing and disseminating knowledge through digital media and podcasts
 on critical race and post-colonialism, with the pioneer feminist critical legal race theorist
 Williams (Columbia University) as its inaugural guest. Countersign podcasts have been
 downloaded 3000 times, in over 50 countries, since first launched in June 2020.

 1.2.2. Integration and work of ICPR

 We met our 2014 objective by fully integrating ICPR into the School of Law by 2018. Having
 formerly had a semi-autonomous status within Birkbeck, ICPR is now fully located within the
 College’s financial and administrative structures. Integration has provided ICPR with a secure
 foundation from which to develop and extend its research and scholarship, foster peer
 relationships and sharing of expertise, and continue successful research fund-raising .

 ICPR’s co-produced, policy-oriented, and impactful research serves as an exemplar for the
 School and College. ICPR is the source of three of our impact cases. We have embedded
 ICPR’s research within the School by supporting collaborations between the institute and the
 departments of Law and Criminology as well as the School’s research centres. For example, we
 have introduced PhD co-supervision across ICPR, Criminology and Law, and ICPR staff
 contribute to undergraduate and postgraduate teaching. ICPR colleagues peer review grant
 applications, and in turn have their grant applications peer reviewed by other members of the
 School. ICPR is represented on the School Executive and has input into strategic research
 planning and management. ICPR staff contribute to the School’s research seminar series and
 organise research events that engage colleagues, students, policy-makers and practitioners. We
 plan to continue to expand collaboration between ICPR and School and College colleagues on
 research, events, and grant applications.

 ICPR’s research is supported by diverse funders including research councils, charitable
 foundations, and justice agencies (see details of funded research in section 3.1). The institute’s
 work, much of which entails close collaboration with other academic institutions and policy and
 practitioner stakeholders, has three thematic priorities:



                                                                                            Page      3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Prisons: A core part of ICPR’s international, comparative prisons research programme is the
 compilation and hosting of the World Prison Brief database, the most authoritative source of
 global prison statistics. Its website has over 1.2 million hits per year, and users include
 international monitoring bodies, national governments, journalists, civil society organisations and
 academics. It has been cited by Barak Obama, the World Health Organisation, the Council of
 Europe, Amnesty International, and Human Rights Watch. Building on the World Prison Brief,
 ICPR’s prisons research also includes the project ‘Understanding and reducing the use of
 imprisonment in ten countries’, which spans all five continents and involves collaboration with a
 range of partners including legal practitioners, NGOs, and in-country researchers.

 Courts and the Judicial process: Recent and current research includes a study on
 participation in courts and tribunals, findings of which are reported in an edited volume, policy
 briefing and practitioner toolkit; work on language barriers in the criminal justice system,
 conducted in collaboration with NGOs Victim Support and the Centre for Justice Innovation; and
 an AHRC project on decision-making under the Mental Capacity Act.

 Policing: ICPR’s policing research explores many facets of the police as an organisation,
 policing operations and effectiveness, and police-public relations. A current study explores
 challenges to law enforcement associated with digital forensics, focusing on violent and sexual
 offences. Partners on this project are the UCL Jill Dando Institute, research consultancy
 Perpetuity Research, and Birkbeck’s Computer Science Department.

 In October 2019, ICPR changed its name from the Institute for Criminal Policy Research to the
 Institute for Crime & Justice Policy Research (while retaining the initials ICPR), to reflect the
 expansion of its research beyond criminal justice to other parts of the justice system.

 1.2.3. In-house Publishing Initiatives

 One of our objectives in the 2014 environment narrative was to build on our in-house publishing
 initiatives to promote critical legal theory and theory-informed socio-legal research. Since our
 foundation in 1992, we have managed the international refereed journal Law and Critique and
 founded and developed our own book imprint Birkbeck Law Press. We have also established the
 student-led journal Birkbeck Law Review which was cited in the Supreme Court decision FHR
 European Ventures LLP and others v Cedar Capital Partners LLC (2014) UKSC 45.

 To diversify its research focus and international reach, Law and Critique expanded its editorial
 committee to include scholars from Brazil, South Africa, Hong Kong and Australia with
 postcolonial, transitional justice, gender, acoustic jurisprudence, and political economy research
 portfolios. Our diversification strategy saw the journal consolidate its role as a leader in the field
 of critical legal studies, reaching over 48,000 downloads in 2019. Additionally, new book
 reviews, an essay section, reviews, and supplements (open access) have successfully engaged
 with current legal issues such as Blockchain and Bitcoin (this article reaching 3,683 downloads).
 The Birkbeck Law Press continues its strategy of embedding critical legal and critical socio-legal
 thinking within the law school curriculum, and published six books in this assessment period.

 1.2.4. Knowledge Exchange Activities

 During this assessment cycle our knowledge exchange strategy focussed on collaborations
 with lawyers, judges, communities and activists, and criminal and social justice stakeholders.

 Moran’s pioneering Judicial Conversations seminars extended our commitment to cutting edge
 judicial practices (virtual courts, diversity) and practice-based knowledge. (redacted) are
 examples of distinguished judges participating in these conversations. The seminars also hosted
 authors such as Heilbron, with a book about her mother, Rose Heilbron, the first woman
 appointed to the High Court. Building on his collaborations with the School on diversity in the
 judiciary, Baron Etherton, Lord Justice of Appeal (retired) was appointed as Visiting Professor


                                                                                               Page       4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in the School and Fellow of Birkbeck College. He actively engages in the academic life of the
 School through annual lectures and seminars and is patron of Birkbeck Law Review.

 Our strategic objective to expand our knowledge exchange base was further enhanced through
 Visiting Professorships and Honorary Fellowships from the fields of law, criminal justice,
 human rights, activism and art. The Centres for Law and the Humanities and Race and Law
 gave Visiting Professorships to the prisoner, refugee activist, and journalist Boochani, bolstering
 the School’s longstanding commitment to the protection of refugee rights. We hosted the UK
 launch of Boochani’s book No Friend but the Mountains, documenting the hostilities he
 experienced as a refugee. Boochani attended virtually from New Zealand whilst awaiting the
 result of his asylum application. This attracted over 200 participants: refugee law practitioners,
 journalists, academics within and outside the College, PGRs and members of the wider public.

 Justice Cameron’s (South African Supreme Court of Appeal) appointment as a Visiting Judge
 facilitates the exchange of ideas on postcolonialism and law with staff and doctoral students.
 Lyon CBE, Director of the campaigning charity the Prison Reform Trust until 2016, and now
 Chair of the Independent Advisory Panel on Deaths in Custody, is a Visiting Professor in the
 School of Law, in which capacity she actively supports ICPR’s programme of international
 prisons research, alongside other research activities. Mansfield QC was appointed Visiting
 Professor, engaging with our research in criminal law and human rights. Dr Ward [Court of
 Justice of the European Union (Curia)] has an Honorary Research Fellowship in the Department
 of Law and facilitates European knowledge exchange through seminars between staff and
 postgraduates in the Centre for the Critical Study of European Law. The appointment of
 Wigzell, then Chair of The Standing Committee for Youth Justice, as an Associate Research
 Fellow in ICPR, enabled knowledge exchange between the Department and youth justice
 practitioners. A. Gordon (Santa Barbara, UC), the 2013 Writer in Residence, was appointed as
 Visiting Professor, offering invaluable writing workshops to our PGR community and participation
 in research seminars and conferences. Finally, Young’s Honorary Research Fellowship
 contributes to our mission of widening public understanding of the limits and potentials of legal
 institutions.

 1.2.5   PGR Investment

 We have exceeded the strategic aims set out in REF2014 in relation to PGR investment. We
 have continued funding our PGR communities through Fee Awards and Graduate Teaching
 Awards (GTAs). Moreover, we have sought competitive external funding that will contribute to
 producing high quality research in critical legal studies, critical criminology, and justice policy;
 and are supporting PGRs to secure posts nationally and internationally. We successfully
 attracted four PGRs through the UBEL-ESRC DTP studentships in this period. These
 studentships are co-funded by the ESRC and promote collaborative supervisions between five
 academic institutions (UCL, Birkbeck, SOAS, UEL, and LSHTM) and non-academic
 organisations. The School is participating in the Diversity 100 PhD studentships scheme initiated
 by Birkbeck, with the aim of recruiting students from BAME communities.

 Our PGRs have been successful in securing academic posts nationally: Birkbeck, SOAS,
 Southampton, Sussex, Warwick; and internationally: Cyprus International University, University
 of Bremen, NYU Abu Dhabi, Centre for Applied Legal Studies (Wits University, South Africa).

 PGR students also had their work recognised through international graduate dissertation and
 postdoctoral awards. These include the Caribbean Philosophical Association’s Claudia Jones
 Award for best paper presented by a graduate student (Koram, 2015); Association for the Study
 of Law, Culture and Humanities’ prestigious Julien Mezey Dissertation Award (Ertür, 2016;
 Koram 2017). Alvarez was awarded the Weber Postdoctoral Fellowship at the European
 University Institute and won the Dialogue Scholarship at the Max Plank Institute of Legal History
 in Frankfurt. Klocker was awarded a Postdoctoral Research Fellowship at the University of
 Konstanz, Austria. Ghauri was made a Visiting Research Scholar at the Woolf Institute
 Cambridge; and Horn was awarded a Postdoctoral Award through Wellcome’s Institutional

                                                                                             Page       5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic Support Fund (ISSF), held by Birkbeck to invest in areas of agreed strategic
 importance between Birkbeck and the Wellcome Trust.

 1.2.6. Exceeding our Strategic Priorities

 (a) Centre for Research on Race and Law

 In supporting the expansion of research in critical race and postcolonialism (see 1.2.1), we
 supported (ECRs) S.Keenan and El-Enany’s initiative to set up the Centre for Research on
 Race and Law. This has emerged as the leading hub for research on race and law in the
 country, assembling colleagues from our research clusters (Critical Legal Theory and
 Criminological Theory; Law and Humanities; Policy, Practice and Activism; Race, Gender and
 Culture) with researchers in race and law within and outside Birkbeck to interrogate the relation
 and limits of law, race, society, and culture. In addressing the academic deficit in engagement
 with grass roots anti-racist activist stakeholders, the Centre organised events and initiated
 writing collaborations. It has hosted 14 events in collaboration with grass roots organisations
 (e.g. UFFC –United Families & Friends Campaign; Migrant Media), academics (e.g. Ahmed,
 independent researcher; Razak, UCLA; Crenshaw, Columbia), activists (Akala; Rigg) and
 policy setters. The School has also recruited staff to bolster research in the areas of critical race
 and postcolonialism (see 2.1.2). Both Centre directors produced highly regarded books,
 Subversive Property (S. Keenan) and Bordering Britain (El-Enany) and have been promoted to
 Reader, in line with our policy to reward staff who have made exceptional contributions (see
 2.1.5).

 (b) Department of Criminology

 The Department of Criminology was created in 2016 as part of our strategy to expand critical
 theory research into the field of criminology. This resulted in 7 new hires; a vibrant departmental
 research seminar series attracting over 2,000 participants; annual lecture; conferences such as
 the ICOPA Prison Abolition conference, organised by Lamble, with over 400 participants and
 bringing together critical criminologists and activists in the area of penal reform; and publications
 [e.g. Serisier’s Speaking Out (2018), and a special edition on ‘Queer Theory and Criminology’ in
 the journal Criminology and Criminal Justice (2020)].

 Staff contribute to PGR supervisions and hold key research administrative positions within the
 School: Xenakis as AD for Research has led the School’s research strategy; Serisier in her role
 as AD for Equality is responsible for the implementation of our equality agenda and overseeing
 our Athena Swan plans; Dobson, as one of the Co-Directors of PGR, has been actively involved
 in PGR grant applications and research seminars during this assessment period. In 2018 a new
 PhD programme in Criminology was established, attracting students who have won ESRC UBEL
 awards among other scholarships.

 (c) Centre for the Critical Study of European Law

 The Centre for the Critical Study of European Law has been reflecting on its role in the
 context of Brexit. The Centre organised the 2016 Law on Trial event on Brexit, which was open
 to the public and attracted over 900 participants. Co-Director Everson secured funding from the
 Audio Visual & Cultural Executive Agency and was instrumental in setting up The Academic
 Research Network on the Agencification of EU Executive Governance (TARN), facilitating
 exchange of ideas between academics and policy makers from Europe on the governance and
 design of regulatory agencies. Publications on European Union governance (Everson),
 European Union Constitutionalism (Tzanakopoulou), Environmental Law (Hamlyn, Leonelli),
 and racism within Europe (Bruce-Jones) underpin the research orientation of the Centre,
 assembling critical and policy-oriented perspectives.

 (d) Clusters


                                                                                              Page       6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A significant strategic achievement during this period was the creation of six research clusters
 as an organising framework to better understand, communicate, and facilitate our research
 interests, whilst furthering the sustainability of our interdisciplinary research. Benefits achieved
 so far include:

 (i)      Increased capacity to identify common research interests between colleagues - e.g. the
          Human Rights cluster brought together staff interested in critical perspectives on human
          rights from Law and Criminology (Bhatia, Bruce-Jones, Douzinas, El-Enany, Hanafin,
          Guardiola-Rivera) with ICPR researchers examining policy implications of human rights
          law (Hough, Jacobson, Kong, Heard). Critical Legal Theory, an area where we are
          recognised as a pioneer, expanded to include critical criminology and highlighted shared
          expertise. The Critical Legal and Criminological cluster revealed research commonalities
          and interests across law and humanities (Aristodemou, Hanafin, Haldar, Macmillan,
          Guardiola-Rivera, Fitzpatrick, Geary, Motha, Serisier, Ridler); political theory, theology
          and economy (Diamantides, Douzinas, Ertür, Geary, Guardiola-Rivera, Loizidou,
          Moore, Macmillan, Schütz and Xenakis); and critical race, gender and postcolonial theory
          (Motha, Carvalho, Fitzpatrick, Koram, Lamble, Loizidou, Guardiola-Rivera, Serisier);

 (ii)       An increased sense of belonging for PGRs within our wider research community;

 (iii)      Facilitating the identification of supervisors for PGRs and peer reviewers for grant
            applications.

 1.3 Our research objectives over the next five years

 We will continue to produce high quality, timely and engaging research, with a particular
 emphasis on critical research addressed to contemporary issues of societal relevance, and that
 synthesises theoretical and empirical concerns across law, technology, environment, and
 political economy. We will continue to expand critical legal and criminological theory, alongside
 empirical research into justice policy, and enhance knowledge transfer at all stages of research.

 We aim to achieve this by:

 •       Strengthening our dissemination of research and publications in the areas of critical legal
         studies, critical criminology, and empirical justice policy. This will be achieved through
         joint events, publications, and research fund-raising, and facilitated by our research clusters.

 •       Building on ICPR's empirical, policy-oriented research and stakeholder engagement to
         enhance the impact of our work on penal policy and justice reform.

 •       Widening and strengthening our knowledge-exchange activities by building on the successful
         model of judicial conversations (Moran); and focusing on research expertise (human rights,
         refugee and immigration law, criminal justice policy, race and gender) from the Policy,
         Practice and Activism; Human Rights and Race, Gender and Culture Research Clusters
         to foster collaboration with activists and practitioners.

 •       Expanding the diversity of our PGR programme by sustaining scholarships like the College’s
         Diversity 100 PhD studentships; encouraging applications to DTP studentship competitions
         through UBEL and CHASE that factor inclusivity into their funding program; and
         encouraging recruitment of PGRs with protected characteristics.

 •       Developing our nascent research portfolio on Law and Technology, the Environment, and
         Law and Political Economy. To this effect we have hired staff with relevant expertise to
         lead research events and collaborate with leading academics, practitioners and activists in
         these fields; develop Masters programmes; and develop grant applications. In 2019 the
         School’s Law on Trial was dedicated to these areas. Our vision for Law and Political

                                                                                                   Page     7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Economy is invested in critically exploring the legal, economic and cultural organisation of
     life, bringing together critical legal and political theory with interests in political/economic
     justice. We have already made several new hires in this area adding to our existing team of
     staff. The School will direct funding in this area for research activities that stimulate
     interactions with leading academics and non-academic stakeholders.

 1.4 Our impact objectives during the assessment period

 Our impact strategy in 2014 aimed to increase awareness of our research among key
 stakeholders and the public. We introduced impact training sessions and have collected data on
 activities since 2013. The School appointed a permanent Impact Officer in 2014. One of our key
 generators of impact is ICPR, which brings a policy and justice reform strand to our portfolio and
 has a wide national and international network of NGOs and activists which it supports through
 provision of data and collaborates with on research and dissemination activities.

 Seed funding was made available from the College Research Office and School to support the
 development of impactful research. An impact strategy was introduced in 2013 (and articulated
 in the impact template of the REF2014 return) and revised in 2019. One key objective is that
 each research active colleague should have an individual impact strategy, identifying where their
 work (potentially) has impact as an integral element of their annual research plan.

 The School’s Impact Officer works closely with the College’s other impact officers, to share best
 practice and develop consistent procedures for the collection of impact data and monitoring and
 evaluation. At College level, the impact officers have jointly organised several workshops for
 researchers about impact and stakeholder analysis. These have included interactive training
 sessions, with guided discussions, expert speakers, and signposts to resources. The School’s
 strength in engagement with policymakers is demonstrably recognised by the College, which
 has benefited from three of our researchers (Jacobson and Heard, ICPR; Monk, Law)
 speaking at College engagement training events. Jacobson, Heard and Monk secured seed
 funding from the College Research Office (£10,000) towards the development of their impact
 cases.

 The School’s Impact Officer has advised individual colleagues on impact range, engagement,
 and knowledge exchange issues - such as raising one’s academic profile; the importance of
 ORCID identifiers; use of social media; evaluation of events; and Altmetrics.

 1.5 Our impact objectives over the next five years

 Looking forward, our impact strategy goes hand in hand with the broader aims of the School’s
 research strategy, to extend awareness of the critical legal/criminological and justice policy
 research amongst key stakeholders and the public.

 We aim to achieve this by:

 •   Continuing all the practices and investments we have made during this assessment period
     (see 1.4)

 •   Continuing to support ICPR to co-create impactful research.

 •   Identifying and supporting staff within our Policy, Practice andActivism and Race, Gender
     and Culture clusters - whose work entails engagement with local communities, activists, and
     NGOs - to consider methods of charting the impact of their research outputs on the
     communities with which they interact.

 •   Identifying high profile staff whose research may already be having impact beyond the
     academy that is not currently tracked.

                                                                                              Page      8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 •   Making funds available for impact case building (e.g., data mining) and the hiring of research
     assistants.

 1.6 Our approach to supporting interdisciplinary research.

 We value and nurture individual research whilst encouraging and supporting collaboration and
 partnerships that expand critical interdisciplinary research. We do this by sustaining and
 developing international research links through Visiting Professorships, Writer in Residence and
 Artist in Residence programs, and our Departmental Seminars, Workshops, Conferences and
 Annual lectures. Our six new research clusters [see 1.1 and 1.2.6 (d)] evidence the
 interdisciplinary aspects of our research. We foster critical research as a positive aspect of
 research leadership, with our staff engaging in key debates in various subfields such as queer
 theory (Lamble, Serisier), postcolonial studies (Haldar, Fitzpatrick, Motha), race (El-Enany,
 Bhatia, Bruce Jones, McElhone, Koram), gender (Serisier, Day, Loizidou) political economy
 and political theory/theology (Comparato, Diamandides, Douzinas, Everson, Guardiola-
 Rivera, Loizidou, Macmillan, Ertür) and psychoanalysis (Aristodemou, Salecl, Reeves).

 1.7 Our progress towards an open research environment.

 1.7.1 Research Integrity

 We expect all members of the School to uphold the highest standards of rigour and integrity in
 all aspects of research and to ensure that their research is conducted in accordance with
 relevant ethical, legal and professional frameworks.

 The School requires that ethical approval is obtained for research undertaken by a student or
 member of staff which involves direct interactions with human participants; collection of
 individual-level administrative data (not in the public domain); collection of sensitive or non-
 anonymised data from social media platforms; risk to the researcher’s safety or well-being;
 potential impact on animals/the environment; or risk of significant reputational damage to the
 College.

 Applications for ethical approval are assessed by the School Ethics Committee, which has
 representation from the Departments of Law, Criminology and ICPR. Applications classified as
 ‘extremely sensitive’, or where a funder requires college-wide review, are submitted to the
 College Ethics Committee.

 We seek to create a research environment underpinned by good governance. This is supported
 by the training, supervision and mentoring arrangements described in sections 2.1.1, 2.1.3 and
 2.2.3.

 Any allegation of research misconduct would be dealt with at the College level and addressed to
 the Chair of the College Ethics Committee, currently the Executive Dean of the School. The
 College Ethics Committee oversees the development of policies and practices relating to
 research integrity which are implemented and operationalised at the School level by the School
 Ethics Committee.

 1.7.2 Open access and open data

 All members of the Unit are expected to provide open access to research data and outputs
 wherever practicable.

 Researchers are encouraged to deposit any datasets arising from primary research in a suitable
 data archive (such as the UK Data Archive) so they can be used for secondary analysis by other
 researchers. The Birkbeck Research Data Repository offers long term storage for data outputs
 produced by staff and post-graduate students of the College.

                                                                                            Page      9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Birkbeck’s institutional repository, BIROn, is designed to host full texts of published research;
 this material is freely available online other than where publisher embargoes are in force. We
 expect all research outputs produced within the Unit to be lodged in this repository within three
 months of acceptance by the publisher.

 Within the School we support any valid approaches to achieve Open Access, including those
 commonly referred to as the ‘green’ and ‘gold’ routes. Members of the School act as editors and
 reviewers for many journals with open access routes as described in section 4.4. Law and
 Critique a journal hosted by the School offers a Green access option. When researchers apply
 for School funds to support gold open access, this is only granted if the publisher has a
 transparent cost structure, incorporating a clear picture of publishers’ service costs.

 2. People

 2.1.1 Staff development strategy
 We are committed to staff development and to fair and transparent academic reviews and
 promotions. Academic reviews (with the relevant assistant dean or trained representative) are
 carried out annually for all categories of staff (full-time, part-time, researchers), providing an
 opportunity to discuss research objectives, gain feedback on performance, and identify areas of
 achievement and development needs. We have a supportive research mentoring system, in line
 with College Policies, whereby all staff are buddied with a research mentor to advise on the
 achievement of research goals. The School encourages staff who are considering promotion to
 meet their respective ADs to discuss applications.

 Over this assessment period the School has continued its longstanding support for research with
 sabbatical leave (one term of leave for every nine terms served, which can be ‘banked’ twice to
 give up to one years leave), and funding for research conferences, workshops, and research
 assistance. Teaching and administrative roles are allocated under a transparent workload
 allocation model (WAM) designed to release time for research, support research-led teaching,
 and provide an overview of allocated leave. Research support has been strengthened through
 the expansion of funds administered by the School Research Committee from £8,500 to £20,000
 annually (a 135% increase), and by broadening the scope of permissible funding proposals.
 Mentoring initiatives, in line with the College’s policies, support individual research. Moreover,
 the School’s REF lead introduced a series of Research Days (one/two annually) informing staff
 about research developments and engaging them in the development of our research culture.

 2.1.2 Staffing and recruitment policy

 We have included 100% of category A eligible staff in this REF return. The School's recruitment
 stategy is to advertise internationally and attract exceptional early career scholars at the cutting
 edge of our discipline. In line with its strategic plans to expand and hire staff, the School made
 29 new appointments in this assessment period: one Senior Lecturer (now Reader), 19
 Lecturers, and three Senior Researchers, two Research Assistants and four Research Fellows.
 Two of these appointments hold fractional contracts. Our low academic staff turnover, and our
 impressive new appointments provides an intellectually stimulating, exciting and supportive
 environment.

 Retirements during this period included three Professors and a Senior Lecturer. Colleagues who
 relocated included a Professor, a Senior Lecturer and five lecturers. One left to become Dean of
 the Faculty elsewhere.

 Of the new appointments 12 were made in Law, and eight in Criminology. ICPR researchers are
 employed on open ended research-only contracts. Subsequently, two Senior Research Fellows
 joined ICPR on fixed-term, grant-funded contracts supported by researchers brought in to work
 on specific grants.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We hired this exciting group of scholars to develop new areas of research (see 1.3), widening
 and strengthening our knowledge exchange base, extending our critical legal and criminological
 research and strengthening our critical race and postcolonialism.

 2.1.3 Support for early career researchers:

 We support the development of ECRs by reducing teaching and administrative loads in the first
 year of appointment. All ECR’s partake in annual review processes, and new researchers are
 allocated a mentor to advise on research and career planning. New lecturers are usually
 probationary for three years and, unless previously qualified, undertake the Postgraduate
 Certificate in Teaching and Learning. Early career academics are supported in pursuing their
 research initiatives – for example, S. Keenan and El-Enany set up the Centre for the Study of
 Law and Race whilst early career academics [see 1.2.6 (a)].

 Most ICPR staff are employed on research-only contracts, predominantly on an open-ended
 rather than fixed-term basis. They are thus supported to develop long-term research careers and
 to build skills and expertise relating to all aspects of research fund-raising, design, delivery and
 engagement. ICPR researchers also contribute to the wider academic life of the School, by
 teaching at all levels and providing research supervision as career development opportunities.
 Staff who wish to move from a research-only to an academic career path have been supported
 in doing so. One colleague worked flexibly and part-time while completing her PhD at another
 institution, and subsequently transferred from a research to academic contract; and another
 colleague is currently undertaking doctoral research in the School, while continuing her part-time
 role as Research Fellow.

 2.1.4 How we stimulate exchanges with business, industry or public/third sector bodies

 Staff are encouraged and supported by School Research Committee allocated grants for
 organising conferences, networking, and events which extend beyond the academy. For
 example, Heard’s ISSF/Wellcome grant was topped up with £750 to fund Keynote speaker Dr
 Luca Falqui (ICRC), an expert in prison health standards - for the international conference
 Mapping Inequalities in Prisons Worldwide, which brought academics together with public health
 and prison policy makers. Our flexible working conditions enabled one of our researchers to act
 as financial advisor to the Bank of England. Macmillan was seconded to Roma Trent (0.25) and
 University of Technology Sydney (0.1) to teach postgraduate programs on Intellectual Property
 Law. Moreover, an element of much of ICPR’s research, and essential to its success in
 achieving impact, is close collaboration with policy and practitioner partners in statutory and non-
 statutory services. Among many examples is input into Heard’s research on imprisonment in ten
 countries by pro bono legal researchers from law firm Clifford Chance, and global charity
 Advocates for International Development. Recent ICPR studies (Kirby, Jacobson, Hunter) on
 criminal advocacy were commissioned by the Bar Standards Board and Solicitors Regulation
 Authority.

 2.1.5 Recognition and reward of researchers

 Following the College’s policy on career progression, we are committed to rewarding staff
 contributions. All staff are informed through the annual review procedure about promotions,
 allowances, probation, and conferment of title. The College’s promotions procedures are
 transparent, attentive to mitigating circumstances, and recognise and reward talent at all levels.
 The College has promotions committees comprised of Professors, Readers, and Senior
 Lecturers, with recommendations on applications taken from external evaluators. The significant
 number of promotions in the assessment period is testament to the successes of these
 procedures, as well as to the academic excellence of those promoted. Five colleagues (including
 two women) were promoted to Chairs, six (including five women) to Readers, six (including four
 women) to Senior Lecturers, and two women to Lecturer B.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Research students

 2.2.1 Our approach to recruitment of doctoral research students

 The School of Law attracts high calibre national and international students interested in working
 in critical legal/criminological studies and justice policy. We continued to support PGR skills
 training through innovative programmes within the School and College (see 2.2.4), the Writer in
 Residence, PGR conferences, office facilities, career development workshops, research
 assistantship positions, internships, and teaching opportunities (see 2.2.4).

 2.2.2 Studentships:

 The School has created nine competitively awarded Graduate Teaching Assistant scholarships
 over this REF cycle, providing students with teacher training, teaching experience, and fee
 remission for three years of the MPhil/PhD programme. The School also received externally
 funded studentships in this period (see 1.2.5). We have achieved this with a robust process for
 reviewing applications, involving the AD of Research, PGR Directors, and the College’s
 Graduate Research School (BGRS). In addition, four PGRs hold international scholarships, two
 from CAPES Brazil, one from the Ministry of Migration Policy, Greece, and one Commonwealth
 scholarship.

 The School has a proven track record for recruiting PGR students with diverse characteristics in
 terms of gender, race, sexuality, and ethnicity. It participates in the College’s Diversity 100, a
 PGR scheme that aims to recruit BAME doctorate students. In 2019-20, the Diversity 100 award
 was divided between two students (covering fees for one, and a stipend for another who already
 had a scholarship for fees).

 2.2.3 PGR culture, support, progression, and completions

 During the assessment period we have sustained our strong number of PGRs with 70
 enrolments and 52 completions (compared to 21 completions in the previous assessment
 period). We currently have 12 International and 13 EU PGR students.

 The PGR community is integrated into the Law School’s research environment. Doctoral
 students are invited to be members of our three Research Centres, six Research clusters, and to
 participate in the College’s Institutes and PGRs have had internships with BIH and BISR.

 Through joint supervision, PGR students are spread evenly through the School, ensuring that
 most staff are currently supervising PhDs. Full-time PGR students have a minimum of three
 supervisions per term, and part-time PGRs at least two. PGR progress is monitored through
 termly reports and annual reviews, helping to identify skills gaps and directing students to
 specific training courses in the College (see 2.2.4). Dedicated PGR directors develop research
 and methods programs.

 PGR students have an annual research budget of £400 per person and are encouraged to apply
 for workshop and conference funds through the research committee. For example, during this
 assessment period, SRC awarded £3000 to PGRs to conduct a ‘Feminist Research Retreat’,
 where students and staff discussed feminist theory and practice, and exchanged writing ideas.
 Also of note was the international one-day conference ‘Law at the Margins of the City’,
 organised between three PGRs (Carolina Amadeo, Moniza Ansari, and Harley Ronan) under
 the supervision of two academic staff (S. Keenan and El-Enany) from the Centre for Research
 on Law and Race. This was funded by the School, supplementing an award of £1,240 from the
 SLSA.

 The Writer in Residence Programme, now in its 10th year, forms an integral part of the graduate
 research strategy. This initiative provides a three-week residency for a distinguished critical
 scholar [Van Heute (Radbound University, Nijmegen), L. Gordon (University of Connecticut)

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Martel (San Franciso State University), Dean (Hobart and William Smith Colleges),
 Allessandrini (CUNY)] to engage with students. During this assessment period we had five
 writers in residence, plus one postponement due to Covid19. Student engagement includes
 classes on methodology and writing, and feedback on PGR work in progress. Following the
 residency, the School holds an Annual PGR conference where students present their research
 to the whole School. During the Covid19 Pandemic the conference was hosted online.

 PGRs have two dedicated workspaces in the School, in addition to those provided by College, to
 foster integration into the intellectual life of the School and PGR cohesion. Academic offices
 were made available during the pandemic for use by isolated students or those unable to work at
 home.

 2.2.4 Skills training and employability

 The School provides financial support to all PGR students for conference attendance, alongside
 training needs analysis. Annually, the School sponsors a PGR student to attend the BIH Critical
 Theory Summer School. PGRs run the Birkbeck Law Review, an annual journal with
 contributions on law and politics from students, academics, and legal practitioners. Whilst still
 studying, research students have been successful in publishing their work in international peer-
 reviewed journals including Law and Literature, Law and Critique, International Review of Law
 Computers and Technology, and Theory & Event. PGR students can apply for teaching positions
 and have access to training provided by the School in areas such as employment/application
 skills, CV writing, and grant applications. One-to-one advice is available for students who have
 inquiries about employability. The School of Law’s journal, Law & Critique, employs a PGR
 student annually as an assistant editor.

 Throughout registration, all research students are enrolled in the Birkbeck Graduate Research
 School, which provides an extensive range of workshops and courses aimed at developing
 generic and transferable skills. Students also have access to the Bloomsbury Postgraduate
 Skills Network, Birkbeck Graduate Research School Events, and the Birkbeck Generic Skills
 scheme. ICPR provides a workshop on qualitative methods for PGR students across the
 College. Many PGRs have been successful in gaining academic positions (see 1.2.5).

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 With a high number of female (over 55%), non-British and BAME (over 66%), and openly LGBT
 (over 25%) staff, we demonstrate a longstanding commitment to equality and diversity. Our
 proportion of women and BAME individuals at senior levels, among staff, and in our PGR
 community, is well above the sector average for law. Our commitment to equality and diversity is
 apparent in our research and teaching, support from various of our centres and clusters (e.g.,
 the Centre for Research into Race and the Law, and Gender, Race and Culture research
 cluster), and our high levels of participation in BiGS (Birkbeck Gender and Sexuality forum). We
 are proud of our record of gender equality, with all academic staff grades and PhD students
 having an approximately equal gender split.

 We have very high levels of success at promotion (slightly higher for women), and staff are
 supported in their career development. We offer mentoring to all core academic staff (see 2.1.1
 and 2.1.3) and support equality and diversity by encouraging LGBT, female and BAME staff (and
 staff with other protected characteristics) to apply for promotions and research funds. Research-
 only and Teaching and Scholarship staff can also request mentorship and advice on promotions.
 The School Research Committee ensures that all SRC events are inclusive in line with College
 policies. The appointment of an Assistant Dean of Equalities ensures that promotions and career
 advancement comply with transparent equality policies.

 All academic staff who are eligible for sabbatical are encouraged to apply for and take their
 leave (see 2.1.1). The Departmental ADs support staff with parental and care responsibilities to
 undertake research activities (e.g., conferences, research trips) by providing teaching cover for

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 periods of absence. Staff and research students returning from periods of leave, ill health, and
 staff with chronic illnesses are evaluated through supportive return to work processes that
 enable them to resume their research smoothly. Staff with disabilities are evaluated and
 provided with support according to their needs (e.g. computer software). The School and
 College ensures that staff well-being is maintained by providing free access to counselling, and
 facilities such as yoga and meditation. The School’s Director of Operations regularly reminds
 staff and research students of well-being guidelines.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities.

 3.1. Research Funding and strategies for generating income:

 Overall, we have increased our research income since REF2014 (as shown in our REF4b data)
 from £2,251,697 to £3,695,950 (64% rise) across 37 awards: AHRC
 (4: AH/L007290/1; AH/L004666/1; AH/R013055/1; AH/K502911/1), Leverhulme Trust (4: IAF-
 2013-012; VP2-2013-048; RF-2017-420\8; RF-2017-437\8), Education, Audio-visual & Cultural
 Executive Agency (1: 505623), Nuffield Foundation (5 including SPI/42560 and JUS/43857),
 Royal Society (1: NF161095), Dawes Trust (2: GXK/DZS/173783/00001; CRSLLP-
 WORKSITE.FID177770), Solicitors Regulatory Authority (1), Restorative Solutions Community
 Interest Company (2), Open Society Foundations (2: OR2016-29665; OR2018-45151),
 Wellcome Trust (1: 213453/Z/18/Z), College of Police (1), Police Innovation Fund (1: HO PIF
 2016-90), European Commission (1: 653747), ESRC (3: ES/L011611/1; ES/L016676/1;
 ES/L007223/1), Monument Trust (1), German Foreign Office (1), Norwegian Ministry of Foreign
 Affairs (1: QZA-14/0134), Foreign and Common Wealth Office (1: ADP15005), Stiftung Auxilium,
 Porticus Global (1: GR-059025), Bell Foundation (1); University of York HEFCE (1: R17949),
 British Academy, (1: SG122759)

 We have increased our research income from competitive grants by implementing double
 internal peer-review (drawing on expertise from cluster members) for all external funding
 applications, managed by the AD Research. We recognised that ICPR had valuable expertise to
 share in relation to securing grant income and leveraged this by developing closer links with the
 College Research Office through monthly meetings between the AD Research, ASM Research,
 and the ICPR Director, to flag grant opportunities and ensure timely support for applications; and
 together with the Research Office, organised grant workshops for staff. To promote external
 funding applications, we increased the support available to colleagues who have succeeded in
 obtaining School Research Committee funding by establishing routine post-award meetings with
 the College Research Office.

 ICPR has developed a medium- and longer-term programme of funded research from major
 funders; successes include Kong’s £622,195 AHRC award for her research project Judging
 Values and Participation in Mental Capacity Law; and May’s award of £275,000 from the Dawes
 Trust for research on Organised Crime and Money Laundering.

 Law and Criminology have focussed on fellowships, e.g. El-Enany and S. Keenan’s
 Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowships (totalling £93,041)); network grants, e.g., Everson’s
 £34,779 from Education, Audio-visual & Cultural Executive Agency [see 1.2.6 (c)]; and small to
 medium term research projects, e.g. Macmillan’s £24,769 AHRC grant to research copyright in
 music publishing. Additionally, in the knowledge exchange space, Bruce-Jones received £1,000
 from the Honourable Society of the Inner Temple to host Public Engagement events on the legal
 profession.

 3.2 Infrastructure Supporting research and impact:

 The AD Research has overall responsibility for co-ordinating the School’s research strategy and
 is responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the College’s strategic research plans. The
 AD Research is a member of the School’s Executive team, chairs the School Research


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Committee, represents the School at the College’s Research Strategy Group and reports to the
 College Research Committee (both chaired by the College Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research).

 In addition to the AD Research, support for research activity is also provided by an Assistant
 School Manager for Research, the REF lead, the Research and Impact Development Officer, a
 Communications & Marketing Officer, the School Directors of Postgraduate Research,
 representatives from research centres and institutes, the convenors of our research seminar
 series, our Postgraduate Research student representatives, and School and College-based
 research administration staff.

 At School level, there are termly meetings of the School Research Committee and Research
 Ethics Committee. The School’s research strategy led to the establishment of a dedicated
 Communications and Marketing Officer to promote all our research activities to wider audiences.
 This has led directly to an increase in public engagement and knowledge exchange activities.
 Assembling our research into clusters has also generated new potential pathways to impact.
 Research undertaken within the Policy, Practice and Activism cluster on prisons and courts has
 generated two of the School’s impact studies and we estimate that research undertaken within
 the Race, Gender and Culture cluster will generate sufficient impacts to underpin at least two
 impact cases in the next REF period.

 The School research management infrastructure is supported by College-level support: from the
 College Research Office, regular engagement with the College External Relations and
 Communications Teams and Development and Alumni Office, and via participation in College-
 level committees managing research (Research Strategy Group, Research Committee, REF
 Working Party, College Ethics Committee (chaired by Motha), Open Research Working Group,
 and Research Student Sub Committee), and with support from the College Research Data
 Support Manager.

 3.3 Infrastructure facilities

 Financial support for our research activities is provided as follows. Each member of academic
 staff (except those on research only contracts) has a personal Research Allowance of £1,200
 that can be used for books, equipment, travel or other purposes to support research. There is a
 School budget of £20,000 annually administered by the School’s Research Committee to
 facilitate the organisation of research events (seminars, symposia, book launches, conferences),
 or to pay for research assistants, translation costs, the purchase of transcripts and the
 production of reports. In addition, £1,500 annually goes to each of our three Research Centres
 to support their activities. The School contributes £30 000 per annum to three cross-College
 institutes, BIMI, BISR and BIH, the last established by our colleague Douzinas in 2004.

 The School spent £5,383 upgrading its common room, which included pigeon-holes as well as
 coffee/tea and water facilities. The aim of this investment was to facilitate day to day research
 conversations between members of staff across all three components. The School also
 undertakes regular reviews of the physical infrastructure and the general work environment, to
 identify and implement necessary updates and upgrades, including to IT facilities, library
 resources (£20,000 annually), working spaces and any new infrastructure projects.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 During this REF period there has been a notable increase in the number of collaborations and
 the volume of research with other disciplines undertaken within the School. Recognition of the
 contribution the School makes within the academic community, civil society and public sector is
 growing, both within and outside the College.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1 Support, Collaboration and Effectiveness with Networks and Partnerships

 Members of the School have been involved in collaborative projects, networks, or partnerships
 with academic colleagues in other institutions. Notable examples include: Macmillan’s
 membership of the organising committee of the Annual Conference of the International Society
 for the History and Theory of Intellectual Property facilitating exchanges with researchers and
 practitioners all over the world; S. Keenan’s Lateral Property: Land, Law and Power Beyond
 Freehold “Ownership” co-organised with Sherry (UNSW Law); Bruce-Jones collaboration with
 Crenshaw and the African American Policy Forum in organising the Intersectional Politik: 30th
 Anniversary of Intersectionality; and Monk’s academic workshop to mark the 50th anniversary of
 the passage of the Divorce Reform.

 4.2 Interactions, Engagement and relationships with research users:

 Since REF 2014, staff have engaged in research involving other disciplines and external
 academic institutions. Notable collaborations are: Diamantides’ Constitutional Theology? (2014)
 workshop with legal theorists (Loughlin (LSE); Rosenfeld (Cardozo)), political theorists (Saada
 (SciencesPo); Labord (UCL)); Guardiola-Rivera’s and Koram’s Focus on the Funk (2016) in
 partnership with the School of Law, BIH and The Serpentine Gallery, involving eminent
 postcolonial theorist Spivak (Columbia), decolonial philosopher L. Gordon (Connecticut), artist
 Mizra, and curator Vickers (Serpentine Gallery) amongst others. Loizidou’s 2017 New
 Fascism? workshop in collaboration with philosopher Boticci (New School, NY) brought
 together critical law academics (Bhandar and Suresh (SOAS), Parfitt (Kent) and Ertür
 (Birkbeck), sociologist Toscano (Goldsmiths) and philosopher Beistegui (Warwick)) to discuss
 the rise of new fascist movements, leading to Loizidou contributing to Boticci’s
 anarchafemininist manifesto. Other examples in cross-institutional collaborations include
 Xenakis’ fully funded British Academy Conference (co-organised with LSE academics Lacey,
 Soskice, Cheliotis) on inequality, crime and punishment; and Macmillan’s Law and Political
 Economy network, a collaboration between the School of law and Warwick University.

 4.3 Contributions to Economy and Society:

 There is ongoing collaboration between members of the School and external bodies and
 organisations. 15 staff are working with legal practitioners, the courts, the judiciary, criminal
 justice and mental health service providers, and migration and race activists to influence policy
 in these areas. Notably, El-Enany’s Strategic Litigation: Anti-racism in the courtroom?
 conference brought together academics and activists from Global Legal Action Network, Duncan
 Lewis Solicitors, CAGE, and Against Borders for Children (ABC); Bruce-Jones and Bhatia’s
 Race, Mental Health and State Violence funded by the Wellcome Trust collaborated with
 activists and academics from the United Families and Friends Campaign/ Sean Rigg Justice &
 Change Campaign; Hunter, Kirby and Jacobson’s joint enterprise project was conducted in
 partnership with NGO the Prison Reform Trust and had input from campaigners, lawyers, and
 representatives of the CPS and Ministry of Justice; Lamble’s ICOPA Prison Abolition
 Conference brought together over 400 activists and academics working on the abolition of the
 prison industrial complex.

 Lamble is also an active member of the steering committee of Reclaim Justice Network.
 Jacobson has actively engaged with policy-makers in the areas of sentencing, prisons and
 courts, including her involvement in consultation on draft Sentencing Council guidelines.
 Douzinas has been elected as a member of the Hellenic Parliament (2015-19); Cowell is an
 elected Councillor for Lambeth. In 2020 Hough was nominated for (and subsequently awarded)
 the ESC European Criminology Award, which recognises the lifetime contribution of a European
 criminologist. The citation described him as “the leading UK scholar in the last forty years in a
 variety of fields in criminology and criminal justice studies”.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 Contributions to the sustainability of the Discipline:

 All faculty members have played leading roles in conferences, symposia, and seminars in this
 reporting period. For example, Aristodemou was part of a Plenary Panel at the American
 Comparative Literature Association (2017), had a series of seminars around her work at
 Pontificia Universidad Católica, Santiago Chile (2017), was interviewed by the president of the
 European University, Florence (2014) on her work, and participated at a Roundtable on Law in
 Literature with Rosenberg and Appignanesi at the City of London Festival (2014). Bowring
 was a keynote speaker at the symposium on Russian Readings at Christ Church College,
 Oxford (2019); Diamantides was a keynote speaker at a workshop on Political Theology
 organised at the Law School Unversité Sciences Po, Paris (2015); Dobson gave an invited
 lecture on critical policy at the School of Political Science, Berkeley (2015); El-Enany delivered
 an invited talk on her work on Grenfell at the Sandberg Institute Amsterdam (2019); Everson
 was a keynote speaker at an International Conference on governance at the Netherlands
 Institute of Law and Governance (2016); and S. Keenan delivered a plenary address to the
 Royal Geographical Society’s Annual International Conference (2017).

 The School hosted 58 seminars with notable speakers such as Biber, (University of Technology,
 Sydney), Owen (California State University), Scranton (Queen's University Belfast), McVeigh
 (University of Melbourne), A. Gordon, (University of California, Santa Barbara), Çubukçu,
 (LSE); and 56 conferences, symposia and workshops, including: Race, Mental Health and State
 Violence; Lalangue and the intersection of law, politics, and desire; and the 25th Anniversary:
 Past, Present, Future Critical Legal Postgraduate Research Conference.

 We hosted five Patrick McAuslan Annual Lectures, two Criminology Annual Lectures, six Law on
 Trials, five Writers in Residence, and five Artists in Residence in this assessment period,
 alongside ten book discussions, including a discussion on Archiving Sovereignty at the LRB.

 The School is home to the influential critical legal journal, Law and Critique, a book imprint
 Birkbeck Law Press, and Birkbeck Law Review. The School’s participation in peer review
 processes is extensive with 23 members of staff taking part in 320 separate peer review
 activities for over 50 different international journals and over 10 book presses; staff include 15
 editors of peer review publications and 15 editorial board members of peer review publications.
 Notable examples include Motha and Macmillan who are editors of Law and Critique, Dobson
 who is on the editorial Collective of Critical Social Policy, and Monk who is Assistant Editor of
 Child and Family Law Quarterly.

 Also, in the reporting period, 15 staff co-operated with 23 different academic institutions to
 examine 40 doctorate theses.

 4.5 Evidence and support of Interdisciplinary Research:

 The critical and empirical scholarship evident in the School is by nature interdisciplinary. Notable
 collaborations with other disciplines (see 1.2.1 and 1.2.6) include: Ertür and Biner’s
 (anthropology, Kent University) British Academy-funded conference on interdisciplinary writing,
 bringing together local and international (Turkey, US) early career and senior academics from
 law, anthropology, film studies, sociology, history, gender and literature; and Salecl’s
 engagement with the arts at Airspace Tribunal and Topologies of Air, Hiroshima University and
 at the biennial Faraway, so close (Ljubljana: Museum of Architecture and Design).

 4.6 Responses to National and International Priorities and Initiatives:

 Much of the Schools research supports a major international priority - Goal16 of the UN’s
 Sustainable Development Goals ‘to promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable
 development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive
 institutions at all levels’ – for example, via ICPR’s World Prison Brief database. The World Prison
 Brief provides data on prison populations, including numbers of pre-trial detainees, around the

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 world. These data are used by the UN and other bodies to monitor progress towards Goal 16, in
 accordance with the key indicator ‘unsentenced detainees as a proportion of overall prison
 population’.

 4.7 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognitions by the research base:

 The School contributes to many professional associations and societies, and notable fellowships
 and awards received by staff include:

 •   Bowring was confirmed as Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences in recognition of his
     contribution to Russian and Soviet studies, and Fellow of the Human Rights Centre,
     University of Essex;
 •   Macmillan is a Fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts for contribution to research in
     intellectual property law and culture, and was elected as Co-Director of the International
     Society for the History and Theory of Intellectual Property (ISHTIP) (August 2015 to July
     2019) as well as being the Chair of the Research Academy of Finland Law Panel since 2017;
 •   Bruce-Jones has been Academic Fellow (2012 – 2015) and is currently Associate Academic
     Fellow (of the Honourable Society of the Inner Temple);
 •   S. Keenan received the LSE Simon Roberts Visiting Fellowship (2018);
 •   Ertür, Visiting Fellow, Centre for the Study of Social Difference, Columbia University (2013-
     2015), and Visiting Research Fellow, Forensic Architecture, Goldsmiths, University of
     London (2017-);
 •   Loizidou, Visiting Fellow, Centre for the Study of Social Difference, Columbia University
     (2013 - date);
 •   Lamble, Visiting Fellow at the Centre for Crime & Justice Studies, 2016-2018.
 •   In 2014 ICPR’s World Prison Brief won the International Corrections and Prisons Association
     (ICPA) President’s Award ‘for their highly valuable work in the field of corrections worldwide’,
 •   Xenakis in 2018 received the Critical Criminal Justice Scholar Award, Critical Criminal
     Justice Section, Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences (US) ‘for distinguished
     accomplishments that represent issues related to critical criminal justice through scholarship,
     teaching, or service across the most recent two-year period.’
 •   Bruce-Jones received the 2020 William and Patricia Kleh Visiting Professorship of
     International Law at Boston University.

 In 2018 Gearey, Loizidou and Moran set up the Association of Critical Legal Scholars which
 disseminates and supports critical legal scholarship.

 Staff review grants for the following research grant bodies: UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships
 programme (Xenakis), ESRC, Research Grants Proposals (Xenakis, Serisier, Everson), ISRF
 Early Career Research Fellowship (Monk), FWO Flanders Research Foundation (Monk), Kone
 Foundation, Finland (Monk), British Academy Interdisciplinary Research Call The Humanities
 and Social Sciences Tackling the UK’s International Challenges (Macmillan), Research
 Academy of Finland Law Panel (Macmillan), Hellenic Foundation for Research & Innovation
 (Loizidou), European Research Council, Social Sciences Panel (Everson), Dutch Research
 Council (Everson), Slovenian Research Agency (Diamantides, Salecl).

 Additionally, staff are active in public and cultural debates. Most notable are Koram’s opinion
 pieces in The Guardian on systemic racist violence; Bowring’s regular appearances as an
 expert on International Law, Minorities and Russia on Islam Channel, Channel S (Bangladeshi
 TV), TV One and LBC radio; Guardiola Rivera’s contributions on literature at the Hay Festival;
 and El-Enany’s contribution to the BBC Robert Elms Show, June 2019 (interviewed about co-
 edited book with Bulley and Edkins, After Grenfell: Violence Resistance and Response).
 Douzinas is regularly interviewed by national and international media on human rights issues,
 including the Economist and BBC World Service. Day is part of a group that initiated the UK
 Mutual Aid movement during the pandemic and her interviews contributed to the widespread
 visibility of the movement.


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 19
