Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Holloway University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Social Work and Social Policy (SW&SP) at Royal Holloway University of London (RHUL) aims to
 build an interdisciplinary research environment that is responsive to rapidly changing social
 problems. In so doing, it contributes to social work, social science, socio legal and the legal
 corpus of knowledge. We work closely with public services, community and advocacy groups,
 and develop non-academic stakeholder networks and partnerships to advance the rights,
 representation and well-being of marginalised groups, such as African and Caribbean men,
 BAME prisoners, refugees, and older people. In addition, our work focuses on improving child
 adoption processes and tackling neglect in pursuit of a social justice agenda.

 1.1 Research Objectives 2014-2020.
 This is our first submission under this Unit. Our overarching objectives during this period have
 been successfully met. These were to:

    •   Commit to excellence and high-quality performance across outputs, impact and funding.
    •   Contribute to policy, practice and the communities we serve.
    •   Develop the necessary underpinning research support structure.

 The strategic aims for this period were vigorously pursued. These were to:

    •   Build an interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research environment that is responsive to
        rapidly changing social problems.
    •   Contribute to social work, social science, socio legal and the legal corpus of knowledge.
    •   Engage with perspectives of marginalised groups, such as African and Caribbean men,
        BAME prisoners, refugees, older people, and child adoption and neglect.
    •   Work closely with public services, community and advocacy groups.
    •   Develop non-academic stakeholder networks to support and assist in the development
        and completion of impactful research.

 The Unit’s structures, processes and practices were designed and developed to facilitate the
 achievement of these objectives.

 1.2 Research Structures
 The SW&SP Unit at RHUL brings together researchers from Social Work, Criminology, Law and
 Forensic Psychology. This submission includes 28.5 FTE Category A researchers from the
 Departments of Social Work and Law and Criminology within the School of Law and Social
 Sciences, plus 3 Category B researchers.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Social Work was established as a Department in 2012 with a focus on professional training and
 critical and practice research. RHUL introduced Law programmes in 2015, creating a Department
 of Law and Criminology. The Departments have worked closely together to advance SW&SP’s
 multi-and inter-disciplinary research focussed on social justice, marginalized groups and policy
 implementation and practice. The foci of our research interests and our distinctive combination
 of subjects has enabled us to organise our staff into four coherent inter-disciplinary research
 clusters: Crime and Punishment, Families and Children, Rights and Freedom, and Health and
 Social Care. Our clusters connect work across the School of Law and Social Sciences, where
 both Departments reside.

 The Crime and Punishment research cluster has two primary strands: the themes of ‘Victims
 and Exploitation’ and ‘Terrorism and Extremism’ are run though the Crime strand whilst the
 Punishment strand of research focuses on ‘Prisons, Parole and Probation’. In all of these areas
 the group regularly publishes papers in high quality international journals and produces policy
 briefings, leading research monographs (for example Richards’s Conceptualism Terrorism, OUP,
 2015) and edited collections. La Rooy and Memon, both Psychologists, have extensive research
 and publications on forensic interviews, especially related to child and autistic interviewees.
 Morison’s current research focuses on disengagement and deradicalization

 Within the Punishment strand, Meek and Hardwick’s work explores the role of penal institutions,
 the use of sport in prisons, ethnicity, prison safety legal standards and prison monitoring systems,
 for example Barn, Feilzer and Hardwick, “Black and Minority Ethnic Boys and Custody in England
 and Wales”, Social Sciences (2018).

 Critical perspectives on race, ethnicity, poverty, gender and violence are central to the work of
 the Families and Children cluster. Barn has supported the development of early childhood
 education and care in Palestine, and she studies the well-being of unaccompanied minors in
 Sicily. Gupta works on the role of social workers in adoption and is working on a project on young
 people’s participation in residential care. La Rooy et al’s chapter in the prestigious Lamb and
 Lerner Handbook of Child Psychology and Developmental Science (Wiley, 2015) supports the
 interdisciplinary nature of the group’s work. O’Connor's work on emotions in social work, and
 Leonard’s research on the arts and Social Work education extend our understanding of practice.

 The Rights and Freedoms cluster is concerned with the intersection of law, morality and social
 problems to advance social justice through law-making and providing evidence to policy. Leading
 research monographs include Marshall’s Human Rights Law and Personal Identity (Routledge,
 2014) and Humphreys’ Sustainable Development in the European Union (Routledge, 2017). The
 group also supports scholarship in international law with Sabuj considering the relationship
 between international law and other national legal systems specifically those operating within
 Islamic law principles. Gilder is examining the role of international law and the changing nature
 of human security. Humphreys’ work investigates questions of global injustice in relation to
 environmental issues and Marriott explores these dilemmas in the area of health provision. Jago
 researches policy and legal approaches to corruption from both a national and international
 perspective.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The theme of Digital Rights is tackled by O'Connell in work on the regulation of online images
 which has considered, with a colleague from Privacy International, mechanisms available to
 victims of image-based abuse (especially ‘revenge porn’) to remove their images from the
 internet. Mouzakiti considers data protection from a cross-national and supra-national
 perspective and Marriott's work on credit scoring evaluates its status in an increasingly marketised
 society. An additional emerging theme in this cluster has been the interaction of law, policy and
 service provision. Oliveira and Sinnamon investigate citizens' access to justice and the mediation
 of conflict through formal and informal legal structures, and Gupta examines adoption law from a
 human rights perspective. Regulation of professional work is researched by Jago, and Evans is
 a leader in the research of discretion in policy work in human services.

 The Health and Social Care cluster have directed their attention towards socially marginalised
 groups, and the regulation and provision of new human services. High quality publications have
 followed including Evans (with Hupe)’s Discretion and the Quest for Controlled Freedom
 (Palgrave, 2020) along with the highly impactful work of Keating who explores BAME communities
 and incidences of mental health. Other research and publications includes Mason and Evans on
 the topic of self-neglect in social work, Storey’s work on risk factors for elder abuse, and Mason's
 examination of homelessness support needs and the role of Social Work.

 1.3 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 The creation of interdisciplinary clusters has led to inter- and multi-disciplinary research across
 the two Departments and clusters, collaboration on the Professional Doctorate in Health and
 Social Care, and shared courses such as those on research methods. In 2020, a new BSc in
 Social Sciences was established, hosted by Social Work, which reflects the Unit’s multi-
 disciplinary approach.

 The four research clusters underpin the research strategy and constitute the driver for SW&SP
 research endeavours. The strategic purpose of each of the clusters is to foster scholarly outputs,
 promote engagement and impact, secure research funding, develop research partnerships with
 government departments, charities and private industry, and generate critique that addresses the
 intended and unintended consequences of social policy and practice. The breadth and depth of
 our cluster research is reflected in the growth of multi-disciplinary research over the REF period.
 For example, Keating’s exploration of BAME communities and mental health involved colleagues
 from Psychology, Disabilities Studies and Psychiatric Nursing. Gabe's work on biotechnology
 reflects collaboration with colleagues from Global Studies, Bioethics and Health Economics. Barn
 works extensively across disciplines, recently, for example, in an 11-nation study of 'Migrant
 groups and child welfare', resulting in an edited collection.

 Marshall and Memon have worked across Law and Psychology to explore the interaction of
 emotions and legal processes. Jago works with Ethicists, Health-scientists and Social Workers
 and Management scholars in his research on professional regulation. Evans’s work on discretion
 has brought together international scholars from disciplines such as Economics, Philosophy,
 Policy and Political Scientists. Gupta’s collaboration with a Geographer and a Media Arts scholar,
 examining the experiences of unaccompanied young asylum seekers, culminated in an ESRC
 seminar series. This multi-disciplinary approach is also evident in more junior staff, such as
 Webster’s work with dieticians and scholars in Marketing.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The research clusters organise half-day seminar presentations attended by all academic
 members and interested external parties. This is aimed at disseminating knowledge of research
 developments across the clusters and ensuring that this activity is not confined to the developing
 of intra-cluster research ideas. The clusters are not exclusive groups but have semi-permeable
 boundaries; some staff work in areas of more than one cluster.

 Over the last few years, informal collaboration within the Unit has been replaced by a formal
 research structure to support and sustain joint working — a Research strategy Group, Research
 and Impact Leads, a Director of PG research, and a review and supervision system

 The Research Strategy Group (RSG) is the main channel through which research is strategised
 and planned. The RSG is chaired by the Research Lead and meets at least once per term. The
 membership of the RSG comprises the heads of the research clusters, Heads of Department,
 research ethics lead and one other research active colleague. RSG meetings review research
 strategy to ensure relevant overlap with strategies in other Departments and throughout the
 School and College. The RSG also maintains appropriate procedures for monitoring the quality
 of research by reviewing current research projects, future bids for research funding, scholarly
 outputs and providing an ongoing programme of research support to colleagues. The Chair of
 the RSG is also a member of the School Research Committee.

 In addition, the Unit has engaged with RHUL’s key strategic research themes. One of the major
 themes is security, broadly defined, ranging from cyber-security through to international relations.
 Work on terrorism and counter-terrorism contributes to this, as does Denney’s work on cyber-
 security behaviours and social media. Marshall leads the RHUL’s Global Challenges Research
 Fund (GCRF) cluster on human rights. RHUL’s GCRF strategy submitted to Research England
 was highlighted in 2018 as one of ten commended university strategies.

 1.4 Approaches for enabling impact
 The Unit supports a culture of impact by encouraging knowledge exchange with external partners,
 creating opportunities to share good practice, and disseminating specific research to policy-
 makers and government departments.

 Research and impact in SW&SP over this REF period has pursued a strong level of professional
 and service engagement. At a strategic level this has been supported by a formal link with the
 West London Partnership authorities that included research dissemination, providing research
 seminars and research coproduction. Unit members also draw on relationships with professional
 organisations, service-providers, and third sector organizations to undertake research and impact
 work, run public events to share research, and provide a forum for informal contacts. The case
 studies included in this submission illustrate this approach. Gupta’s work with the London
 Borough of Camden on improving the child protection system reflects longstanding relationships
 with central London authorities and professional expertise in translating researching into practice;
 Meek’s impact work has been sustained and developed through teaching links between
 Criminology and HM Prison and Probation Service (HMPPS) including organising a series of
 prison events (that also resulted in 2 edited publications); and Keating’s work on improving the
 quality of life of residents in older persons homes through arts interventions keyed into existing
 community and arts links developed in Royal Holloway and, through the dissemination of
 evaluation research, has further reinforced these links.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Personal and professional links feed into research collaboration within clusters — such as
 Marriott, Mason and Hardwick’s recent work on human rights and residential care in Health and
 Social Care; Jago and van der Gaag’s work on fitness to practise processes in regulating health
 care professionals and Barn and Hardwick’s work examining Black and Minority Ethnic boys and
 custody. The Unit is currently working to formalise impact networks through its recently
 established School Advisory Board.

 1.5 Sustaining an open research environment and reproducibility of research
 We have disseminated our research through Open Access, exceeding REF2021 requirements.
 We are supported by library staff to deposit pre-publication copies of required items in the
 institutional repository (PURE). Morrison has developed and hosts the Talking Terror podcast,
 presenting key approaches in terrorism and counter-terrorism studies to the public. Gupta’s
 research on social model for child protection and on adoption has been disseminated through
 podcasts and blogs on sites such as Research in Practice and BASW. Researchers in the Unit
 have also sought to disseminate their work in open access free magazines such as Epilepsy
 Professional (Webster) and Social Dialogue (Evans and Leonard) and open-access peer-
 reviewed academic journals such as Social Work and Society (Gupta and Evans). Barn, Gupta,
 Mason, Meek and Morrison and Denney have also used other media – such as Twitter, podcasts
 blogs and video — to disseminate research.

 The Unit is committed to upholding the highest standards of research integrity and ethics and
 adheres to RHUL’s guidelines on research governance, integrity and ethics. During the REF
 period Evans, Gupta and Jago have been members of RHUL’s Research Ethics Committee.
 RHUL ensures that research is conducted in accordance with the International Concordat to
 support research integrity. All staff and PGR research is subject to RHUL’s ethics review process.

 1.6 Research Strategy and Objectives 2021-2026.
 The research and impact strategy over the next five years, 2021 – 2026, is to consolidate existing
 strengths emerging from the current strategy, and to incorporate a number of key priority areas
 for research development. There is a need to consolidate research areas in order to best utilise
 existing expertise, promote engagement with diverse funding streams, and support staff
 development. Key areas identified for research focus will be responsive to new challenges posed
 by rapidly changing technologies and social diversity, strengthening two College catalysts: Living
 Sustainably and Transformative Digital Technologies, Security & Society.

 Areas of strategic development emanating from existing research clusters include:

    •   Critically responding, through a social justice lens, to established and emerging discourses
        relating to marginalised groups.
    •   Agenda setting in key areas for policy development specifically in the areas of social
        diversity and mental health.
    •   Mining existing big data sets in order to develop social, legal and penal policies.
    •   Understanding the use and abuse of social media.
    •   The growing use of Artificial Intelligence and the legal and ethical concerns around its use
        for the purposes of policy and practice.
    •   The development of studies relating to security with particular reference to terrorism and
        counter-terrorism strategies.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and Staff Development
 RHUL has invested in SW&SP to build research and impact capacity through new appointments;
 21 of the Category A staff submitted here having been appointed since 2014. In Social Work, this
 investment has included appointing a Professor and supporting existing staff to undertake
 doctoral research. In Law and Criminology, research and impact strengths were enhanced with
 three new appointments in Forensic Psychology and 4.5 in Criminology, including Hardwick, the
 former Chief Inspector of Prisons and Chair of the Parole Board, and two researchers in terrorism
 and counter-terrorism to grow research in this area and launch a new MSc programme in this
 topic. The launch of new programmes in Law led to 11 new appointments on research and
 teaching contracts, including two Professors. These appointments reflect investment in the
 impact and research capacity of new Departments and to a lesser extent, natural staff turnover.
 Around half the staff in this submission have a professional background (five are registered Social
 Workers; three Chartered/Registered Psychologists; three qualified Lawyers and one is a
 practising magistrate).

 In this REF period there has been three promotions to Professor (Gupta and Keating in Social
 Work and Meek in Forensic Psychology) and five to Senior Lecturer (Marriott in Law and la Rooy,
 Dymock, Moyle and Webster in Criminology). Dymock, Moyle and Webster all arrived as ECRs
 fresh out of their PhD programmes; Mason was appointed from social work practice. We have
 seen two departures to senior positions elsewhere, plus retirements.

 New staff are appointed on probation and, in line with the RCUK Concordat, allocated a probation
 advisor (not their line manager). The advisor in SW&SP is an experienced researcher who
 provides support and guidance on developing a research career including advice of funding,
 publication strategy and networking. The workload planning system in SW&SP provides staff on
 probation with workload relief. Individual research planning takes place within the context of the
 annual appraisal system.

 Early-career researchers also undertake The Advance Programme, designed to advance the
 professional and personal development of early career researchers. Advance offers workshops
 that are designed to enable early-career research staff to develop research leadership skills and
 to share and develop generic research skills. As part of the Advance Staff Development
 programme, new staff receive ethics training. SW&SP contributes to this by providing speakers
 and in-programme support to participating staff.

 Staff in the Unit who have come to the university from professional practice have been supported
 to undertake postgraduate research training (PhD fees paid and recognised in their workloads).
 Gupta, Leonard and O’Connor gained their PhDs during this REF period via this route. In addition,
 Mason, with a professional practice background, is currently undertaking doctoral research.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For research-contracted staff, research is recognised in the workload-planning model with a lower
 teaching load (40% of their time is allocated to research). Our sabbatical policy is based on one
 term’s leave for every nine terms worked (pro-rata for part-time staff). Approval is based on
 submission of a research/impact plan approved by the School Research Committee and
 confirmation from the Head of Department that essential teaching will be covered. Individual
 research planning is managed through the annual appraisals system. The appraisal, usually
 undertaken by a senior member of staff, entails a review of research achievement over the
 previous year and the identification of short- and medium-term research goals, impact
 opportunities, potential funding opportunities, and, where appropriate, sabbatical planning and
 monitoring. Funding is automatically available to attend at least one conference a year – currently
 £750 pa to academic staff, and £500 to PGRs — towards the cost of presenting research at a
 conference. The expectation is that the established researchers will present, although this
 requirement is waived for teaching-focussed staff and new researchers. Research and impact
 achievements in the Unit are promoted via departmental webpages, cluster websites and social
 media supported by the social media officer in the School of Law and Social Sciences.

 Researchers work with service-providing organisations to advance the impact of their research.
 A dedicated impact officer in R&I also works with the Unit and individual researchers to develop,
 implement and evaluate impact plans. Secondments and exchanges with academic and non-
 academic bodies support research collaboration. Moyle, for instance, spent two years on leave
 at Griffith University, Australia, working on drug markets. Wright is currently seconded on an
 ESRC funded project at Cambridge on long-term imprisonment of young adults. The Unit
 regularly hosts international academics. Currently, we are hosting a Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 fellow from Ben-Gurion University, Israel and an academic visitor from Hosei University, Japan.

 Disciplinary criteria for professorial posts are agreed by the Heads of Department in consultation
 with professors and an external advisor. There are generic college wide criteria (research,
 teaching, external engagement and impact) for academic promotion. All staff involved in
 appointments and promotions have unconscious-bias training.

 Staff on teaching-focussed contracts can move onto research contracts. Teaching contract staff
 can engage in research activities if they wish; they can join research clusters (to develop their
 experience of research and scholarship and make links between research and teaching). They
 are also given access to funding to attend conferences without the requirement to present. The
 sabbatical policy has also recently been extended to teaching-focussed staff who may apply for
 study leave for pedagogic projects or complete research prior to moving to a research contract.
 Three members of staff (Webster, Jago and Mason) in the Unit in this REF period have moved
 from teaching-focussed to teaching and research contracts.

 2.2 Research students: recruitment, training and supervision, and support
 At the start of this REF Period there were 16.5 (FTE) PGR students in SW&SP. The PGR
 community in SW&SP now stands at 49 PGR students. SW&SP has graduated 26.75 PhD
 students in this assessment period (fractional numbers for shared supervision with other
 Units).The applied nature of Social Work, Law and Forensic Psychology enables SW&SP
 researchers to bring their work into the research training of practitioners, this has included the
 development of a Professional Doctorate in Health and Social Care Practice. There are nine
 professional doctorate students registered in the unit with the first cohort completing their period
 of registration in 2022.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All PGR students have a first and second supervisor and join at least one of the research clusters.
 SW&SP also supports interdisciplinarity through increasing supervision across disciplines within
 the unit, and with other units (for example Barn with Psychology and Denney with Computer
 Science, Geography and Information Security). PGRs have an annual review, which is attended
 by their supervisors and two independent panel members. An upgrade review confirms their final
 doctoral registration. All students are offered a mock viva. For students on the Professional
 Doctorate, the first two years are taught and include research methods modules. In the third year,
 students apply to upgrade to the thesis stage.

 The Post-Graduate Research Lead (PGRL) runs monthly training workshops with PGR students,
 concentrating on academic, personal and professional development and providing an opportunity
 for students to discuss their research with their peers. The PGRL also organises an annual
 research conference, where research students present in front of their peers and staff. PGR
 students also have a yearly conference allowance from their Departments to enable them to
 present/network at national and international conferences. Writing Retreats have been organised
 using seed funding and have been followed up by self-organised retreats by students.

 PGR students are often involved in impact-related activities for their own research, and are
 supported in these endeavours by their supervisors, Departmental PGR workshops, and activities
 throughout RHUL. Research impact is often embedded in PGR research design, particularly in
 professional areas such as Social Work and Forensic Psychology (e.g., engagement with HMPPS
 to target key service priorities for research and policy/practice development, prior to research
 design). Several PGR students have written for The Conversation, blog posts for national and
 international organisations of direct relevance to their research (e.g., the Canadian Network for
 the Prevention of Elder Abuse) and have won awards at national and international conferences
 (e.g., the International Association of Forensic Mental Health Services Annual Conference).

 The newly initiated (2018) Doctoral School augments departmental provision, with infrastructure
 for research methods training for the School of Law and Social Sciences, which all of our PGR
 students' access. Research ethics and good practice are embedded into our PGR training
 programme with a compulsory session on ethics early on in the first term The Doctoral School
 also offers training in general academic skills (for example, writing boot camps) and employability
 (for example, virtual classrooms focussed on business skills). It also provides non-academic
 support relating to well-being and constitutes a broader social space for PGR students. The
 PGRL, alongside supervisors, enables PGR students to link with these activities.

 The PGRL is a key link between PGR students and PGR supervisors and the Doctoral School.
 The Doctoral School co-ordinates PGR resources across RHUL to support supervisors and
 students. Students, for instance, participate in the RHUL Researcher Development Programme
 (RDP), which includes the opportunity to meet research students from other Departments and
 Schools — participation in the programme is monitored in annual reviews. Students also have
 access to central resources including specific methods-training courses (such as NVivo) and one-
 off research skills events such as the Writing Boot Camp. The Doctoral School also provides
 additional non-academic support around well-being, financial assistance and employability
 (offering, for example, virtual classrooms focussed on business skills) and a broader social space
 for PGR students.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR students are funded from a range of sources including industry (e.g., Police Federation of
 England and Wales), research councils (e.g., ESRC, AHRC), the charitable sector (e.g., Council
 for Assisting Refugee Academics), RHUL scholarships, employer contributions (particularly for
 part-time students) and self-funding. Funding has also been obtained from the Leverhulme Trust
 (following the substantial award of the Magna Carta scholarships to RHUL in 2014), the AHRC’s
 RHUL led technē scheme, and the EPSRC’s Doctoral Centre for Cybersecurity at RHUL. Across
 the Unit there are usually one or two studentships per year funded by RHUL, which are
 periodically supplemented by Departmental funds. RHUL scholarships offer stipends that are
 matched to those of the Research Councils, and typically in the region of £16,000 per year for a
 three-year award. Scholarships also include payment of fees (around £4,000 to £4,500 for HEU
 students).

RHUL provides training for both new and experienced supervisors. The PGRL provides advice
and guidance to supervisors on college procedures and initiatives. Supervisors in the Unit also
meet to discuss issues in PGR supervision; recent themes explored have been on maximising
the likelihood of student submission within the timescale set by RHUL and on supporting BAME
PGR students.

 2.3 Equality and diversity
 A clear strategy that promotes the importance of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) within our
 broader research ethos ensures that recruitment and promotion are underpinned by values of
 equality, diversity and inclusion. Royal Holloway strives to go beyond the public sector duty
 placed upon universities by the Equality Act 2010 and has devoted staff and resources to that
 end, including the appointment of an EDI lead. Gupta, who is the current EDI lead in the Unit, is
 also the School’s Equality Champion. Recruitment panel members are trained regarding
 unconscious bias and Heads of Department/School are aware of EDI priorities when recruiting.
 We have proactively advanced university-wide initiatives. For example, Evans and Gupta were
 involved in the college’s successful application for a Bronze Race Equality Charter Mark and the
 submission in April 2020 of an application for a Bronze Athena SWAN Charter Mark.

 RHUL convenes an Aurora programme for women up to SL level to develop leadership skills and
 strategies for working in HE, and an Enabling Women in Promotions programme consisting of
 half-day workshops designed to support women SLs and Readers in preparing for promotion. A
 Mandela career development programme for BAME staff began in 2019. Two members of staff
 have been supported in their promotion planning in this REF period by joining these college-wide
 programmes. Both were subsequently promoted.

 EDI policies since REF2014, sustained through annual staff reviews and the implementation of a
 transparent workload model, have had a clear, beneficial impact. Our staffing strategy —
 promotions and recruitment — has made a positive impact on the ethic and gender UoA balance
 of leadership in the unit. The Category A staff profile in this submission is: 9 Professors, 9 senior
 lecturers, 11 lecturers, and 1 senior research fellow. 5 of the Professors (55%), 5 senior lecturers
 (55%) and 4 (36%) of the lectures are women. Five members of staff in the submission are BAME
 (17.5%), of whom 3 are Professors (33%). Three members of staff identify as LGBTQ+ (11%),
 including two Professors, and two staff identify as having a disability. Of PhDs awarded in the
 REF in the Unit 65% are female, 35% male; and 34% are BAME, 66% non-BAME.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit has used the maternity sabbaticals scheme to enable returning staff to take a one-term
 sabbatical to strengthen their research. Consideration of reasonable adjustments for staff and
 research students identifying as having a disability includes identifying help to support research
 productivity. Support currently provided in the Unit includes providing equipment at home and in
 college such as suitable chairs, screens and software such as Dragon.

 Work-life balance in the Unit is recognised with meetings organised within core hours (10-4) and
 changing regular meetings to reflect different working days of staff who are part-time or who have
 caring commitments. Flexibility working arrangements in the department recognise parental and
 other caring responsibilities. Cluster meetings, research events and seminars have moved on-
 line (due to Covid-19 in 2020). An unanticipated benefit has been the inclusion and diversity
 benefits associated with this form of interaction and will plan to continue with some on-line events
 in the Unit for this reason.

 The UoA has followed Royal Holloway’s REF2021 code of practice and worked with staff to
 identify relevant special circumstances. Our processes have also ensured that EDI imperatives
 have been met in the REF outputs selection process through the gender and ethnicity diversity of
 the UoA Selection Panel composition. All staff involved in the REF2021 documentation and
 decision-making have taken mandatory training on unconscious bias.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income
 SW&SP, as a new research unit within RHUL, has aimed to develop its research income in a
 sustainable way across the range of its work and cluster. In this REF period, research grant
 awards achieved by the Unit has exceeded £1.3 million.

 The Unit has sought research funding from a range of sources, including competitive sources of
 grant income and funders with close links to end-users and enhances support for our impact work.
 Over this REF period funding has been received from:

 Research Councils and international organisations (such as the European Commission Horizon
 2020 — Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships; Ministry of Education, Germany;
 Research Council of Norway; and US Department of Defence).

 UK research funding organisations (including the Economic and Social Research Council; the
 British Academy; and the National Institute for Health Research.

 Professional organisations, charities, local authorities and private organisations (such as the
 Wellcome Trust; Safe Ground; the Health and Care Professions Council; the Defence Science
 and Technology Laboratory and Brent Mind).

 Funding has supported empirical work research in all four research clusters in the Unit. The multi-
 disciplinary nature of our research is reflected in the inter-disciplinary nature of much of our
 external funding.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the Families and Children cluster, for instance, Barn's work on children at risk has been
 supported by the Social Tech Trust and the British Academy. Gupta’s work on the role of social
 workers in adoption has been funded by the British Association of Social Workers, and Gupta
 with other scholars is working on a German Government funded project with the Universities of
 Hamburg and Siegen on young people’s participation in residential care. Gupta is also a mentor
 for a Marie Curie Fellowship funded by the EU in her research area of ‘Poverty, child protection
 and parents’ participation’. Webster is currently working on a research project entitled: ‘Intensive
 Grandparenting? Exploring the Changing Nature of Grandparenting’ funded by The British
 Academy.

 In Crime and Punishment Wright is currently a co-investigator in the new £682,000 ESRC
 funded project “Long Term Imprisonment form young adulthood – a longitudinal follow up” with
 colleagues from the Institute of Criminology, University of Cambridge. Denney was principal
 investigator on an ESRC project entitled “The current and future use of social media technologies
 on military personnel and their families”. This led to a further two awards from the Defence
 Science and Technology Laboratory which enabled Denney et al. to extend their work on the
 impact of social media on military personnel. Wright, Meek and Hardwick have completed, with
 other scholars, a two-year project funded by the Disabilities Trust that investigated the efficiency
 and efficacy of a Brain Injury Linkworker service for women in prison.

 Meek (funded by Safe Ground) evaluated HMYOI Brinsford, and Denney received NIHR funding
 for work measuring and improving the health and quality of healthcare for offenders on community
 sentences. Moyle and Dymock were awarded funding through a Wellcome Trust Seed Award for
 a study entitled “Pharmacosexuality: the past present and future of sex on drugs”. This study
 investigated the historical and contemporary interaction between the pharmaceuticalisation of
 sexuality and recreational drug use in sexual contexts. This builds on the important work of Moyle
 in the area of drugs markets and drug supply.

 Marshall, in the Rights and Freedom, has been funded by the Academy of Medical Sciences
 and Global Challenges Research Fund to look at the relationship between law and policy and the
 voices of displaced survivors of sexual violence in conflict zones. Marshall and a Ugandan
 academic colleague were awarded a GCRF/Academy of Medical Sciences networking grant
 entitled “Infusing Law and Policy with the Voices of Displaced Survivors of Sexual Violence in
 Conflict”.

 In Health and Social Care, Wright has recently worked as a co-investigator on a project funded
 by the Foundation for the Sociology of Health and Illness, which aimed to understand how
 ‘healthy’ prisons can be designed and incorporate trauma-informed care and practice. Keating
 received funding from the National Institute for Health Research oriented at recovery for African
 and Caribbean men. Jago, with van der Gaag and Webster, along with colleagues from Computer
 Science, is currently conducting an investigation into the potential of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to
 support regulatory decision making in complaints about nurses in the US, UK and Australia. This
 project is funded by the National Council of State Boards of Nursing and, if successful, the AI tool
 under development could improve the quality and consistency of decision-making in nurse
 regulation nationally and internationally. This innovative study provides an excellent example of
 the way in which researchers in this cluster are engaging with both the challenges posed by
 technological change but also the way in which technology can be applied to professional
 regulation.



                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As mentioned above, SW&SP has sought to develop a reputation, profile, and competitiveness
 in research grant income generation. To achieve this, the Unit has established a Research Bid
 Support Group that aims to make informal support available for all colleagues, if needed, mainly
 to apply for funding and when colleagues wish to submit an article to a particular journal. The
 group's support is particularly valuable in supporting new carer researchers and individuals
 moving into research from a professional background. Such support takes the format of 1-1
 advice/support or advice/support from more than one colleague with an interest/expertise in the
 relevant area.

 As well as leading research bids staff in SW&SP have acted as co-investigators on grants held
 at RHUL within Drama, Psychology, Geography and Computer Science. For instance, Keating
 was co-investigator in Drama, working on evaluating an art intervention in residential care. Wright
 is currently seconded on an ESRC funded project at the Institute of Criminology, Cambridge, on
 young adults' long-term imprisonment.

 In addition to grant funding, funding has been secured for PhD scholarships (as noted above in
 section 2.) and some private funding secured for policy work (such as Gupta and Evans'
 evaluation of the Sebastian's Action Trust's welfare advice service and Richards on Combating
 Jihadist Terrorism and Extremism).

 3.2 Infrastructure
 Staff in the Unit are based in Egham and have a base in central London at RHUL’s building in
 Bedford Square, and rooms in Senate House at the University of London. The central London
 site enables our academics to connect with world-leading research communities. It provides a
 key location to link with policymakers, professional organisations and the third sector, e.g. we
 organised a national symposium on cutting edge research in adult social work at Bedford Square
 and have run a series of the knowledge exchange events where researchers presented their
 research to practitioners and managers. As part of Egham campus’ capital investment during this
 period, RHUL opened a state-of-the-art library (The Emily Wilding Davison Building) with
 dedicated facilities for PGRs. In addition to these new library facilities, members of RHUL have
 access to Senate House and its online library resources.

 Research organisation and partnerships
 Staff are encouraged to access relevant training options within RHUL and beyond. RHUL also
 provides competitive initial stage funding (with some contribution from Departments) for research
 project development. This has enabled a number of researchers in the Unit (for example Storey,
 Hardwick and Meek, and Jago) to pilot research. Gupta received funding for ‘Social Work and
 the Capability Approach’, which contributed to her participation in a successful research project
 with German colleagues. RHUL’s Humanities and Arts Research Centre funded Evans (and a
 colleague in Drama) to investigate the drama as a research strategy to interrogate professional
 knowledge.

 RHUL’s access to the Global Challenges Research Fund also provides funding to support global
 visitors, early career researchers and travel for networking and projects— Marshall, for instance,
 carried out research networking in Uganda in May 2019; Behrman hosted visitors from
 development assistance countries to a conference in June 2019.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Operational infrastructure
 Staff in the Unit are formally supported in seeking funding and advice on impact by RHUL’s R&I
 unit. We have a dedicated link person who identifies and links us with new funding opportunities;
 provides costing; and organises the workflow approval for applications. All researchers in the
 Unit have access to the ‘Research Professional' for support in grant-seeking work. The R&I unit
 also offers support with Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise, where a named impact person links
 with the work of the Unit.

 RHUL’s investment in IT has been central to supporting research and dissemination. Our website
 allows research clusters to publicise and disseminate their work and provide updates on activities.
 Researchers in the Unit also have access to PURE to make information about their research
 available, such as publications, collaborations, research projects, grants etc. PURE also provides
 open access to our research outputs.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 SW&SP is involved in national and international collaborations and research and impact
 networks.     Our work extends beyond traditional discipline boundaries and across the
 academic/practice divide. Members of the Unit are supported to be involved in national
 disciplinary and professional organisations. Research in the unit is notable for contributing both
 to international research developments and to influencing and enhancing services and
 professional practices.

 4.1 National and International Collaboration
 Staff in the Unit regularly collaborate with academic colleagues across the UK. Examples of
 collaborative funded research in this REF period include: Gabe's major research study into sleep,
 building on established collaboration with colleagues at Warwick, Kings and Surrey; Keating's
 national research project exploring socially oriented approaches to mental health recovery for
 African and Caribbean men with colleagues at Leeds Beckett University; Wright’s work with the
 Institute of Criminology at Cambridge University on an ESRC-funded project; and Gupta’s role as
 co-investigator with Huddersfield in the British Association of Social Workers funded Adoption
 Enquiry.

 SW&SP staff have long-standing and productive collaborations with academics across the world.
 This is particularly reflected in three key areas of our research: Families and Children; Crime and
 Punishment; and professional decision-making across Health and Social Care.

 Barn has worked with colleagues in India (Delhi) and the USA (South Florida) on gender and
 violence and in Norway (Bergen), Finland (Tampere) and the USA (Emanuel) on migrant families
 and child welfare, resulting in significant outputs — one book, nine journal papers, and five book
 chapters. Gupta collaborates with colleagues at Ben-Gurion University (Israel) on poverty-aware
 practice in social work, generating an EU Horizon 2020 Marie-Curie Fellowship with Dr Saar-
 Heiman. She is also involved in a project with colleagues in Germany (Universities of Siegen and
 Hamburg), researching service-users' involvement in Children's Social Care Services.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the crime and punishment cluster, Morrison is the principal investigator on a CREST/ESRC
 project designed to inform the Home Office on the current research on disengagement and
 deradicalization. Richards is the Director of CoJiT (Combating Jihadist Terrorism and
 Extremism), an independent and privately funded research project on terrorism and
 counterterrorism that includes collaborative work with academic colleagues from the Netherlands
 and USA. The CoJiT project commissioned and published 27 synthesis papers from leading
 experts and analysts. Morrison also works closely with colleagues from the UK and Aarhus
 University on a funded project on Northern Irish terrorism. Hardwick is also involved in multi-
 national policy research in prison rehabilitation, prevention of torture and national prison
 monitoring bodies.

 With regard to research on evidence, knowledge and decision-making in social care, Evans
 initiated a project with colleagues from Germany, Russia, Norway and Switzerland on
 international knowledge transfer in social work (which resulted in a special issue of the European
 Journal of Social Work); co-led a multi-disciplinary project on discretion with a colleague from the
 Netherland (Erasmus) including organising an international symposium and publishing an edited
 collection; and participated in projects with colleagues from Israel (Ben Gurion), the UK (Dundee),
 and the Netherlands (Amsterdam, HAN) exploring arts and professional practice in social care,
 including delivering workshops at international conferences and seminars, and an edited
 collection. O'Connor and Leonard have contributed to a special issue of the Journal of Social
 Practice via their participation in the European social work special research interest group on
 decisions, assessment and risk. Gupta and Keating are involved in a network with colleagues in
 the Netherlands (HAN), the Czech Republic (Brno), Finland (Lapland) to promote the use of the
 Capabilities Approach in social work practice research internationally.

 The Unit has significantly expanded outputs across a range of subjects and journals, formats and
 other media. Publications include leading disciplinary journals, chapters and monographs from
 major international publishers, and textbooks translating research for professional education and
 practice. Cross disciplinarity is promoted by the Unit and is reflected in our researchers publishing
 outside narrow disciplinary boundaries. For example, Evans, a social worker, has written on
 discretion and compliance groupings for the Oxford Research Encyclopaedia of Politics. Jago, a
 legal academic, has published on regulation in the British Journal of Social Work. Storey, a
 Forensic Psychologist, has had work on elder abuse interventions published in the British Journal
 of Social Work. Behrman, a legal academic, has published in the Journal of Refugees.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2 Relationships with users and beneficiaries of our research and knowledge transfer
 Collaborations with a range of policymakers, services, third sector organisations, practitioners
 and user communities are a key strength of SW&SP’s research. Hardwick the Unit’s lead on
 engagement is also Director of External Engagement for the School. He is regularly engaged
 with NGOs and public bodies linking research and practice and assisting members of the Unit to
 do this. Storey has worked with organisations such as the Metropolitan Police Service, The Suzy
 Lamplugh Trust, and Action on Elder Abuse, to disseminate her research and enhance service
 provision around interpersonal violence. Jago has presented his work to the Professional
 Standards Authority and jointly chaired the Authority's annual conference in 2020. He is also a
 trustee of The Oxford Foundation for Ethics and Communication in Health Care Practice, an
 organisation promoting the understanding of the ethical concerns in health care amongst the
 general public. La Rooy is a member of the Joint Investigative Interviewers Practice and
 Development Committee, Scottish Police College, Tulliallan and Consejero (Scientific Advisor) to
 Fundación Amparo y Justicia, Santiago, Chile.

 Gabe has disseminated his research to key research-use audiences, including the West Midlands
 Ambulance Service, Narcolepsy UK and West Midlands Primary Care Research Network.
 Keating has been involved with community initiatives around BAME and mental health. Barn’s
 work on sexual violence has included involvement with the Pothohar Association (UK) on Sikhism,
 Gender and Human Rights.

 Staff in the Unit work closely with Marketing and Communications at RHUL to disseminate
 research and comment by the media as experts on particular current affairs. Examples include
 radio appearances on BBC Radio 4's Today programme (Hardwick and Meek,) Thinking Allowed
 (Gabe) and Woman's Hour (Dymock); and TV appearances including Sky News (Barn). Gupta
 was the academic advisor for a National Theatre production on the impact of austerity on families
 and communities and appeared on a panel at the NT chaired by Samira Ahmed and the poet
 Lemn Sissay. Barn was a panellist on a Live Discussion on Adoption Reforms, organised by The
 Guardian and UK Asian Film Festival for a discussion on depictions of sexual violence in popular
 culture.

 Research in SW&SP has also gained an audience at national government level. Meek has been
 invited to 10 Downing Street to discuss her work on sport in prisons and has also presented her
 research in evidence to government committees (further details in the ICS). Denney has
 undertaken work for the Cabinet Office on cybersecurity behaviours. Moyle's work on drug
 markets and networks has featured in the Global Commission on Drug Policy Report 2016, and
 the UK government's Violent Crime Strategy 2018.

 4.3 Contributions to Research Base, Economy and Society
 SW&SP staff engage with a range of editorial boards, including Adoption & Fostering, Child
 Indicators Research, Ethnic and Racial Studies, Denning Law Journal (Barn); British Journal of
 Social Work, and Families, Relationships and Societies (Gupta), Incarceration (Hardwick),
 Nursing Ethics (Jago), International Journal for Human Rights in Health Care, Mental Health
 Review Journal (Keating), and Journal of Criminological Research, Policy and Practice (La Rooy).
 Gabe has been a guest editor of Current Sociology and Social Science and Medicine, and Evans
 has been a guest editor of the European Journal of Social Work. Gupta is Co-editor of the




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ESWRA/ Policy Press Research in Social Work series; Evans is also a member of the editorial
 board.

 Members of the Unit are also actively engaged in broader professional activities and link these to
 their work in the Unit. For instance, Gabe was Chair of the Foundation of Sociology of Health and
 Illness and Webster a recent member of the organizing committee of the British Sociological
 Association's Medical Sociology. Meek is Chair of Research, Evidence and Quality Positive
 Action Group, Alliance of Sport and sits on the Joint Education Committee of the British
 Psychological Society and the Youth Justice Board's Levelling the Playing Field steering group.
 Gupta, Evans and Keating were members of the organizing committee of The UK Joint Social
 Work Education Conference and UK Social Work Research Conference in 2014. Gupta is
 currently Joint Chair of the Association of Professors of Social Work.

 The strong international profile of research in the Unit is reflected in regular invitations to give
 research presentations/lectures at universities or conference keynotes at a wide range of
 institutions in countries. During this REF period, Unit members gave over thirty research
 presentations at international research seminars and meetings in eighteen European countries.
 Outside Europe, members of the Unit have also presented at Universities across the globe:
 Australia (1), Canada (3), Hong Kong (1), India (1), Israel (4), Japan (2), Mexico (2), New Zealand
 (1), South Africa (1), South Korea (1), Turkey (1), Uganda (1) and USA (3).

 SW&SP’s research is used and valued by senior decision-makers, both nationally and
 internationally, and influences the development and application of policy. In the UK, our research
 contributes to decision-making in a range of government departments: in the Cabinet Office,
 Denney has worked on cybersecurity behaviours within organizations. Meek's work on sport in
 prison has directly impacted the work of the Ministry of Justice, Youth Custody Service and
 HMPPS. Barn has been an associate member for the Parliamentary Group on Children and
 Young People in and Leaving Care, and senior policymakers in the Home Office, Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office and the Defence and Science Technology Laboratory on terrorism have
 received briefings from Richards. Gupta’s work on the Adoption Enquiry reflects not only our
 contribution to the policy debate but also engages social care practitioners, service-users and
 legal practitioners (with, for example, the findings being highlighted in court judgements). The
 Global Commission on Drug Policy Report 2016 and the UK government's Violent Crime Strategy
 2018 have both incorporated Moyle's work on drug markets and networks.

 Internationally the Equal Opportunities Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council
 of Europe on Islamophobia has heard expert opinion on the Islamic headscarf debate from
 Marshall; and La Rooy has presented his research on child interviewing to the Annual Meeting of
 the Family Law Association and to the International Criminal Court at The Hague.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the work represented in Meek, Keating and Gupta's impact case studies, a concern
 with impact — often drawing on our strengths in interdisciplinarity — is embedded in the unit’s
 work. In the Children and Families cluster, Gupta's participatory research with the London
 Borough of Camden has directly led to changes in child protection processes and the increase in
 the involvement of parents in service delivery; and Leonard and O'Connor have disseminated
 their research on decision-making and professional practice to social workers in London.
 Workshops for practitioners and policymakers, led by Barn, have explored youth justice, child
 welfare, and transracial adoption; and Barn has also collaborated with computer scientists to
 produce a tool kit/ user manual designed for practitioners in youth offending teams to support
 them in their role with young people. Gupta has also run a practitioner-research group for the
 West London local authorities involved in the West London Teaching Partnership (WLTP), a
 collective that seeks to develop new approaches to education in Social Work. Gupta has worked
 with media arts practitioners to disseminate research, for example, the play “Faith, Hope and
 Charity” performed at the National Theatre in 2019.

 Denney, in the Crime and Punishment cluster, has worked with the Department of Psychology
 and Information Security on an international study 'Risky cyber behaviour in a large commercial
 organisation' (Glaxo Smith Kline) which has had a demonstrable impact on cybersecurity
 practices within the organisation. Denney's work on probation healthcare with Sirdifield and
 Brooker has produced a ‘Probation Healthcare Commissioning Toolkit’ that is now a working
 resource for commissioners and practitioners in health and criminal justice. Morrison's work on
 terrorism has been presented to practitioners at the Centre for Research and Evidence on
 Security Threats (CREST) in the UK and internationally at the US Department of Justice
 Conference, NATO Centre for Excellence, and the Indian Police Service. Denney was co-
 Investigator on a project that examined the impact of different forms of cybersecurity practices in
 various organisations (report produced for GCHQ). Punchy videos update practitioners on current
 research into terrorism in Morrison's podcast series Talking Terror.

 In the Rights and Freedom cluster, Marshall's research in Uganda engages with local NGOs to
 work with survivors of sexual violence in conflict, disability and refugee populations. Marriott,
 Hardwick and Mason's research with the Care Quality Commission explores the enforcement of
 human rights in care home settings.

 In the Health and Social Care cluster, Mason's research on homelessness and approaches to co-
 production built on engagement with local government and voluntary organisations and included
 delivering workshops for practitioners looking at the experience of people who are homeless and
 excluded. Keating's research on Black men and mental health has had a significant impact on
 services such as the Centre for Excellence in Black and Minority Ethnic Mental Health with
 Wandsworth Community Empowerment Network and the St George's Mental Health Trust. The
 cluster has also run practitioner-focussed research dissemination events in central London for the
 WLTP and Evans has run a WLTP practitioner-research group. In the field of therapeutic nutrition,
 Webster has presented her research on the ketogenic diet to consultants and dieticians.




                                                                                             Page 17
