Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Keele University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA2 Public Health, Health Services, and Primary Care

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 Our submission to UoA2 reflects research undertaken by the Institute for Primary Care and Health
 Sciences at Keele University which, in 2020, was fully integrated into the School of Medicine (Head
 of School: Mallen, Director of Research: Van der Windt) - the largest and most research-intensive
 of the four Schools within the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences. In REF2014 our UoA2
 submission was ranked 6th of 32 in Public Health, Health Services & Primary Care with 91%
 outputs rated 3-4* and our impact case studies rated 4*.

 Keele University’s health research is primarily located in the Faculty of Medicine and Health
 Sciences (FMHS), which was recently restructured to integrate research and education within four
 Schools - Medicine; Allied Health Professions; Nursing and Midwifery; Pharmacy and
 Bioengineering - to optimise capacity building and career development across all health
 disciplines, to increase visibility and impact of health research, and to calibrate Unit aims against
 the Keele Research Strategy. Cross-cutting research themes, led by senior researchers operate
 across the Schools to optimise interdisciplinary working. The Faculty Research Committee,
 chaired by the Dean for Research, oversees strategic development, infrastructure, capacity
 building, sustainability, and visibility. Each School in the Faculty has a Director of Research to
 promote, develop, and coordinate research activity.

 The research infrastructure includes:
 ● Research and Innovation Support Enhancement (RaISE) team, providing support for research
    development, contracts, research integrity, and regulatory compliance
 ● NIHR-accredited and UKCRC-fully registered Keele Clinical Trials Unit
 ● Internationally recognised patient & public involvement and engagement (PPIE)
 ● Impact Accelerator Unit, established during this assessment period to facilitate knowledge
    mobilisation and drive early adoption of best evidence into policy and practice

 Our mission is to conduct interdisciplinary research focusing on long-term conditions with the
 highest impact on health and well-being globally, building on our world-leading expertise in
 musculoskeletal health, mental health, and methodological strengths in prognosis research, trials,
 evidence synthesis, and mixed-methods research. Our work is nested strongly in primary,
 community, and social care, ensuring maximum benefit to patients, their families and wider
 society.

 The School of Medicine hosts the national Primary Care Centre funded by Versus Arthritis (Hay),
 the University-wide Institute for Global Health, and three cross-Faculty research themes:
 Musculoskeletal Health (Dunn), Mental Health and Well-being (Chew-Graham, Farooq), and
 Health Professionals Education Research (LeFroy, Yeates). The School of Medicine (SoM) (3rd
 in the 2020 Guardian ranking of places to study medicine) offers research-led teaching and
 supervised undergraduate research placements, including ASPIRE studentships and intercalated
 research-focused MPhils. Academic career pathways are supported through our participation in
 the NIHR Integrated Academic Training Programme (Lead: Protheroe); leadership of the
 Wellcome Clinical PhD Programme for Primary Care, and capacity development programme of
 the NIHR School for Primary Care Research (Mallen); and dedicated support for staff and students
 applying for external fellowships.

 The research teams consist of primary healthcare professionals (including general practitioners,
 rheumatologists, pharmacists, nurses, physiotherapists and mental health specialists) working
 across traditional boundaries, highlighting our forward-thinking vision to improve care in primary,
 community, and social care. The teams work together with local Clinical Commissioning Groups,
 Community Health Trusts, Sustainability and Transformation Partnerships, and the NIHR Clinical

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Network to set priorities, design, and deliver our studies. Research partnerships are
 formalised through the Primary Care Research Consortium (working with health and care partners
 in Staffordshire) and expanded through the launch of Keele Deal | Health, a commitment between
 Keele University and local health and care partners to address the region's health and care
 priorities.

 We are members of the NIHR School for Primary Care Research since 2010, with Mallen
 becoming Director in 2021. We are the only group to hold more than one primary care NIHR
 Research Professorship (Mallen, Foster). Four of our senior team hold NIHR Senior Investigator
 awards (Foster, Dziedzic, Hay (Emeritus), Croft (Emeritus)). Our success in driving research
 dissemination and impact is recognised through three NIHR Knowledge Mobilisation Fellowships
 (Dziedzic, Stevenson, Swaithes).

 1.2. ACHIEVEMENT OF STRATEGIC AIMS
 OVERVIEW: Our UoA2 submission in REF2014, and our main strategic aim for this period,
 reflected a focus on musculoskeletal health and primary care, where we have continued to
 make significant contributions to new knowledge underpinning improvements in musculoskeletal
 health and care, consolidating our position as international leaders in this field. A second aim,
 strategic expansion of our research portfolio, has been achieved through two new research
 groupings in mental health & well-being, and prognosis research. A third aim, to strengthen
 knowledge translation, has been achieved through a vibrant Impact Accelerator Unit with local,
 regional, national, and international reach, embedded across our research programmes. Overall,
 our grant income (£54.8M) is 156% higher than REF2014. Achievements against these three
 strategic aims are evidenced below.

 Aim 1: Reduce the impact of musculoskeletal pain and arthritis in individuals and
 populations (Hay, Mallen)

 Our Arthritis Research UK/Versus Arthritis national centre of excellence for primary care research,
 established in 2008, was renewed in 2013 and 2018. We are partners in the MRC/Versus Arthritis
 Centre for Musculoskeletal Health and Work (Walker-Bone, Southampton, £2.2M, 2019-2024),
 and, with colleagues at the Haywood Hospital, gained recognition as a EULAR European Centre
 of Excellence for Rheumatology Research. Our researchers became panel members on
 international Lancet Commissions on low back pain (Foster, Croft) and osteoarthritis (Dziedzic,
 Peat).

 Develop tools and new knowledge to support surveillance and monitoring of
 musculoskeletal health and care (Peat, Jordan, Yu, Dunn).

 Using national and regional primary care-linked databases, we have published estimates of
 trends and inequalities in the consultation incidence, prevalence, outcomes, and
 management of musculoskeletal conditions, including new UK estimates in children and young
 people. These have featured in policy documents, clinical guidelines, Global Burden of Disease
 modelled estimates, and are being considered by Public Health England for inclusion within
 national indicator dashboards. We highlighted increased prescribing of long-term opioids for
 musculoskeletal pain and quantified increased risks of adverse events (Ashworth Pain 2016;
 Richardson Eur J Pain 2018; Yu Rheumatol 2020), influencing pain management guidelines
 internationally, and feeding into a new research programme to reduce inappropriate use.
 Collaborating with Oxford University and Versus Arthritis, we led the development, validation, and
 implementation of a new patient-reported musculoskeletal health outcome measure - MSK-
 HQ - now recommended for routine use by NHS England and the Chartered Society of
 Physiotherapy, translated into 8 languages (9 in development), and 440 licenses issued to health
 organisations since 2017 (150 to NHS trusts).

 Improve the content and organisation of musculoskeletal care (Foster, Hay, Roddy, Van
 der Windt)


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Following the success of our STarTBack model of prognostic stratification with matched
 treatment pathways for low back pain (see Impact Case Study), we have sought to extend this
 approach to a wider set of painful musculoskeletal conditions (Foster, NIHR PGfAR £1.9M, 2014-
 2020), incorporating a RCT of 1200 participants (24 general practices). We are now also
 developing and evaluating models of stratified care based on diagnostic information and
 predictors of treatment effect to improve care and outcomes for patients with sciatica (Foster,
 NIHR HTA £1.2M 2014-2020) and painful shoulder conditions (Van der Windt, NIHR PGfAR £2.7M
 2018-2024). Strong qualitative and mixed methods expertise, led by Chew-Graham and Jinks,
 aimed at understanding lived experiences, intervention development and process evaluation,
 together with expertise in pilot and feasibility studies (Lancaster) are critical to their success.

 A large programme of trials undertaken within the assessment period evaluated better models
 for delivering primary care for people with musculoskeletal conditions:
 • a novel vocational advice service in general practice reduced time off work indicating a
     potential saving of £500M from an investment of £10M (Wynne-Jones, Pain 2018)
 • a cluster RCT (n=1851) implementing model osteoarthritis consultations increased the uptake
     of NICE-recommended core management (Jordan, ARD 2017; Dziedzic, Implementation Sci
     2018; Hay, NIHR Journals Library 2018)
 • local steroid injection leads to faster recovery of symptoms than splinting for mild-moderate
     carpal tunnel syndrome (Chesterton, Lancet 2019)
 • naproxen did not provide superior pain relief vs low-dose colchicine for people with a gout
     flare, but had fewer side effects, supporting its use as first-line treatment in the absence of
     contraindications (Roddy, ARD 2020)

 Of 66 studies featured in the NIHR Themed Review ‘Moving Forward’ 22 were Keele-led. Our
 trials on stratified care for low back pain, vocational advice in primary care, and direct referral to
 physiotherapy were identified as priority interventions in Public Health England’s Return on
 Investment tool for local commissioners.

 We have secured major national and European research funding awards in open competition for
 ongoing projects aligned with our strategic aims:
 • Developing and evaluating a clinical pharmacist intervention to reduce over-prescribing of
    opioid analgesia (Mallen, £2.4M NIHR PGfAR, 2019-2023)
 • Multi-centre trial of braces for knee osteoarthritis in primary care (Peat, £1.6M NIHR HTA,
    2018-2022)
 • European collaboration to develop an online platform based on prognostic risk prediction to
    improve care for neck and back pain (€5.1M, £400K for Keele, Horizon 2020, 2018-2020).
 • New trial of a brief vocational advice intervention in primary care for patients receiving a Fit
    Note (Foster, £1.5M NIHR HTA, 2019-2023)

 Aim 2: Strategic expansion of our primary care and health services research portfolio

 Encouraged by renewed membership of the NIHR School for Primary Care Research, national
 research priorities, and the needs of NHS and social care partners, we expanded our research
 and impact portfolio into two areas: (i) mental health and wellbeing, and (ii) prognosis research.

 Mental health and wellbeing (Chew-Graham, Farooq)

 In close collaboration with Midlands Partnership Foundation NHS Trust, who invested in 2
 Professorial posts in Psychiatry (Sumathipala, 2014-; Farooq, 2015-) and junior posts, our new
 programme is designed to address pressing mental health challenges:

 Recognising and managing anxiety and depression in people with other long-term conditions: Our
 cluster RCT provided strong evidence against any benefit of introducing routine anxiety and
 depression screening in older adults presenting with persistent pain in general practice (Mallen,
 PLOS Med 2017). We designed and assessed the acceptability and feasibility of an integrated,


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 nurse-led model of care for the management of anxiety and depression in older adults with long-
 term conditions to be evaluated in a future, large-scale trial.

 Prognosis and management of severe mental illness: Co-produced with our experts in prognosis
 research methods, we developed a clinical tool for the prediction and early identification of
 treatment resistance in people with first episode schizophrenia (Farooq, NIHR RfPB £150K, 2020-
 2021). As active contributors to Keele’s emerging Institute for Global Health, we are evaluating a
 community-based intervention to improve treatment adherence and reduce the treatment gap for
 schizophrenia in Pakistan (Farooq, MRC £517K, 2018-2021).

 Early detection of dementia progression: Our first study on dementia (Jordan, Dunhill Foundation
 £140K, 2018-2020) has identified markers of dementia-related health and progression using
 information available from electronic medical records. Future research will evaluate these markers
 for early identification of individuals at risk of faster progression who may benefit from enhanced
 care.

 Our researchers have contributed as co-investigators to national collaborations on self-harm in
 children and adolescents (Morgan BMJ 2017) and evaluating models of care for people with
 mental-physical comorbidity and severe depression (Rahman JAMA 2016, Kessler BMJ 2018,
 Camacho Br J Psych 2018).

 Prognosis research (Riley, Mamas)

 Building on the MRC PROGRESS Partnership we made Professorial appointments in prognosis
 research and individual patient data meta-analysis (Riley, Biostatistics 2014-) and use of national
 registry/electronic health records (EHR) data (Mamas, Cardiology 2015-). This has attracted
 diverse funding (MRC, Nuffield Foundation, British Heart Foundation, EU) and led to publication
 of more than 500 papers, including a series of original contributions on methodological advances
 (i.e., Stat Med; Stat Method Med Res), highly-cited guidance for the international research
 community (i.e,. PRISMA-IPD, JAMA 2015, >500 citations), and new actionable knowledge on:
 • improvements and inequalities in mortality related to variable use of transradial access during
      percutaneous coronary intervention in UK (Mamas Circulation 2016)
 • poor prognosis among patients presenting to primary care with undiagnosed chest pain
      (Jordan BMJ 2017)
 • relative patterns of treatment and outcomes in patients with concomitant cancer admitted for
      acute myocardial infarction (Mamas Eur Heart J 2019)
 • risk prediction models for pregnancy-related complications (e.g., Sultan BMJ 2016, iWIP group
      BMJ 2017), future hip/knee replacement (Yu, ARD 2019), venous thromboembolism (Ensor
      HTA 2016), and more.

 Aim 3: Scale up and accelerate the translation of research findings into practice

 We established an Impact Accelerator Unit (IAU) in 2015, led by Prof Dziedzic (NIHR Senior
 Investigator and Professor of Musculoskeletal Therapies), with a core team covering engagement
 and partnerships, clinical leadership and expertise, clinical champions (i.e., NICE Knowledge
 Mobilisation Fellows), Q Community membership, and project management. Strong
 representation of patients and members of the public is ensured by a dedicated PPIE group for
 Knowledge Mobilisation. This Unit has rapidly established extensive regional, national, and
 international networks, driving the successful implementation regionally, nationally, and
 internationally of models of stratified care (see Impact Case Studies).

 In response to COVID-19

 In 2020 our teams joined and led activity to generate evidence to inform the response to the
 COVID-19 pandemic:
 • contributing to research led by the National Institute of Cardiovascular Outcomes Research
     (NICOR) together with NHS E&I and NHS Digital to enable continuous flow of data for SAGE

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     and NHS E&I. The work identified the large fall in hospital admissions and interventions during
     lockdown (Mafham Lancet 2020).
 •   producing new evidence and contributing to a Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP)
     module and Royal Society of Medicine seminar on the experience of long COVID; collaborating
     on MRC-funded investigation of COVID-19 impact on people with severe mental illness in
     South Asia.
 •   leading a European-funded investigation of COVID-19 impact in people with musculoskeletal
     pain (SNIPE, £100k, 2020-2021). Our IAU and Research User Group co-created evidence-
     based Top Tips for people with chronic musculoskeletal pain during the COVID-19 pandemic
     (https://www.keele.ac.uk/pcsc/research/impactacceleratorunit/toptips/).
 •   contributed to a ‘living’ systematic review of prediction models for the diagnosis and prognosis
     of COVID-19 (Wynants BMJ 2020).
 •   Recruiting participants to the REal-time Assessment of Community Transmission (REACT-2),
     led by Imperial College London, and to the Novavax vaccination trial.

 1.3. FUTURE STRATEGIC AIMS FOR RESEARCH AND IMPACT
 Our future research and impact strategic priorities have been informed by consultation with
 patients, clinical partners, and other stakeholders. They are aligned with NHS/NIHR’s strategic
 priorities regarding prevention, empowering patients, a focus on frailty and multimorbidity rather
 than individual disease; breaking down barriers of care provision and designing innovative models
 of care in underserved areas of greatest need.

 The 5-year strategic aims are to provide evidence to underpin 3 shifts in primary, community,
 and social care across health conditions:

 (1) From a reactive approach to treating episodes as they present in primary care, towards
 proactive case finding and preventative strategies

 Our research focus will move to producing new actionable knowledge earlier in the disease course,
 earlier in the life course, and at the interface of primary care and public health. With the recent
 creation of the Keele Institute for Social Inclusion, and our work with Public Health England, we
 will seek to further grow and develop our work in public health and health inequalities.

 Funded/planned flagship projects: improving uptake of fracture prevention treatment (Paskins
 NIHR Career Scientist award, 2019-2023); using enriched integrated multi-level data for local
 health intelligence (Peat, Nuffield Foundation, 2020-2025); case finding and intervention in
 children/adolescents to prevent long-term persistent pain (Dunn, NIHR PGfAR submitted);
 proactive assessment and management of depression and cardiovascular risk in adults with
 inflammatory arthritis.

 (2) From ‘a one size fits all’ approach, to offering people individualised care, matched to
 their characteristics, prognosis, and likely response to treatment

 We will combine our expertise in prognosis research and health intelligence, intervention
 development and trials, and knowledge translation, to move beyond risk stratification and develop,
 evaluate, and implement models of individualised care across a range of disabling long-term
 conditions.

 Funded flagship projects and programmes and other planned work: identifying predictors of
 treatment response in shoulder pain (van der Windt, NIHR PGfAR, 2018-2025); developing online
 platforms and digital support tools to facilitate successful implementation of individualised care for
 musculoskeletal conditions (planned submission to NIHR-AI); prediction tools and models in
 dementia, treatment resistance in first-episode schizophrenia, and post-natal anxiety and
 depression to evaluate their clinical utility and impact on management and outcomes; evaluating
 the impact of comorbidity and frailty on risk stratification, treatment selection and outcomes in
 people with cardiovascular disease.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (3) Towards new models of care, delivered by multidisciplinary teams of primary and
 community care professionals, offering more accessible care for patients with complex
 problems

 Our research will underpin an effective response to the domestic challenge of diversifying the
 primary care workforce and promoting equitable access. Our new programme of global health
 research will build on strong international and interdisciplinary collaborations to co-create research
 with partners in low- and middle-income countries to design, implement, and evaluate
 interventions to improve mental health and wellbeing.

 Funded flagship projects and programmes and other planned work: design and evaluate a new
 approach using clinical pharmacists in general practice to support patients to reduce/stop opioids
 (Mallen and Ashworth, NIHR PGfAR 2019-2024); evaluating a community-based intervention for
 improving treatment adherence and reduce the treatment gap for schizophrenia in Pakistan
 (Farooq, MRC, 2018-2021); co-develop, implement and evaluate interventions to promote early
 diagnosis and treatment seeking behaviour, decrease social isolation and stigma, empower
 communities and improve treatment pathways for cutaneous leishmaniasis in underserved
 communities across Brazil, Ethiopia and Sri Lanka (Price & Dikomitis, NIHR Global Health, £4M,
 2019-2023).

 We will create a Methodology Hub to increase visibility and support our ambition for
 methodological excellence in specialty areas (epidemiology, prognosis research, EHR research,
 trials, evidence synthesis and knowledge mobilisation) with a commitment to open science and
 research integrity. The Hub will enable critical mass in methodological expertise; encourage
 innovation; support career development, scholarship and skills in methodology; and offer more
 opportunities for the development and delivery of teaching and training in research methods. The
 Hub will work together with the Keele Clinical Trials Unit, Research Design Service, and Impact
 Accelerator Unit to support the design of high-quality research that will underpin improvements
 and innovation in care.

 2. People

 Research in the Institute for Primary Care and Health Sciences is delivered by academic/clinical-
 academic staff, Professional Services and Support (PSS) staff and postgraduate research (PGR)
 students. In keeping with Keele University’s founding ethos on ‘the pursuit of truth in the company
 of friends’ we emphasise team science and investment in career progression for clinical and non-
 clinical staff across all stages. Our academic/clinical-academic staff represent a wide range of
 professional backgrounds and disciplines, including general practice, physiotherapy,
 rheumatology, biostatistics and epidemiology, social sciences, health services research,
 occupational therapy, radiography, nursing, psychology, psychiatry, information science. We have
 made joint appointments with local clinical services in general practice, rheumatology, psychiatry,
 physiotherapy, pain medicine, nursing, cardiology, nephrology which serve to anchor our research
 in the realities of contemporary practice and ensure our strategic priorities meet those of the NHS.

 The current submission represents a substantial increase (180%) over REF2014 in the number of
 staff submitted (9.2 to 25.7FTE). The success of our strategy over REF/RAE cycles is reflected in
 our senior staff - almost half our submitted Professors/Readers gained their PhDs at Keele - and
 they collectively hold multiple primary care NIHR Research Professorships (Mallen, Foster) and
 NIHR Senior Investigator awards (Foster, Dziedzic, Croft (Emeritus), Hay (Emeritus)). Chew-
 Graham chairs the Society for Academic Primary Care and our strengths in research impact and
 close NHS partnerships have attracted three NIHR Knowledge Mobilisation Fellowships (Dziedzic,
 Stevenson, Swaithes).

 We are recognized as national leaders in primary care research training, with Mallen as the NIHR
 School for Primary Care Training Lead (2015-) and a member of the NIHR Research Development
 Capacity Group and Chair of NIHR Incubator in Primary Care, Foster as Chair of the HEE/NIHR
 Integrated Clinical Academic (ICA) Doctoral Research Fellowship programme for nurses,

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 midwives, AHPs, pharmacists and clinical scientists. We lead the Wellcome Trust PhD
 Programme for Primary Care Clinicians in collaboration with Cambridge, Oxford, and
 Southampton Universities (Director, Mallen, 2017-) and were members of the NIHR Strategic
 Review of Training Group (Mallen, Foster).

 Our staffing strategy is informed by Keele’s People Strategy and underpinned by investment in
 staff development, the offer, wherever possible, of stable employment contracts, provision of
 flexible working arrangements, access to the Academic (Maternity) Returners Fund, and the
 creation and maintenance of a collegiate, team, research culture that maximizes opportunities for
 career progression. Our Fellowships Committee proactively identifies and supports applications
 to key funders. This is critical to support academics from underrepresented groups. Early-career
 researchers, or those returning to research after a period in which they have prioritized other
 aspects of their role, are allocated a mentor to advise on developing a competitive research profile
 and research career advancement.

 Support for PGR students. PGR students’ needs and circumstances are diverse. In recognition
 of this:
 • We offer all funded studentships as full- or part-time (51% of our PhDs register part-time). All
     prospective students are interviewed by at least 2 academics, who have appropriate
     Recruitment and Selection and Equality and Diversity Training.
 • We have established a fund that PhD students on internal bursaries can apply for at the end
     of their 3-year project when they have encountered unforeseen obstacles (taken up by 12
     students, all of whom went on to successfully submit their thesis).
 • We have a volunteer student representative group who represent the student body internally
     and externally for the Medical School, support Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) activities,
     organise student-led and invited speaker sessions on PGR-related topics such as doctoral
     progression, writing a thesis, viva preparation, and general research skills (e.g. presentation
     skills, systematic reviewing).
 • We have two PGR tutors to provide pastoral care for all PGR students and extra support for
     any training or disability needs.
 • We offer competitive salaried PhDs to healthcare professionals who wish to undertake PhDs
     while maintaining clinical interests (2 physiotherapists, 1 dietician, and 1 GP to date), and are
     part of the Wellcome Trust PhD Programme for Primary Care Clinicians enabling the next
     generation of academic primary care clinicians to complete doctoral studies part time (2
     currently). We also host academic trainees from foundation years to clinical lecturers as part
     of the Integrated Academic Training Pathway with posts across primary care and medical
     specialities. We encourage medical undergraduates to participate in research via exposure to
     research studentships. Many of our students have gone on to present, publish, and
     subsequently register for higher degrees.
 • Our staff provide formal research training modules in research methods, statistics,
     epidemiology, evidence-based practice, and research ethics. Of particular note are our short
     courses that offer internationally renowned training to our postgraduate research students.
     These short courses include: A Practical Introduction to Running Randomised Clinical Trials;
     Planning & Reporting Pilot and Feasibility Trials; Prognosis Research in Healthcare Summer
     School; Statistical Methods for Risk Prediction & Prognostic Models; Statistical Methods for
     Evidence Synthesis of Individual Participant Data
 • Training and development plans are individually tailored, with reference to the Vitae
     framework, and every PGR student is provided with an annual research fund of £800 for
     training and conference participation.
 • In the Postgraduate Research Experience Surveys, Keele has consistently had higher
     responses and achievement scores than Sector benchmarks on all areas (ranked 10th of 103
     institutions in 2019), on resources, research culture, research skills, and professional
     development. Primary care is particularly highly rated on quality of supervision (94%) and
     resources (97%) with an overall score of 100% in 2019.

 There are robust procedures in place to monitor and support PGR student progress, aligned to
 Keele’s Code of Practice for Research Degrees, and overseen by a Faculty Postgraduate

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Committee, supported by the Keele Doctoral Academy. All students have at least two
 supervisors, chosen to provide both subject-matter and methodological expertise, and are
 allocated a PGR advisor, as a source of support independent of the supervisory team. PGR
 students are encouraged to gain generic as well as subject-specific skills to equip them for their
 future career. PGR students take a lead role in organising the Annual Postgraduate Research
 Symposium, which showcases PGR research through a combination of oral presentations,
 posters, turbo talks and 3-minute thesis competition, with students awarded prizes for scientific
 quality and dissemination to a lay audience, involving our patient and public contributors. Students
 are also encouraged to present their work institutionally, nationally and internationally. With
 support from staff, students have organized two national conferences in statistics hosted at Keele
 (2015, 2017) and regional meetings (e.g., Midlands RCGP conference).

 All doctoral supervisors are required to be research-active at the time of supervising doctoral
 students, undertake formal training, and undergo a period of ‘probationary’ supervision under the
 guidance of an experienced supervisor.

 Supporting progression and promotion of early and mid-career researchers. Keele
 University was one of the first Universities to sign up to the new Concordat to Support Career
 Development. We successfully renewed our HR Excellence in Research Award in 2020 and it was
 confirmed that the institutional report and action plan is fully in line with the Human Resources
 Strategy for Researchers incorporating the Charter and Code. The Unit has encouraged staff and
 student participation in Careers in Research Online Surveys and Principal Investigators and
 Research Leaders (CROS/PIRLS) surveys to ensure that their feedback and experiences are
 incorporated into the institutional actions. The Researcher Development Framework is linked in
 our appraisal documentation to enable and enhance research development discussions.

 We have a strong track record in supporting the progression and promotion of early career
 researchers (ECRs), recognizing that retaining and developing the most talented ECRs in our
 Schools is a central part of our staffing strategy. High levels of staff retention (90%) illustrate the
 success of this strategy. Of 31 staff in the current submission, 10 were recently
 completed/registered PhD students and 3 were ECRs at Keele at the time of REF2014. In addition
 to taught modules, we offer journal clubs, internal and external seminar programmes, advanced
 methodology seminars (with both national and international speakers), and a series of workshops
 on systematic reviews and evidence synthesis. SoM hosts several highly successful international
 short courses (clinical trials, prognosis research, individual patient data meta-analysis, and
 prediction modelling), which are attended by postgraduate students, methodologists, and
 healthcare researchers from across the world. We contribute to the UK-RiME network and
 mentorship programme for early career researchers, hosted by the Arthritis Research UK Centre
 of Excellence in Epidemiology. Additional initiatives include:
 • Linked to our commitment to EDI we have developed a more transparent, systematic process
     for identifying staff for promotion based on their expertise, experience, and appraisal
 • An annual appraisal process with an embedded future research plan element
 • Increasing awareness of processes for promotion, i.e., by actively encouraging staff to attend
     University promotion workshops
 • Mentoring by senior academics to help potential applicants strengthen their CVs and plan
     career progression
 • A dedicated Fellowships Committee, responsible for supporting personal fellowship
     applications through actions such as independent review and feedback on applications and
     CVs and mock interview panels with senior researchers; a successful NIHR Clinician Scientist
     award (Paskins) is an example of the success of this strategy
 • Making funding available for staff development, e.g., funding exchange visits with international
     collaborators; one-to-one mentorship and coaching
 • Research-only staff are encouraged to submit for promotion to Senior Research Fellow, where
     criteria focus on demonstrating excellence in research

 Leadership opportunities and training. The expansion of research programmes across our four
 Schools; Medicine, Pharmacy & Bioengineering, Allied Health Professions, and Nursing and

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Midwifery together with growth of Keele Clinical Trials Unit have provided opportunities for sharing
 leadership functions, delegating responsibilities, and creating promotion opportunities for both
 research and PSS staff. Staff have been supported in leadership training schemes via NIHR
 Academy, AURORA leadership development programme for women, and Advance-HE.

 We aim to offer stable employment contract arrangements where possible, which is unusual in
 units largely funded by multiple, 2- to 5-year grants. Indefinite contracts are the general form of
 employment (90% staff in senior positions: 39% of academic/research staff at Research Assistant
 to Lecturer posts in this UoA). Fixed-term contracts are only used where there is a legitimate
 reason. Fixed-term staff have equal access to all staff processes and benefits, as is set out in our
 Fixed-Term Working Policy and Procedure. Appraisals are carried out for fixed-term staff within
 the unit and discussion focuses on support that could be provided to secure indefinite employment
 in line with their individual future career plans. Clinical academic staff are more likely to be on
 fixed-term contracts (FTCs). Nearly all clinicians who are on FTCs are on research-only contracts
 and have successfully applied for a clinical academic fellowship for a fixed period.

 Equality, diversity, and Inclusion. Keele University holds a Race Equality Charter Bronze
 award, an institutional Athena SWAN Bronze award, is a Stonewall Diversity champion, and
 participates in the Disability Confidence scheme. Each of the 4 Schools within our Faculty have
 an EDI Working Group, with specific responsibility for equality and diversity. Primary Care has
 held an Athena SWAN Silver Award continuously from September 2013 (renewed November
 2018-October 2022), and have successfully increased the proportion of women promoted to senior
 positions. Feedback from the Athena SWAN Charter panel particularly highlighted our support for
 career development, not only for academic staff, but also for personal services and support
 (PSS) staff including women living with pain and arthritis, who have been able to join and progress
 their careers as part of the PPIE team. The other 3 Schools within the Faculty hold bronze awards.

 The EDI working groups, whose membership reflect staff and students in terms of gender, race,
 and other protected characteristics, represent different levels of seniority among research and
 PSS staff. The working groups leads on initiatives for staff and students related to career
 progression and promotion; training opportunities; health and well-being at work; and awareness
 of EDI principles (e.g. health and well-being weeks, unconscious bias training, and seminars and
 workshops related to international events, such as LGBT history month; international day for
 Elimination of Racial Discrimination; Transgender Visibility; Women’s day; Men’s Health).
 Awareness and impact of these activities is periodically evaluated. In 2020 we appointed well-
 being champions in each School. The EDI Working Group reports directly to the School’s Senior
 Management teams through the Chair of the Working Groups and the school EDI lead is a member
 of the faculty EDI committee.

 Working with the University’s REF Code of Practice (reviewed by the University’s EDI steering
 group), we have ensured that the selection of staff and outputs has been on objective criteria,
 including workload allocation models, and is overseen by a committee representing all Schools in
 the Faculty, chaired by the PVC for Research and Enterprise. Staff responsible for decision-
 making in the REF have undergone formal training in equality, with a particular emphasis on
 raising awareness of unconscious bias.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. INCOME
 Our research income has significantly increased, by 156% for this REF period to £54.8m.

 Renewal and extension of our Versus Arthritis Centre of Excellence award (£2.9M), researcher-
 led Programme Grants for Applied Research secured in open national competition (3 Keele-led
 programme grants, total value, £7M), and funding accessed and leveraged through membership
 of major national and regional NIHR consortia (NIHR School for Primary Care Research, West
 Midlands CLAHRC/ARC) represent important sources of research income. Building on our strong
 track record in primary care clinical trials, we committed to improving competitiveness in the NIHR

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health Technology Assessment programme, particularly response-led opportunities aligned with
 our clinical expertise, with some notable success (5 Keele-led multicentre trials, total value of
 awards made between 2013-2020, £6.8M).

 Together these major research programmes and projects provide stability and opportunities for
 collaboration, interdisciplinary working, and career development. However, independent advisory
 panels noted our potential vulnerability to over-reliance on NIHR and Versus Arthritis funding.
 Important to our future sustainability therefore was to diversify our research income sources.
 Successful applications in national and international competition with a combined total award
 value of over £10M to European Union and other European streams, UK charities (Nuffield
 Foundation, Dunhill Medical Trust), Wellcome Trust, and global health research funding from the
 Medical Research Council, Arts & Humanities Research Council, and Global Alliance for Chronic
 Diseases, demonstrate a high degree of success towards this objective.

 3.2. INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 Our research and infrastructure staff are co-located within purpose-built offices in the David
 Weatherall Building. The building was the result of significant investment from the Wellcome,
 Dinwoodie, and Dunhill Trusts. In 2015, Keele University invested a further £3M in the David
 Weatherall building to accommodate growth, providing an excellent working environment for our
 staff and students. Since early 2017 all staff are housed in our expanded facilities, which has
 allowed us to expand facilities for meeting rooms, offer dedicated facilities for PGR students with
 access to infrastructure, allocate space for a well-being room (i.e., for mothers to express milk)
 and staff room, and offer possibilities for stand-up working and informal catch-ups (meeting pods)
 in open plan offices.

 Patient and public involvement and engagement (PPIE). First established in 2006 we are a
 trailblazer with an established structure of over 163 lay members working on over 150 research
 projects, we lead the way nationally and internationally in PPIE in research and implementation
 (Dziedzic, Jinks), developing how patients and the public are involved in priority setting, research
 design and implementation of research. Regionally, we lead PPIE for the Midlands Health
 Innovation and for West Midlands Patient and Public Involvement and Lay Accountability in
 Research (PILAR) group. Nationally, we are the Testbed for INVOLVE Quality Standards of PPIE
 within the NIHR School for Primary Care, we chair PPIE for the national Research Design Service
 and Public Involvement Community. We hold membership of the European League Against
 Rheumatism Study Group for Participation and the Cochrane Training Development Group. We
 were co-applicants in the RCUK SEEK-PER study to increase the uptake of Public Engagement
 practices across the Institute. The team comprises a PPIE Project Coordinator (Higginbottom),
 PPIE Advisor (Rhodes), Project Support and Knowledge Mobiliser (Campbell), along with
 academic leadership (Blackburn: National Lead for PPIE Research Design Service) and senior
 academic oversight (Dziedzic, Director IAU). The PPIE team is supported by funding from Versus
 Arthritis, NIHR Applied Research Collaborative West Midlands (ARC), NIHR Research Design
 Service (RDS) and Keele University’s Public Engagement Champions programme.

 Impact Accelerator Unit (IAU). We established the IAU in 2015 to have a positive and sustained
 impact on public health, health and social care, by supporting timely movement of Keele’s health
 research into practice, with a strong emphasis on primary care. The IAU is led by Prof Dziedzic
 (NIHR Senior Investigator; Professor of Musculoskeletal Therapies) with a core team covering
 engagement and partnerships, clinical leadership and expertise, clinical champions e.g., NICE
 Fellows; Q Community membership, project management and coordination, and health
 informatics. Strong representation of patients and members of the public is ensured through a
 dedicated PPIE group for Knowledge Mobilisation called the LINK group (Lay Involvement in
 Knowledge Mobilisation). The IAU’s activity reflects both stakeholder-led and strategic, co-created
 priorities drawing on extensive regional, national, and international networks and collaborations.
 Our IAU is part of the West Midlands Knowledge Mobilisation Collaboration, a partnership between
 knowledge mobilization colleagues at Keele, Birmingham City, and Warwick Universities and the
 Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) (now ARC) West
 Midlands. Included among priority projects undertaken by the IAU since 2015, have been the

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 successful implementation regionally, nationally and internationally of models of stratified care for
 back pain and the core management of osteoarthritis in primary care (see our Impact Case
 Studies). Patient contributors have actively contributed to and co-authored all our Impact Case
 Studies.

 Keele Clinical Trials Unit. We house Keele’s NIHR-accredited and UKCRC-registered Clinical
 Trials Unit (Director: Hay (2013-2016; Foster (2016-2019), Lancaster (2019-)). We have earned a
 reputation internationally for the delivery of large multicentre pragmatic trials, having conducted
 32 clinical trials recruiting over 9000 participants in musculoskeletal care alone since 2012
 (combined grant income of >£20M) while pioneering computerised ‘pop-up’ templates for point of
 care recruitment. Our strengths are stratified care RCTs, the development of complex
 interventions in primary care, and the design and execution of pilot and feasibility studies (i.e.,
 Eldridge, Stat Meth Med Res 2015).

 Centre for Prognosis Research. Riley with Croft, Snell, Jordan and Van der Windt have built a
 longstanding track record in prognosis research. Based on outputs from the MRC-funded
 PROGRESS partnership (2012-2015), the Centre was established in 2016 to generate and
 support high quality applied prognosis research, evidence synthesis and methodological
 innovation to inform decision-making, improve patient outcomes, and increase efficiency of health
 care. The PROGRESS framework for prognosis research has been recommended by funders,
 requesting applicants to adhere to the framework when developing research proposals. The team
 hosts a series of highly successful international short courses on prognosis research, prediction
 modelling and IPD meta-analysis (>100 participants per year; 20-30% international), published a
 textbook (OUP 2019), and has led capacity building in prognosis research (Burke, Ensor, Sultan,
 Yu). Methodological papers have been published in high impact journals (BMJ, Statistics in
 Medicine) regarding sample size calculation for prognostic models (Riley Stats Med 2019),
 evidence synthesis in prognosis research (Ensor Stat Meth Med Res 2018, Debray Stat Meth
 Med Res 2019), and risk of bias assessment tools for prognosis research and IPD meta-
 analysis (PROBAST 2019, PRISMA-IPD 2015).

 Our work in prognosis research and health intelligence is underpinned by access to large
 healthcare datasets. Keele University has ‘gold’ access to national primary care EHR data with
 linkages (CPRD), and we house national and international cohort data from patients with
 cardiovascular disease, with a focus around acute myocardial infarction, heart failure, coronary
 and valvular heart disease and stroke (e.g. British Cardiovascular Interventional Society database
 for PCI and TAVR; Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project, which includes longitudinal data from
 close to 500 million hospital care episodes). We have developed enriched local and regional
 cohorts with anonymized EHR linked with consent to patient-reported outcome measures obtained
 through population surveys (i.e., PRELIM-HILL, n=19,500) and we host a database of routine
 consultations in North Staffordshire general practice (CiPCA, n=110,000) to provide bespoke data
 for our health and care partners, supporting commissioning and pathway planning with local data.

 Northern hub of the NIHR West Midlands Research Design Service, providing methodological
 and infrastructure support to research and PPI in the region and strengthening collaborative
 working with clinical partners.

 The Research and Innovation Support Enhancement (RaISE) team was established in 2017
 and draws together professional services staff with expertise in research development,
 governance, integrity, ethics, contracts, public engagement, commercialisation and impact. The
 team provides support for the development of research and innovation projects involving Keele
 University and its external partners. Establishment of the RaISE team has enabled a joined-up
 approach to research and innovation support, helping us to improve the quality and effectiveness
 of our research proposals, implementation and impact.

 Open Science and Research Integrity
 We are proud of our track record in open science. Since 2004 we have published protocols in
 open access sites, made available, free of charge and without restriction, all clinical codelists that

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our researchers have derived. Since 2009 we have successfully operated a system of ‘reviewed
 access’ to all anonymised datasets we have created and curated, a system that was chosen as
 an exemplar in national guidance endorsed by multiple research funders in the UK on Good
 Practice Principles for Sharing Individual Participant Data from Publicly Funded Clinical Trials
 (2015). We have led the debate and practice of transparency and reproducibility in prognosis
 research with editorials and guidance on this and on feasibility/pilot trials published in PLOS
 Medicine, BMJ, and Annals of Internal Medicine. Our CTIMPs all comply with the AllTrials call for
 complete registration and reporting.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS, AND PARTNERSHIPS

 4.1.1. Collaborations with academic colleagues in other institutions
 Our academic collaborations are an integral part of our research and impact strategy and its
 successful delivery. These collaborations allow us to share methodological expertise, ensure
 innovation, and increase research impact. They extend beyond traditional primary care boundaries
 to include strong partnerships with world-leading specialists in targeted areas of methodology and
 secondary care research.

 Cross-cutting academic collaborations

 Two major academic collaborations operated across our research themes in 2014-2020 and,
 following successful renewal, will continue to sustain our research and impact strategy. Our
 membership of the NIHR School for Primary Care Research (2008-2019; renewed 2020-2025)
 has brought significant opportunities to collaborate with researchers from institutions across
 England to lead and contribute to world-leading research studies in primary care and innovative
 evidence synthesis addressing key challenges and uncertainties. These collaborations are
 particularly valuable for pooling interdisciplinary expertise, and for large, multicentre studies in
 cross-cutting topics (e.g., management of physical-mental comorbidity (NOTEPAD), stratifying
 antihypertensive treatments in people with multimorbidity (STRATIFY), cancer decision rules
 (CANDID), evidence synthesis on physician burnout, and mental health needs of patients with
 long-term conditions). The visibility and diversity of research that such collaborations afford, and
 the commitment to developing capacity and capability for early career researchers, helps attract
 and retain a diverse, multidisciplinary primary care research workforce at Keele. Under Mallen’s
 Directorship the renewed School will place even greater emphasis on wider collaboration and
 capacity development. In leading the long-term condition's theme of the NIHR West Midlands
 CLAHRC (ARC renewed in 2019-2024) we work closely with academic researchers from a wide
 range of disciplines at Warwick and Birmingham Universities. Our long-standing strategic
 collaboration with Birmingham University’s Health Economics Research Unit (2008-) ensures
 high-quality health economic input in our research.

 Theme-specific academic collaborations

 In our musculoskeletal research theme, we have maintained long-term strategic collaborations
 with groups in Lund, Oslo, Odense, Rotterdam, Melbourne, and Sydney, underpinned by Visiting
 Professorship awards (Petersson/Englund, Grotle, Runhaar, Menz, Blyth). These collaborations:
 • attract research income from domestic and overseas funders (USA: PCORI 2013-2015;
     Australia: NHMRC 2018-2022; Norwegian Research Council, 2020-2024)
 • help extend our international reach (Lancet Commissions on low back pain (Foster, Croft
     (2018)) and osteoarthritis (Peat, Dziedzic (2020-))
 • provide critical opportunities to reproduce and extend research findings and knowledge
     mobilisation across different settings (i.e., international comparisons of consultation rates
     (Jordan 2014); implementing Keele’s StartBack intervention in the US healthcare system
     (Cherkin 2018); validating new outcome measures and subgrouping tools).

 As the National Centre of Excellence for Primary Care Musculoskeletal Research, we have

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strengthened links with other Versus Arthritis centres:
 • joining as co-applicants in the successful renewal (2019-2024) of the MRC/Versus Arthritis
     Centre for Musculoskeletal Health and Work (CI: Walker-Bone (Southampton))
 • In 2017, becoming a member of the UK Research in Musculoskeletal Epidemiology (UK-RiME)
     partnership (CI: Dixon (Manchester)), which provides training and mentoring of early career
     researchers and facilitates collaborative project and programme grant applications.
 • Collaborating with researchers from the Versus Arthritis Pain Centre (CI: Walsh (Nottingham))
     on new primary care trials and observational studies

 Our mental health and cardiovascular research teams have longstanding and highly productive
 academic collaborations with academic and clinical colleagues across the UK, particularly at
 University of Manchester where our research leads in these themes, Chew-Graham and Mamas,
 hold Honorary Professorships. Our cardiovascular groups’ expertise in the use of routine national
 audit and electronic health record data has attracted extensive collaborations in the United States
 and in Europe.

 Our prognosis research team works closely with other world-leading methodology researchers
 in the UK (e.g. Collins - Oxford), Europe (Moons, Debray - Utrecht; Steyerberg - Rotterdam) and
 North America (Hayden - Nova Scotia). This collaboration supported by a prestigious MRC
 Partnership Grant and producing a highly-influential framework for prognosis research, has gone
 on to develop reporting guidelines, risk-of-bias tools, and a range of other methodological
 evidence and guidance. Collaborators contribute to our summer school and short courses in
 prognosis research methods, which attract students internationally, creating an excellent,
 sustainable training opportunity for staff and students at Keele. In turn, this drives applied research
 collaborations between our researchers and international groups, thus far resulting in new
 international studies pooling trial data for IPD meta-analyses in low back pain, osteoarthritis, and
 shoulder disorders, as well as visiting scholar placements for early career researchers. Having
 established this collaboration around our longstanding musculoskeletal research theme, we are
 now extending it to each of our other research themes.

 Our emerging Institute of Global Health has already built strong collaborations to grow primary
 care research in Asia (Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore), Africa (Zambia,
 Ethiopia), and South America (Brazil).

 Wider commitment to capacity and career development in primary care research

 In addition to national training roles, our senior staff are experienced and approved mentors to
 clinical academics and methodologists in over 12 other UK HEIs, through schemes run by Society
 for Academic Primary Care/NIHR School for Primary Care Research, the Academy for Medical
 Sciences, UK-RiME, NIHR, UKRI, and Wellcome Trust. Each year we host 10-20 research visits
 from international HEIs, many of whom are early career researchers attracted by our reputation
 for primary care research and a culture of open collaboration.

 4.1.2. Our local and regional NHS partnerships
 Our strong partnerships with the NHS and social care reflect our commitment to research for
 patient benefit and the NIHR mission to make the NHS a world-leading environment to conduct
 research. Our outstanding academic-NHS partnership is formalised through the Keele Primary
 Care Research Consortium, producing a shared research strategy which maximises the impact
 and reach of our research. This unique partnership has Director-level representation from key
 stakeholders across the Staffordshire and Shropshire health economy including CCGs,
 Community Trusts, Public Health and the NIHR Clinical Research Network. The Board provides
 strategic oversight and direction, ensuring the most pressing health problems facing the region
 are represented. This approach also ensures rapid adoption, roll out and scaling up of innovation
 to improve health and wellbeing in this deprived region. Our partnerships include Board and
 Director-level representation and joint appointments with key local and regional stakeholders,
 ensuring research and innovation are prioritised and integrated into strategic and operational
 planning. These appointments include: Honorary Director of Research and Innovation, Midlands

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Partnership Foundation Trust (Mallen); Clinical Chair, Stoke-on-Trent CCG (Clarson); North
 Staffordshire Alliance Board (Duffy); NIHR CRN West Midlands Primary Care Research lead
 (Helliwell). Service Level Agreements with Midlands Partnership Foundation Trust, responsible
 for adult social care in Staffordshire, have facilitated joint working. Our mental health research
 theme provides an exemplar of this close partnership. Improving mental health and wellbeing in
 the North Midlands is a key priority for our health and care partners. In 2016, Keele and South
 Staffordshire and Shropshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust (now MPFT) developed a joint
 mental health research strategy co-led by Professor Carolyn Chew-Graham, Professor Athula
 Sumathipala and Professor Saeed Farooq. It is the product of a multi-step consultation process,
 agreeing priority topics, recognising capacity building within an initial ‘project based’ approach,
 and with an emphasis on theory-driven novel approaches to treatment development. More
 broadly, through our partnerships we have provided evidence-based training to support new roles
 linked to local priorities and initiatives, including First Contact Practitioners and social prescribing.

 These close partnerships have led to tangible benefits:
 • Uptake of our STarT Back intervention by all community physiotherapy providers in the West
    Midlands supported by a coalition involving Versus Arthritis, Keele and West Midlands
    Academic Health Science Network (WMAHSN)
 • Early adoption of physiotherapy direct/self-referral to physiotherapy - a precursor to the
    national First Contact Practitioner scheme
 • Staffordshire STP deciding to act as a beacon site for NIHR Moving Forward evidence-based
    interventions, supported by a collaboration between Keele and the Chartered Society of
    Physiotherapy
 • Developing evidence-informed strategies to meet the mental health needs of people living with
    persistent pain supported through the Q Lab–Health Foundation
 • Some of the highest primary care accruals for West Midlands North CRN

 Opportunities for industry engagement and collaboration have been significantly widened
 through the creation of the University’s Business Gateway, launched in 2017, which provides
 regional forums with 150+ SMEs in the Healthcare and Medical Supply Chain. Through joint
 working between our Impact Accelerator Unit, WMAHSN, and Keele’s Business Bridge we have
 shaped musculoskeletal calls for the Small Business Research Initiative, championed themes on
 self-care and preventative interventions and efficiencies in delivering care and hosted an EIT-
 Health Innovation by Ideas project, partnering Lloyds Pharmacy to implement our innovations into
 community pharmacies.

 The strategic importance of these local and regional partnerships has been strongly endorsed by
 Keele University, with our launch of Keele Deal | Health in 2019, setting out ambitious plans to
 draw together academic expertise from across the entire Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences
 to work with our regional partners across Staffordshire, Shropshire and Cheshire STPs, on a
 shared research and impact agenda addressing the key areas of workforce development,
 research and innovation, and evidence-based service transformation.

 4.1.3. Beyond the local and regional health economy
 Through academic consultant contracts, held with Public Health England since 2014, we have
 provided research evidence and expert advice that contributed to their musculoskeletal and
 healthy & productive ageing strategies. Our ongoing work provides evidence synthesis and
 original research on the uptake of recommended interventions and their potential effects on health
 inequalities; brief self-assessment of musculoskeletal health to inform possible new NHS Health
 Checks; developing methods and metrics using primary care databases to identify population
 musculoskeletal health indicators for the ‘Fingertips’ tool for commissioners.

 We work closely with, and serve, a number of charitable and professional organisations and
 societies to strengthen the research base, and to develop evidence-informed guidance and
 information for practitioners, patients and the public. In 2014-2020 our staff have worked with
 Versus Arthritis, Age UK, PMRGCAUK, the National Rheumatoid Arthritis Society, the Royal
 Osteoporosis Society, the British Society for Rheumatology, the Chartered Society for

                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Physiotherapy, the Society for Academic Primary Care (Chair: Chew-Graham), and the Pain
 Society. Specific initiatives include leading the British Society for Rheumatology gout management
 guideline working group (Roddy), national Rheumatoid Arthritis Healthcare Quality Improvement
 Audit, evaluating First Contact Practitioner scheme, and producing national priorities for
 osteoporosis research (Paskins).

 4.2. WIDER ACTIVITIES AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND
 SOCIETY

 We actively encourage involvement with NICE as a means of accelerating the impact of research
 into national guidelines. In 2014-2020 we supported three NICE Fellows (Dziedzic, Sowden, Salt),
 topic advisors and members of Guideline Development Groups in gout (Roddy), low back pain
 (Somerville), multimorbidity (Chew-Graham), depression (Chew Graham), and osteoarthritis
 (Cottrell, Quicke, Parry), as well as expert clinical input to NICE Technology Appraisals on new
 gout drugs (Roddy). We are represented on NICE Quality Standards Groups (Chew-Graham,
 Walsh). Dziedzic acts as an adviser to the NICE Fellows and Scholars Programme on
 implementation.

 Members of our Impact Accelerator Unit hold key national roles, including: National
 Implementation Lead for Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy for NIHR Dissemination, leadership of
 the NHSE Midlands Musculoskeletal Network (Dziedzic); Versus Arthritis Clinical Champion
 (Stevenson). We initiated the West Midlands NIHR CLAHRC Knowledge Mobilisation Research
 Forum and contribute to the Nation Forum, the NIHR Knowledge Mobilisation Alliance. We
 facilitated a workshop for the launch of the NIHR Themed Review on Musculoskeletal
 Physiotherapy for 90 stakeholders from a range of professional backgrounds and helped the NIHR
 gain an understanding of Knowledge Mobilisation for a report for the NIHR Strategy Board (July
 2018) describing enhanced dissemination activity.

 Our team hold senior positions within the NIHR and other research funding panels, helping
 sustain and improve processes of competitive research funding national and regionally, and
 providing a strong primary care voice.
 • Hay is Director of Programme Grants for Applied Research (PGfAR) and member of the NIHR
    Strategy Board, working to diversify the scope of programme funding to better serve primary
    care research.
 • Mallen led capacity building in the NIHR School for Primary Care Research, chairs the NIHR
    Primary Care Incubator, and sits on the Research Capacity Development Board and Integrated
    Academic Training panel, stimulating and growing primary care research capacity.
 • Foster chairs the HEE/NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic Doctoral Research Fellowship
    scheme, the NIHR West Midlands Research for Patient Benefit scheme; and is lead NIHR
    Training Advocate in Physiotherapy, influencing development of allied health professionals in
    primary care research.

 In addition, we encourage and support our staff to contribute to national and regional prioritisation
 and award panels for the NIHR (HTA: Roddy, Cottrell, Foster, Mallen; PGfAR: Peat, Jordan, Jinks;
 Research for Patient Benefit: Muller, Peat, Bishop; HS&DR: Kadam), and charitable organisations
 (Versus Arthritis: van der Windt, Protheroe; Royal Osteoporosis Society: Paskins). Many of our
 staff hold editorial roles with leading journals in our field (e.g. Riley is statistics editor for BMJ;
 Chew-Graham is editor of Health Expectations; Dunn Epidemiology editor for Eur J Pain; Mamas
 associate editor for Circulation; Van der Windt contact editor for Cochrane Diagnostic test
 Accuracy Reviews; Peat associate editor for Arthritis Care and Research).

 We have formed enduring and productive close partnerships and working relationships across the
 local and regional health economy linked to our research strengths and which underpin a strong
 and vibrant research culture serving long-term health needs of patients and populations, many of
 whom live in urban-deprived and rural settings. This model, sustained and evolving for over two
 decades, has received national and international recognition. The recently launched Keele Deal |
 Health initiative signals Keele’s commitment to further advance these partnerships.

                                                                                                Page 15
