Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Manchester Metropolitan University

 Unit of Assessment: B12 Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview: Research and knowledge exchange (RKE) across Manchester Metropolitan University
 has been significantly restructured and reorganised in the current assessment period, and this has
 been transformational to the quantity and quality of our RKE activities. We have established new
 research centres (University Centres of Research and Knowledge Exchange – UCRKE;
 embryonic centres are referred to as ‘groups’), highly focused on our core strengths and offering
 the benefits of critical mass and shared resources. UCRKEs are the primary location through
 which the University executes its strategy to increase the quality, scope and volume of RKE
 activities. To illustrate the growth that has been achieved as a result of this strategy, we have:
       increased the staff that are being submitted by 127% (from 21.3 FTE to 48.5 FTE);
       increased research income by 112% from £4.5M to £9.7M;
       secured >£20M in research and knowledge exchange awards during the assessment
        period, including 32 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.
 Structure of the Engineering Unit: Staff returned in this unit are full research members of:
       The Advanced Materials and Surface Engineering (AMSE) UCRKE, led by Prof. Peter
        Kelly, are returning 27.5FTE;
       The Smart Infrastructure and Industry Research (SIIRG) UGRKE, led by Prof. Bamidele
        Adebisi, are returning 16.4FTE;
       The Centre for Mathematical Modelling and Flow Analysis (CMMFA), led by Dr. Ling Qian,
        are returning 4.6FTE.
 Advanced Materials and Surface Engineering (AMSE): Our aims are to generate new
 understanding of materials and processes, and to use that knowledge to develop new applications,
 components and devices with novel or enhanced properties, which support economic and social
 development at regional, national and international levels. AMSE functions at the interface
 between engineering, chemistry, physics, biology and surface science, with materials science
 acting as the common link binding these subjects together. AMSE staff are members of either the
 Surface Engineering Group or the Advanced Materials Group. The Surface Engineering Group
 can trace an unbroken history of research excellence back to the early 1970s, continuously
 supported by research council awards and industrial funding. The group specialises in the
 magnetron sputter deposition process for the production of a wide range of functional films and
 provides a unique interface between laboratory-scale development and industrial-scale
 production. The Advanced Materials Group, led by Prof. Craig Banks, is active in many areas,
 including: Low Carbon Fuels - exploring the production and application of sustainable fuels to
 reduce operating costs and carbon footprint in the transport sector; Electrochemistry – studying
 the fundamentals of how 2D materials function for exploitation in real world scenarios; and Additive
 Manufacturing technologies for the production of screen-printed sensors for medical diagnostics
 and environmental monitoring, and recently demonstrating the world’s first 3D printed battery (see
 output ref: 1817).
 The Smart Infrastructure and Industry Research Group (SIIRG) is actively implementing the
 Government’s Industry 4.0 strategy through the research-informed digitalisation of the physical
 aspects of infrastructure and industry. By taking advantage of the growing abilities of the Internet
 of Things (IoT), 5G, AI, digital twins and related technologies, we specialise in embedding sensing,
 communication, control and data analytic technologies in critical infrastructure, i.e. water, energy,
 transport (V2X/CAV), factories and buildings, which are then connected to the cloud, allowing real-
 time data acquisition and analytics, essentially creating a Smart device. We have been able to
 investigate this on larger scales by using the Oxford Road corridor in Manchester to create Smart
 energy grids. We were awarded funding from Triangulum (a €29 million award-winning H2020-


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded Smart cities project) to establish one of the EU’s largest ICT-enabled test-beds of
 connected buildings, vehicles and energy assets on our own campus.
 The Centre for Mathematical Modelling and Flow Analysis (CMMFA) is one of the UK’s leading
 research groups in Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD)’s modelling of wave structure interaction
 (WSI) with applications in offshore, ocean and coastal engineering. In the last 20 years, it has
 secured continuous support from the EPSRC, EU and NERC through the award of over 20
 research grants, most of which are large multi-partner projects involving external academic and
 industrial partners. CMMFA puts environmental sustainability at the core of its research and,
 through the support of the national SUPERGEN Wind, Marine and ORE HUB programmes, it has
 developed advanced CFD tools and applied them to evaluate a number of novel and emerging
 wave energy converters and offshore wind turbine support structures. The CMMFA is a lead
 partner of the EPSRC Collaborative Computational Project in Wave Structure Interaction (CCP-
 WSI) aimed at building a UK community in WSI research, and developing a national numerical
 wave tank (NWT) facility and promoting its wider adoption by industrial end users. CMMFA is a
 group within the University Centre for Advanced Computational Science (CfACS), which leads our
 submission to B11 Computer Science and Informatics.
 Staff from these centres are also members of three major cross-institutional, Engineering-led RKE
 initiatives, which are engaging with industry and extending our research into new fields:
       Manchester Fuel Cell Innovation Centre (MFCIC): Working with regional SMEs and
        industry in order to address the material challenges facing the development and
        deployment of hydrogen fuel cell technology. The MFCIC is a regional hub for research,
        innovation, economic growth and policy development in the fuel cell sector in the North
        West and beyond.
       PrintCity®: a digital manufacturing facility, underpinning our Industry 4.0 digitalisation
        agenda through teaching digital skills to students, researchers and supporting businesses,
        to utilise our range of additive manufacturing capabilities and expertise.
       Circular Economy Network (CEN): brings together academic expertise and practical
        waste management experience across the University. Working closely with industry, we
        offer a range of services that support the transition from a linear to a circular economy.
 These centres/groups are based in the Faculty of Science and Engineering and include staff from
 the Departments of Engineering, Life Sciences, Natural Sciences, and Computing and
 Mathematics. RKE activities within Engineering are coordinated through these centres. The
 centres are based around members of academic staff with significant responsibility for research,
 but importantly, also serve as the intellectual home for our postgraduate research (PGR) students
 and KTP Associates. Furthermore, the boundaries between centres are porous, in that they allow
 members of one centre to have affiliations with other centres and provide a conduit for
 interdisciplinary research. Overall, our research structure is designed to:
    •   provide an inclusive, supportive environment for engineering and materials-related
        research staff, postgraduates, KTP associates and students;
    •   promote inter-group/theme collaborations to build on our strengths;
    •   provide an agile configuration to respond to staff changes and new calls for proposals;
    •   provide an open forum for discussions on all research-related issues;
    •   support Heads of Department when recruiting new staff.
 Research and Impact Objectives: Our objectives are to produce high-quality research within the
 engineering field that has a beneficial impact on society, culture, the environment and the
 economy. We see knowledge exchange and innovation as important parts of a continuum with
 discovery research that can drive impact and industrial engagement, and address the Industry 4.0
 agenda. We also seek to address global challenges, such as the UN’s Sustainability Goals, and
 make a strong contribution to the government’s Industrial Strategy and local strategies that align
 with our strengths, such as GM’s 5-year Environment Plan and the Carbon Neutral by 2038 plan
 (more details in Section 4). To achieve our objectives, staff are supported in many ways, including
 through mentoring, annual professional development reviews, the development of individual five-

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 year research plans, internal funding award schemes and peer review (full details are described
 in Section 2).
 The highly-applied nature of our research activities and their close (technological and physical)
 alignment naturally lends itself to significant levels of interaction and engagement with SMEs and
 larger companies. Consequently, we are able to promote our expertise to industry and secure
 direct or in-kind industrial support for the majority of our research awards. Indeed, this engagement
 underpins the rationale of our research and has acted as an engine of growth for RKE activities
 over the assessment period, and it is through this engagement that the impact arising from our
 research is largely generated.
 To measure the success of our RKE strategy, we have a set of key performance indicators. These
 include: increasing the proportion of research active staff; increasing the number of high quality
 academic outputs; increasing research grant income and the number of principal investigators;
 and increasing national and international collaborators. Evidence for the success of this strategy
 and the attainment of our objectives can be seen in several metrics, such as the 121% increase
 in the number of staff returned in this unit; an increase in grant income of 112% (with 49 individual
 PIs); a very significant increase in KTP awards (from a low of 2 in 2013 to a current average of 15
 p.a. and a total of 32 in the REF period); and 1,051 scholarly outputs in the assessment period,
 57% of which (600) have international co-authors. All of these performance indicators have
 combined to increase the impact of our research.
 Review of REF2014 plans: Whilst several elements of the strategy described above were in place
 in the plans described in the REF2014 submission, it is the transition to our research centres with
 their focus on our core strengths and delivering high quality sustainable research and the
 corresponding internal investment in staff, infrastructure and facilities, that has led to the significant
 increase in our research activities and outputs. Industry engagement was also an important
 feature in the REF2014 plans but the strategy put in place in this assessment period has expanded
 this interaction well beyond our expectations, to the point where it is the foremost mechanism
 through which external funding, outputs and impact have been achieved.
 Support for Impact: All of our support processes require the potential impact of a proposal to be
 clearly articulated. In this way, we ensure that consideration of impact is embedded in our research
 culture at all stages, from initial meetings with new potential collaborators and the preparation of
 substantive grant proposals, through to the establishment of long-term partnerships.
 The key strategy that has supported our sustainable growth in KTP projects was the establishment
 of an award-winning KTP office in 2013, which includes a dedicated KTP post-award support team
 that actively markets our capabilities. This brought greater consistency to our approach and means
 that enhanced levels of engagement and support are provided to projects, including the pursuit
 and delivery of impact. The sustainability and vitality of this strategy has meant that our KTP
 portfolio has grown very significantly (>30 projects in the REF period) and we are now consistently
 placed within the top five institutes for KTPs, and are the best performing modern University (post-
 92).
 The strong relationship between our high quality underpinning research and the impact generated
 through it, is evidenced by the matched funded support of over £300k that we have received for
 six (to date) KTP awards from the EPSRC in this unit. This funding is linked to previous research
 grants that have demonstrated our track record in the field and how knowledge generated from
 our research has been utilised and transferred to the collaborating partner.
 Additional support for impact is provided through a matched funded studentship scheme, in which
 we match the bursary and fee costs of a PhD studentship with an external partner. The scheme
 is highly competitive and prestigious, with approximately ten being awarded per year and has
 become a major source of industry engagement and impact generation for the unit (recent partners
 include: Cyraatek, CRESS, G-Volution, Manufacturing Technology Centre, OSL Rail, DST
 Innovations Ltd, VOLT Loudspeakers, Bobst Manchester Ltd. and United Utilities). Our Business
 Development Managers (BDMs) ensure that fair and equitable IP agreements are agreed with the
 partners.



                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Working with our BDMs, we have a very close and productive working relationship with the
 Business Growth Hub through our ERDF programmes supporting local SMEs to access university
 expertise and supporting our alignment to national and local Industrial Strategy. This route has
 successfully supported over 75 Greater Manchester SMEs to engage the services offered by the
 Manchester Fuel Cell Innovation Centre (MFCIC) in the fuel cell and energy sectors. Indeed, the
 MFCIC was awarded the Runners-up prize for 2020 in the Guardian ‘Business Collaboration
 Competition’. Similarly, PrintCity has supported SMEs to develop their products through design
 consultancy and additive manufacturing. We also support MIDAS (Manchester’s inward
 investment agency) to showcase the University’s strength to potential new companies looking to
 locate to Manchester. Furthermore, the internally-funded MetroPolis think tank provides networks
 and fellowship opportunities designed to enable high-level research input into policy development,
 and facilitate knowledge exchange between the academic and the host organisation. For example,
 MetroPolis sponsored one of our PDRAs (Kulczyk-Malecka) to undertake a Policy Fellowship with
 the Northern Powerhouse Partnership to provide content for the hydrogen section of their energy
 strategy document.
 Other measures to support and enable impact include: holding regular Industry Open Days to
 highlight the impact of our research; the appointment of a dedicated Impact and Engagement
 manager to oversee and guide activities; acknowledgement of the importance of knowledge
 exchange through industry engagement in the internal promotions process; and the establishment
 of postgraduate courses, such as the MSc in Industrial Digitisation, which is the first such course
 in the UK to offer bespoke units to industry partners (more details of our Industry 4.0 agenda are
 in Section 4).
 Impact Case Studies: The case studies selected here reflect our impact strategy through which
 our high quality applied research generates strong industrial engagement:
       Development and productionisation of a coating solution for a component from the Trident
        nuclear deterrent system. The Surface Engineering Group was approached by the Atomic
        Weapons Establishment (AWE plc) in 2015 to develop a coatings solution to protect a
        critical component in the Trident missile system. AWE approached us because of our
        acknowledged expertise in the magnetron sputtering coating deposition technique and our
        experience of collaborating with industry to progress products through the TRLs. The
        rationale for the project and the full impact are considered ATOMIC SECRET PRINCIPAL.
        This work began as a contract research project, which identified a potential solution to their
        problem. Beginning at TRL 2, by taking an agile approach to problem solving, we were
        successfully able to develop a full-scale trial of the component (TRL 4) and demonstrate
        an optimised coating solution (TRL 5). We have now gone on to develop the pathway to
        productionisation for the coated component (TRL 6/7).
       Novel surface coating and modification techniques: driving production volume and market
        adoption of AlOx barrier films. The impact described in this case study is derived through
        our strategy of developing long-term engagements with companies, in this case Bobst
        Manchester Ltd., through the use of matched funded studentships and KTPs. In the initial
        PhD project, an AlOx (aluminium oxide) barrier layer for food packaging film was developed
        and characterised. The success of this research and the strong relationship developed
        between Bobst and Manchester Metropolitan led to a three-year KTP project (KTP009328:
        ‘Conversion Processes for AlOx Coated Polymer Packaging’, rated ‘outstanding’ by
        Innovate UK). The KTP project developed and optimised the multiple conversion stages
        required to take the AlOx coated polymeric film through to a finished product for food
        packaging. This, in turn, allowed Bobst to achieve market-leading worldwide sales of ‘turn-
        key’ solutions to packaging manufacturers (see output 1771).
       Innovation and culture change - transforming SMEs through Smart systems innovation:
        Impact has been generated through our strategy of pro-actively marketing our KE
        capabilities to SMEs seeking innovative product and process development to deliver first-
        to-market and disruptive technologies through Smart systems. Utilising the vehicle of
        KTPs, an example of this is the ‘Non-Intrusive Mobile Advanced Metering Infrastructure
        (AMI) for Water Management’ project with Aquacheck Engineering Ltd, a Greater


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Manchester SME that provides innovative water solutions to large water utility companies.
        The project, which was rated ‘outstanding’ by Innovate UK, successfully transferred the
        research on sensor clustering and product energy efficiency to develop the world’s first
        Smart, non-mechanical standpipe for initial launch in the UK. This project received the Best
        Knowledge Transfer Partnership Award at The KTP Best of the Best Awards in September,
        2020. The judges said: "This KTP has revolutionised the traditional standpipe by turning it
        into a Smart, connected device, which delivers invaluable insight into water usage.” The
        judges also felt this KTP had been “utterly transformative” for the business.
       CFD modelling of complex wave-structure interactions informs design and operations of
        major maritime infrastructure projects: Two decades of developing CFD codes and
        methodologies at CMMFA has led to the creation of a de facto national ‘numerical wave
        tank’ (NWT) capability, providing a high standard national R&D facility to support both
        academic research and industrial application in the area of wave structure interaction. The
        code has been used, most notably by Dutch engineering firm Royal Haskoning DHV, to
        model wave effects on a large-scale coastal defence project around Bacton, Norfolk, which
        will protect two villages and a major gas terminal from flooding and coastal erosion for 20
        years. The code also informed the design of the new Littlehaven promenade and sea wall
        to prevent over-topping and flooding during storms.
 Interdisciplinary Research: A major strength of the research carried out in the Engineering unit
 is the emphasis placed on multi-disciplinary and interdisciplinary activities. Our research structures
 and strategies are designed to encourage and support staff naturally from different disciplines to
 form collaborations to undertake research that would otherwise not be possible and we support
 this through internal funding competitions. Some examples include collaboration between sports
 materials engineers and apparel experts in the Manchester Fashion Institute to develop auxetic
 materials (output 1814) for protective equipment (e.g. wrist protectors) and healthcare scientists
 to prevent sports injuries (e.g. mouthguards). Water treatment, which is increasingly becoming a
 topic of international concern, is another strong example of interdisciplinary research in this unit,
 combining knowledge in materials science, surface engineering, chemistry and microbiology at
 interfaces to develop and optimise appropriate treatment technologies (outputs 1840, 1851). The
 Applied Imaging Engineering (AIE) Group includes staff from Engineering, Computing and Maths,
 and Ecology and Environment, and was formed to offer software solutions in computer vision and
 deep learning for researchers across the whole University, and externally, particularly those
 without the capacity to develop their own code. The AIE group provides an interdisciplinary
 service, with three-month projects supported by a software developer, to help researchers build a
 readable, reliable and efficient code.
 SIIRG worked with the Manchester School of Architecture (MSoA) and the Department of
 Computing and Mathematics (DoCM) to deliver CityVerve (2016-2018), a £10m Innovate UK
 funded Smart city project that aimed to test better services, using the Internet of Things (IoT)
 technology. SIIRG was involved in development, integration and installation of energy efficient
 sensors for urban equipment, like street lamps, vehicles or home heating equipment. DoCM
 worked with SIIR on data analytics using AI and visualisation platforms, while MSoA developed
 the ‘Green Travel Planner’, a custom made digital tool, which encouraged more sustainable day-
 to-day transport choices for citizens.
 Open Research: Staff returned in this unit are compliant with the Concordat for Open Research Data,
 and outputs comply with the REF open access policy. Outputs are submitted to the institutional
 repository ‘e-space’ through Symplectic, our research information management system, which is
 monitored and maintained by RKE Systems and the Open Access team in the Library. Institutional
 and UKRI funds are provided to cover APCs for gold access for high-quality outputs underpinned
 by external funding and outputs that have wider economic and societal benefits. Staff in this unit
 also take advantage of voucher schemes, such as that offered by the Royal Society of Chemistry
 to cover APCs – over 40 vouchers have been awarded in the REF period providing £60k for APCs.
 The University’s research repository (‘e-space’) contains over 15k items, which have been
 downloaded over 1.5M times in the REF period. Four members of this unit (Banks, Rabie, Adebisi
 and Kelly) are amongst the top 25 most accessed authors out of over 1,000 entries, with papers


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 linked to our impact case study on surface coatings (output 1771) receiving over 1,500 downloads
 since publication.
 We also recognise the importance of research data management as a part of good research
 practice in ensuring high standards of research integrity and excellence. All those engaged with
 research in this unit have a responsibility to ensure that the data they gather and generate is
 properly managed, adhering to research funder data policies where appropriate, and made
 accessible, intelligible, assessable and usable by others unless there are legitimate reasons to the
 contrary. All staff prepare data management plans, which include data storage requirements that
 they can access using the Research Data Storage (RDS) platform established with £500k of
 internal funding during the assessment period. Support for Research Data Management is
 provided by RKE Systems and the University Library. The EPSRC CCP-WSI project (a
 Collaborative Computational Project in Wave Structure Interaction), of which Manchester
 Metropolitan is one of the lead partners, gives an example of this in practice. Computer codes
 developed from the project and test cases used for validating the numerical models are being
 shared with the wider research community in wave structure interaction through dedicated open
 code and data repositories.
 Research Integrity and Ethics: The Faculty Research Ethics and Governance Committee
 implements the University’s research ethics and governance-related policies within this unit and
 oversees staff and student compliance with The Concordat for Research Integrity. We have three
 ethics leads within the unit including the deputy chair of the Faculty’s Research Ethics and
 Governance Committee (REGC). It is a requirement that all staff, PGR students and visiting
 researchers obtain ethical approval for all projects and this is explicitly covered in training and
 induction processes. The REGC is the body of review for applications for ethical approval and has
 the remit to create unit level policies regarding research ethics and governance. Ethical approval
 is obtained through the online EthOS system and all research activities are required to secure
 approval before data collection can commence. Each application is reviewed on areas related to
 ethical conduct of research as well as GDPR, legal requirements, insurance and research
 communication before being signed off by the Committee Chair. Every year, our ethics leads
 participate in a monitoring and review process that feeds into our University’s annual report for
 compliance with The Concordat for Research Integrity. Our ethics leads work closely with a
 professional Research Ethics and Governance Manager, who ensures that information and
 training is kept up-to-date and that everybody understands their responsibilities, including
 processes for investigating allegations of research misconduct.
 2. People
 Staffing and Recruitment Strategy: Our predominant staff recruitment strategy is to search out
 talented early career researchers with nascent potential to undertake high quality research in one
 of our core areas of strength, and to develop that potential through a structured support
 programme. Consequently, research track record and appropriateness of fit to a given UCRKE
 are key criteria in the recruitment process. 30 staff returned in this unit took up their posts since
 REF2014, including ten ECRs (20% of submission). Of these new staff, eight first joined us as
 either PhD students or PDRAs (Abd-Allah, Brownson, Duncan, Ma, Randviir, Redfern, Rowley-
 Neale and Sawtell) and were subsequently recruited to lectureships on the basis of their
 performance. Of course, staff are recruited at all career levels; four new Professors (Decent from
 Lancaster, Gibson from Manchester, Liskiewicz from Leeds and Holderbaum from Reading) were
 brought in to provide leadership and two experts in hydrogen fuel cell technology (King from
 Stanford and Regmi from Berkeley) were appointed from an international field to strengthen this
 area. Other staff were recruited in this period from Russell Group universities, including
 Manchester, Birmingham, York, UCL, Edinburgh and Liverpool, and internationally from DCU,
 Monash, Nanyang and Singapore Universities.
 We support staff at every stage of their academic career, as reflected in our staffing contract
 profile (Table 1)




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Professor                 Principal Lecturer        Senior Lecturer           Lecturer, Research
                            and Reader                                          Fellow
  15%                       13%                       46%                       26%
 Staff contract level profile (Table 1)

 3 staff (1.4FTE) are on fixed-term contracts and, as such, receive exactly the same access to
 staff development opportunities and resources (see below) as other colleagues.
 Development Strategy: Staff are appointed to one of the UCRKEs and integrated into a research
 group or team, where they will be assigned a research mentor appropriate to their level of
 experience. Mentors receive training to enable them to work with their staff to develop a research
 activity log or plan, which will set out a series of objectives for the short to medium term (up to five
 years ahead). These logs are considered to be live documents that are regularly updated. The
 research activity logs for all staff are reviewed annually with the Centre Director and are used as
 the basis for establishing a research time allowance within the departmental workload model that
 provides a fair and equitable balance between teaching, research and administration. Importantly,
 staff considered to be full members of the UCRKE are allocated a minimum of 20% (up to a
 maximum of 50%) of their workload to research.

 Full membership provides access to UCRKE award schemes, specific investment for RKE
 activities (including internal strategic funds), the use of RKE systems, support from dedicated
 Research Development Managers (RDMs) and BDMs and through the central RKE Directorate.
 In return, full members are expected to produce high-quality outputs, achieve research income
 targets, supervise PhDs, engage with activities relating to impact, and produce individual research
 plans. Performance around these expectations is measured by Heads of Department through the
 annual Professional Development Review process. ECR staff not achieving full membership are
 categorised as associate members and given additional training, as required, to attain full status.
 The PDR process and activity logs feed into a robust promotions and succession planning
 process, which recognises staff achieving impact in their field and has provided a career
 progression route for several staff in this unit in the assessment period, including three internally
 promoted Professors (Banks, Alhussein, Adebisi and Qian).
 Staff at the top of Lecturer, Senior Lecturer and Reader scales can apply for additional pay
 increments designed to reward excellent research or impact. Professors have their pay reviewed
 in an annual ‘banding’ exercise, an opportunity for the Faculty to reward outstanding contributions
 from top performers. Promotion from Lecturer to Professor is signposted via two Academic Career
 Pathways – Education, Pedagogy and Citizenship and Research, Knowledge Exchange,
 Education and Citizenship. Information workshops are delivered by the Faculty Head of RKE and
 Pro-Vice-Chancellor for RKE ensuring the process is open and inclusive. Additional workshops
 are held for BAME and female colleagues.
 Additional support for staff to achieve their research and career objectives is provided through a
 number or routes, including:
        Within the Engineering unit, staff can apply for seed corn funding to develop RKE activities.
         Awards of up to £10k are available to support any activity that can leverage new funding
         opportunities or generate high quality outputs or impact.
        There is a sabbatical scheme available to staff, who are seeking to develop larger research
         themes or groups: for example, Doyle was awarded a 3-month sabbatical in 2018 to allow
         him to establish a Low Carbon Fuels (LCF) Group within AMSE. The LCF group has
         subsequently flourished, leading to a PhD completion, part-funded by G-Volution and
         contract research funding from Cryofuel.
        The Good to Great Researcher Career Development Programme (G2G) provides bespoke
         support for researchers, who are typically on a pathway to professorship, building on
         individuals’ existing strengths and helping to remove barriers to progression. The
         programme focuses on academic professional development and research leadership skills
         development, and is a key element in our succession planning. Four staff are currently


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        participating in the scheme from this unit, receiving a combined total of £64k in funding to
        support their development.
       The RKE Future Leaders scheme, which is available to staff at an earlier stage of their
        careers, provides a cohort-based leadership programme structured around RKE-related
        agendas, such as funding, open access, research integrity and impact, etc. Five staff are
        currently participating in the scheme from Engineering.
       Grant development workshops: funding proposals are scrutinised and ‘sense-checked’ by
        experienced colleagues to ensure they are valid ideas that meet the criteria of the funding
        body, thus improving our success rate through improving the quality of the proposals.
 Integrating new staff and Post Docs: All new staff undertake an induction programme, which
 gives guidance on the research procedures in the UCRKE. Other important elements of the staff
 induction programme include training in PhD supervision, chairing examination panels, health and
 safety, data protection, prevent duty, and implementing our equality and diversity policies.
 An Engineering ECR Support Programme was launched in 2017, led by Doyle, to encourage and
 advise new staff members on how to secure grant income, particularly those calls unique to ECRs;
 and to project manage effectively in order to generate knowledge and deliver tangible outputs.
 ECRs on this programme are supported by a combination of informal one-to-one meetings and an
 annual grant writing workshop, which includes a Q&A session with a panel of experienced grant
 holders. The initial cohort of ten members of staff from this unit have gone through this programme
 and collectively secured over £1.1m from various external funding bodies. The scheme has since
 been extended to 17 members.
 Staff, postgraduates and students are further integrated into the research culture through
 involvement in our seminar and development programmes: for example, we have organised one-
 day events aimed at showcasing our research excellence in priority areas, including water
 detection and treatment, low carbon energy, bioengineering and sustainable materials. In addition
 to contributed presentations from full members and selected external invited speakers, we
 encourage ECRs, postgraduates and PhD students to present their work with a view to forging
 collaborative research and joint grant applications. We hold bi-annual away days to bring members
 together to discuss strategy and evaluate group performance. We also hold regular research
 workshops where members of the unit, including academics, post-docs and PhD students, meet
 to discuss project progress, publication strategy and plans for external funding applications.
 All support processes and structures for research comply with the principles of the 'Concordat for
 the Career Development of Researchers'. Manchester Metropolitan demonstrates its compliance
 with the Concordat via the EU HR Excellence in Research Award, which we first received in 2013
 and have held for the past eight years.
 Research Students: There have been 59 PhD completions to date in the REF period (compared
 to 50 in REF2014).
 Recruitment: In this unit, recruitment of doctoral students, including those with protected
 characteristics, requires an interview, which are always conducted with a mixed gender panel to
 comply with E&D guidelines, usually containing the prospective DoS, an additional subject-related
 member of staff, an independent panel member and/or the appropriate Research Degree Co-
 ordinator (RDCo) as Chair. Our students are recruited from multiple sources, including through
 the matched funded scheme referred to earlier, other internal funding mechanisms, such as QR
 returned to the UCRKEs, Leverhulme, and the University Alliance DTA scheme. Our PGR
 community during the assessment period of 129 students, consisted of 86 home / EU (67%) and
 43 overseas (33%), with recruitment from 29 countries. The gender balance was 75% male/25%
 female; 7% have a declared disability, 48% were from BAME backgrounds and the age profile
 ranged from 23 to 59.
 Support for Students: Research students join the Faculty Graduate School, which provides an
 induction process and a comprehensive programme of workshops throughout the year aimed at
 promoting best practice, continuous professional development and helping postgraduate
 researchers to get the most out of their research experience (e.g. research methods, health and
 safety, experimental design, ethics, business skills and plagiarism). All PGRs also have access to

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the same University Support Facilities as staff, e.g. Wellbeing Services. As part of their induction
 programme, all research students are integrated into a host research centre, usually the same
 one as their Director of Studies, and are invited to participate in centre activities, such as seminars.
 All postgraduate students are encouraged to publish their work in journal papers and present at
 external research conferences, and financial support is available for this through their research
 centre. In addition to this, regular faculty- and university-wide events enable students to present
 their findings in poster and oral format at an early stage and in a broad supportive atmosphere.
 Such academic forums are supplemented with regular research student social events. We also
 offer public engagement and outreach opportunities to widen their research dissemination and
 communication skills. Working with the supervisory teams, we have a number of Departmental
 RDCos in the unit, who focus on improving and maintaining a positive PGR environment in their
 remit. They also sit on a University-wide PGR Training and Development working group to develop
 this provision and environment further, ensuring that all PGRs come out of their degrees with
 transferable employability skills. Supporting this is the Jobs4students service, which provides
 short-term posts for PhD students and PGRs in our research labs, giving them direct experience
 of working with our leading research staff. All our PGRs have access to lockers, staff common
 rooms and desk facilities, with the majority using university laptops to allow flexible working. The
 effectiveness of our systems is evidenced by over 90% of students in this unit reporting satisfaction
 with their supervision and in the development of their research skills in the latest 2019
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES). Engineering also features in the top quartile
 in this survey for Research Culture, Progression, Understanding of Responsibilities and Professional
 Development.
 Monitoring and Support: Progress is monitored via a personal development portfolio and annual
 assessment meetings with an independent mentor, which is logged by the Science and
 Engineering Research Degrees team through the SkillsForge system. Furthermore, the Graduate
 School is fully engaged with, and supports access to, the Vitae Research and Development
 Framework. A mock viva programme is undertaken where all PhD students in this unit can get
 feedback on their work ahead of their PhD Viva.
 Progression: Student career progression is also an important consideration in this unit. Several
 PhD students have progressed to lectureships in the assessment period; others, e.g. Struller,
 followed her PhD with a KTP Associate post at Manchester Metropolitan, sponsored by Bobst
 Manchester, was subsequently employed by them and is now the Industrial Supervisor of a further
 KTP project between Bobst and the University. At least six other KTP Associates have also been
 retained by their sponsoring companies. Regular teaching opportunities are offered, with the
 process usually de-coupled from the DoS in order to provide a range of academic viewpoints.
 Equality and Diversity: We have aimed to be fair, transparent and inclusive in our REF
 preparation, complying with the University’s Code of Practice to ensure that E&D is reflected in
 the submission. All colleagues with significant responsibility for research and independent
 researcher status are included in the submission. Staff involved in preparing the submission
 completed training on ‘Managing Diversity’, ‘Equality and Diversity Essentials’ and ‘Unconscious
 Bias and REF2021’. We have taken positive steps to maximise E&D in the selection of outputs.
 All staff are aware of the REF2021 process for declaring individual circumstances (which is in
 addition to our annual UCRKE process for declaring equality-related circumstances) and five
 colleagues used the confidential process to declare a mixture of complex and ‘simple’ cases. We
 have not sought a reduction in the overall volume of outputs in our submission because we took
 the view that there is enough scope for us to manage the impact of individual circumstances within
 the REF2021 rules.
 In April 2018, Advance HE confirmed that the University had been successfully awarded an
 Institutional Athena SWAN Bronze award. In the Engineering unit, we have our own Self-
 Assessment Team (SAT) for Athena Swan, led by a member of the University’s working group.
 Any E&D matters arising within the unit are attended to by the Athena Swan unit lead (Sawtell)
 with support from the SAT, in consultation with Heads of Departments (HoDs), the Research
 Centre Directors (RCDs) and HR. Staff can be granted workload allowance or leave of absence
 to work remotely in order to minimise distractions to research and other continuous professional
 development (CPD). Working from home to fit around family and caring commitments can be

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 agreed on an occasional or temporary basis. For long-term arrangements, we have a ‘Flexible
 Working Policy’, which is a formal route for staff to request contractual changes to cater to their
 individual work and home circumstances.
 The career pathways and progression opportunities, as stipulated by the University, apply to all
 academic staff who are Grade 8 (lectureship) and above, irrespective of their type of contract;
 indeed, reference was made earlier to the number of staff in this unit who have successfully
 progressed from fixed-term PDRA roles to permanent contracts. Inclusivity is at the heart of our
 support mechanisms for progression. Our internal funding application processes for staff take into
 account the E&D considerations that are applicable to the individuals seeking funding and
 workload allowance to pursue their research. For example, all research-related travel, including
 conference attendance by staff, is sanctioned by their department upon consideration of a
 business case developed by the staff member with their RCD. Decision to fund is taken on a case-
 by-case basis, and any applicable exceptional factors and E&D aspects will be considered in order
 to support the staff best in a fair and equitable manner.
 In terms of support to staff returning from shorter to longer periods of leave, line managers conduct
 a formal return to work meeting with the staff member in order to understand the required
 transitional arrangements to help them settle back into work. This includes discussions around
 any changes in the individual’s circumstances at and outside of work as well as a workload review
 of their teaching and research duties. Appropriate support mechanisms are put in place and
 documented with HR. To manage ill-health or long-term illness, HR guidance on staff health and
 well-being is followed and a referral to Occupational Health is prioritised by the line manager at
 the earliest opportunity. Any parental and caring responsibilities discussed with the line manager
 are dealt with confidentially and with HR guidance to provide optimum support to the staff.
 Inclusivity also plays a major role in recruitment to research leadership roles. Gender equality,
 BAME and other E&D aspects, such as protected characteristics, are taken into serious
 consideration within this unit when recruiting staff for research leadership roles. We are a Disability
 Confident employer, which ensures that any disabled candidate, who meets the essential criteria
 for a vacancy, will be guaranteed an interview. All staff are encouraged to approach their line
 managers or any other members of the senior management team freely if they have any concerns
 related to their protected characteristics. Staff and students are also encouraged to join our
 Wellbeing Community, which promotes positive personal wellbeing and champions workplace
 wellness in a non-judgemental and confidential environment.
 In this unit, 75% of the submission are male / 25% female (accounting for 20% of all outputs); 0%
 of staff have a declared disability and 57% of the submission identify as white / 43% as BAME
 (accounting for 42% of outputs) – figures, which are all close to the sector averages.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External Income: As described earlier, one of the key performance targets in this Unit during the
 REF period was to increase research grant income. Our strategy for achieving this was based, in
 part, around promoting our expertise and engaging with industry, for example, through KTPs. In
 addition, our strategy to put in place staff development processes, including working with RDMs
 to target specific funders, funder visits and workshops, ECR development, supporting external
 collaborations, and internal investment in new clusters (e.g. the MCFIC), has successfully
 increased the proportion of research active staff and the number of principal investigators, and
 through that, has achieved the aim of increased income.
 In 2013/14 research income stood at £870,220. For 2015/16, this had increased to £1,422,802
 and by 2019/20 income had increased to £2,169,004, giving a total of £9,747,036 in the REF
 period. The total value of research awards stands at £12,806,757 with a further £8M in KE awards.
 KE income contributes another £2,249M to the unit’s resources, collectively demonstrating the
 sustainability and vitality of the unit going forward. This compares very favourably to the REF2014
 research income total of £4,578,960. Thus, it is clear that the strategies put in place through this
 REF period have resulted in a very significant (112%) uplift in research income. Furthermore, 49


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the staff submitted in this unit can be identified as Principal Investigators of individual external
 research income awards made in the assessment period.
 Diversity of Income Sources

  Source of          BEIS               UK Charities,   UK Govt,      European          Non-EU
  Income             Research           Open            Industry &    Union
                     Councils           Competition &   other UK
                                        Other           Sources
  Percentage         36%                2%              54%           5%                3%
  of Income
 Table 2: Diversity of Income Sources


 Expanding on the income table, our biggest source of income is Innovate UK, with KTPs
 accounting for almost £3M in income (for example, Aquacheck Engineering: KTP010599;
 £311,836; PI: Adebisi). This justifies our strategy of engaging with industry, as does direct
 industrial funding from many companies, including the Atomic Weapons Establishment of £855k
 (PI: Kelly).
 EPSRC funding accounts for approximately 1/3rd of our income, for example ‘Additive
 Manufacturing Next Generation Supergen Energy Storage Devices’ (EP/N001877/1; £509,084; PI:
 Banks); and ‘Extreme Loading on FOWT under Complex Environmental Conditions’ (EP/T004150/1;
 £353,155; PI: Qian). EU funding has been less significant; however, some substantial grants have
 been awarded, for example ‘Developing and Implementing Sustainability-Based Solutions for Bio-
 Based Plastic Production and Use to Preserve Land and Sea Environmental Quality in Europe’
 (£371,668 European Commission; PI: Banks). This award develops important international
 collaborations and supports both our sustainability agenda and our Circular Economy Network.
 Other sources include the British Council, the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Newton Fund,
 and the Royal Society, which indicates the international reach of our research.
 Internal Funding: We have access to all the relevant QR funding that was earned in REF2014
 (approx. £380k p.a. in this unit), plus an additional £30k p.a. to support our operational priorities.
 We use this funding to develop capacity for external funding applications including competitive
 internal awards, seed corn funding, and travel and subsistence costs to attend conferences or visit
 external partners. In each case, the funding provided support to help ‘kick start’ new research
 initiatives in these areas. A further £200k has been awarded to the unit from other internal sources,
 such as the Global Challenges Research Fund and our Research Accelerator Grants scheme.
 Along with the provision of staff time and workload allowances, the above represent a considerable
 internal investment into high-quality research.
 Infrastructure: There has been significant investment in the REF period in all levels of
 organisational infrastructure for research and delivery of impact. Key outcomes from this
 investment can be seen in our Industry 4.0 activities and in the establishment of the Manchester
 Fuel Cell Innovation Centre, PrintCity and the Circular Economy Network. The Strategic
 Opportunities Fund is a centrally-managed fund, which staff can bid for to develop new substantial
 initiatives of this nature. In the REF period, this unit has received £233k through this fund to
 support the MFCIC, PrintCity and SIIRG.
 At unit level, the research leadership teams meet monthly to plan activities, update strategy and
 agree internal funding awards. The centre directors then report activity to the Faculty RKE
 committee, which in turn reports at university level. In this unit, we have access to dedicated
 technical and support staff, estates and facilities teams and IT support, including professional
 marketing and web development support for our website and social media presence. Through the
 RKE office, we also have the support of the aforementioned dedicated RDMs and BDMs; an
 International Research Development Manager; the KTP office; Ethics and Governance teams to
 ensure compliance with the relevant legal standards (e.g. GDPR, etc.); a Research Delivery Team
 including post-award specialists; and a RKE Contracts and Legal team, which provides advice on
 contracting requirements for research projects, and negotiates agreements, such as non-
 disclosure agreements and collaboration agreements with external organisations of all types.

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RKE Systems manage Symplectic, which staff use to maintain records of outputs, OA compliance,
 and web profiles; Worktribe is used for the online management of external funding applications
 and reporting; EthOS, for research ethics and governance; and SkillsForge, to manage the PGR
 student journey. RKE Systems also provide management reports and data for annual review
 processes.
 Library: The University Library is open 24/7 and offers access to extensive online resources for
 staff and PGRs. A subject-specific librarian advocates for extra resources and updates journal
 provision, as well as contributing to workshops and training in InfoSkills and Open Research.
 Journal titles and online resources are reviewed annually. The Library also manages Green OA
 through the University’s e-Space repository and funding for Gold OA APC charges.
 Impact infrastructure: Measures taken to support the generation of impact from our research
 and to ensure the long-term sustainability of our activities include the appointment of a unit Impact
 & Engagement Manager, whose role is to optimise impact generation across the research life
 cycle. The role involves activities to raise impact literacy and embed best practice in impact
 development, delivery and monitoring at all staffing levels, and to ensure research proposals
 support strategic and ambitious impact goals. The Manager is an active member of the unit’s
 management group and also champions delivery of public engagement activities.
 Facilities: The majority of our materials and engineering research takes place in well-equipped
 laboratories in John Dalton Tower and the Engineering Workshop (a total lab space of
 approximately 2000m2) and is supported by a team of 40 dedicated technical staff. For example,
 the Surface Engineering Laboratory is fully equipped with state-of-the-art magnetron sputter
 coating deposition systems, ranging in size from lab-scale research units to pilot-scale production
 systems. Our materials scientists make use of analysis facilities including SEM, EDX, XPS, AFM,
 XRD, HPLCs, GCMC, ICP, NMR and various spectroscopic instruments. Sports Engineering
 utilises high speed cameras and digital image correlation software, plus bespoke instrumented
 impact rigs and bending rigs, e.g. for tennis rackets, cricket bats and snow board wrist protectors.
 In the research areas of sensing, measurement and advanced communications, we have
 equipment, such as Power Network Analysers; Vector Network Analysers; Fibre-integrated
 reception satellite system testbeds; TV Signal analysers; Nordic Sampo (for RFID Tag
 characterisation); PCB Fabrication Facility and RF test accessories. There are high-
 speed/resolution line cameras and specialist line lights, a hyperspectral camera, high spec
 desktop for deep learning applications, and a software-defined radio test bed. We have a
 photogrammetric system called ‘Digital Image Correlation’ that allows us to carry out full-field
 displacement, strain and vibration measurement.
 In the Smart Energy team, we have an E6 Ricardo engine, emission measurement kit, a 5.5kW
 Gearbox and 1kW Motor/Generator test rigs, and dSpace Control Systems and lab with connected
 facilities to various energy sources (PV, CHP, wind turbine, batteries, etc.)
 We have lab facilities to conduct research in rehabilitation engineering. The lab has Functional
 Electrical Stimulation to restore motor function in paraplegia. The lab is also equipped with an
 instrumented frame to measure forces produced by paraplegic subjects while standing up. A
 motion capture system, Qualysis, with eight cameras is being used to measure the motion of the
 body in a 3D space.
 At CMMFA, our main facilities are high-spec desktop PCs and a CPU/GPU cluster with 12
 compute nodes (192 cores). Collectively, we invest in state-of-the-art software, such as Ansys
 Workbench, Abaqus 2019, OpenFOAM, Ansys Fluent:, COMSOL Multiphysics, Matlab, NI
 LabVIEW FPGA, GOM correlate professional (commercial) and DICengine (open-sourced),
 CONVERGE CFD, CHEMKIN-PRO Advanced Design System (ADS), SystemVue, Python, Visual
 Studio C#, C++, and Cypress PSoC IDE PCB Design platforms, etc.
 In the five-year period of delivering the Triangulum project we worked with the Estates and
 Facilities team at the Manchester Met Birley Fields campus (Living Lab) to install combined heat
 and power (CHP): 375 kwh, solar PV: 158 KW, Battery Storage: 400kWh, 18 Electric Vehicle
 chargers, and in the purchase of two electric vehicles. We also worked with the IT team to ensure
 seamless secure communication between our facilities and the Siemens Central Controller to

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reduce demand on the energy network at peak times. These unique facilities acquired and
 installed during Triangulum (and also the Citiverve project) are available to SIIRG researchers as
 a ‘living lab’, allowing us to study people’s reactions to the Smart technologies and their approach
 to sustainability.
 Two major recent infrastructure initiatives to support high quality research and impact at the
 University contribute to the Engineering submission, namely, The Manchester Fuel Cell Innovation
 Centre (MFCIC) and PrintCity®. Both represent significant investment in this unit and expert
 academic and technical staff have been recruited specifically to support these initiatives.
 MFCIC is a new (launched in 2018) £4.1M research centre, part funded by the European Regional
 Development Fund (ERDF). The funding was divided between refurbishment costs to a suite of
 existing labs in the John Dalton Tower; providing state-of-the-art hydrogen safety and alarm
 systems; providing meeting and seminar rooms; and installing a suite of materials analysis
 equipment (e.g. an X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) system, and a ‘first in the UK’
 combined atomic force microscope and Raman spectroscopy system; AFF/Raman) and fuel cell
 testing equipment including proton exchange membrane (PEM) test rigs, solid oxide fuel cell
 (SOFC) test rigs and an electrolyser.
 PrintCity® has invested over £300,000 in capital equipment in the last two years. It boasts over
 50 3D printers from eight different print technologies and high quality scanners. PrintCity has nine
 members of staff to support teaching, research, knowledge exchange and outreach activities.
 Accessing External Facilities and Infrastructure: Banks utilised battery-testing facilities at
 Central South University in China to test 3D printed energy storage devices, which was an output
 of EPSRC project EP/N001877/1 and published in Nature Science Reports (article 42233 – ranked
 in the Top 100 in Chemistry series, see output 1817). Kelly is developing surface engineering
 solutions for accident tolerant nuclear fuels, which have been tested at the Dalton Cumbrian
 Facility (DCF), the UK's largest academic provider of nuclear research and development test
 facilities. At CMMFA, much of our EPSRC SUPERGEN funded work has been a collaboration
 between our specialists in computational fluid dynamics and experimentalists at the project partner
 institutes (Plymouth, Imperial and Queens University of Belfast). Our numerical modelling work is
 validated by the data from the dedicated wave tank tests, such as the COAST (Coastal, Ocean
 And Sediment Transport) laboratory at Plymouth, which provides physical model testing with
 combined waves, currents and wind, offered at scales appropriate for device testing, array testing,
 environmental modelling and coastal engineering.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Academic Collaborators: Staff returned in this unit collaborate with a multitude of national and
 international academics in many fields; the world-wide reach of our work is evidenced by the 600
 published outputs from this unit in the assessment period that have international co-authors (57%
 of total outputs). Examples of our successful academic collaborations include CMMFA’s
 successful long-term contribution to the SUPERGEN Wind, Marine and ORE HUB programmes,
 SIIRG’s Triangulum and Citiverve projects, and the large multi-partner circular economy projects
 undertaken through the CEN. Internationally, we have established the Manchester Metropolitan
 Joint Institute, Hubei University (Vice Dean, Hong Li is returned in this unit) and have developed
 a joint Research Centre in Functional Materials with Wuhan Institute of Technology. We are also
 in the process of developing a joint Research Centre in Smart Energy Systems (including
 Hydrogen) with Sichuan Energy Internet Research Institute, Tsinghua University.
 There are many other examples of successful academic collaborations, which have led to journal
 publications, funding proposals, student exchange, co-supervision, etc. and a selection are given
 below:
 Prof. Bradley, Liverpool University (EPSRC projects; plasma physics); Dr. Assender, Oxford
 (EPSRC project; materials characterisation); Prof. Barber, Cambridge (Pilkingtons funded project
 on atomic diffusion); Profs. Preuss and Xiao, Manchester (BEIS funded project on Accident
 Tolerant Fuels); Prof. Wuttig, RWTH, Aachen, Germany (joint PhD project in high entropy
 materials); Prof. Tavares, Minho, Portugal (photocatalysis, co-conference series organiser); Prof.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Yun Gao, Hubei, China (Royal Society International Exchange Award IE140963), Prof. Selli, Milan,
 Italy (Erasmus student exchange programme); Prof. de Amorim, UFMG, Brazil (co-investigator on
 Newton Fund award, also visiting researcher at MMU); Prof. Praserthdam, Chulalongkorn,
 Bangkok (photocatalysis; co-investigator on Newton Mobility Grant NI170178); Prof. Ndlovu,
 Witwatersrand, South Africa (water treatment); Prof. Lundstrom, Aalto, Finland (gold recovery);
 Prof. Dutra, UFSC, Brazil (catalysis); Prof. Velarde, Buffalo, USA (spectroscopy); Prof. Feng,
 Hunan, China (physics); Prof. Marcolino-Junior, Universidade Federal do Paraná (UFPR) Brazil;
 Prof. Mahanthappa REVA University, Bengaluru, India; Dr. Khairy, Sohag University, Egypt; Prof.
 Richter, Federal University of Uberlandia, Brazil (electrochemistry); Prof. Plets, Ghent University,
 Dr. Rajbhandari, Coventry, Prof. O'Brien, Oxford, Dr. Dowhuszko, CTTC, Barcelona
 (optoelectronics), Dr. Schauer, Technische Universität Berlin, Dr. Remsing, Rhodes University,
 South Africa (smart energy); Prof. Cotton, Manchester, Prof. Malcom, Oxford, Prof. Li, Bath, Prof.
 Nasuto, Reading, Prof. Becerra, Portsmouth, Prof. Freemann, Southampton (Smart
 infrastructure).

 In several cases, these collaborations have led to external chair appointments:
      Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Xingfa School of Mining, Wuhan Institute of
        Technology (Potgieter);
      Hubei University, Wuhan (Kelly);
      Central South University, Changsha; Xiangtan University, Hunan; Henan University of
        Technology, Henan; Xinyang Normal University, Henan; Jianghan University, Wuhan,
        China; Thapar University, Patiala, India (Banks);
      Federal University of Juiz Fora, Brazil (Adebisi);
      Hohai University, China (Qian);
      Sichuan University (Zhou).
 Collaborations, Networks, Partnerships: In addition to the aforementioned Triangulum Project,
 we are also a partner of CitiVerve, a £10M Smart city project in partnership with Cisco, BT,
 Manchester University and 18 others, which demonstrated the benefits of the ‘internet of things’
 (IoTs) in Smart cities. The facilities installed at our Birley campus were used as a testbed to prove
 that low-carbon, cost-efficient solutions are possible and could be rolled out to other urban centres
 across the continent. This has led to additional grant income, such as Energy-IQ project (UK-
 Canada; BEIS funded Project; £2.2M); and Nigeria Intelligent Community Energy (NICE) Energy
 (UK- Nigeria DFID funded project; £600k) funded by DFID. Other major networks include the
 H2020 funded ‘Sustainable solutions for bio-based plastics on land and sea’ circular economy
 project, which includes 22 partners from 13 countries and has a value of €8.4m over four years
 and the TRANSFORM-CE project to divert single use plastic to a feedstock for additive
 manufacturing, which is funded through Interreg North West Europe, has 20 industry partners and
 a total value of £9.4M.
 Our engagement with G-Volution Ltd shows how we can grow a collaboration with a company
 through delivery of high quality outcomes, beneficial to the economy and society. We achieved
 this by offering a flexible portfolio of engagement tools and having an appreciation of the business
 environment in terms of budgetary and timescale constraints. Our collaboration progressed
 through matched funded PhD studentships, contract research and a three-year KTP to develop
 and embed into the company new catalyst solutions for dual fuel heavy goods vehicle exhaust
 streams, capable of meeting EURO 6 environmental standards. The total investment in the project
 to date is £680k. As a direct output, G-Volution has established an agreement with Johnson
 Matthey and US company Tenneco to scale up and install end product units in HGVs (output
 1824).
 Wider Economy and Societal Contributions: We contribute to society through our Circular
 Economy Network, which was established to address the challenge of decoupling economic
 growth from resources use. We aim to provide innovative research and consultancy support to the
 Greater Manchester Combined Authority (GMCA) and businesses, and position the network as
 the leader for CE within the NW. Our activities support the GM Industrial Strategy and 5yr
 Environmental Plan, and the GM zero carbon target for 2038, and, internationally, the UN Strategic
 Development Goals (SDGs). Examples of problem-solving within the waste industry include;

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 preventing in-vessel composting corrosion in anaerobic digesters; the identification of odour
 control system failures; the recycling of new wastes arising from advanced processing; and the
 optimisation of sludge management processes.
 Our Industry 4.0 agenda contributes to the economy and society through focusing on bridging the
 skills gap between industry and academia. We are doing this through our collaboration with
 Siemens and Festo on the connected curriculum programme, which includes I4.0-related research
 projects. I4.0, digitalisation and the use of Big Data provide enormous opportunities as a paradigm
 shift from centralized to decentralized Smart manufacturing and production. We see it as a key
 enabler for increased sustainability (and contributing to the Circular Economy), providing more
 interoperability and flexible industrial processes, and autonomous and intelligent manufacturing.
 We were the lead authors of the ‘Greater Manchester Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Strategy 2021–
 2025: How clean energy can help deliver Greater Manchester’s 2038 decarbonisation ambition’,
 which contributes to the highly ambitious Greater Manchester ‘Carbon neutral living by 2038’
 mission. This strategy will support the North West to become the UK's first Low Carbon Industrial
 Cluster and is also aligned to the Northern Powerhouse ambition around hydrogen and fuel cells.
 Beyond GM, our MFCIC staff were also selected as technical experts to present to the all-party
 parliamentary climate change group (APPCCG) during their “Achieving Net Zero: Low Carbon
 Mobility” APPCCG Roundtable. As a follow-up to the above meeting, we co-authored an essay
 with Alexander Stafford, MP, entitled ‘Achieving Net Zero Emissions from the UK Transport Sector
 by 2050: The Role of Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles’. This has been published as part of a collection
 with the APPCCG on the theme of low carbon mobility. We have also contributed to an APPG
 report entitled, ‘How the UK’s hydrogen sector can help support the UK’s economic recovery’. In
 addition, we were invited to contribute as expert reviewers for the Royce Institute ‘Materials for the
 Energy Transition Roadmap’ workshop.
 Engaging the Public with Research: We launched the Hydrogen In Schools (HySchools)
 project, which is an Erasmus+ project that aims to deliver hydrogen education in schools at ages
 13-18. Educational and online resources have been created for use in secondary schools across
 the European partner countries, aimed at providing teachers with increased confidence to teach
 students about Hydrogen Fuel Cell Technology (HFCT). HySchools aims to help schools enhance
 the quality of HFCT teaching to equip students with the future skills required by this growing sector.
 We have also launched a two-week course entitled, ‘The Challenge of Clean Growth and Cleaner
 Cities’, which aims to help those who are considering working in the clean energy sector by giving
 them new skills and helping them to gain a better understanding of clean growth.
 Another example of public engagement is the ‘photocatalytic wall’, in which we treated segments
 of the John Dalton Building with commercially-supplied photocatalytic and conventional paints and
 asked passers-by to identify the treated and untreated panels, and make a subjective assessment
 of the perceived cleanliness of the panels. Initially, members of the public attending a Manchester
 Science Festival event (2014) were asked to rank the painted panels and the experiment, which
 was also conducted via a social media platform (Facebook), continued for 44 months.
 Contribution to Sustainability of Discipline: We contribute to the sustainability of our disciplines
 through taking active roles in numerous organising committees, editorial boards, professional
 bodies and strategy panels.
 Invited/plenary lectures: The impact and reach of our research is further evidenced by the many
 invited presentations, plenary lectures and seminars given by staff in this unit at key international
 conferences. A selection is given below:
       72nd IUVSTA Workshop on Plasma-assisted vapour deposition of oxide-based thin films
        and coatings, 2014, Austria (Kelly)
       Nanomaterials in Biotechnology Workshop, Qingdao, 2018 (Tosheva)
       2nd International Workshop on Dissociative Electron Attachment, Mumbai, 2015 (Koehler)
       International Meeting on Atomic and Molecular Physics and Chemistry, Birmingham, 2015
        (Koehler)
       INTERCORR 2014, Brazil (Liskiewicz)


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       9th International Symposium on Fretting Fatigue, ISFF9, Sevilla, 2019 (Liskiewicz)
       International Workshop on VR/AR over 5G for Smart City Moscow, 2018, Russia (Adebisi)
       7th International Conference on Wireless and Satellite Services (WiSATS), Bradford, 2015
        (Adebisi)
       International Conference of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering, 2019, Prague
        (Albarbar)
       Invited Guest 2019 Huawei Connect Summit in Shanghai, China (Adebisi)
       11th international Conference on Materials Processing and Characterisation, India, 2020
        (Haider)
       Smart Cities Workshop, Tlalnepantla, Mexico, 2016 (Ekpo)
 Conference Session Chairs/Organising Committee: Our staff are active members of the
 organising committees of several major conference series, including:
       Green Communications & Networks of the IET CSNDSP Conference Series (Adebisi)
       IEEE ISPLC Conference Series (Adebisi)
       International Hydrometallurgy Conference (2016, SA) and International Conference on
        Mechanical, Metallurgy and Materials Science, 2019, Italy (Potgieter)
       International Conference on Metallic Coatings and Thin Films (ICMCTF), Plasma Surface
        Engineering (PSE) and Reactive Sputter Deposition (RSD) (Kelly)
       2nd Euro – Asia Zeolite Conference, 2015 (Tosheva)
       Stanford Hydrogen Focus Group Workshop, 2019 (King)
       9th International Conference on Auxetics, 2018 (Duncan)
       Federation of European Zeolite Associations, FEZA, Series (Tosheva, Doyle)
       International Conference Series on Ocean, Offshore & Arctic Engineering (Wei)
       Virtual International Conference on Coastal Engineering, 2020 (Zhou)
       Advances in Materials and Processing Technologies (AMPT) Conference Series (Haider)
       4th Global Summit on Nanotechnology, Czech Republic, 2020 (Velusamy)
       American Chemical Society National Meeting, San Diego, 2019 (Regmi)
 Editorships:
 Staff in this unit are members of the editorial boards or guest editors of many journals (>30),
 amongst the highest ranking in their fields are: Catalysis Today (Kelly); Corrosion Engineering,
 Science and Technology (Potgieter); Materials (Potgieter, Tosheva); Ocean Engineering (Wei);
 Journal of Water (Qian, Wei, Velusamy); Applied Chemistry (Banks); IEEE Access, Electronics
 (Adebisi, Chow); IEEE Wireless Communications (Rabie); Energies, (Holderbaum); Sports
 Engineering (Allen); Applied Sciences (West, Allen); and Nature Scientific Reports (Chow).
 We have also contributed to the discipline by founding several new journals, including Journal of
 Carbon Research (Banks) and Frontiers in Communications and Networks (Rabie).
 Selected Fellowships/Committees/Review Panels, etc.:
       Chair of the review panel of the Isaac Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences
        (Decent)
       Chair of the Jisc-UUK Content Negotiation Strategy Group (Decent)
       Chair of the European Microwave Association (Gibson)
       Chair of the Institute of Physics Ion and Plasma Surface Interactions Group (West)
       Fellow, Institute of Advanced Science (Potgieter)
       Fellow of IMechE and IoP (Liskiewicz)
       Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers (Zhou)
       Treasurer of the British Zeolite Association (Doyle)
       UKRI and EPSRC Early Careers Forum member (Andrews)
       IET Tribology Group Committee (Liskiewicz)
       Member of IEEE Woman in Engineering (Velusamy)
       Co-leader, UK Special Interest Group in Wave Structure Interaction (Qian)
       Founding member of the UK Fluid Network (UKFN) (Qian)


                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Co-Director and member of the Steering Group of the Collaborative Computational
        Project in Wave Structure Interactions (CCP-WSI) (Qian)
       Kelly, West, Banks, Macia Ruiz, Tosheva, Qian, Adebisi, Holderbaum, Collins and
        Liskiewicz are Members of the EPSRC College.
       UK National Commission for UNESCO (Chow)
       Banks named in the Top 1% of the World for citations, 2018
       European Science Foundation review panel member (Banks)
       REF2021 panellist in Engineering (Banks)




                                                                                Page 17
