Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Central Lancashire
 Unit of Assessment: 25 Area Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Overview:
The Institute for the Study of the Asia Pacific (ISAP), which defines the over-arching structure of
research strategy for UoA25, is one of the few research hubs in the UK dedicated to original
interdisciplinary study of the Asia Pacific region. It creates an exciting environment for inter- and
multi-disciplinary research. Although diverse in coverage, research members of the team share
strong disciplinary identities, with the foci on the Humanities and Social Sciences. An emerging
area for the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan), since 2013 the number of researchers has
grown from one to 13 FTE, including five early career researchers. This has enabled, for the first
time, a submission to the REF.
UoA25 has developed many strengths across relevant research fields and in some cases created
unique regional identities. For example, Alsford is the United Nations Country of Origin Expert for
Taiwan in the International Refugee Rights Initiative (IRRI) and oversees the Pacific Islands and
North Korea at AMERA. Smith pioneered North Korean studies before leaving UCLan and this
position has now been taken up and extended by Lim. Lim has directly informed policymakers in the
UK, USA and South Korea, shifting the policy debate away from existing stereotypes of North
Korea. While Smith’s research successfully challenged stereotyped images of North Korea as a
country, Lim’s research informs recent changes in international development cooperation and the
implications of this for North Korea. Smith’s publication was referenced in the 2019 UN Human
Rights Office of the High Commissioner Report (see sec. 4) and has raised public debate and
understanding of the latest political developments in North Korea.
UoA25 plays an essential role in contributing to UCLan’s research agenda. Currently, the
University has six overarching research themes, and UoA25 is one of the main drivers for research
conducted under the strategic research theme of “People, Place, Environment”. This is evidenced
by UoA members’ active involvement in the University Research Centre of Migration, Diaspora
and Exile (MIDEX), which was established to respond to this strategic research theme. Momesso
is the deputy director of the Centre and Chang is a member of the steering committee. At a
faculty level, members of UoA25 have been identified as having an active engagement with
research and are recognised as playing a vital role in its strategic plan. The Faculty of Culture
and Creative Industry (FCCI) has two research academies: the Arts and Humanities Research
Academy (AHRA) and the Academy of Creative Practices Research (CPRA). AHRA provides a
structured context within which to encourage and develop interdisciplinary projects and initiatives
addressing the University’s core strategic research themes. In AHRA, Zemanek was appointed the
Associate Director and Alsford and Lim are part of the Board. The involvement of these
members in the Academy further nurtures and shapes the UoA’s position in the University and
directly influences the strategic direction that the University intends to develop. At school level,
Alsford is Director of Research for Humanities, Language & Global Studies (HLGS), a role that
is critical in aligning the school with the research culture of the University.
In a statement issued in November 2019, the UK Council of Area Studies Associations highlighted
the strategic importance of instilling a deeper knowledge and understanding of other countries,
regions and peoples of the world. It argued that as part of the collective response to the post-Brexit
challenges facing UK society, Area Studies departments throughout the UK Higher Education
sector had a vital role to play. Viewed from these perspectives, Asia Pacific Studies at UCLan

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and most notably its Institute for the Study of the Asia Pacific is ideally placed to make a major
contribution to the collective response to these future challenges.

i. Research strategy:
Our forward plan is based on actively generating and nurturing interdisciplinary research at three
levels:
       (1) individual projects embedded in a core discipline, with findings illuminated from cognate
           fields
       (2) departmental collaborative research projects and interdisciplinary seminar series,
           workshops, and conferences
       (3) collaborative research involving researchers and non-academics beyond departmental
           networks, including regionally-, nationally- and internationally-based joint projects with a
           focus on the Asia Pacific.
This collaborative work has led to real-world impact. For example, Alsford’s impact case study on
cultural artefacts as cultural ambassadors is an ongoing project to utilise British collections of
Taiwanese artefacts in collaboration with the British Museum (UK), the Shung Ye Museum of
Formosan Aborigines (Taiwan), and the National Museum of Taiwan History (Taiwan). The
collaboration with museums and curatorial professions has resulted in a positive enhancement of
cultural heritage preservation.
ii. Unit context and structure:
The mission set out by Alsford in creating ISAP was to position the orientation of Asia Pacific
Studies in a geostrategic arrangement that no longer looks to the West for geographical definition.
It is an orientation that transcends the imagined boundaries of East Asia, Southeast Asia, and
Oceania to encompass the region as an interconnected expanse with shared historical roots.
Under the Faculty of Culture and the Creative Industries (FCCI), ISAP, as an umbrella institute,
consolidates the existing four institutes and centres of the Asia Pacific region — International
Institute of Korean Studies (IKSU), The Northern Institute of Taiwan Studies (NorITS),
Northern England Policy Centre for the Asia Pacific (NEPCAP), and The Centre of
Austronesian Studies (COAST) (see Figures 1 and 2). In 2021, the Institute for Japanese
Studies (IJS) will be launched, and the Institute for Southeast Studies (ISS) and the China
Research Centre (CRC) will be funded and established within the next five years.
The three pillars, research, teaching and innovation, offer a structural underpinning for all
Institutes under ISAP umbrella. Given the complex political contexts and competition within the
region, “country-based” research institutes are necessary in order to negotiate the political
landscape and to further ensure maximum access to research funding for our three main clusters
of study, namely South Korea, Taiwan, and Japan. Each institute and centre has a two-fold
purpose: (1) to encourage the formulation of research agendas that transcend conventional
disciplinary and geographical boundaries, and (2) to provide an international intellectual forum for
the development of these agendas. Outcomes include both internally-organised or externally-
collaborated conferences and publications (see below sections [a], [b]).




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Figure 1: Unit Structure


                                                                     Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




               Figure 2: UoA25 Research Institutes & Centres Growth Chart 2014-28



The boundaries between these institutes and centres are deliberately permeable, and within
UoA25 several colleagues contribute to more than one. Some have collectively constructed
multiple research clusters which are shared across the UoA (see below sections [a], [b], [c], [d]).
The strategic thinking driving the establishment of these research institutes and centres is two-
pronged. The research institutes (IKSU and NorITS) are designed to be country-focused,
whereas the research centres (NEPCAP and COAST) are thematically driven and designed to
deliver research impact. This strategy allows the UoA to capture external funds to support our
country-based research institutes (see sec. 3), which maximises both internal and external
financial resources to support our thematic research centres.
[a] International Institute of Korean Studies (IKSU): established in 2014 as a multidisciplinary
hub of research, teaching and public policy for the study of both Koreas, IKSU brings together Area
Studies research expertise on global Korea. Collectively, members of IKSU produce coordinated
high-quality research that makes a unique social contribution and generates income or
material donations.
Focusing on the development of the Korean peninsula and the dynamic periphery, Lim has
conducted pioneering research on the development of North Korea, inter-Korea development
policy, the international relations of North Korea, and North Korea defections. Through her
frequent appearances across media platforms, her personal insights into the political affairs of
the Korean peninsula have made an important contribution to society (see sec. 4). A research
project, supported by a grant (£9,676) from the Academy of Korean Studies (AKS) (see sec.3),
focuses on the engagement of North Korea in the United Nations’ Sustainable Development
Goals accountability process as a fragile state. Hyun and Alsford have directed their attention
to the politics of the two Koreas. For instance, Hyun examines the mass mobilisation and the
democratic transition of South Korea in several of her publications (e.g., a monograph on South
Korean student movements in the 1980s, and a journal article comprising a comparative case
study of mass mobilisation in South Korea and France).


                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The representations of Korea and Korean culture is central to Plaice’s research, which maps out
significant political events that are processed and reshaped through Korean popular culture,
and Hyun’s research on Korean popular culture diffusion in Europe. Kim investigates the
migration and the settlement experience of diasporic Koreans (including both Korean and
Korean Chinese migrants) in Latin America, drawing specific attention to Korean migrants’
entrepreneurship. Research and publication projects related to these research strands have made
a considerable income contribution to the UoA (see sec. 3).
IKSU’s expertise on Korean Studies is recognised through, for example, Co-Directors (Alsford
and Lim) becoming series editors of Routledge Research on Korea (see sec. 4) in 2019. A
Routledge Handbook of Contemporary South Korea, edited by Alsford and Lim, is expected
to be published in 2021 (see sec. 4).
Based on its accumulating research activities and awareness in the field, in June 2020, the institute
was awarded a five-year grant (£633,000) from the Academy of Korean Studies (AKS) and
Ministry of Education of the Republic of Korea (South Korea) for its MA North Korean
Studies and PhD Korean Studies (see sec. 3). The prestigious award recognises IKSU’s
dedication to research and educational development. The large grant funds postgraduate
scholarships, further strengthening UoA25’s postgraduate research environment (see sec. 2).
[b] Northern Institute of Taiwan Studies (NorITS): launched in 2018, NorITS has become the
principal driver of research on Taiwan in the north of the UK. NorITS’s mission is to nurture the
next generation of Taiwan scholars through an engaged research agenda coupled with strong
research-based teaching. NorITS is now the largest Taiwan studies research institute in the
UK, comprising 5 FTE research active members specialising in Taiwan Studies (of whom four
serve/have served as elected board members in various European Taiwan Studies Associations).
Each approaching Taiwan from different disciplinary angles, they have contributed to the
development of a new narrative of Taiwan Studies by looking at Taiwan as a central and
autonomous actor in the Asia Pacific region.
Major publications by Institute members include Alsford’s five published monographs and
Momesso’s one monograph (in progress) on Taiwan (see sec.3). These publications address
topics that range from critical appreciation of Taiwan indigenous artefact and cultural archives to
investigations of cross-strait migrant families. In addition, NorITS’s principal outputs focus on
defining the landscape of Taiwan Studies. For instance, Alsford co-edits the Brill Taiwan Series
with Harrison (University of Tasmania). In 2018, NorITS and IKSU collaborated in the organisation
of an “International Workshop on the Landscape of Taiwan Studies and Korean Studies”, and more
than 20 established scholars in the field participated the event. It was funded by the Academy of
Korean Studies (AKS) and the Taiwan Representative Office (TRO) in the UK (see sec.3). This
workshop has generated three significant outputs: a special issue on Korea in North Korean
Review co-edited by Alsford and Grzelczyk (Aston University) (published); a special issue on
Taiwan in European Journal of Asian Studies, co-edited by Alsford and Momesso (published);
and a co-edited book by Alsford and Lim offering a comparative analysis of Korean and Taiwan
Studies (in publication). In 2018, NorITS hosted a second international conference, “The Invisible
Within: Actors, Relationships and Activities in Chinese Migrant Families”, jointly funded by
Confucius Institute (CI) Conference Grants and the Association of Asian Studies (see sec. 3). The
conference led to the publication of a journal special issue Journal Asia Pacific Viewpoint:
forthcoming), co-edited by Momesso and Isabelle Cheng (University of Portsmouth).
Since 2018, NorITS has regularly invited specialists and academics in Taiwan Studies to deliver
public lectures or participate in roundtable discussions on developments relating to contemporary

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Taiwan’s society and politics. All these sessions are open to UCLan students, further contributing
to a research-led teaching environment. A number of the political discussions disseminated at
these roundtables have been turned into policy briefs that are published digitally in our NEPCAP
policy brief series (see below sec. [c]).
In order to build a dynamic environment and facilitate cutting-edge research NorITS encourages
collaboration with non-academic individuals and centres. With Openshaw, a photographer for
the National Geographic, NorITS has undertaken a joint photographic documentary projects “Old
and New Others of Taiwan: Indigenous People and New Residents,” which was incorporated into
the 2019 exhibition of “Brilliant City Symposium - Viewpoints from the Chinese Mega City”. This
collaboration, jointly funded by CI, MIDEX and NorITS, also demonstrates a collegial and
supportive working environment across the University. Currently, NorITS members are
engaged in formulating a large-scale project: “Mapping Taiwan Civil Society in Europe”, for which
funding has been sought from the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy (see sec. 3). Led by
Zemanek, the project involves the Taiwan Corner based in Denmark. It seeks to establish a
dialogue between civil society actors, politicians and academic researchers of Taiwan’s public
diplomacy. The inclusive and diverse profiles of our collaborative partners highlight the premium
placed on research and development in our UoA. The success in obtaining funding highlights
the ability of Institute members to collaborate effectively in securing external research
grants.
[c] Northern England Policy Centre for the Asia Pacific (NEPCAP): NEPCAP plays an
essential role in consolidating on-going research initiatives and translating them into a format which
directly impacts on society and policy. NEPCAP’s objectives are to maximise the policy and
practical impact, and to create an open research environment that facilitates the distribution
of research outcomes amongst external stakeholders, governments and communities.
Formerly chaired by Lim and currently chaired by Souza, NEPCAP organises issue-oriented
roundtable discussions. Since 2018, NEPCAP has worked closely with IKSU and NorITS to host
roundtable series (3-4 sessions per year), which explore themes relating to contemporary politics
in the Asia Pacific. These roundtables include: “Linking the Academic Research into Policy and
Practice: North Korea and Beyond” (2018), “Taiwan – Post-election Roundtable” (2019), and “The
Role of Social Media in Shaping (Un)Democratic Process” (2020). The inclusion of diverse
stakeholders – academics, policymakers / practitioners, activists, media, think-tanks, students and
the public – has been a major factor contributing to the success of these events. For instance: (1)
the “UK Secondary Education and Korea”, which discussed the role and feasibility of Korean topics
being included in UK Secondary Education curricula, was very well received by the public. The
success of this event prompted the organisation of a second roundtable on the same topic
in 2019 in London, jointly held with the Korea Education Centre at the Embassy of the
Republic of Korea. (2) “The Role of Social Media in Shaping (Un)democratic Processes” (March
2020), captured the research-informative and public-engagement goals to which NEPCAP aspires.
The event included a half-day workshop led by social media critics and practitioners, which
delivered practical skills in identifying social media’s functions that fashion socio-political
polarisation via (un)democratic means. Led by Momesso and supported by Chang, Griffith,
Souza, and Zemanek, this collaborative project secured a £10,000 grant from Research
England (see sec. 3). It also strengthened NEPCAP’s public outreach by bringing together
non-academics (BBC journalist, China-focused think-tank speaker, activist/documentary
film maker, and a fact-check organisation).
NEPCAP publishes 2-4 open access policy briefs per annum. Along with IKSU, NEPCAP
provides online feedback sessions for authors to ensure that we reach out to the public and are

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
able to track the impact of our publications and events. NEPCAP also publicises UoA staff
members’ contributions to The Conversation, which has significantly increased our Open
Access research exposure. Over the last five years, the number of publications has grown six-
fold: from a single publication in 2016 to six publications in 2019. In particular, the number of reads
of these articles has risen over the last three years, from roughly 18,000 (2018) to 34,000 (2019).
And with the latest two published articles in July 2020 alone cumulating another 48,431 reads. In
short, NEPCAP publicity has been notably efficient in disseminating our UoA’s research and
achieving widespread public engagement.
[d] The Centre of Austronesia Studies (COAST): chaired by Alsford, COAST seeks to facilitate
research exchanges among Austronesian-speaking nations. Three identified research themes –
cultural heritage, linguistic heritage, environment and displacement – contextualise the
Centre’s main research clusters, and respond directly to the University research theme, “People,
Place and Environment”.
Between 2018-2019, COAST strategically focused on organising public lectures delivered by
academic and non-academic specialists in media and digitised forms of preservation of
Austronesian cultural and linguistic heritage. The two main goals of this strategy are: (1) to
consolidate research collaboration within ISAP and (2) to strengthen international collaboration
with COAST’s established networks. In collaboration with Preston’s Harris Museum and
Communities Fiji Britain, in 2019 COAST held the first “Fijian Gospel, Chants, and Dance
Performances” in Preston. This was timed with “Woven Austronesia” (2019), an exhibition curated
by Alsford, and held in the PR1 Gallery with artefacts held at Burnley’s Gawthorpe Hall, and digital
images from the Archives & Special Collections at SOAS and the British Museum.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People


Researcher development:


                                             UoA 25 Staff (FTE)
   14

   12

   10

    8

    6

    4

    2

    0
             2015               2016             2017            2018                 2019          2020
           Associate lecturer     Lecturer     Senior Lecturer   Principal Lecturer      Reader   Professor


                                         Figure 3: UoA25 Staff Growth



i. Staffing strategy and staff development:
Support for early career staff includes mentoring and a biannual appraisal in which short-term
and mid-term objectives and deliverables are set, impediments to successful research are
identified and further feedback and guidance are provided by more experienced colleagues. Since
2018, UoA lead, Alsford, has introduced a monthly open-door policy, which encourages all
research staff to drop in and discuss their current and prospective research plans. A collegial and
supportive atmosphere has been established and colleagues meet regularly to discuss their
research and grant applications.
In 2019, APS at UCLan inaugurated the Northwest England Research Buddy Network for Asia
Pacific Studies, which mobilises research staff, particularly ECRs (including PhD students and
junior lecturers), to liaise with other regional specialists in the UK Northwest. In November 2019 a
first Research Away Day was organised, which facilitated the development of joint research
projects with other universities (Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester and Lancaster). Attendees at the
meeting advocated holding two Research Away Days per annum, on a rotating basis in different
universities. An agreed objective for future meetings is the inclusion of developmental schemes for
ECRs, especially workshops and webinar sessions to consider grant applications.
Finally, senior staff have supported ECRs to contribute to REF2021 preparatory work, and to
take institutional director roles, thereby helping the team to put in place a more dynamic and
inclusive research strategy for the development of Asia Pacific Studies. Currently, an ECR
(Chang) is the REF environment lead, and another ECR (Souza) is the chair of NEPCAP. These


                                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
roles have significantly enhanced their research coordination skills and helped promote the
development of their career trajectories in the UK academy.
FCCI has over the REF period operated a sabbatical scheme, which enables up to 10
researchers per year across the faculty to take a one-semester sabbatical leave to focus on
their research work. Making sabbaticals available to all FCCI academic staff, regardless of status,
offers major opportunities for lecturers in early stages of their careers to accelerate their research
progress. Between 2018-2020, seven members (Chang, Constable, Hyun, Lim, Liu, Momesso
and Plaice) of UoA25 have been supported to take sabbaticals, three of whom (Chang,
Plaice and Momesso) were early career researchers.
School and Faculty research funds: Every year FCCI distributes approximately £40,000-£50,000
research funding to support research projects and activities, including PGR projects. These funds
are accessed via a competitive application process, managed and peer reviewed through the FCCI
Research Strategy Group. Each member of academic staff can apply for research funding up to a
maximum of £1,500 per year. These funds, averaging £750 per person p.a., are mainly used to
facilitate conference paper presentations, publishing costs or fieldwork. UoA25 staff have been
exceptionally active in making such applications. Between 2018 and 2020, eight staff (Chang,
Hyun, Kim, Lim, Liu, Momesso, Plaice, Zemanek) sought funding and almost all of them were
granted a sum greater than the £750 average. These grants also prioritise the applications of
relatively junior academic staff, which in turn, assist them to develop their career paths.
Equal Opportunities: UCLan was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze Status in 2014 for its work to
address issues of gender and diversity within Higher Education. Respect for gender and
diversity in staff recruitment is central to the staffing strategy of UoA25. A distinctive feature of our
research unit’s culture is the diversity of our international profile, as well as gender equality within
the staff. Since 2013, the number of full-time staff has increased from one to 12, comprising
seven female and five male research staff members. Of these full-time staff, five are from East
Asia, four from the UK, two from the European Union, and one from Latin America, demonstrating
the diverse international profile of our research team. Internal promotion of staff also reflects
UCLan’s commitment to the principle of equal opportunity. Eight internal promotions took place
between 2017 and 2020: two to full-time lecturer positions, two to senior lecturer positions, one to
principal lecturer and then to deputy head, and one to reader and then to professor. Of those
promoted, two are female staff from South Korea, one is a female staff member from China, and
three are male staff from the UK. Half of the promotions awarded were female academics,
which demonstrates UoA25’s success in supporting the career development and progression
of diverse staffing base. In addition, during 2017-2019, having initially served one-year fixed-term
contracts, nine out of ten fixed-term staff (six female and three male staff) were offered permanent
contracts.

ii. Research students
Strategy for recruitment of research students: Asia Pacific Studies at UCLan stands out
amongst other UK universities for the significant scale of student recruitment for its BA (Hons)
degree (current annual intake is in excess of 110). This positive growth of UG recruitment over the
last five years points to a major opportunity to accelerate research-informed teaching at the UG
level and further cultivate home-grown talents, with a long-term goal of expanding a
sustainable PG research programme. In 2018, the Asia Pacific Studies team initiated its PG
programme with the launch of two MA degrees: MA in Asia Pacific Studies (MA APS), and MA in
North Korean Studies (MA NKS). To ensure a healthy environment in which to seed the growth of
future PG research, the focus of the current REF cycle has been to consolidate our UG home-

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
grown student base and nurture them by offering research-informed elective courses (East Asia
Pop Culture, Taiwan in the Asia Pacific, and Divided Korea) in the hope of subsequently recruiting
them as PG students. This has worked well, between 2018 to 2020, 80% of successful applications
to our postgraduate programme are students who have completed our UG degree. Furthermore,
applications to our MA programmes have also increased threefold from 2018/19 to 2020/21. A
major factor underlying our healthy retention rate is our unique research field of study, North
Korean Studies, for prospective PGRs. Worldwide, UCLan stands out as the only university
outside the Korean peninsula that offers an MA in North Korean Studies. Its uniqueness
showcases our UoA’s capability to pioneer and foster a burgeoning field of study in area
studies. Three of our MA graduates in North Korean Studies have expressed their strong desire to
further pursue a doctoral degree with us in this specialised area, and one of our APS MA
graduates has begun her doctoral study on Pacific climate displacement in 2020/21 under the
supervision of Alsford.
In terms of nurturing our PG students’ research environment and enhancing the quality of
their research, our programme organised many research-oriented events, including public
lectures (e.g. “Filming Ethnofictions Around the World: From France to Taiwan, By Way of Japan”),
writers’ workshops (e.g., “Korean Literature Night on Contemporary Korean Literature - The Hole”.)
In addition, recruitment of MA student helpers during the 2019 SoKEN (Social Sciences
Korean Studies European Network) workshop helped these students in drafting research
proposals which were submitted to the 16th Korean Studies Graduate Students Convention in
Europe 2020 (Paris, France). One of our MA student’s proposals was accepted, but the event was
postponed due to COVID-19. We secured grants to fully cover the expenses for students to
participate in an international conference hosted by the European Association of Taiwan
Studies (EATS). In 2019, two BA students from our ‘Taiwan in the Asia Pacific’ module, took part
in the 16th EATS Annual Conference in Nottingham. In 2020, four MA students and one PhD
student were funded to attend the 17th EATS Annual Conference in Brussels. They were due to
showcase their research projects with poster presentations, but this Conference was also
cancelled due to COVID-19.
Support for postgraduate research students aims to realise their full academic potential from
the beginning of their postgraduate careers. The Postgraduate Research Student Induction is
compulsory for all postgraduate students, including both MA and Doctoral students. A variety of
Postgraduate Research Training Programmes are offered centrally by the Graduate Research
School, including postgraduate career skills training that is made available to final-year doctoral
students. In the current REF cycle, three of the UoA 25 PGRs have completed their doctoral
studies and two completed their MRes degrees. Postgraduate students are eligible to apply for
research funds (£300 per person per year). In 2019, one doctoral candidate secured a grant that
facilitated a research project presentation on Taiwan’s Spanish colonial history at SOAS. Other
support available from the research networks established by UoA 25 further strengthens the
research environment for our PG students. For instance, with the guidance of NorITS staff
members affiliated to EATS, the same student was successful for his EATS Library Grant
application, using €500 funding to finance an archival research trip to Avila (Spain). Nurturing our
PG research environment enabled one of our mature PhD students, who graduated in 2017 having
worked on the relationship between North Korea and UN organisations, to pursue an academic
path at KIMEP University (Kazakhstan). UoA staff are supported to develop their pedagogical skills
in order to enhance the quality of supervisory work. All research staff are required to attend a two-
day “supervisor training programme” and obtain a Supervisor Training Certificate. 12 of our
current 13 FTE researchers have completed this training programme.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Income:
During the current assessment period, UoA25 has generated £71,164 in direct research income.
However, approximately £542,000 in total was captured through a variety of external funding
bodies to support research- or cultural-related activities. All of this funding was captured after 2017,
demonstrating an impressive financial growth within a short span of time. In addition to this
externally generated income, a combination of donations of other kinds (e.g. Lady Rothermere’s
donation of 3,000 Korean DVDs; Korea Foundation’s annual contribution of KRW3,000,000 to
purchase Korean books) and disbursements of internally allocated funds have supported this
UoA’s research activities.

Diversity of Funding Bodies and Key Awards:
In addition to internal financial support, we have been able to secure regular external funding from
diverse source including The Korean Foundation, The Academy of Korean Studies, and the
Taipei Representative Office
The Korean Foundation (KF): KF primarily funds Korean culture-related events and festivals but,
in promoting such events, also indirectly contributes to our research on Korean culture. Since
2018, a major KF-funded ‘Lancashire Korea Festival’ is held at UCLan annually, which showcases
both contemporary and traditional Korean culture. This event has consistently attracted both
Korean Studies scholars and the wider local public, and in 2019, more than 300 people attended
the Festival. In 2019, the KF with the Embassy of Republic of Korea in the UK donated £77,000 to
establish the first university-hosted Korea Corner at UCLan. The Corner is a space which
promotes Korean culture, but its wide-ranging Korean book and film collection also serves as our
UoA research repository (see below “scholarly infrastructures and activities”). KF involvement
also attests to the strength of our outstanding research in Korean film studies. KF also
contributed £17,400 to facilitate the organisation of the “8th Screen Culture Conference” (2018/19),
by our UoA’s Korean film specialist, Plaice. At this three-day conference, 45 academic papers
were presented, as well as two film screenings (including a Q&A session with the film directors)
and a keynote speech.
The Academy of Korean Studies (AKS): Since 2017, AKS funding has been made available on a
regular basis and has helped finance the organisation of research-driven teaching events (e.g.,
thematic public lectures) and other culture- or research-related activities (e.g., international
conferences, book projects). From 2017 to 2019, accumulated income of c.£35,000 was generated
from funding provided by AKS, for example, supporting Kim’s publication project on Korean
Religious Communities in Brazil (see below, “Individual Research Grant Capture”). Lim secured
two major AKS grants for an academic conference and workshop. The international
conference (“The Landscape of Taiwan Studies and Korean Studies”, 2018) was jointly funded by
AKS (£6,240) and by Taipei Representative Office in London (see below). Both Alsford and Lim
published journal articles in a special issue in North Korean Review. In 2019, AKS provided
£6,118 to assist in the organisation of the first international workshop of SoKEN (“Korea at the
Crossroads: Economic Development, Political Dynamics, and Social Changes in the Contemporary
Korean Peninsula”). Two IKSU staff members (Alsford and Lim) have been appointed as the
SoKEN Publication Committee members and will oversee publications generated by this
conference. In 2020, Lim (the principal investigator) and other staff members of UoA25 (Alsford,

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Griffith and Hyun) were awarded a large five-year grant (£630,000) from the AKS. The grant is
expected to provide 41 MA scholarships in North Korean Studies and four PhD scholarships in
Korean studies, further strengthening and sustaining our postgraduate research development. It
will also cover expenses for international conferences, summer school programmes and
publication projects over the next five years.
Taipei Representative Office in London (TRO): TRO plays a key role in funding our activities. In
2018, TRO and AKS jointly funded the organisation of an international conference. The
contribution made by TRO is an acknowledgement of our UoA’s major research contribution to
Taiwan Studies and also highlights TRO’s ambition to consolidate a Taiwan Studies research
network in the North of the UK. TRO has also been a regular source of smaller-scale funding
(approximately £1,000 to £1,500 per year), which has assisted NorITS in organising various
activities, including the screening of a Taiwanese film during the Asia Pacific Film Festival, and a
“Cross-Strait Relations Roundtable” in 2018/19; the purchase of Taiwanese authors’ novels for
NorITS hosted literature event during the second Annual Taiwan Festival and the organisation of
“Mapping Taiwan Civil Society in Europe Workshop” in 2019/20. These two events were
subsequently affected by COVID-19, and are now postponed to 2020/21. TRO not only honoured
its financial support but further agrees that NorITS can use this donation for any Taiwan-related
research activities. Each year, TRO also underwrites a Taiwan Scholarship event at UCLan, which
seeks to promote postgraduate and doctoral research programmes and scholarships in Taiwan for
UK students.
Internal funding has also helped to pump-prime our research activity:
Confucius Institute (CI): CI-funded conferences have generated significant outputs for our UoA.
In 2016/17, Liu secured £4,950 to support the making of a research documentary about student
exchanges as a form of cultural diplomacy between China and the UK. In 2019/20, a £15,000 CI
Conference Grant supported Liu’s organisation of two international conferences: (1) the
International Symposium on ‘The Double-edged Effects of Brexit and its Impact on Sino-UK/EU
Relations’ (£5,000), and (2) the International Conference on ‘The Comparative Perspectives on
Public Diplomacy, Different Routes, Tools and Strategies’ (£10,000). Unfortunately, both
Conferences are currently suspended due to the travel restriction of COVID-19. In 2018/19, a CI
Conference Grant of £5,000 awarded to Momesso (and supplemented by a further grant of
£2,000 from the Inner Asia Council Small Grants), enabled her to organise an international
conference on Chinese migrant families. This generated a special issue journal publication by
Asia Pacific Viewpoint (forthcoming), co-edited by Momesso and Cheng (Portsmouth
University) – inter-university collaboration made possible by this academic event. Finally, in
2019/20, a £5,000 grant to Plaice supported organisation of a “Sino-Korean Screen Relations
Symposium”.
Research Centre for Migration, Diaspora and Exile (MIDEX): In line with its ethos to foster
multi- or inter-disciplinary research, MIDEX promotes collaborative approaches with other
funding bodies. UoA25 staff have been supported in a range of activities: In 2019, Kim received
£2,000 to support her “North Korean refugees in London” project (cancelled due to COVID-19).
Zemanek was supported to host a Taiwanese visiting scholar (Michelle Huang) at UCLan to
conduct research on migration from Hong Kong to Taiwan (also impacted by COVID-19). Chang
and Momesso received £3,700 joint funding from MIDEX and ISAP, to organise the “2020 Taiwan
Literature Festival: A Migrant Perspective on Taiwan’s History and Memory” (postponed to
2020/21 with virtual delivery). Chang with Reddick (UoA27) organised an international conference
“Anthropocene and Race”, which was jointly funded by MIDEX and ISAP (delivered virtually).


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This conference will lead to the publication of interviews with the two invited keynote
speakers (an eco-literature author and a poet). Finally, the NorITS team received £2,923 grant
for “Mapping Taiwan Civil Society in Europe”. The first stage in this project was to organise an
international workshop in May 2020 (delayed to October 2020). Though this workshop is mainly
funded by the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy (TFD), it is also supported by MIDEX.
King Sejong Institute Foundation: Hyun and Lim have successfully secured a grant of £20,000
from the King Sejong Institute Foundation. This facilitates the establishment of the Sejong Institute
at UCLan in 2020, the only one in the UK outside of London. It generates an annual income of
£20,000 - £40,000, which will cover the costs of administrative staff and support language teaching
and cultural related activities. The Institute further consolidates UCLan’s position as the hub of
Korean studies in the UK. With the dynamic cultural and language environment, it also helps to
strengthen a healthy PGR environment and develop home-grown talent for future research in
Korean studies.

Individual research grants:
UoA25 staff have generated significant external income for their research projects. Between 2013
and 2015, Alsford received a two-year grant of £154,350 from the Council of Indigenous Peoples
and Shung Ye Museum of Formosan Aborigines for his archival documentation project on Taiwan
Indigenous Peoples. In 2016, he received a $USD 10,000 commission from the North American
Taiwan Professors Association (NATPA) for his monograph publication, A People’s History of
Taiwan (tentative title). In 2018, Lim received $USD 13,000 from the Academy of Korean Studies
(AKS) for her project on “North Korea and the United Nations: Achieving the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) in the Context of Fragile State.” In 2019, Kim received $USD 15,000
from the Academy of Korean Studies to facilitate publication of her research on “A Study on the
Role of Korean Religious Communities in Brazil: Past and Present”, and another $USD 8,000 for
her project From Sweatshop to Fashion Shop: Korean Immigrant Entrepreneurship in the
Argentine Garment Industry publication and distribution of book. The book project was affected by
the COVID-19 pandemic, but the grant is extended to 2022. She also received $USD 10,000 from
the Argentine National Council for Scientific and Technical Research for another research project,
“New Spaces of Interculturality: Jews and Koreans in the City of Buenos Aires”.
Momesso has benefited from various external funding sources in support of her research on
migrant populations in Taiwan. From 2015 to 2019, she received 42,000€ from the Chiang Ching-
kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange Fellowship (2015-17), NT$120,000 (£3,074)
from Taiwan’s Ministry of Education for a Short-term Research Project in Taiwan (2016-17), and
NT$200,000 (£5,120) as a Taiwan Fellowship research grant. All these grants have significantly
contributed to field research on cross-strait migrants in Taiwan, which was crucial to her
monograph, The Power of Emotions: On Marriage and Politics across the Taiwan Strait (work in
progress).
All the above-mentioned research publications by UoA members directly feed into both this and the
next REF cycle and are evidence of the sustainable publications profile of our research
environment. In addition, Plaice and Liu have each captured funding for their sabbatical research
leave. Plaice from internal UCLan research funding; Liu from the external Leverhulme Small
Research Grants.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Scholarly Infrastructures and Activities:
Our UoA contributes extensively to UCLan’s scholarly infrastructure and activities. In 2020, a total
of 332,826 items (printed books and electronic books combined) relevant to the Asia Pacific
Studies were purchased for the UCLan library collection. Below are some selected examples that
are classified by countries, regions and key research themes in line with our UoA overall
research agenda:
•   South and North Korea: Development and Society (Seoul, Korea); Journal of Korea Studies;
    North Korea Defence and Security Report.
•   Taiwan: Taiwan Journal of East Asia Studies; International Journal of Taiwan Studies.
•   China: Chinese Southern Diaspora Studies; Modern China Studies; International Journal of
    China Studies; China Population and Development Studies.
•   Japan: Japan Studies Association Journal; Japan Forum (Oxford, England; Online); US-Japan
    Women’s Journal; Journal of Japanese Studies (Online).
•   Asia, Southeast Asia and Asia Pacific: Contemporary Southeast Asia; International Journal
    of Asia-Pacific Studies; Pacific Affairs; Pacific Review (Oxford, England).
•   Australasia and Oceania: Archaeology in Oceania; Australasian Historical Archaeology
    (Online); Journal of New Zealand & Pacific Studies (Online); The New Zealand Journal of
    History; Oceania (Online).
•   Indigenous Studies: Aboriginal History; Aboriginal Policy Studies: APS; International
    Indigenous Policy Journal; Australian Aboriginal Studies.
•   Migration Studies: Asian and Pacific Migration Journal; Journal of Identity and Migration
    Studies; International Migration Review.
Other archival databases are available to UoA staff to inform and enhance the overall quality of
research, including China Academic Journals Database (CNKI), Korea Times Archive, Taiwan e-
Learning and Digital Archive Programme, Cambridge Digital Library - Japanese Works.
In 2019, UCLan launched the unique UK-based university-hosted Korea Corner, winning a
special status conferred by the South Korean Embassy. The Corner is a designated Korean
cultural space housing literature, artefacts and other cultural resources. Public access is free, one
of its goals being to promote language learning and increase knowledge of Korean culture within
the Northwest regional community. The Corner received donations of more than 4,000 books and
DVDs, which are a significant resource to inform and nurture future original research in Korean
Studies.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Social contribution:
   •   Smith’s publication of North Korea – Markets and Military Rule (2015), is
       acknowledged and used in the 2019 UN research publication, The Price is Rights: The
       Violation of Right to an Adequate Standard of Living in the Democratic People’s Republic of
       Korea, published by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.
   •   Alsford and Griffith’s podcast (“Ed & Niki on the Asia Pacific”), available via Spotify,
       Anchor, Radio Public and Pocket Casts, discusses contemporary events in the context of
       broader analysis of the region. The podcast showcases our original and innovative
       approach to engaging in public discussion of the current issues affecting the Asia
       Pacific region, and also demonstrates our engagement to Open Access of our research.
   •   Lim’s recent research on inter-Korean state relations and the Korean Peninsula’s
       diplomatic relationship with the US has elicited considerable media attention. She has
       taken part in many media interviews, including with the BBC, Sky News, France 24 and
       Australian ABS. IKSU encourages appearances such as these as an efficient means of
       public education and information about important issues in less familiar parts of the world.
   •   Alsford has begun a research project entitled: ‘A Marshall-like Plan for the Development of
       North Korea’, which gained support from the All-Party Parliamentary Group on North Korea
       in the UK Houses of Parliament.
   •   Members of NorITS host many public-facing events which bring our research knowledge to
       the Lancashire local area where knowledge about Taiwan is limited. The annual ‘Taiwan
       Festival’, for instance, reflects research themes such as Taiwan’s comic books and its
       soft-power diplomacy, and migration and diaspora representation in Taiwanese
       Literature. Distinguished guest speakers and participants have included Lin Li-chin (award-
       winning Taiwanese comic artist), Wu Ming-yi (Man Booker Prize long-listed Taiwanese
       writer), and Shawna Yang Ryan (American Book Award winner).
   •   With Shung Ye Museum, COAST hosted “The Beauty of Indigenous Power” exhibition as
       part of the Lancashire Arts Festival in 2018, showcasing a selection of award-winning
       Indigenous Poster Designs from Taiwan at UCLan. The Gold Award artist, Fu-Ning Hsu,
       was invited to UCLan to receive her prize and deliver a talk to students and the public on
       the conceptualisation of her artistic creation. This event marked the Northwest region’s
       first contact with the Taiwanese indigenous art and culture. (see. sec.1)

Collaboration with UK HEIs:
   •   Lim has co-written a book chapter with Fell (SOAS) on “Comparing Taiwan Studies at
       SOAS and Korean Studies at UCLan”. The essay seeks to strengthen understanding of the
       development of area studies in the UK and raises awareness of our Korean Studies
       programme nationally and internationally.
   •   Griffith holds the position of Visiting Senior Lecturer in Asia Pacific Studies at the
       University of Leeds. Collaborative links with scholars both in UK universities in the
       Northwest (Leeds, Lancaster, UCLan) and overseas (in Europe, China and Japan) are
       highlighted in his forthcoming co-edited book, Sino-Japanese Relations.


                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Zemanek is developing the Northwest England Research Network for East Asian Studies,
       with participating scholars from Leeds, Manchester, Liverpool, Lancaster and UCLan. The
       first Research Away Day was held in November 2019.

Collaboration with Asia Pacific HEIs:
International partnerships with HEIs from the Asia Pacific Region have impacted positively on our
research and teaching environment. Several of our partner institutes are top-ranking institutions
that enjoy an international reputation for both their research and teaching.
   •   Among our Taiwanese HEI partners, Alsford has inaugurated a research project with the
       Centre of Digital Humanities at National Taiwan University, focusing on the British
       Museum’s collection of Taiwan artefacts.
   •   NorITS and COAST are engaged in a collaborative project with researchers at National
       Taitung University on the Maritime Cultural Heritage that is embodied in Taiwan Indigenous
       Culture.
   •   As Chair of NEPCAP, Souza promotes research collaboration with the SCSTT that is
       endorsed by Taiwan National Chengchi University.
   •   Two partnership MoUs for joint collaborative research work in North Korean Studies have
       been signed: one with Kangwon Institute for Unification Studies at Kangwon National
       University, the other with Ewha Institute of Unification Studies at Ehwa Women’s University,
       both based in South Korea. These Korean partners have also facilitated research
       exchanges for our PG students.
   •   Chang has initiated our UoA’s first contact with the International Innovation Centre for
       Indigenous Studies, based in IFUGAO State University in the Philippines. Discussions are
       underway about the possibility of conducting field research on endangered indigenous
       languages and cultures in the North of the Philippines.

Contribution to the research base:
   •   Open access research base: In 2018, IKSU created online platforms dedicated to IKSU
       working papers and “Weekly Bilingual Briefs (English and Korean)” about North and
       South Korea, which provide academics and specialists in Korean Studies with up to date
       information about current issues. Since 2018, NEPCAP also publishes and disseminates
       Policy Briefs in digitised format on its website.
   •   Editorships: Our staff participate in editorships of multiple journals and academic
       forums in East Asian studies, including: BRILL Series in Taiwan Studies (Alsford),
       Routledge Research on Korea (Series Editors: Alsford and Lim); Discourse 201, published
       by The Korean Association of Socio-Historical Studies (editorial board member: Hyun);
       East Asian Journal of Popular Culture (editorial board member and guest editor: Zemanek,
       review editor: Plaice); World Journal of Social Science Research (editorial board member:
       Alsford); Asian Social Science (editorial board member: Alsford); Journal of Culture,
       History and Archaeology (editorial board: Alsford); Asian Institute of Research (editorial
       board member: Alsford) and Asian Social Science (editorial board member: Alsford). APS
       staff also regularly act as referees for international journals and presses, including
       International Journal of Taiwan Studies, Asian Ethnicity, European Journal of Asian
       Studies, Asian Perspective, Mainland China Studies, Japan Review, Japanese Studies,



                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Gender & History, Monumenta Nipponica (Asian Studies); East Asian Journal for Popular
       Culture (popular culture); International Security (international politics).
   •   Handbook publications: Our UoA has published two handbooks: Handbook on Sino-
       Japanese Relations, edited by Griffith (forthcoming); Routledge Handbook of
       Contemporary South Korea, co-edited by Alsford and Lim (forthcoming). Both promise to
       make a significant contribution to Area Studies teaching and research.
   •   Learned societies: APS staff assume significant responsibilities in various learned
       societies. Alsford (2012-2018), Momesso (2014-present) and Zemanek (2016-present)
       serve/served as elected board members of the European Association of Taiwan Studies
       (EATS); Chang (2016-present) is a board member of the Francophone Association of
       Taiwan Studies (AFET); Momesso is a research fellow at the European Research Centre
       on Contemporary Taiwan (University of Tübingen) (2011-13); Lim fulfils various roles in
       institutions related to Korean Studies: council member of the British Association for Korean
       Studies (BAKS), board member of the Korean Language and Culture Education Society
       (KLACES) and board member of the Korea Association of International Development and
       Cooperation (KAIDEC); Alsford (since 2017), Lim (since 2020), and Plaice (since 2015)
       are all fellows of the Higher Education Academy and Griffith is an associate fellow;
       Alsford has been a Nominated Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society since 2013 as well as a
       Nominated Fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute since 2019; the UN Country of
       Origin Expert (Taiwan) for the International Refugee Rights Initiative (IRRI) since
       2015, and AMERA International Country of Origin Expert (Taiwan, North Korea and
       Pacific Islands) since 2020.
   •   Doctoral examination: UoA staff have examined PhD theses during the current REF cycle
       at the following universities: University of Leeds, UCL, SOAS, Goldsmiths, University of
       Reading, University of Edinburgh, St. Andrews University, and University of Rome (Italy).
   •   Keynotes and invited lectures: During this REF cycle, all members of staff have delivered
       public lectures in HE institutions based in the UK and elsewhere in Europe, including LSE,
       SOAS, University of Leeds, Manchester University, Brussels Free University, Jagiellonian
       University, Masaryk University, University of Vienna, Slovenia University, Geneva Centre
       for Security Policy, and EHESS in Paris.
   •   Distinctions, awards and recognitions: In recognition of his research on Austronesia,
       Alsford received the 'UCLan success in Research' award during the 2019/20 'Research at
       UCLan' event and was awarded a Targeted Area Research Fellowship by the American
       Society for Theatre Research in 2020.



This statement outlines the significant development of UoA25 over the REF2021 period, resulting
in its first submission. The UoA’s ambitious plans have resulted in a research environment that is
increasingly vibrant and of international repute. Through support for research staff, students and
infrastructure, the developments highlighted here will be sustained and will grow in the future
towards a fully mature, world-leading Area Studies unit.




                                                                                          Page 17
