Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 33 Music

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context: The Department of Music at Southampton is vigorous, brimming with original and
 significant research, and is committed to using that research to contribute to scholarship and
 cultural life. Focusing primarily, but not exclusively, on European art music, we aim for depth and
 breadth in three principal areas: composition (score and studio based),
 musicology/ethnomusicology (historical, sociological, technological, text-critical and
 theoretical approaches), and research-led performance. Composition strengths include
 contemporary classical, experimental music, jazz, media and pop. Research expertise in
 musicology/ethnomusicology includes: gender, sexuality and queer studies; global music
 histories; musical institutions; reception; sound studies; opera and musical theatre; music and
 social inequality; analysis; critical organology; early music; disability studies; and global popular
 music. Performer-researcher strengths include 16th-21st century performance, and performance
 is integrated into both musicology and composition where possible, for example in the
 performance of new compositions, text-editing and historical performance practice.

 1.2 Research Strategy: The overall aim of our research strategy is to support staff, at all career
 stages, to produce original research of international significance. Our 2014 research plan
 focused on developing partnerships and the expansion of PGR activity, and we have achieved
 our goals. The Department’s robust research strategy enabled us to respond to staff changes
 which arose from university re-structuring, Seltz’s death (filled with a permanent appointment),
 and the expiry of fixed-term Turner Sims Professorships: we emerged as a more integrated and
 better consolidated department, though conscious of the need for continued work on gender and
 diversity. Our strategy has enabled our priorities to remain unchanged, in terms of research
 output, grant capture and research student community, within a turbulent environment. The on-
 going success of our strategy is evidenced in our research outputs, which include significant
 musicological monographs, collections of essays, award-winning journal articles, recordings and
 compositions (see §4.9,§4.10). We have continued to obtain prestigious grants, building on our
 successes in previous assessment cycles, and fulfilling our aim to diversify our funding sources
 over this REF period (§3.1,§3.2). Large and smaller-scale grant successes have supported
 travel (to archives, collections and for fieldwork), pilot studies and research and development
 work, impact activities, and the forging of new networks. Large-scale grants provided staff with
 time and resources to develop substantial projects, and enabled us to appoint postdoctoral
 researchers – Agresta, Bevilacqua, Faulds, Hewlett, Williamson (all AHRC); Guthrie (British
 Academy); Mantica (Marie Curie); Martin (Turing) – who have enhanced our research culture
 and improved our gender balance. Since REF2014, our PGR activity has increased (§2.7-§2.11),
 with underpinning funding sources diversifying (§2.6).

 1.3 Future Research Strategy: Our research strategy from 2021-25 will remain largely
 unchanged, but subject to modification in light of the changing landscape.
    (1) In the short term, we will audit the impact of Covid-19 on research plans and schedules
    (including archive closure, performance cancellation, travel restrictions, unexpected teaching
    demands) in late-summer 2021, at which point we will review and modify our strategy,
    adopted since 2014, as necessary.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (2) We will mentor PGRs to thesis completion in exceptionally challenging circumstances,
    including adapting PGR provision to accommodate new career paths, funding patterns, and
    training needs. We will engage proactively with the Faculty of Arts and Humanities and AHRC
    SWW-DTP training programmes and continue to provide bespoke support for Music PGRs
    through workshops, training days, and professional opportunities.

    (3) Longer term, we will maintain and expand research partnerships both internally and with
    external research partners and organisations. We will continue to work with colleagues to
    develop and extend partnerships in our own and other Faculties and Institutes (§1.11), with
    existing external partners within academic networks (§4.1), and beyond (performing
    organisations, heritage bodies, §1.6-§1.8).

 1.4 Impact and Public Engagement: We have a long-standing and mature culture of research
 impact and public engagement, and well-developed routes for achieving impact in the arts
 sector, education and health. We act as consultants for internationally-renowned musicians,
 festivals, concert halls and opera houses, recording companies, television/radio stations, and
 heritage bodies. And our practitioner-researchers are successful composers and performers
 whose work features in high-profile contexts outside academia, generating significant cultural
 impact on non-academic audiences, as well as cultural and economic impact for arts
 organisations (§1.6,§1.7,§1.8,§4.3,§4.5,§4.6). Given the subject-specific nature of our work,
 impact is managed directly from the Department, with support from the Faculty. Since 2014, we
 have continued to analyse the differences between academic influence, public engagement and
 impact; how each reflects a different relationship between research and non-academic
 constituencies; and to structure our activities accordingly. We recognise that impact has to be
 developed from research and does not just happen on its own.

 1.5 Impact Strategy: Our impact strategy throughout the assessment period has been to
 develop and maintain:
    (1) strong partnerships and networks to benefit non-HE organisations and other
    constituencies;
    (2) an environment where impact-producing activity is recognised, valued and supported for
    staff at all points in their careers;
    (3) resources for impact activity;
    (4) dynamic interaction between text- and practice-based research.
 Success in these areas is evidenced in our impact case studies (ICS) and other impact activities
 (§1.6-§1.8,§4.3). REF2021 requires us to make a small selection of our impact activities: the two
 ICS we chose to submit (Music, Home and Heritage; Musica Secreta and Celestial Sirens) are
 among the best developed and most wide-ranging, but most research projects developed in the
 Department have an impact dimension to them, as well as public engagement elements (§4.11).

 1.6 Research-based Relationships with External Partners: We developed strong artistic
 networks and relationships with external partners, allowing us to maximise research impact by
 influencing professional practice and forging routes to new audiences. Specifically, we continued
 research-based institutional partnerships involving projects and/or training with the National
 Trust, Jane Austen's House Museum, Chawton House Library, National Early Music Centre,
 Sound Intermedia, London Sinfonietta, Buccleuch Living Heritage Trust, Sydney Living
 Museums, Horniman Museum, and Casa Ricordi; and created new partnerships with the non-

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 governmental organisation, Centro DAEA México, and English Heritage among others.
 Partnerships have also emerged and continued with major recording labels (all that dust,
 Chandos, Hyperion, Linn Records, Naxos, Obsidian, Signum, Warner Classics), performing
 groups (Ensemble Paramirabo, Ensemble Nikel, London Sinfonietta, Lutes&Ukes, Musica
 Secreta, Orchestra of the Age of the Enlightenment, Plus Minus, Theatre of the Ayre, Workers
 Union), media producers (BBC2, BBC4, BBC R3, BBC New Creatives and BBC R4 (UK); ABC
 Classic FM, ABC Radio, SBS (Australia); Deutsche Kultur Radio (Germany); ORF1 (Austria)),
 festivals (Brighton Early Music Festival, Donaueschingen, HCMF, Handel Festival, Göttingen,
 mise-en (New York), Parma Verdi Festival, York Early Music Festival, Bard Music Festival),
 concert halls and opera houses (Glyndebourne, Kings Place, Opéra Comique, Queen
 Elizabeth Hall, Royal Opera House, Sarasota Opera, Teatro Réal Madrid, Welsh National Opera,
 Wigmore Hall). These external partners draw on our research and broaden the scope of
 beneficiaries. We encourage our ECRs and PGRs to contribute to our various impact activities,
 facilitating their engagement with non-HE partners: PGR Fabian was placed as an intern at
 Boughton House to create materials for Jane Austen’s House Museum; ECR Faulds
 collaborated on exhibitions and recordings for the Music, Home and Heritage project.

 1.7 Impact Focus: We continue to focus our impact around areas of particular strength: early
 music, historical performance and heritage, and new music creation. We achieved this through
 external support from the AHRC Follow-on Funding Scheme (Brooks, Everist, Kenny, Oliver),
 AHRC Networking Scheme (Brooks), ACE (Finnissy and Pinnock, Stras), and funding included
 in research grants (Bretherton, Brooks). Further support from the University’s Public
 Engagement with Research Fund supported work by staff including Oliver’s The Virus Within:
 Hearing HIV, Polfreman’s Capturing the Contemporary Conductor motion capture project, as
 well as student projects such as PGR Gostick’s public event at Wimborne Minster based around
 his research.

 1.8 Future Plans for Impact: A growth area of impact is opera, particularly with ECR Mantica’s
 work with the Royal Opera House, and Izzo’s appointment to the General Editorship of Works of
 Giuseppe Verdi (University of Chicago Press and Ricordi) and resulting collaborations with,
 amongst others, Festival Verdi Parma and Welsh National Opera. Future plans for impact
 include continued focus in certain areas (music, home and heritage) and the development of
 others (including opera and musical theatre).

 1.9 Research and Impact Support: Support for departmental impact and research is
 coordinated by the Head(s) of Research together with our designated Impact Director, whose
 responsibility is both impact and public engagement work. Together, this team reviews our
 research and impact activities, incorporating University and Faculty strategies, to support staff
 with their research and impact goals and careers; coordinates bids to outside bodies; and, in
 consultation with the Head of Music, the sabbatical schedule, postgraduate areas including
 recruitment and funding, and regular research events (§2.11). This team also helps identify grant
 schemes, prepare applications, organise internal peer-review, using senior academic staff from
 across the University as panellists for all major bids before submission. The Faculty (which
 includes six other UoAs) provides financial coordination and administers awards, and further
 support is provided by the University’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS, REF5a§1.5).
 The Head(s) of Research monitors the progress of externally-funded research grants via regular
 reports. Our Impact Director shares best practice in developing pathways to impact, helps staff
 construct solid impact plans for funding bids, monitors progress, and advises on evidence
 collection and impact support mechanisms more broadly. We also support staff in cultivating

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national and international media publicity, which broadens exposure to research findings and
 can lead to further impact. This system has sustained our grant successes for research and
 impact: 54 applications worth £7.8M were made to UK funders during the cycle, resulting in 21
 awards worth over £1.779M, as well as £294K in successful international bids (§3.1,§3.2). Our
 strike-rate with AHRC applications was 57%, well over the average sector success-rate of 32%.

 1.10 Research Integrity: Music shares a well-developed structure for supporting research
 integrity. PGRs receive specific training on research integrity, data management, equality,
 diversity and inclusion (EDI), ethics and risk management strategies, and all staff and students
 must obtain approval from the Faculty Ethics Committee before research begins (REF5a,§2.8).
 RIS provides specialist research integrity support, advising on research bids, IP, ethics and
 contracts. Everist led seminars on research authorship and management for the AHRC; was a
 member of the interdisciplinary council for doctoral affairs at Université de Paris-Sorbonne
 (2015-18) focusing directly on issues of research ethics and integrity; and represented the Arts
 and Humanities at the UK Research Integrity Office (2014-18), where Brooks was also an
 advisor. Malcomson co-led workshops with PGRs on strategies and ethics of conducting
 fieldwork in violent contexts (IMR, London; UNAM, Mexico).

 1.11 Interdisciplinarity: We actively encourage and facilitate the interdisciplinarity which is core
 to our research and impact activities, many of which extend well beyond Music studies. Our
 interdisciplinary collaborations involve arts-science (Irvine, Owen Norris, Oliver, Polfreman),
 cultural policy (Pinnock), Science and Technology Studies (Irvine, Martin), heritage (Brooks),
 Latin American studies (Malcomson), multi-media and theatrical composition (Crawford,
 Finnissy, Oliver, Shlomowitz), postcolonial studies (Irvine), queer theory (Bretherton) and theatre
 studies (Everist, Izzo, De Lucca, Shlomowitz). Staff lead and participate in worldwide networks
 which bring together researchers and practitioners from a broad range of fields (§4.1), as well as
 collaborating with internal and external partners from Health Sciences, History, Engineering
 (Institute of Sound and Vibration Research, henceforth ISVR), Winchester School of Art (WSA),
 and the Web Science Institute (WSI). Significant cross-Faculty collaborations include hosting
 artist Dr Aura Satz through a Leverhulme Artist in Residence project with ISVR and the John
 Hansard Gallery (Brooks); the BA-funded Capturing the Contemporary Conductor project with
 Health Sciences (Oliver, Polfreman); Music for Cochlear Implants/More from Music with
 ISVR/Auditory Implant Service (Oliver, Polfreman); Irvine’s non-executive directorship of the
 UKRI-supported Web Science Institute (linked to the Turing Institute, of which Southampton is a
 member and Irvine a Fellow); and movement research with Health Sciences (Owen Norris).
 Several PGRs have been funded through these initiatives (§2.5). Additionally, Music staff and
 PGRs contribute internally to the centres for Medieval and Renaissance Culture (Stras, Kenny,
 Brooks), Eighteenth-Century Studies (Irvine, Brooks), Mexico-Southampton Collaboration
 (Malcomson), and Parkes Centre for Jewish/Non-Jewish Relations (Irvine) to develop research
 and impact resources.

 1.12 Open Research Environment: We take a proactive approach to the open research
 environment. 100% of our publications conform to obligatory open-access requirements, having
 used funds available for Gold access for eligible publications. We host several open-access, free
 at-point-of-use, online research tools (two at REF2014, six at REF2021) to provide access to
 research findings in musicology from the middle ages to the nineteenth century. During the
 assessment period, we made datasets arising from both staff and doctoral students’ research
 freely available via the University’s ePrints repository (REF5a,§2.4). This included conducting a

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 retrospective audit of doctoral dissertations that included significant datasets. We also took a
 public leadership role in questions relating to open access, for example Everist was invited to
 present on the open-access journal at the Future of the Book conference, London, 2017.
 Technology research (Polfreman) has been geared towards open data and open/free software
 so that others can benefit from access to audio, video and motion-capture data for their own
 analyses (§4.1). Links with festivals (including Cheltenham Science Festival and Southampton
 Science and Engineering days) enabled demonstrations of our technology research to a wide
 public.

 2. People
 2.1 Recruitment and Staff Development: Our recruitment priorities are to: attract the best
 applicants from an international pool; improve EDI; maintain existing research strengths and
 develop new areas. Supported by our physical infrastructure (§3.3,§3.4), our staff development
 strategy for colleagues at all career stages is focused on research training, planning, mentoring,
 and annual appraisal. Our staff body includes established leaders in their fields, and mid- and
 early-career researchers who already enjoy international reputations. Formal individual research
 and impact planning meetings are conducted annually by the Head(s) of Research with all staff
 to talk through work in progress, and future research and impact plans, with more informal
 meetings scheduled as required. Early-career researchers (ECRs, including post-docs, staff and
 research fellows within 8 years of PhD completion) are also advised on dissemination strategies,
 funding options, probation and careers. Our demographic has shifted during this REF cycle: the
 percentage of women has increased from 30% to 38% (now 6 women, 10 men); the number of
 staff on fixed-term contracts reduced from 12 to 4, with the ratio of fixed-term to permanent
 contracts reducing from 1:2 to 1:4; non-UK staff has increased from 36% to 44%; and the
 majority of staff are now mid-career. Promotions during the period include Izzo, Kenny, Mirka,
 Stras to Professor; Bretherton, De Lucca, Oliver, Malcomson, Shlomowitz to Associate
 Professor; and Crawford from Lecturer Level 4 to 5. ECRs and PGRs went on to permanent jobs
 (including Guthrie to the University of Bristol, St-Cricq to Université de Rouen, and Wang to
 Sichuan Conservatory of Music). Our REF submission reflects our demographic, with 42.9% of
 outputs submitted by women; of the five researchers with three or more outputs submitted, three
 are women (Brooks, Malcomson, Stras).

 2.2 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion: Our most evident contributions to EDI in the
 sustainability of the discipline relate to disability, gender, and LGBTQ+. Stras leads in the field of
 disability studies. The department has a long-standing commitment to gender equality (e.g.,
 Brooks and Stras researching, editing and promoting performances of music by women;
 Chapman’s performances of contemporary women composers). Several staff members identify
 as LGBTQ+, and we have actively cultivated LGBTQ+ music scholarship both nationally and
 internationally (§4.8). Support for EDI is evidenced through a range of Departmental, Faculty
 and University activities and policies (REF5a,§3.8). The Department has a dedicated EDI Officer,
 and EDI is a standing item on Departmental committee agendas. The Departmental workload
 model and institutional timetabling procedures are employed to effectively support colleagues
 who are carers and/or have health issues. Flexible working is discussed when colleagues return
 from parental, prolonged sick or compassionate leave, and the Department and University have
 a well-established ‘flexible working procedure’ which facilitates requests for temporary part-time
 working. Colleagues may attend meetings virtually to facilitate flexible working. All staff and
 PGRs attend mandatory EDI training. Close attention is given to equal opportunities in
 appointment processes, with regular reports to Senate and dedicated staff development

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sessions. Our staff body is international and diverse in age, gender and sexuality, with diversity
 in ethnicity evidenced in our PGR cohorts. Music staff collaborate with the University's Pulse
 LGBT+ Staff Network. The School of Humanities (within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities) is
 preparing a submission for the Athena Swan Charter Bronze Award, to complement the
 University’s Silver Athena Swan Award. In this cycle, over half of the promotions in Music were
 of women, and in the next REF cycle, we aim to improve our gender balance and staff diversity.

 2.3 Research Time: Our timetables provide staff with one day a week of research time during
 the semester, with university vacations prioritised for research. Staff are entitled to 1 semester of
 institutional research leave in 7. Schedules for funded study leave and sabbaticals are
 coordinated by the Head of Department, in combination with the Department workload model. In
 the first months of the Covid-19 crisis we were able to maintain research leave for Music staff
 when most leave in the university was postponed.

 2.4 Internal Research Funding: ECRs receive an annual research allowance to support and
 pump-prime their work, and all research staff may apply for support for research and impact
 activities from the Faculty Strategic Research Fund. Priority is given to ECRs to support the
 development of projects and their research trajectories. For example, Malcomson was awarded
 an internal ECR ‘Annual Adventures in Research’ grant (2015) which provided the basis for later
 successful bids to the British Academy Newton Fund (2016) and a Leverhulme Research
 Fellowship (2017). Further internal funding opportunities include the Global Partnership Award
 (Boak and Stras, 2015), the Public Engagement with Research Fund (Oliver 2017 and 2018;
 Polfreman 2019; PGR Gostick 2019; Crawford 2020) and the Santander–UoS Latin America
 Fund award (Malcomson 2015). Part of the overheads from external grants and consultancy is
 assigned to investigators’ research accounts, offering incentives for large grant applications and
 enabling other funds to be used to support researchers across the Department.

 2.5 PGR Research Funding: In line with our research strategy, our PGR funding sources
 expanded during the cycle to include the AHRC (where we performed well above-average, with
 30 studentships), Wolfson, ORT/Marks, Leverhulme Maritime Futures, EPSRC Web Science,
 DAAD (German Academic Exchange Service), The British Friends of the Hebrew University,
 Jerusalem Institute of Contemporary Music (Siday Fellowship), Anglo Israeli Association (Karten
 Trust), Leibniz Institute for European Studies Mainz, the Maltese government, the Southampton
 Marine and Maritime Institute, RCUK Web Science DTP, and University of Southampton Vice-
 Chancellor (now Presidential), Strategic and Intra/Cross Faculty scholarships. Most of our PGRs
 receive full or substantial part funding. Where student research costs are not included in their
 funding, PGRs have successfully bid for University (World Universities Network, WUN) and
 Faculty funds for research expenses (e.g. visits to archives, specialist software, concert
 premieres and conference attendance). We also raise student awareness of external sources
 (RMA, SMA, PRS Foundation, Music & Letters, Louise Dyer fund).

 2.6 Support for PGRs: PGR support provides a solid framework for developing research
 projects with appropriate resources to ensure successful competition. Students work with a
 supervisory team, sometimes including co-supervisors from other institutions (e.g. Bath Spa,
 Bristol, Cardiff) or internal supervisors outside Music (Archaeology, Art, History, English,
 Engineering, Sociology, Web Science). PGRs undertake an annual academic needs analysis,
 which is met through individual, subject-specific, and more generic PGR research training
 offered by the Faculty and the University (REF5a,§3.7). This includes focusing research and
 writing strategies, and viva preparation. Monthly supervisory meetings are standard for full-time

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students, with the flexibility of meeting more frequently, especially at the beginning of their
 studies. Annual review procedures are set by the University, supported by our PGR Tracker tool,
 ensuring progress is monitored rigorously, and that research students receive periodic feedback
 from outside their supervisory team. Faculty policy on PGR support is overseen by Music's
 Doctoral Programme Director.

 2.7 PGR Training: Our extensive PGR research training programme facilitates successful
 progression through the PhD and career preparation in both academic and non-academic (‘alt-
 ac’) fields. We maintain a PGR Reading Group (with Bath Spa) and a monthly Writing Club
 providing group feedback on students' chapters. In-depth discipline-specific training is provided
 at our four staff-student seminar groupings that meet during the weeks of the Hartley
 Residency events (§2.11). Our regular PGR skills workshops provide further discipline-specific
 training, including writing abstracts and rehearsing conference presentations, especially prior to
 RMA, AMS and BFE/RMA student conferences, and other subject-specific conferences where
 our PGRs frequently present. Regular workshops with professional performers are held for
 composition students. PGRs participate in Faculty and external training opportunities, including
 AHRC SWW-DTP and EPSRC Web Science training events (available to all PGRs), British
 Library introduction days, RMA publication and CV workshops, and other events. The Faculty
 hosts a dedicated PGR website with resources from training workshops.

 2.8 PGR Exchanges: Beyond PGR engagement with our impact activities (§1.6), PGR
 exchanges are facilitated through our wide-ranging international links. PGRs have spent time at
 Konstanz, Mainz, Utrecht, Vienna, and UMass Amherst, one of our WUN partners. Irvine took a
 group of our PGRs to collaborate with Hong Kong University, Chinese University of Hong Kong,
 National Taiwan University, Seoul National University and Tokyo University of the Arts at the
 annual East Asian Research Seminar (2018).

 2.9 Post-PhD Support: Our annual grant-writing workshops are designed to actively support
 PGR applications for post-PhD funding and employment. During the period, our PhD graduates
 won prestigious post-doctoral awards from the British Academy (Newton Fellowship), the Social
 Sciences and Humanities Research Council (Canada), Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions; were
 appointed to posts at Oberlin College, Bristol and Maynooth University; and Glatthorn was
 awarded a Music & Letters prize for best original article (2018). Our mentoring policy has also
 been successful in the longer term, for example, before completing his PhD, Bretherton joined
 the Department as a Research Fellow for an AHRC project in 2007; by 2013 he was appointed
 Lecturer; and by 2018, he was Associate Professor, leading an AHRC project creating an entry-
 level position for a Southampton PhD as Research Fellow (Williamson).

 2.10 ECR Support: Support for ECRs begins before they arrive, when they are assigned a
 mentor and an office with their name on the door. Within the standard university probation
 procedures, ECRs with permanent contracts receive regular reports from, and meetings with, the
 Head of Department and Head(s) of Research, and a biannual review at the Faculty Promotions
 Committee. All ECRs have annual research planning meetings with the Head(s) of Research to
 discuss research and career plans. ECRs usually register for the HEA-recognised Postgraduate
 Certificate in Academic Practice course; and postdocs are provided with teaching opportunities to
 enhance their research-led teaching skills required in the current job market, according to the
 stipulations of their funding. The Faculty organises regular ECR events on topics determined by
 current ECRs, such as grant writing, submission and peer-review process. A colleague in the
 Faculty has over-arching responsibility for all ECRs, and provides additional support, both formal

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and informal (including social meetings for ECRs to share experiences together and with the
 Faculty ECR Champion). ECRs also hold formal meetings with the Faculty ECR Champion to
 raise issues relating to Departmental, Faculty and University, and broader policy and/or practice.
 ECRs contributed to the coordinated responses to the proposed revisions of the Concordat in
 2019, and more broadly, our support implements and aims to surpass the requirements of the
 Career Development of Researchers Concordat (REF5a,§3.5). ECRs actively participate in all
 Departmental research events: they present their work at our regular staff-student research
 seminars (§2.11); their research papers are read by mentors before being sent for publication;
 and they have similar opportunities to rehearse conference presentations and receive the
 research support provided for PGRs, as well as contributing to assisting PGRs in this regard.

 2.11 Research Events: A range of highly-stimulating research events regularly bring our
 community together. Until 2016, PGR integration into research culture was further fostered by
 weekly research seminars by national and international external speakers, followed by a
 reception for all staff, PGRs and MMus students. Student feedback, and staff initiative, indicated
 that this social contact was valuable as it facilitated networking, but they hoped for more
 prolonged interaction with scholars to aid cohesion and develop sustainable relationships. From
 2016, we responded by developing the Hartley Residencies in Music, an annual programme of
 four intensive week-long visits by eminent scholars, performers and composers. We mirror the
 international nature of our research student cohort with the visitors we invite, and have to date
 hosted Hartley Residents from the universities of Bristol, Chicago, Durham, Huddersfield,
 London, Mainz, Manchester, McGill, North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Toulouse, and William & Mary.
 During the residency, speakers work intensively with both staff and research students in a variety
 of contexts, including workshops and seminars for PGRs and formal presentations (a keynote
 lecture by the visitor, a response by a member of UoS staff, and a round-table discussion), as
 well as individual and small group meetings to discuss staff and students’ own research. We also
 include formal presentations by current staff or PGRs as part of each residency. One of the four
 residencies is dedicated to composition and features masterclasses, workshops and
 presentations with an invited composer and an invited performer or chamber group. Hartley
 Residency composers have visited from the UK (including Bath Spa, City, Guildhall, RAM) and
 Germany (freelancer Joanna Bailie), and professional performers have included soprano Juliet
 Fraser, percussionist Håkon Stene, Riot Ensemble, cellist Oliver Coates and guitarist Tom
 Pauwels. In 2017, we opened up participation to a broader composition student cohort and were
 joined by students from UK, German and Irish institutions. Hartley Residents also participate in
 our staff-student seminar groupings: Music in Medieval Europe (MIME), Music Analysis
 Seminar (MAS), Music on the Global Stage (MOGS) and Sound Heritage (SH). These seminars
 have been strategically designed to complement externally-focused seminars/residencies,
 support PGR/ECR development, and represent a valuable addition to our research environment.
 From 2019, we also hosted regular First Edition Book Seminars, showcasing new work by
 external and internal scholars, and live-streamed our principal events, furthering existing and
 new discussions with scholars from global northern and global southern institutions.

 2.12 Incoming Visiting Scholars: Links with scholars in other institutions has also been
 enhanced by international fellowship winners and Erasmus scholars: Bakke, Sveen and
 Fernández (Erasmus visiting scholars), Barancoski (CAPES Postdoctoral Fellowship, Brazil),
 Coletta (US Fulbright Global scholar), Montgomery (US Fulbright Senior scholar).




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 External Research Income: Over the cycle, we have diversified our sources of support,
 sustaining our external research income with awards from UK funders in excess of £1.7M and
 over £294K from sources not included in HESA statistics (§3.2). Notable achievements include
 the AHRC-funded projects Music, Home, and Heritage (Brooks, £665K), Queer Music, Queer
 Theory, Queer Music Theory (Bretherton £177K) and Medieval Music, Big Data and the
 Research Blend (Everist £50K); the British Academy funded mid-career fellowship project
 Listening to China (Irvine £123K); the Turing Institute funded Jazz as Social Machine (Irvine with
 Cardo, WSA, £70K), Leverhulme Research Fellowships awarded to Malcomson (Violence, Youth
 and Hip Hop in Mexico, £49K) and Mirka (Hypermeter and Phrase Structure in Eighteenth-
 Century Music, £44K); an IMR Professorial Fellowship to Everist (The Political Impulse, Gluck-
 Reception, and Parisian Stage Music during the Second Empire, £40K); and a British Academy
 Postdoctoral Fellowship to Guthrie (which resulted in her permanent appointment at the
 University of Bristol). Our projects received many smaller amounts from the BA/Leverhulme
 (Oliver, Polfreman), BA Newton Fund (Malcomson), Ambache Musical Trust (Stras), ACE
 (Finnissy and Pinnock, Stras), HEFCE Newton Fund (Malcomson), Medical Research Council
 Engagement Seed Fund (Oliver) and National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement
 (NCCPE) (Stras). The Department had significant success in funding impact, with AHRC Follow-
 on funding obtained for: the Composition for Cochlear Implantees collaborative project with ISVR
 (Oliver, £79K); Cantum Pulcriorem Invenire (Everist, £79K); Jupiter: Mozart in the 19th-Century
 Drawing Room (Everist, £78K); Songs of Home and Distant Isles (Brooks, £76K); and Markets
 for the Masque (Kenny, £30K). An AHRC network on Sound Heritage was established in
 collaboration with the University of York (Brooks, £33K).

 3.2 Non-HESA Research Income: Non-HESA sources include the (US) National Endowment
 for the Humanities funded The Works of Giuseppe Verdi (Izzo, £132K, £50K and £46K), Max-
 Weber-Stiftung funded Dreams of Germany conference (Irvine, with Gregor in History, £26K),
 Canadian Council of the Arts funded Pythagoras’ Toolkit (Oliver, £25K, with Ensemble
 Paramirabo and Dotted Line Theatre); PERFORMART ERC Consolidator grant participation (De
 Lucca, £15K), as well as research fellowships from Harvard University (Brooks), Ministry of
 Science and Technology, Taiwan (Irvine), the Humboldt Foundation (Mirka). Other income
 includes smaller sums from scholarly societies such as the AMS (Stras). Further applications (to
 the AHRC and other bodies) continue to be submitted and developed.

 3.3 Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact: Collegial and organisational support for
 research and impact is detailed in §1.9,§2.2-§2.10. Additionally, all PGRs are supplied with a
 laptop during their PhD, free scanning and photocopying facilities, and music-specific and
 generic software as required. In addition to Library facilities, we have a dedicated PGR study
 room (open 24/7 pre-Covid) with 12 workstations (MIDI keyboards, monitors etc), and rehearsal
 spaces for composer and performer PGRs. Fully-equipped offices are provided for all staff
 including ECRs, with a computer and specialised equipment. Generic and more specialised
 software (signal-processing, notation) is provided by the University, including extensive hardware
 and software support. Staff have large monitors, pianos, Midi keyboards and playback
 equipment in offices if required, as well as a wide range of portable equipment for external
 audio-visual capture/presentation.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.4 Performance Infrastructure and Equipment: Over the cycle, we have invested an average
 of £98k per annum in research/impact-related performance infrastructure and equipment.
 Composition and technology research is supported through the provision of two acoustically
 treated recording studios, each with live room, Mackie control surface, a variety of microphone
 pre-amplifiers, and both 5.1 surround sound and 2.1 stereo monitoring. Mobile recording is also
 fully technologically supported. Studio developments are on a rolling 3-5 year basis, adapting to
 the needs of staff, students and technological change; a refurbishment was completed in 2014-
 15, with further investment in industry-standard studio equipment and software in Summer 2020.
 Our largest facility is the 350-seat Turner Sims concert hall, enabling staff and students to
 rehearse, perform and record in a professional setting. Our performances are supported by our
 Head of Performance Planning, an administrator whose remit includes research projects
 involving PGRs and staff. Our dedicated Keyboard and Early European Music rooms house an
 extensive collection of Renaissance and Baroque instruments, as well as 18th-20th concert
 harpsichords, clavichords, spinets, and square and grand pianos. This collection of keyboards is
 linked to our strategy to extend research connections and the audience-development conditions
 of funded research. Recently funded projects such as Music, Home, and Heritage, Songs of
 Home and Distant Isles, The Jupiter project and The Trembling Line demonstrate the inter-
 relatedness of acquisition and location. In addition to instruments on campus, we have access to
 excellent organs in Winchester Cathedral, Salisbury Cathedral and local churches.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Collaborations: Internal and external collaborations remain at the core of our research.
 Internally, we work together on projects within the University (§1.11) and the Department,
 including Chapman, Finnissy and Kenny performing composers’ work; Oliver and Polfreman
 collaborating on the Capturing the Contemporary Conductor project; and Brooks, Everist and
 Owen Norris on sound heritage projects (§4.3). Externally, we are key players in national and
 international research networks, many of which are interdisciplinary (§1.11) and involve
 institutions in the global north and south. Everist co-directs the AHRC-funded network France:
 Musiques, Cultures, 1789-1918, which includes an open-access online database with over 250
 contributors, and annual conferences in France and the USA. Brooks founded and directs the
 AHRC-funded Sound Heritage network, contributed to the AHRC-funded Gossip and Nonsense
 in Renaissance France network (with colleagues at Exeter, KCL and in the USA and continental
 Europe), the France 1600 network (with colleagues from the universities of Poitiers, Paris IV-
 Sorbonne and the Centre de Musique Baroque de Versailles), and was musicologist-in-
 residence at the Bard Summer festival (2018-21). Chapman was an affiliate artist to the AHRC
 Research Centre for Musical Performance as Creative Practice, Artist-in-Residence at the Foyle
 Special Collections Library, KCL; her collaborative tours with premieres by women composers
 include Diana Burrell (Harwich Festival, 2015), the Efthymiou twins (King’s Place, 2017), Kaija
 Saariaho (LSO Jerwood Composer project, 2018), Stevie Wishart (Dartington International
 Summer School, 2019). Irvine chaired the steering committee of the GLOBE18 Consortium
 (which included colleagues from the universities of Southampton, Bordeaux Montaigne,
 Chawton House, Potsdam, Delhi and All Souls, Oxford), is a member of the Turing Institute
 Digital Humanities and Data Science Working Group (collaborating with the British Library,
 National Archive, National Archive of Scotland), and partners with ACE-funded Jazz South in his
 Jazz as Social Machine project. De Lucca collaborates with colleagues at Centre National de la
 Recherche Scientifique and École Française de Rome on the ERC-funded PERFORMART
 project. Malcomson collaborated with Olvera-Gudiño, CIESAS, Mexico, on a British Academy


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Newton funded project. Oliver collaborated with Swanson (Department of Infectious Diseases,
 KCL) on the Hearing HIV project (2017-18), the Cohan Collective (leading to Blast, BBC), and
 takes a leading role in ACE-funded soplaylist. Polfreman collaborated with the London
 Sinfonietta and Sound Intermedia on the Hands on Sound project to explore deploying live
 electronics effectively in musical control, and with motion capture company VICON for the
 Capturing the Contemporary Conductor project. Following on from an internal Global Partnership
 Award (£6K) won by Stras and Boak, we developed an international partnership with the
 University of Chicago Music Department which led to joint projects, including staff exchanges
 and residencies involving PGRs. In addition to the PGR collaboration and training detailed in
 §2.16-§2.12, we have staged performance projects focused on new music by students, faculty
 (especially ECRs) and other composers (e.g. Remembrance Day, 2014; Loop Project, 2016;
 SHIFTS, 2019; IN THE ALPS, 2020) which also enabled students to work with living composers
 and facilitated performance collaborations: Southampton’s Hartley Loop Orchestra incorporates
 student performers, as well as internal and external professional musicians.

 4.2 Fellowships: Visiting fellowships, many awarded on a competitive basis, further promoted
 collaboration with partners at home and abroad. Incoming visiting scholars are detailed in §2.12.
 Department staff held fellowships at CIESAS, Mexico (Malcomson, 2015), CUNY Graduate
 Center (Bretherton, 2018), Grieg Academy, Bergen (Owen Norris, 2016), Harvard (Brooks,
 2017), Hochschule für Musik, Freiburg (Mirka, 2017), Mainz (Everist, 2016), McGill (Bretherton,
 2018), National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan (Irvine, 2015), RCM (Owen Norris, 2007-18),
 RNCM (Owen Norris, 2011-20), School of Advanced Study, London (Everist, 2014-15), SUNY,
 Potsdam (Brooks, 2016), Universidad Complutense, Madrid (Izzo, 2018), Université de
 Toulouse-Mirail (Brooks, 2016), and University of North Carolina, Greensboro (Owen Norris,
 2014).

 4.3 Non-HE Research Beneficiaries: We have engaged broadly with non-HE research
 beneficiaries, contributing to the economy and society, primarily through cultural activities,
 ranging from festivals, concert halls and opera houses to record labels, museums and heritage
 bodies, and radio/TV stations, and their audiences (§1.6,§4.1,§4.5,§4.6). Collaborations
 between colleagues with text- and practice-led portfolios are encouraged to achieve impact. Our
 musicological research concerned with performance history and critical editions often envisages
 public performance as a crucial outcome. Mantica’s reconstruction of Donizetti’s L’Ange de
 Nisida (completed while a PhD student at Southampton) received its world premiere, conducted
 by Mark Elder, at the Royal Opera House (2018). Stras' documentary research on Renaissance
 music is accompanied by concerts and recordings. New critical editions and the first-ever
 recordings of conductus were a key outcome of Everist's Cantum pulcriorem invenire project.
 Everist acted as consultant for the Royal Opera House Covent Garden, The Royal Ballet, Red
 Byrd, and Trio Medieval. The recordings of the Jupiter project, led by researcher-performer
 Owen Norris, and benefitting from Everist’s work in Mozart reception and Brooks’ in heritage
 studies, reached 4th in the US Billboard Classical Albums chart. Owen Norris also delivered
 research-related broadcasts on BBC R3 Building a Library (2014-19). De Lucca’s research
 featured in BBC2’s Mozart in Prague. Pinnock drew on his research on cultural policy to advise
 the Southampton Cultural Development Trust (2016-19). Contributions to public health provide
 the context for Oliver and Polfreman’s Compositions for Cochlear Implants/More From Music
 project (with ISVR) which is improving music appreciation and quality of life for people with
 cochlear implants, while their Capturing the Contemporary Conductor project (with Metcalf,
 Health Sciences) is creating an open-access catalogue of movements, sound and video to help


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 study conducting (§1.12). Both musicological and composer/performer-practitioners’ research
 has involved commissions and collaborations with industry (Bretherton, IBM; Crawford, Porsche
 and BMW). Performances of our composers’ and performers’ music at concerts, on recordings,
 radio and other media, and their engagement as judges and guest teachers at festivals and
 summer courses, reflects their considerable presence (Chapman: Jurow International
 Harpsichord Competition (USA), Prix Annelie de Man (Netherlands); Finnissy: Aldeburgh, CoMA,
 Dartington Summer School; Kenny: Cleveland International Guitar Festival, Lute Society of
 America, NCEM Young Composers’ Award, York International Early Music Competition; Owen
 Norris: Leeds and Montreal International Piano Competitions; Shlomowitz: Tzlil Meudcan
 (Israel), Hatched Academy (Australia), Luxembourg Composition Academy).

 4.4 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline (Musicology/Ethnomusicology):
 Individually and collectively, we make substantial contributions to the international research base
 in all three main areas of our activity. Southampton's ethnomusicologists/musicologists play
 decisive roles in the national and international research infrastructure. Everist led the Royal
 Musical Association as President (2011-17). Bretherton served as a ‘First Trustee’ of the Society
 for Music Analysis (SMA) (2016-17), contributing to setting up this new charity (he previously
 served as Treasurer/Administrator of the SMA, 2011-16). Stras is a founder member of the
 AMS/SMT disability interest group (2006-), Irvine was co-chair of the AMS Global East Asia
 study group, and staff served in other roles for the AMS, including as Corresponding Member
 (Everist 2014-) and members of Council (Everist 2013-18, Irvine 2015-17), Performance
 Committee (Stras, 2017-18), Kinkeldey Award Committee (Brooks 2017-18, chair 2019), Cohen
 Prize (Everist 2018-20, chair 2019), Jackson Prize (Everist 2016-18). Other influential roles
 include Co-Director of the American Institute for Verdi Studies (Izzo, 2003-present); Trustee of
 the Purcell Society (Pinnock, 2008-); and Malcomson’s membership of the boards of the British
 Forum for Ethnomusicology (2013-16), Latin American Music Seminar, SAS, London (2013-)
 and the Institute of Musical Research (2015-20). PGR Kent-Muller served as student rep on the
 SMA board (2018-19). We are active as research assessors worldwide, serving on AHRC
 assessment panels in the UK, and using panel membership to inflect assessment criteria and
 ideology in national science foundations in Austria, Australia, Belgium, Czech Republic, France,
 Germany, Israel, Italy, Poland, Switzerland, and the USA, as well as the European Science
 Foundation. In addition to advice on promotions, institutional research reviews include
 Goldsmiths, and the universities of Bologna, Cambridge, Cyprus International University,
 Durham, Hong Kong Baptist, Paris, Salzburg, Winchester, and York. We have examined
 research degrees in the UK, Australia, France, Ireland, New Zealand and Spain. Department
 staff serve on editorial/advisory boards for international publications including Cultural Trends,
 H-France, Lyrebird Press, Music Analysis, Music Theory and Analysis, Music Theory Spectrum,
 Musica disciplina, Musique Baroque de Versailles, RMA Research Chronicle, Rossini Critical
 Edition, Women and Music. While much of our peer-reviewing work has been in the field of
 music studies (including Acta Musicologica, American Music, Cambridge Opera Journal, Early
 Music History, Eighteenth-Century Music, Ethnomusicology Forum, JAMS, Journal of Music
 Theory, Journal of Schenkerian Studies, JRMA, Music Analysis, Music & Letters, Music
 Perception, Music Theory Online, Popular Music, Studi Musicali, Studi Verdiani, Women and
 Music), we have also peer-reviewed articles beyond the discipline (Jewish Culture and History,
 Journal of Hispanic Studies, Journal of Political Economy, Latin American Research Review,
 Museum & Society, Revista Mexicana de Sociologia, Speculum, The Italianist). We have also
 acted as peer reviewers for monograph proposals for Ashgate, Cambridge University Press,
 Oxford University Press, Routledge, University of Chicago Press and University of Rochester

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Press. In addition to the edited collections submitted as REF outputs, Brooks is co-editor for the
 Bloomsbury Cultural History of Music; Everist edited the Perspectives on the French Musical
 Press in the Long Nineteenth Century special issue of Journal of Music Criticism (2019; Irvine
 co-edited Musikalisches Denken im Labyrinth der Aufklärung (2015); and Malcomson co-edited
 the Bloomsbury Encyclopedia of Popular Music of the World: Latin American Genres (2014).
 Staff at all career stages have contributed over 100 keynotes and invited lectures at major
 conferences and universities nationally and internationally during the cycle.

 4.5 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline (Composition): Our composers
 contribute to the new music infrastructure as performers: Finnissy is a noted pianist, and Oliver
 (Workers Union) and Shlomowitz (Plus Minus) direct contemporary music ensembles. Crawford
 has produced (including recording and mix engineering) for jazz, contemporary classical and
 electronica artists and performed live electronics for the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra.
 Finnissy is one of the UK's most distinguished voices in contemporary music: his work featured
 at the BBC Proms and was performed regularly worldwide, and he became the subject of
 numerous scholarly studies. Martin had a three-month residency at Ecole Superieure d’Art, Aix-
 en-Provence, France, where she worked on soundscape composition and performance with the
 Locus Sonus research group. Oliver received commissions from Ensemble Paramirabo
 (Canada), London Sinfonietta, Riot Ensemble and Juice Vocal Ensemble; and performances
 at venues and festivals included Queen Elizabeth Hall, Mise-En Festival (USA), Aldeburgh
 Festival, Şerefiye Sarnıcı Klasik Müzik Konserleri (Istanbul), and Wigmore Hall. Shlomowitz had
 commissions at festivals such as Donaueschingen (Germany), Transit (Belgium), Ultima
 (Norway) and Tzlil Meudcan (Israel); performances at venues including Musikprotokol (Austria),
 Klang Festival (Copenhagen), Arena (Latvia) and Rainy Days (Luxembourg); and was featured
 on the BBC Radio 3 New Music show.

 4.6 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline (Performance): Since 2014, we have
 remained a hub for practice-led performance research in a dynamic university research context.
 Owen Norris is a pianist well-known for research-led chamber music projects; he has directed or
 collaborated on seven recordings for BBCCO, Chandos, EM Records, Harvard University Press,
 Naxos and Hyperion since 2014. Owen Norris regularly gives recitals and keynote lecture-
 performances at academic conferences, festivals and other venues (including Beaulieu,
 Cambridge, Cobbe Collection, Oxford, RAM, RNCM, St John Smith Square, York Early Music
 Festival). As the UK's leading contemporary harpsichord performer, Chapman's research has
 ranged from concerts on original virginals owned by Charles II (Hatchlands, 2019) to new work
 for amplified harpsichord with electronics (Borough New Music, 2019). As a pioneer she helped
 commission over 20 new chamber works for original baroque instruments (Trio Aporia) featured
 at the ICMC (International Computer Music Conference, Utrecht 2016) and unusual venues
 throughout the UK. As an influential early music performer, Kenny has toured extensively;
 recorded numerous projects including The Masque of Moments with Theatre of the Ayre; and
 performed widely, from the Proms, Carnegie, Queen Elizabeth and Wigmore Halls to The
 Pierre Boulez Saal (Berlin) and numerous festivals (Bruges, Cleveland, Cologne, Salisbury).
 Kenny is also active in new music, performing theorbo parts especially composed for her by
 Sally Beamish, James Macmillan, Nico Muhly and Rachel Stott.

 4.7 Conferences: We have hosted several international two-plus-day conferences at
 Southampton: SotonMAC 2019, the Society for Music Analysis International Conference
 (Bretherton); the UK & Ireland LGBTQ+ Music Study Group Symposium 2019 (Bretherton); and
 elsewhere: Dreams of Germany 2015 (German Historical Institute London, Irvine with Gregor,

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History); The Score and Beyond: Performing, Staging, and Experiencing Verdi 2016 (Everist,
 Izzo). One-day conferences and study days hosted at Southampton and elsewhere have also
 been central to our scholarly infrastructure. Brooks organised study days on Sound Heritage
 (2015-2016, Southampton, Chawton House, Tatton Park; 2019, RCM); De Lucca on Aristocracy
 and Theatre in Rome (1644-1740) (2019, École Française de Rome); Irvine on Rethinking
 Eighteenth-Century Empires (with the Southampton Centre for Eighteenth-Century Studies,
 2015), Sound and Listening in Sino-Western Perspective around 1800 (with Kam, National
 Chiao Tung University, Taiwan, 2015), and Hubert Parry as Music Historian (with Thormählen,
 Royal College of Music, 2018); Malcomson on Music, Creative Engagement and Violence in
 Contemporary Mexico (with Olvera Gudiño, IMR 2016), Music, Political Activism and the State
 (with IMR mentee, Andrew Green, 2016), The Ethics and Aesthetics of Studying Music in
 Situations of Conflict and Violence (with Bithell, Nooshin and Wood, IMR 2018), and Music in
 Video Games (with Everist and Donnelly, Film, 2014). We also acted as members of conference
 programme committees (De Lucca: Biennial Baroque Music Conference, Salzburg, 2014 / Pavia,
 2016; Everist: Presse et opéra en France, 1750-1850, Lyon, 2014; Francophone Music
 Criticism, 1789-1914, Rochester, NY, 2017; Institutionalization in Music History, Sibelius
 Academy, 2018; Ars Antiqua III, Lucca, 2018; Ecrits de compositeurs et espace médiatique,
 Lyons, 2018; Malcomson: ‘Expressive Cultures’ co-Track Chair, Latin American Studies
 Association Congress, 2020).

 4.8 LGBTQ+ Inclusion: With the aim of promoting LGBTQ+ inclusion in the discipline, LGBTQ+
 members of staff collaborated in establishing the UK & Ireland LGBTQ+ Music Study Group
 which is affiliated with all major academic music societies in the UK and Ireland. The UK &
 Ireland LGBTQ+ Music Study Group Symposium (2019) that we hosted was themed ‘Legacies
 of Resistance, Responding to Oppression’, and attracted PhD students, ECRs, freelance
 musicians and activists from Europe and the USA. Bretherton’s AHRC-funded Queer Music
 Theory project has also involved visiting professorships at McGill and CUNY Graduate Center,
 where he collaborated with leading LGBTQ+ scholars.

 4.9 Awards (Composition/Performance): Major awards have evidenced the significance and
 reach of music research at Southampton. Awards for practice-research in performance and
 composition include Kenny winning a Grammy with Ian Bostridge for best solo vocal recital for
 Shakespeare Songs (Warner Classics) (joint winner 2017). In 2017, Kenny also won a
 Gramophone Early Music Award and the Diapason d'Or de l’Année ‘Early Music’ for Lachrimae
 or Seven Tears with Phantasm (Linn). Chapman received the Bestenliste Preis der Deutschen
 Schallplattenkritik (Keyboard Instrument Award) 2015 for The Oriental Miscellany (Signum
 Classics), recordings of the Indian songs transcribed for harpsichord and adapted by William
 Hamilton Bird (1789). This album also reached 14 in the Indian iTunes Classical Music Charts.
 Shlomowitz won the Sixth International Johann-Joseph-Fux-Opera-Composition competition
 (Austria, 2016), providing a commission to compose an opera, Electric Dreams. Oliver was one
 of two selected composers in the Riot Ensemble Call for Works 2014, and was shortlisted for the
 British Composer Awards 2017 Contemporary Jazz Composition category for Loop Concerto
 (2016). PGR student Graham was shortlisted for the British Composer section of the ISCM's
 2019 World Music Days Festival.

 4.10 Awards (Musicology/Ethnomusicology): Our ethnomusicologists/musicologists have
 gained prestigious awards: AMS's Roland Jackson Award for outstanding work in music analysis
 (Mirka); AMS’s Noah Greenberg Award for outstanding performance projects (Stras); J.M.
 Thomson Prize for best article published in Early Music by an ECR (De Lucca); a Citation of

                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Special Merit of the Society for Music Theory (Mirka for The Oxford Handbook of Topic Theory);
 Best Collaborative Project Award, Society for the Study of Early Modern Women (Stras); an
 honourable mention for the Society of Ethnomusicology’s Bruno Nettl Prize for outstanding
 contributions to the history of ethnomusicology (Malcomson); and two finalists in the Association
 of American Publishers’ Awards for Professional and Scholarly Excellence Awards (Everist with
 Kelly, Stras). Guthrie was awarded the RMA Jerome Roche prize, and PGR Taylor won the
 Musicians’ Union Terence Pamplin award for the best research in organology.

 4.11 Public Engagement: Our public engagement accolades include Stras receiving the Best
 Individually-led Project Award at the NCCPE Engage Awards 2014, for her Celestial Sirens
 project; the Festival Verdi Parma, directed by Izzo, winning the prestigious Best Festival,
 International Opera Awards 2018; and Brooks’ Songs of Home exhibition (2019) winning the
 2020 MAGNA award for the best temporary or travelling exhibition from the Australian Museums
 and Galleries Association. With the Covid-19 crisis, staff and student research-practitioners who
 could, contributed new compositions: Shlomowitz wrote 55 short pieces for people living
 together, receiving media coverage from BBC Radio Solent and The Daily Telegraph; Oliver and
 PGT Sones composed for Honeybourne’s Contemporary Piano Soundbites. PGR Leith live-
 streamed 18+ Hesperi-at-home concerts, was awarded an ACE Emergency Coronavirus
 Response Grant, and appeared on R3 and in virtual concert series using material from her
 thesis research.




                                                                                           Page 15
