Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow

 Unit of Assessment: 28

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Historical research at Glasgow is carried out across a very wide range of chronologies,
 geographical areas, and methodologies. We have a strong emphasis on the historical traditions
 and concerns of Scotland, and remain committed to our long-standing strengths across the
 chronological range of the country’s history. In recent years global and non-Western history has
 been a priority, and ten new appointments have been made in this area. Our focus on global
 history was motivated by a desire to expand geographical and conceptual reach, and to draw
 attention to the relevance of history at Glasgow to the global community. Much of our research
 emphasizes the contribution history can make to social justice, and to deepening understanding
 of the formative influence of history on identity; the UoA’s research into the history of slavery
 during this cycle was fundamental to the THE Award of University of the Year to Glasgow in
 2020. Our responsibility to the communities whose histories we study is informed by a focus on
 research integrity, equality and diversity, and an explicit concern for the ethical impact of our
 work.

 Given this strategy and ethos, our priorities have since 2014 have been to ensure that individual
 scholars can continue to engage in the ground-breaking research necessary for writing
 monographs; in improving long-term support for substantial research projects; and fostering the
 impact of research that has resonance beyond the university. Our strategy has been
 underpinned by a stronger focus on E&D, in particular on gender equality.

 As a response to those priorities, the structures and policies that make a career in history at
 Glasgow appealing and productive have been consolidated and made more explicit. At the
 centre is a focus on planned career development, including support for research leave and
 external research funding; support for consolidating impact activities; and above all, on
 sustaining an environment characterized by intellectual vigour and openness, in which
 researchers can bring long-term work to a successful conclusion. This can be observed in the
 collaboration of researchers around particular areas of expertise, both within the disciplines, and
 interdisciplinarily, and in the investment in the future of our research, in the form of a dynamic
 postgraduate community.

 Since REF2014 the UoA has consolidated, and now comprises researchers from a range of
 historical disciplines, including some previously returned as separate UoAs. The consolidation
 brings together historians from Classics, Theology and Religious Studies, Central and East
 European Studies and Interdisciplinary Studies and makes Glasgow one of the largest and most
 diverse centres for historical research in the UK (63.5 FTEs). The number of staff submitted to
 the History UoA has increased by 47% compared with 2014, with colleagues from other parts of
 the University (see Table 1).




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 1. Composition of the Unit
  Subject Area                                                     Headcount         FTEs
  HCA History in the College of Arts                                  34              32
  ESH Economic and Social History (College of Social                  14              14
  Sciences)
  Classics; Theology and Religious Studies (TRS);                      18            17.46
  Interdisciplinary Studies (IS); Central and East
  European Studies (CEES)
  TOTAL                                                                66            63.46

 This consolidation formalizes research and teaching relationships between component subject
 areas, Centres, clusters and individuals. Classics and TRS made separate submissions to
 REF2014. For REF2021 all staff in Classics are submitted to History, and approximately half of
 those in TRS, those whose work is historical. The inclusion of Classics is a corollary of a
 planned enhancement of ancient history, illustrated by recent appointments in late antiquity, and
 in ancient science, technology, and medicine. Beyond Classics and TRS, the UoA includes
 historians whose subject location in the institution reflects geographical expertise: e.g. Unkovski-
 Korica and Barnard in CEES, and Henderson in Interdisciplinary Studies, long attached to the
 Centre for Scottish and Celtic Studies.

 Clusters

 To facilitate research support and mentoring, grant applications, and doctoral training, all
 historians are members of one or more clusters or Centres. These groupings also provide peer-
 review systems to assist with publication. Clusters support the work of individual researchers
 and foster a dynamic research culture. They are defined chronologically or thematically: Ancient
 World; Medieval History; Early Modern History; Economic and Social History; American History;
 Scottish History; Global History; History of Medicine; History of Religion. They operate in various
 fashions, but commonly with regular work-in-progress seminars, meetings for reviewing grant
 applications and management, and away-days for research grant writing. Examples include the
 Early Modern Work-in-Progress weekly lunchtime seminar, and the ESH Work-in-Progress
 seminars based on pre-circulated papers. In this assessment period, the most striking cluster
 development has been in global history and globalisation. This has accompanied a significant
 new focus on the history of slavery, African history and refugee studies. Eight new staff have
 been appointed in these fields, reshaping research structures, and the interlinked PGR, Masters
 and undergraduate programmes.

 Research Centres

 The University’s Research Centres exist to support long-term sustainability in specialist areas
 and promote interdisciplinary excellence (for further details see REF5a). Research Centres
 pursue their own research strategies, and have a more visible, institutionalised identity than
 clusters: they foster grant applications, develop PGRs and new staff, and generate knowledge
 exchange and impact. Four of these Centres have a historical focus, and this UoA is integral to
 the operation and success of each Centre.

 The Centre for Scottish and Celtic Studies (CSCS) brings together researchers from History,
 Archaeology, Celtic & Gaelic, TRS and Scottish Literature. Since 2014, history staff involved in
 this Centre have attracted £1.25m in grant income including AHRC funded projects on Scottish
 Charters and Scottish Latin Poetry, and a Marie Curie Postdoctoral Fellow. The Centre conducts

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 public engagement and outreach work, with an interdisciplinary approach to Scottish History,
 exemplified by the ‘Historical Conversations’ events on contemporary Scottish historians, run in
 collaboration with Archives and the Hunterian. Funding from the Centre's internal grant
 schemes, open to PGRs, post docs and staff has supported work in gender history, European
 history and global history as well as Scottish history.

 The Centre for Business History in Scotland (CBHS) has attracted £150k per year since 2014
 from The William Lind Foundation and The Ballast Trust, used to fund various projects in
 Scottish business history, most recently one on Scottish business involvement in slavery. CBHS
 provides administrative support for two key professional organisations, the Association of
 Business Historians and the European Business History Association. CBHS has exchange
 agreements for staff and PGRs with Kyoto and Nankai, and has hosted scholars from Japan,
 Turkey, Italy, Germany, China, Croatia, USA, and Canada. It is home to Business History, the
 leading journal in the field (measured by impact factor) and its executive editor, deputy editor
 and editorial assistant are located in Glasgow.

 The Centre for Gender History is a leading centre for the interdisciplinary study of women’s and
 gender history, with particular expertise in personal testimony and a distinctive focus on
 gendered divisions of labour and on feminisms internationally. It brings together over 40
 historians, area specialists, theologians, and others and runs an active MSc in Gender History. It
 has for nearly ten years been the editorial home of Gender and History, the leading international
 journal in the field and since 2014, it has attracted external grants of £1.22m.

 The Scottish Centre for War Studies and Conflict Archaeology brings together expertise across
 War Studies, broadly defined. Areas of particular focus include global security and intelligence,
 and battlefield archaeology, and it hosts The Journal of Conflict Archaeology. The Centre runs
 PGT programmes in War Studies, in Global Security and in Conflict Archaeology and Heritage
 and a PhD programme in War Studies. In addition to Waterloo Uncovered, the basis of one of
 the UoA’s ICSs, current and recent projects include the AHRC funded ‘Weight of the Past in
 Franco-British relations’, and the reconstruction of the face of Robert Bruce from the contours of
 his skull. The Centre has strong connections to Bannockburn, with their research locating the
 site of the Battle in a major community engagement project with over 10,000 participants.

 In October 2020 the University established the Beniba Centre for Slavery Studies, recognising
 the UoA’s track-record of ground-breaking research in the history of slavery and providing a
 framework to support and develop research, public engagement and impact in the field and
 develop new interdisciplinary lines of enquiry. The Centre will be a major route to realising our
 aims for the future in terms of cross-disciplinary research and our commitment to social justice
 (see below).

 Research and Impact strategy: a) aims and achievements in the assessment period

 In REF2014 the UoA aimed to ‘develop our staff profile particularly in non-Western history’. This
 has been achieved by the appointment of new staff in HCA and ESH, and by the increased
 breadth of expertise produced through the consolidation of the UoA. HCA has made eight
 appointments in African and Middle Eastern history and more broadly in global history. ESH
 have appointed staff with expertise in Latin America and North Africa. Classics has brought
 wider expertise, especially in Southern Europe, TRS in the Middle East and South Asia. This has




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gone along with continuing renewal of long-standing strengths, such as in Scottish and business
 history.

 We have aimed to recruit staff from more diverse backgrounds, informed in part by the two RHS
 reports on gender equality (2015; 2018) and most recently the report Race, Ethnicity and
 Equality in UK History (2018). Some success has been achieved in relation to gender (see
 Section 2, below), and a start made with BAME representation, with two recent appointments to
 the Beniba Centre (discussed further below). In 2019, following on from the work that led to the
 award of an Athena Swan Bronze award, the School of Humanities, of which HCA and Classics
 are part, established the first ‘Equality and Diversity’ committee in the College of Arts. Its work
 towards the Silver award ensures that prominence is given to improving E&D in all aspects of
 the School’s work.

 In relation to outputs, in 2014 the History UoA aimed to ‘realise a number of major monograph
 outputs’, and Classics aimed to raise its output quality. The consolidated Unit will submit 40
 monographs to this REF, which, with double weighting, is over half the total outputs.
 Mechanisms to support the delivery of monographs and enhance output quality are described in
 section 2.

 Since 2014 the Unit has sought to build on existing strengths whilst diversifying into new fields of
 public engagement and impact, including those made possible by the consolidation of the UoA
 and the addition of staff with new areas of expertise. A review in 2017 of the UoA’s impact
 activity identified 14 potential Impact Case Studies, demonstrating an established impact culture.
 Since then substantial investment has been made to strengthen a smaller pool of Case Studies
 from which the submitted ICS have been drawn, to foster these, and nurture new ones beyond
 2020.

 The five ICS submitted show the integration of our research with a range of communities, with
 local, national and international effects. “Transforming public understanding of the significance
 and legacy of slavery in Britain” has evolved from a local study of Glasgow University’s links with
 slavery to have impacts in Scotland, for example by providing materials for Scottish schools; UK-
 wide by pioneering similar investigative and reparative work at other HEIs; and internationally, by
 facilitating the building of links with institutions in the West Indies with the aim of research
 collaboration and securing a measure of reparative justice. Reparative justice of a different
 character has been the outcome of research on the policing of the miners’ strike of 1984/5 in
 Scotland reported in the ICS “Justice and the policing of the 1984-85 miners’ strike in Scotland”.
 As a result of a campaign drawing heavily on this research, the Scottish government has
 promised to pardon Scottish miners convicted for offences during the strike. Justice is also
 central to the ICS: “Thalidomide: maintaining a public profile in the pursuit of justice”, which has
 extended beyond Scotland and the UK to other European countries and especially Germany,
 where some of the most egregious activity by West German companies has been exposed, and
 the evidence of mal-practice used in court. The Case Study on the Kirk, “Research-led Reform
 of the Church of Scotland”, links our research to a very different Scottish community, and
 evolved directly from the PI’s deep involvement in the Church’s decision-making processes.
 Finally, the ICS on “Waterloo Uncovered: supporting the well-being of serving personnel and
 veterans through participation in battlefield research” shows the possibilities for combining
 pioneering academic research with deep impacts on a small, specific group of individuals who
 participated in the research process.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Knowledge exchange and impact extend well beyond the submitted Case Studies. For example,
 we also have relationships with external partners leading to potential impact in the areas of
 social housing, medical confidentiality, understanding of historical perspectives on refugees and
 asylum seekers and global poverty. The Unit’s approach has been to articulate the individual
 and collective benefits of maximizing research impact, and to ensure that funds are available to
 enable research to reach its target audience. The UoA has applied successfully to the Impact
 Acceleration Accounts of the ESPRC and ESRC, the University’s Knowledge Exchange Fund,
 CoA Strategic Research Allocation funding and has secured other funds at School and Cluster
 level. Projects supported include: i) Gender History’s annual Impact Conference. ‘Parenting and
 the Law’ (2017), gathered an audience of legal experts and women’s rights campaigners to
 explore historical research on gender and parental status; ii) Glasgow’s participation in
 Universities Studying Slavery, the international consortium dedicated to examining how
 universities were complicit with, and benefited from slavery, and engaging politicians, slavery
 and human rights campaigners; iii) ‘The People’s Voice’, a project on Scottish political
 poetry/song and the franchise, 1832-1918 (https://thepeoplesvoice.glasgow.ac.uk/). (It contains
 a database of over 1000 poems, an annotated anthology of 50 poems, schools’ resources, new
 recordings of songs, and essays).

 Our impact successes have their roots in the intellectual commitment of our researchers, and
 their engagement with the social significance of their research. The Centre and cluster structures
 ensure a collaborative research environment, and provide a ready audience of experts to help
 develop plans for impact. There are local administrators responsible for supporting impact and
 liaising with external stakeholders. KE and impact is an important component in annual target-
 setting for all research staff. The examples above show that the UoA has access to the
 resources to invest in small-scale initiatives and support individual researchers, and to identify
 opportunities to develop projects for wider audiences.

 We have a series of on-going activities across the range of our interests, many of which are
 likely to feed into future Impact Case Studies. In social care and the medical humanities new
 appointments have been crucial to expanding our impact, including on government policy, e.g.
 White, with his innovative work on refugees and McClure’s on global poverty, which includes a
 network funded by the AHRC GCRF. Also of note is work by established scholars, such as
 Abrams’ work on social housing and, separately, her historical research commissioned by the
 Scottish Child Abuse Enquiry; Shepard’s research on early modern childcare and Ferguson’s
 work on data privacy in health.

 In Intelligence and Strategic Studies there is also high impact work from both established and
 newer staff, with Jackson’s work for the Norwegian government on educating its intelligence
 community which has garnered interest from other national governments. The research of one of
 our ECDP participants, Van Puyvelde, relates to the US intelligence community and other issues
 such as information security. Emphasizing the diversity of our interests, in Classics research has
 informed performances of ancient drama and contemporary art projects in this review period.

 We are keen to develop the impact potential of our research by exploring opportunities to link
 our specialisms, such as in Genocide and Conflict Trauma. For example, Jessee’s research into
 the Rwandan and other genocides provides a potential for collaboration with White (refugees)
 and Banks (Holocaust and confinement studies).




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research and Impact Strategy: Future Aims

 Our plans for the future are centred on maximising the benefits of the UoA’s expansion this cycle
 into new areas, whilst sustaining traditional strengths. Our aims are

        •   To develop our research in broader, cross-disciplinary themes (in particular in topics
            that reflect our commitment to social justice and our impact on external communities)
            utilising our size and existing multidisciplinary networks. This will enable us to seek
            collaborative and challenge led funding and contribute historical perspectives to
            important societal issues.
        •   To build on our work on equality and diversity, especially by addressing BAME under-
            representation within our research community.
        •   To further extend the ‘global turn’ in staff specialisms; in particular, to extend
            expertise in Asian history.
        •   To sustain a culture that enables scholars to devote significant periods of time to in-
            depth, specialist research, leading to large-scale publications, including monographs
            and digital outputs.
        •   To maintain and develop an ambitious portfolio of externally funded research
            projects, individual and collaborative, in spite of likely challenges in the funding
            landscape
        •   To engage with the priorities of UKRI and the University around the climate and
            Covid-19 emergencies, and to give priority to greener ways of conducting our
            research

 Research Integrity

 The Unit supports the core values of History: transparency in research methodologies; public
 access to research results; integrity in the scholarship and methodologies of the discipline; and
 inculcation of these values amongst our staff, and PGR, PGT and undergraduate students. We
 strongly endorse the case for open access in the RHS guidance paper, ‘Plan S and the History
 Journal Landscape’ (2019).

 We make our work transparent by recording our research, grants and outputs on the University
 portal, Enlighten, that links to individual staff websites. We encourage staff registration for
 ORCID (now standing at 92%); encourage presence on academia.edu and LinkedIn; run blogs
 and twitter accounts to promote our impact, and pursued these activities in conjunction with
 PGR, PGT, and UG Dissertation or ‘Special Subject’ students. History publications are amongst
 the widest distributed of any in the academic subjects, with mass sales to the public. It is
 extremely straightforward for staff to comply with open access (OA) expectations: Glasgow
 University Library is resourced to manage all OA requirements based on a simple email from
 authors. The overall proportion of our outputs that are OA has increased since 2014 from 17% to
 55.9%; for journal articles it has increased from 34.5% to 84.4%. The Unit is looking at ways of
 increasing the proportion of OA monographs, subject to overcoming the problems outlined in the
 British Academy’s Open Access and Monographs: Where are We Now? (2018).

 We have a Research Integrity Advisor and mandatory face-to-face integrity training for all
 incoming PGR students and academic staff, including online modules and webinars (to
 accommodate part-time students). Allegations of research misconduct are taken extremely
 seriously and dealt with under the University’s Code of Policy and Procedures for Investigating


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Allegations of Misconduct in Research. The Research Integrity Advisor provides informal advice
 to anyone unsure about a research conduct issue or who is considering making an allegation.

 All research by staff or doctoral students involving human participants, material or data must be
 approved by the College of Arts or College of Social Sciences Ethics Committee. This is
 particularly useful for our oral history research, which can raise ethical challenges (such as oral
 history interviews with survivors of genocide). Support is available from a School Ethics Officer,
 who provides briefings and advice for staff and students, chairs the School’s Ethics Committee
 and sits on the College Research Ethics Committee. Ethics applications are scrutinised by two
 reviewers – one within the Unit and one from another School.

 The sharing of raw research data has not been a traditional element of the discipline, but recent
 developments in computer-aided research have led to the creation of datasets (of quantitative,
 documentary, poetic, memorialised and oral history information). The Unit has participated in
 pioneering work in these fields, including the creation and design of online datasets of medieval
 charters (poms.ac.uk) and the online publication of a major corpus of Scottish Latin poetry
 (https://www.dps.gla.ac.uk/electronic-resource/)

 2. People

 Of the 66 staff returned, around 32% are of international origin. Table 2 shows the distribution by
 gender and pay-grade.

 Table 2: gender and seniority
  Grade          FTE                    % of total FTE       Headcount           % of total
                                        for grade                                headcount
                   Male     Female      Male      Female     Male     Female     Male       Female
  GRADE 7          4        3           57%       43%        4        3          57%        43%
  GRADE 8          9        9           50%       50%        9        9          50%        50%
  GRADE 9          12.8     7           65%       35%        13       7          65%        35%
  Professor        14.3     4.36        77%       23%        16       5          76%        24%
  Grand Total      40.1     23.36       63%       37%        42       24         64%        36%


 Equality and Diversity and Recruitment

 Our recruitment strategy has been designed to support the development of our research, both in
 reinforcing existing strengths and moving into new areas, while applying an explicit E&D
 framework in which we aspire to greater diversity. Significant turnover in History at senior levels
 from both retirement and colleagues moving to posts elsewhere has led to University investment
 in a small number of senior appointments, especially with an eye on sustaining succession in
 research leadership, and to an expansion in the number of ECRs (eight in post in 2020),
 including via the University’s LKAS postdoctoral fellowship programme and externally funded
 ECR Fellowships.

 These appointments have enabled us to realise ambitions to widen the geographical scope of
 the Unit’s teaching and research. Along with the appointments already noted, TRS has made
 two appointments of researchers with strong thematic overlap with existing areas: one working
 on the Enlightenment and the other on Hellenistic literature. Classics has appointed a new


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 historian of Late Antiquity (providing a bridge between History and Classics), and two who have
 enhanced existing strengths in history of science, medicine, and ethics. We avoid, as far as
 possible, short-term contracts for category A staff. Zero of our 66 submitted staff are on fixed-
 term contracts. We have benefitted from the progression of three LKAS Fellows moving from
 research to R&T posts.

 We strongly endorse the principles of Athena SWAN, including a supportive and flexible working
 environment, with commitment from all levels of the organisation in promoting gender equity.
 HCA and Classics belong to the School of Humanities, which achieved the Athena SWAN (AS)
 Bronze Award in 2017, and is applying for Silver. The School of Critical Studies (of which TRS is
 a part), achieved Bronze 2020. The School of Social and Political Science’s Athena Swan group
 is being recast as an Equality and Diversity group in order to extend its remit beyond gender.
 This will strengthen equalities and diversity considerations in recruitment, employment and
 curriculum matters, including decolonisation. Three members of Unit staff sit on the School of
 Humanities Gender Equality Committee, and two on the University Gender Equality Steering
 Group.

 Table 2 shows the relatively high proportion of senior staff, and also that at the highest grade,
 there is a significant gender imbalance. That has been increased by the recent departure of three
 female professors (2 relocations, 1 retirement). Recruitment policies continue to address this
 issue, guided by Athena Swan protocols, which we expect soon to cover all components of the
 Unit. E&D and Unconscious Bias training is compulsory for members of all appointment panels
 (as well as those preparing the REF return), and all staff are encouraged to undertake it. The
 Humanities AS Action plan identified three areas for improvement in relation to advancing
 women’s careers: the PGT to PGR transition; gender imbalance in some PGT programmes (e.g.
 War Studies); increasing female applicants for posts. The last relates most directly to the profile
 of our researchers. We have taken the following actions: Essential criteria in job descriptions are
 being scrutinized for potential E&D discrimination, where, for example, they demand levels of
 experience, grant acquisition, PGR supervision and publication that militate against those who
 have taken career breaks or may be less able to relocate. Staff are encouraged to share
 academic job advertisements with potential female applicants, and advertisements for all posts
 include the following statement: ‘It is the University of Glasgow’s mission to foster an inclusive
 climate, which ensures equality in our working, learning, research and teaching environment.’
 University-wide equality policies (see REF5a) aim to make Glasgow a more welcoming prospect
 to female applicants. Locally, working-hours policies are in place. Most research events take
 place in core working hours (10.00am-4.00pm).

 In line with the institution’s code of practice, the selection of outputs for submission to this
 exercise was made by a gender-balanced ‘scoring committee’. All members of this committee
 undertook gender and diversity, and unconscious-bias training. Outputs were read
 independently by two members, with a third consulted in the event of disagreement. Wherever
 possible the two primary readers consisted of a specialist in the topic of the output, and another
 member of staff. The selection of outputs for submission was based entirely on their perceived
 ranking on the University’s 13 point-scale, which maps directly onto the REF’s ‘star’ categories.
 The data on distribution of outputs submitted to the REF reveal that currently-employed women,
 who make up 36% of staff, contribute 37% of outputs.

 Ethnic diversity in the Unit’s staff is a poor reflection of the national demographic. We have made
 considerable progress in re-shaping the curriculum away from white histories and Eurocentric
 approaches, in line with our aim of globalizing and diversifying the curriculum. But it is clear that

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 whilst important, such changes do not directly address matters of staff diversity (cf. the RHS
 report). As with gender, we are revisiting the use of 'essential criteria' for appointments, in order
 to foster more applications from BAME applicants.

 Staff Development

 Staff development strategy aims to ensure that all researchers can work productively, fulfilling
 their intellectual ambitions while adapting to an environment that is rapidly evolving in terms of
 the priorities of governments, funders, external communities and stakeholders, and students.
 Staff development is concerned with ensuring that all staff are encouraged to develop their
 careers so as to support their own research priorities in alignment with College and University
 strategic priorities, as well as those of the various communities to which their work contributes.
 The years since 2014 have been exceptional for the degree of external recognition of long-term
 contributions to the discipline. Three colleagues have become FBAs: Broun (2017), Abrams and
 Shepard (2018), and four FRSEs: Cohn (2015), Jackson (2018), Shepard (2019), Abrams (2020)
 (bringing the total to 6 in the Unit). These achievements are a tribute not only to the work of the
 individuals concerned, but also to the staff development policies of the Unit, which have fostered
 the long-term approach to the research recognised by such achievements. Those policies cover
 staff at all levels of seniority, in a wide range of geographies and subject areas. The Unit has an
 embedded culture of encouraging engagement, ‘good citizenship’ and research collegiality in all
 its manifestations, and that encouragement is formalized within the annual appraisal process
 (P&DR: Performance and Development Review), and promotion processes.

 As described in section 1, one of our objectives has been to raise the quality of outputs, with
 special attention to producing potential 4* monographs. A majority of staff in all elements in our
 Unit have produced monographs. These have been produced by colleagues at all stages of their
 careers, from first monographs based on PhDs to career-defining works by more senior
 colleagues. We have celebrated such publications: for example, the Centre for Business History
 funds launch events for all monographs that include commentary from an outside expert.

 Although formal structures are an important factor in this success, a major component is the
 productive culture of collaboration that we foster, best exemplified by our culture of peer review.
 Peer review of publications is multi-layered. Centres and clusters have individual arrangements,
 generally based around Work-in-Progress seminars and circulation of drafts. Second, mentoring
 arrangements often include reviewing of outputs. Third, REF Champions offer to comment upon
 the outputs with a view to improvement and to suggest likely scoring ranges. Arts Lab also runs
 regular workshops aimed at ensuring staff are engaging with the research quality standards.
 These systems became more formal in the wake of reviews following REF2014, with a more
 rigorous approach to peer review of publications and grant applications in all disciplinary areas.
 In HCA, peer-review sessions are mostly organised by Centres and clusters. Classics operates a
 formal policy of internal peer review of drafts of chapters, articles, and grant applications.

 Peer review has been supplemented by flexible teaching buy-out funded at School- and College-
 level to assist in completion of work. In 2017 the Unit identified all the potential 4* quality
 monographs, and sought resources to help to bring publication plans to fruition. Ten staff have
 subsequently been allocated money for teaching buy-outs or other support to enable the
 completion of book manuscripts.

 Staff across the Unit have access to protected research time. Staff on R and T contracts have a
 third of their time for research. There is a University-wide research leave policy, vital in making

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 possible the publication of high-quality outputs. All staff are eligible to apply for a semester’s
 leave after six semesters, and in this period Unit staff have in aggregate been granted over 100
 periods of such leave. Applicants make a case for the goals of the period of leave, specifying
 particular research or publication plans. This is now evolving to include impact activities and
 development of grant applications. To promote equality, entitlement to leave continues to accrue
 during periods of maternity leave or medical absence. It also accrues during periods of externally
 funded leave.

 Alongside support for Output production, a variety of internal sources of funds are available to
 Unit staff for research purposes. ESH draws upon a Research Incentivisation Fund (RIF),
 allocated annually proportionate to the subject’s external grant income. The funds are used to
 support the early stages of projects; the preparation of research bids; and the development of
 research projects in a number of different ways, including network funding, conference
 organization and attendance, and impact activity.

 HCA has a strategic fund to which staff apply to it for research - including conference – funds.
 There has been a convention that ECR and grade 7 and 8 staff get preference. In addition,
 School of Humanities invites regular bids to its research support fund. Overall, level of funds
 attained per person per year tend to be in the region of £300-500. Several HCA staff members
 were provided with funds to complete monograph preparation in 2018-2020. Glasgow
 Knowledge Exchange (KE) Fund supports collaborative approaches to communicate and exploit
 research outcomes and generate impact, and this Unit has received fourteen such awards in this
 review period, totalling £51,246 and ranging from £422 to £16,100.

 Support for our significant number of ECRs is framed by their participation in the University’s
 Early Career Development Programme (ECDP), which supports newly appointed staff to develop
 their skills and progress in their careers within a defined timetable. In this period we have had 16
 colleagues on ECDP benefitting from a reduced teaching and administration load in their first two
 years of their appointment (50% in year 1; 25% in year 2). ECDP also actively encourages
 application to external funding schemes for ECRs, such as the Carnegie Research Incentive
 Grant, the AHRC Early Career Fellowship and the ERC Starter Grant.

 All ECRs have a mentor whose role includes offering guidance on research matters, including
 output quality, grant application and public engagement and impact. Mentoring is available to
 other colleagues through various mechanisms, including the School of Humanities Mentoring
 Scheme, which offers a mentor to every member of staff. The schemes are not compulsory but
 strongly commended for either research or general career mentoring, sometimes both. Mentoring
 is confidential to mentee and mentor, but is believed to have contributed significant research
 successes in many cases, helping outputs and grant applications to fruition.

 Postdoctoral researchers are integral to many of the UoA’s large research projects, and are fully
 integrated into the research culture in line with the Concordat for the Career Development of
 Researchers, with, for example, eligibility for conference funding and inclusion in Work in
 Progress seminars. PIs work hard to ensure appropriate career opportunities for their PDRAs,
 including co-authorship, journal editorship, and leading their own projects (e.g., PI of a British
 Academy International Partnership Mobility award with the University of Calcutta, 2014-15).
 Recognising the specific challenges in the transition to postdoctoral research, HCA has instituted
 the Charlotte Nicolson postdoctoral bursary to support a recent PhD complete a research project,
 such as a publication. The UoA also secured the first CoA Arts & Humanities Innovation


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researcher position for postdoctoral researchers; the holder has now moved to an open-ended
 lectureship in the UoA.

 The University offers a comprehensive programme of leadership training targeted at different
 levels of experience: participation is through nomination, informed by succession planning as
 well as individual career development. Although the programme is not exclusively dedicated to
 research leadership, participation is valuable in developing confidence and ambition for large-
 scale project management. Six members of the UoA have completed courses within this
 programme and one further the Senior Research Leaders Programme. Two members of the UoA
 have participated in the Aurora programme, and members of the UoA also mentor Aurora
 participants.

 In the College of Arts, the primary unit for the dissemination of new ideas, best practice and
 innovation in grant application is Arts Lab, the College of Arts’ research institute, which also
 supports staff based in CoSS who are applying to AHRC. Arts Lab’s Application Development
 Service supports staff at the initial stages of planning any grant application above £50k. One-to-
 one discussion with the Director or Deputy Director of Arts Lab and support from the Research
 Office in project design and costing is combined with peer-review, from at least two current or
 recent award holders, of draft applications. In the College of Social Sciences substantial
 proposals from historians are scrutinised by another historian plus someone from elsewhere in
 the School of Social and Political Sciences, and may also be discussed in ESH’s Work in
 Progress meetings.

 Staff are encouraged to apply for promotion as soon as their performance meets criteria, and a
 new programme of regular promotion workshops has been introduced since 2014. Advice on a
 one-to-one basis is available from Heads of School, and for additionally for ECDP participants via
 their mentor. There have been 34 promotions from 43 applications during the cycle; the success
 rate for women and men is broadly comparable at all grades.

 Research Students

 We recognize, of course, the crucial nature of investment in the future of the discipline by
 attracting and then supporting PGRs to completion. A flexible and responsive approach to the
 rapidly changing PGR landscape is essential, and here the Unit has three interlinked assets: its
 size, the international reputation of a significant proportion of its staff, and the existence of a
 number of established areas of internationally-recognized excellence. These are vital both for
 attracting high-quality students, and for accessing resources to support them. Our total PGR
 numbers have grown by around 20 per cent over the cycle. Since 2014 we have effectively
 focussed on broadening sources of funding. While around two-thirds of our students are self-
 funded, we continue to have success with AHRC and ESRC awards. Funding has also come
 from the ERC, Wellcome and Leverhulme Trusts, and from the William Lind Foundation, via the
 Centre for Business History in Scotland.

 We are major participants in the Scottish Graduate School in Arts and Humanities, ‘the World’s
 First and Only National Humanities Graduate School’ (SGSAH). This has been especially
 important in promoting the growth of cross-institutional PhD supervision, particularly within
 Scotland, and in providing outstanding training opportunities in research and KE for the PGR
 community. The UoA has secured twenty-nine AHRC-DTP studentships via SGSAH. ESH is a
 participant in the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science Doctoral Training Centre. There
 have been four ESRC awards since 2014, one from the Wellcome Trust, and three from the

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ERC’s ‘Constructing Europe’ project. The Leverhulme Trust interdisciplinary ‘Collections’ project
 funded two doctoral students (jointly) in ESH, two in the area of the history of medicine and two
 in HCA. Both the College of Social Sciences and the College of Arts has an annual competition
 for internally-funded scholarships, with around 25 in total available per annum.

 We routinely award around 13-22 PhD degrees per annum. In recent years, PhD students have
 come from the United States, Germany, China, Canada, Finland, Italy and large numbers from
 England. As regards gender, Table 3 shows that our inclusive policies have resulted in the
 number of awards being gender balanced.

 Table 3. HESA doctoral degrees awarded by student gender and year
     HESA            HESA DOCTORAL DEGREES                 HESA DOCTORAL DEGREES
    Academic                  AWARDED                               AWARDED
      Year                 (Supervision Load)              (% of Total Supervision Load)
                    Female       Male      Unknown         Female       Male     Unknown
     2013/14          6.08        7.5           1           42%         51%         7%
     2014/15          7.09        10.8        0.25          39%         60%         1%
     2015/16            7         5.5                       56%         44%         0%
     2016/17          6.25         8                        44%         56%         0%
     2017/18           8.2        9.16                      47%         53%         0%
     2018/19          6.75         8                        46%         54%         0%
     2019/20          5.67        2.83                      67%         33%         0%
   Grand Total       47.04       51.79        1.25          47%         52%         1%


 Our growth in PGR numbers has resulted both from internal and external recruitment. Internally,
 we actively engage with well-qualified Honours students who show interest in graduate research.
 External recruitment is targeted primarily through web advertising, including ensuring that staff
 specialisms and existing PGR supervision are well advertised. We recognise the importance of
 attracting research students from ‘non-traditional’ backgrounds, and spend significant amounts
 of time selecting our candidates and mentoring them and their applications to ensure the
 maximum number of awards.

 The College of Arts PGR Skills Development Programme contains mandatory Equality &
 Diversity Awareness training for all first year PGRs (as well as in Research Integrity and
 Information Security). We also encourage informal networking to create safe environments, and
 promote discussion of unconscious bias and stereotype threat in relation to curriculum content
 and the culture of learning and teaching. These measures are monitored through PGR Staff
 Student Liaison Committees, and promoted through circulars to supervisors. The quality of
 supervision is monitored and assured through the Annual Progress Review system (see below).

 We believe that high doctoral completion rates result from a dynamic and supportive ethos, as
 well as specific mechanisms of monitoring and support. PGR culture in HCA and ESH is vibrant.
 With large cohorts of postgraduate students (well over 100 p.a. over the unit as a whole since
 2014), seminars tend to be crowded and students enthusiastic participants. All PGRs are
 associated with a Cluster or Centre; the Centre for Gender History for instance has 13
 associated PhD students (10 women and 3 men). Interdisciplinary interaction is facilitated by the
 Unit’s structures, while students also divide according to the specialist Centres and clusters,
 where research seminars are held by period, theme and area. PGRs are invited to many of the

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research workshops, including most Work-in-Progress seminars; in early modern history, for
 example, the work-in-progress lunchtime seminar is unifying across most clusters. Glasgow was
 the founding institution of, and is still a key participant in, the Scotland-wide HISTPER
 postgraduate student network, and Gender History PGRs run their own reading group. These
 activities are supported with community-building and interdisciplinary activities provided by the
 Graduate School, such as an annual interdisciplinary PG Conference and online student-led
 publications eSharp and The Kelvingrove Review. PGRs in Classics participate in the Scotland-
 wide STAGE conference network. In 2019, the CGH was shortlisted for GU’s Research Culture
 Award, with special mention for its consistent support to PGRs and ECRs.

 All PGRs undergo an annual Training Needs Assessment, and training provision is divided
 between the Research Councils (through the DTPs), the College Graduate Schools, which offer
 a substantial programme of training courses, as well as in the Subject Areas. In the latter,
 advanced training sessions are provided annually in History for: oral history research methods
 and theory; viva voce examination; getting an article published; preparing a book proposal;
 applying for postdoctoral awards; and the impact of REF on PGR career planning. Specialist
 training in software, databases, palaeography, languages etc. is arranged on a case-by-case
 basis, and can involves students auditing courses conducted by other subjects (such as
 Information Studies, Gaelic, or Modern Languages) and with one-to-one advice from specialists.
 We offer PhD students advice about how to get their work known and read so that they will build
 up a pool of referees.

 A system of Annual Progress Review (APR) for PGR students operates across the Unit (i.e. in
 both Colleges). This provides an opportunity for the student and supervisors to discuss their
 work in a productive environment and to focus on goal-setting. In HCA, for example, APRs
 include in year 1 an oral presentation as well as submission of written work. APR also includes
 review of student’s skills development.

 PGRs are strongly encouraged to present their research results at conferences and seminars
 internally and externally. Every student in is expected ordinarily to present a paper at an internal
 seminar by Year 1 or 2 and external conference by year 2. In addition, where relevant, we have
 encouraged Master's students to convert their dissertations into journal articles. We have
 considerable success in this regard, with publications in both specialist online PGR journals and
 major print journals.

 An important policy issue in PGR supervision is to ensure that ECR staff gain experience and
 training. To this end, it has been a policy of the PGR convenor in HCA since 2014 to recruit
 wherever suitable an ECR as second or in some cases third supervisor.

 While we recognise that History PhDs follow many career paths, we ensure that those aiming at
 an academic career get the fullest possible support. Most PGRs gain experience in relevant
 undergraduate seminar teaching, starting in year 2. For this, specialist training workshops are
 provided within the subject alongside the University’s GTA training. Where appropriate, and
 subject to supervisor’s advice, we encourage PGRs to deliver at least one lecture to an
 undergraduate class, which may take the form of an Honours module close to the student's
 research interest. This is especially valuable for the student's C.V. Recognising the importance
 of the Impact agenda, the College of Arts Knowledge Exchange & Impact Manager has provided
 workshops on impact to PGRs via ArtsLab.



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our strategy has been to make use of the opportunities that external funding brings to promote
 the aims listed in section 1: developing existing and new areas of research strength and
 enabling researchers to deepen their expertise, whether working alone or collaboratively;
 publishing high quality monographs and articles; promulgating research to relevant communities
 via impact activities and knowledge exchange; developing a PGR community to strengthen
 expertise and ensure its sustainability. We aim to involve as many of our staff as possible, as
 income generation is an area where individual career development and gains to the institution
 intersect closely.

 Support for the academic dimension of funding applications is an important aspect of our
 collegial environment, as demonstrated in the peer-review and mentoring systems described
 above. Administrative support for research has been devolved since 2014, and each College
 has a Research Office with overall responsibility for co-ordinating applications and providing
 financial and statistical information. Each disseminates information on current and prospective
 grant calls and deadlines and assesses funder requirements and eligibility issues, as well as
 giving detailed feedback on impact plans within proposals. In the College of Arts it also provides
 training sessions for potential applicants, via Arts Lab (see above). More local research support
 is provided by Research Convenors at School and Subject level. These structures have shown
 their value in this cycle, with total external research income for this period averaging £1,125,357
 per annum, over 70 per cent higher than in the previous cycle, with only a 47% increase in staff
 numbers. Recent major grants include Abrams: AHRC Research Grant (PI) ‘Economies and
 Cultures of Knitted Textiles in Scotland’ £850k (2019) and Rollings: ESRC Transformative
 Research Grant 'Quantitative network analysis of appointment diaries', £252k (2018).

 The UoA has encouraged and supported applications to a wide range of funders and at a wide
 range of scales, driven by the appropriateness of the scheme to the research activity. There
 have been a total of 61 awards valued at £5,000 or more, with 81% of staff achieving this level of
 award. Across the Unit we have pursued a strategy of increasing the proportion of staff
 submitting grant proposals, and the PDR system and peer review have of applications have
 improved success rates. As regards gender, for the period as a whole, women have accrued
 46% of grants by value despite only representing 36% of the head count.

 Charities in general, and the Leverhulme Trust in particular, have been crucial sources of
 funding. Major Leverhulme awards have been diverse in type and topic, including ‘Employment,
 politics and culture in Scotland, 1955-2015’; 'Translating Feminism: Transfer, Transgression,
 Transformation'; ‘Runaway Slaves’ ‘Housing and Wellbeing in Glasgow 1950-75' and ‘Hero of
 Alexandria’s Automata’ as well as three Major Research Fellowships and three Research
 Fellowships. The Wellcome Trust has also been a major funder, reflecting our strengths in
 medical history, including a Wellcome Trust University Award ‘The Physician of the Soul:
 Medicine and Practical Ethics in Galen’. Research Fellowships, alongside internal research
 leave, have been especially important in funding the individual scholarship that lies behind our
 success in monograph production. Scottish funders, the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the
 Carnegie Trust have provided important funding, particularly in the early stages of projects.

 Six staff members have gained awards from the GCRF, reflecting both the ‘global’ shift in staff
 research, and our commitment to seeking to maximize the impact of our work, including funding
 to establish a “Network on Intelligence and Security Practices in African Countries (NISPAC)”.


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 GCRF has supported collaboration with partners in Angola, Brazil, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, India,
 Kenya, Mexico, Nigeria. Rwanda and Uganda.

 The growth in grant applications (and increasing success rates) has been fostered at subject
 level through individual research conversations (conducted by the Research Convenor,
 Research Strategist and REF Champions annually), P&DR meetings, and meetings with REF
 champions. In HCA, most peer review takes place in clusters. In ESH, annual informal review is
 supplemented by the School’s recent policy innovation, by which all applications above
 £100,000 require review by two reviewers from beyond the Subject area, before being signed-off
 for submission.

 We have striven to develop a research culture that gives ECRs expectations, opportunities and
 support to develop their research careers as co- and principal investigators on research awards,
 working on their own research agendas and developing research agendas with colleagues.
 Mechanisms to support ECRs as research grant holders have included: undertaking the ECDP
 modules on grant writing skills and managing research projects; enabling ECRs to attend the
 four-day residential UofG Crucible that aims to support staff in being more creative and
 ambitious in their funding and publication strategies, as well as developing a peer network for
 support and collaborations. ECRs are heavily involved in the deliberations of our Research
 Groups and Research Centres, so that they can contribute to research agendas and participate
 in collaborative research proposals. They have benefited from the RIF, acquiring seed-corn
 funding to develop research agendas and collaborations, for example in the case of Yaffe’s work
 on Cuba.

 In relation to equality and diversity, we support all our staff in all aspects of their research
 careers, including grant allocation. Attention is paid to unconscious bias when allocating
 institutional resources at College, School and Unit levels to support scholarly activities and seed-
 funding for research and knowledge exchange.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The scholarly resources available locally to researchers in History in Glasgow are outstanding.
 The UofG’s library’s extensive holdings are supplemented by the Hunterian Museum and
 Gallery, including its print collection and the Hunter Collections. The Hunter Library and the
 Hunter Collections have resulted in two Leverhulme-funded PhD theses supervised by HCA
 staff, and the Library's collections of Rare Books were a major resource for several of the
 monographs submitted in this REF (eg. Munck). Amongst other important holdings, the Hunter
 Collection contains one of the world’s leading coin collections. For other historians the University
 archives hold significant collections, including, for example, the records of companies operating
 in Africa and Asia, an important resource for business and global history. We are starting to
 exploit these more fully, pioneering the use of ‘Hackathons’ for this purpose in 2019. Archive
 holdings also include records of a social survey conducted at the University in the 1960s, which
 formed the basis of a successful grant application to the Leverhulme Trust and an ongoing
 collaboration with Urban Studies. For those working on religious history, the library includes a
 large collection of devotional literature from the medieval period, thousands of early printed
 texts, including many Bibles, Biblical criticism and sermons. There are also many Arabic and
 Persian manuscripts, as well as a significant collection of Buddhist works. In-house resources
 include the Baillie Collection, containing rare printed sources for the study of medieval and early
 modern Scotland, England and Ireland. The Centre for Scottish and Celtic Studies, through its
 ‘People Making Scotland’ database, has an infrastructure for studying medieval society arguably

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 superior to that of any other European country. The CBHS also has its own reference library
 which includes a collection of business brochures from British companies acquired from the
 Business Archives Council. Classics has developed the basement of its townhouse into a
 dedicated project space and postgraduate library, taking advantage of a substantial working
 collection built up over a century and augmented by donations from the libraries of the late Prof.
 MacDowell and Prof. David West. This space acts as a centre for the Classics PG community,
 and offers desk space, computers, and some individual offices for RAs and PGRs.

 The Unit benefits greatly from location in one of the UK’s major cities, and one with a civic
 commitment to sustain and explore the legacy of its history. Everyone has access to the Mitchell
 Library, Europe’s largest public reference library. More specifically, the College of Arts has an
 agreement with Glasgow Life (the charity established by the City Council to deliver cultural,
 leisure and sporting provision) that facilitates access to the vast collections owned by the
 Council. Collaborations have been significantly boosted by the £4.5million redevelopment of a
 shared museum collections facility for the Kelvingrove/Glasgow Life and Hunterian Museum and
 Art Gallery at Kelvin Hall. This contains a Collections Study Centre for object-based research,
 teaching and training and a Centre for Cultural and Heritage Skills, a national hub for in-service
 training, CPD and KE. Kelvin Hall is playing an increasing role in our teaching, and is a resource
 that PGRs and colleagues are likely to be making more use of in the next REF cycle.

 All Unit staff are located in well-equipped space and provided with state-of-the-art technology
 (both hardware and software), meeting rooms and video-conferencing facilities. The increase in
 staff since 2014 has required creative thinking about the allocation of office space, but individual
 offices are still made available to RAs joining us temporarily for research projects. HCA has two
 hot-desking areas that can accommodate up to 20 PGRs, and a further 6 offices that are
 designated for PGR use, providing 22 desk spaces. The basement of townhouse in which ESH
 is devoted to PGRs, and includes a kitchen. During the COVID19 emergency the University
 provided access to a variety of new software for online operations – Teams, Ivent, Zoom – which
 the Unit used initially for teaching and research seminars in March 2020 and subsequently for
 integration into teaching. Staff have been encouraged to take home any equipment they need for
 home working.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Many of our collaborations address areas of historic injustice or social conflict, and much of our
 work is dedicated to showing how the closer study of the past can offer solutions to problematic
 legacies.

 Collaborations: from the local to the global

 The UoA and the institution support individual researchers, even when their research is
 challenging, and its strong networks enable tailored collaborations to emerge which ensure the
 dissemination and impact of our research. Probably the most striking contribution has been in
 the area of slavery, work that exemplifies how collaboration can deliver on the Unit’s concern
 with social justice, and whose significance continues to grow. This story begins in part with a
 ‘local’ project: research on the university’s gains from African enslavement. This has led to UofG
 pioneering a process of reparation that has set a benchmark for academic institutions, and fed
 into the wider debate on dealing with the legacy of slavery, both in Britain and globally. In
 collaboration with the University of the West Indies, the University has established the Glasgow-


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Caribbean Centre for Development Research, with a prime purpose of investigating and
 developing public understanding of the history and social impact of transatlantic slavery. The
 University’s policy grew directly from research by Newman and Mullen, and their 2018 report
 Slavery, Abolition and the University of Glasgow, which built on a long record of research. These
 activities have been closely linked to the City of Glasgow’s moves to address the legacy of
 slavery through its Slavery History Working Group, Glasgow City Council, of which Newman was
 a founding member (2017). The city now employs Mullen to further this work. ArtsLab is also
 facilitating activity in this area with one of its Labs, ‘Decolonize Glasgow’, which fosters
 discussion around institutional decolonization, and related issues such as representation,
 decolonization and empire.

 Slavery has also been the focus of important work by ECDP participants. Vos has been closely
 involved with the expansion of www.slavevoyages.org, an online database of slaving voyages in
 the Atlantic, hosted by Emory. It currently has an average of c.35,000 users per month. In
 2016/17, he led a team of researchers in the Netherlands unearthing records of the inter-colonial
 trade in the Dutch Caribbean. This work resulted in the addition of 1,700 voyages to the intra-
 American database, i.e. about 15% of the total. The database has been used for museum
 exhibitions around the world, most notably by the National Museum of African American History
 and Culture in Washington, DC. Work on slavery has a parallel field in research on enforced
 migrations and refugees, led by White and his work on refugee experience and policy through
 GRAMnet, a UofG collaborative initiative with the Scottish Refugee Council; and in research on
 capitalism and Africa, with separate work by Whyte (on slavery in West Africa) and Vos (on how
 Angolan coffee became a global commodity). This research illustrates well the scope of the
 Unit’s collaborative work, and the effectiveness with which it has contributed to a global agenda
 on the basis of local history.

 Social and ethical issues have motivated a number of other interdisciplinary collaborations within
 the University. Collaborations with Law include Brown’s ‘Religion in Scots Law’ research project
 which contributed to campaigning by Humanist Society Scotland that led directly to the Scottish
 government tabling legislation to abolish the Common Law offence of blasphemy, and the RSE-
 funded network ‘Visions of Global Order: Peace, Law and Security after the First World War.’
 Our medical historians co-operate with both the Institute for Health and Wellbeing, and the
 School of Medicine: Rollings, with a colleague in the School of Social and Political Science,
 explores the political culture of the 1960s-1990s using network analysis. and the UoA leads
 research within Glasgow University’s Great War Project, which explored the impact of the war on
 the university community and involved extensive community outreach, including the ‘Digging In’
 project which recreated First World War trenches in Glasgow’s Pollok Park as an educational
 resource for local schools.

 Scotland

 As a major centre for Scottish history, Glasgow has pursued a civic mission to generate
 collaborative research and impact. Examples include: in public policy, the Scottish Government
 Child Abuse Inquiry commissioned research from Abrams on historical abuse; Macdonald, with
 her project on Scottish political poetry and song 1832-1918 works in partnership with Education
 Scotland to create online datasets of poems and recorded songs; an open access conference;
 workshops at the National Library of Scotland and at Burns' birthplace; and events in a growing
 number of schools. Spurlock convenes a cross-institutional network, originating from a RSE
 grant: ‘Scottish Religious Cultures Network’ which supports a seminar series and PGR
 conferences.

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Centre for Gender History has ongoing collaborations with organisations based in Scotland
 including Women in the Scottish Economy (WISE) and the Glasgow Women's Library. The
 AHRC-funded ‘Fleece to Fashion’ project exploring the history of Scottish knitted textiles has
 established close collaboration with SMEs in textiles and partners in heritage and design to
 explore the emergence and implications of Scottish knitting as a heritage brand. The project has
 also led to the creation and sale of University of Glasgow knitting yarn, spun from wool from the
 Vet School’s flock of Scotch Mule sheep.

 Two collaborative AHRC projects deal with neglected aspects of Scottish culture: ‘Major-Minor
 Cinema: The Highlands and Islands Film Guild’ examines the impact of cinema in the Highlands
 and Islands in the post-war period; ‘Bridging the Continental Divide’ reanimates the neo-Latin
 literature of the Scottish Renaissance, and demonstrates the collaboration of historians and
 classicists. Meek maintains The Scottish Sexualities Research Network. Another pioneering
 interdisciplinary collaboration has been between Peacock (HCA) and Draycott (Classics), in the
 new College-funded Games and Gaming Research Lab (GGLab), of which they are founders
 and co-directors. Their 2019 ‘Symposium on the uses of History and Archaeology in Gaming’
 attracted 100 delegates, many of them from industry.

 UK

 The UoA has led AHRC and Leverhulme funded projects collaborating with King’s Digital Lab to
 create new digital resources and approaches to medieval charters (www.poms.ac.uk;
 http://www.modelsofauthority.ac.uk/). This has led to new collaborations with Education Scotland
 (AHRC), the NLS and NRS (RSE), and in an AHRC-IRC digital humanities network on the
 medieval Gaelic world, establishing the UoA as a key part of UofG’s leadership in the field of
 digital medieval scholarship in partnership with UoA27. There is also innovative collaborative
 work in early modern digital humanities e.g., an AHRC-IRC digital humanities network, and with
 UoA27 in the Textual Editing Lab. The UoA hosted a British Academy Rising Star for
 Engagement Award (£10,000) for a collaborative project on 'The Future of Academic Publishing:
 REF, Libraries, Publishers, and Academics’ (2015). This project brought together academics,
 members of the publishing industry, members of government who oversee university funding,
 and librarians to examine the future of this industry and its impact on scholarship and society,
 aligning with the UoA’s engagement with research integrity

 Europe

 At the European level there are exceptionally strong ties between the CBHS and Germany, with
 both Stokes and Fear experts on German economic history. Fear is editor, Immigrant
 Entrepreneurship: German-American Business Biographies (German Historical Institute 2010 -
 present), and collaborates on an ongoing project ‘Immigrant Entrepreneurship: German
 American Biographies’ (https://www.immigrantentrepreneurship.org/). This project presents a
 mosaic of immigrants from Germany who helped make modern America “America” or Hollywood
 “Hollywood”. Stokes was a guest researcher in the Department of Management at the Free
 University of Berlin and a Mercator Fellow at the University of Frankfurt’s research excellence
 centre in ‘Discourses of Weakness and Resource Regimes’ in 2018. Another CBHS member,
 Miller, along with Daniel Menning (Tübingen) won a grant from the German Excellence Initiative
 in 2017 for a seed-corn project on ‘Business beyond Businesses: Agency, Actors and Political
 Economy 1850-1970’.


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cohn held a CRF European Visiting Fellowship from the Royal Society of Edinburgh in
 collaboration with Andrea Caracausi, University of Padua in 2014; he is Founder and Editorial
 Board member of the Amsterdam University Press series: ‘Studies in Renaissance History, Art,
 and Culture’, 2015 -; panellist for ERC Starting Grants SH-6 and for the FWO (Brussels). Van
 Puyvelde was a research associate with the think-tank of the French Ministry of Armed Forces
 (Institut de Recherche Stratégique de l’Ecole Militaire), April 2019-April 2020, leading to
 publications to be co-authored with a French MoD official. He contributed to the “Intelligence
 College in Europe” initiative, launched by the French government in collaboration with all other
 EU member states, Norway and Switzerland. This inter-governmental project aims to foster a
 common strategic culture among the intelligence services of European countries. Bracke was a
 Visiting research fellow at the Centre d'Histoire, Sciences Po, Paris (2014), and a core member
 of the European network ‘Les mouvements féministes et leurs périodiques’ (funded by CNRS
 France). Jackson was visiting Professor at the Université de Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne for the
 academic year 2017-2018. Munck was visiting Senior Fellow at the Herzog August Bibliothek in
 Wolfenbüttel (Germany) during the summer of 2014. Hau held an Alexander von Humboldt
 Senior Research Fellowship 2017- 2018, which she spent in Heidelberg, collaborating with
 Jonas Grethlein, professor of Classics. This led to a grant application for the joint AHRC-DFG
 call. Our religious historians have also been involved in collaborations in Germany. In 2017,
 Methuen held an Alexander von Humboldt Foundation Research Fellowship at the University of
 Tübingen. In 2018, she was a Senior Research Fellow at the Herzog August Bibliothek
 Wolfenbüttel. Spurlock held visiting research fellowships at Stellenbosch University (South
 Africa) and Boisi Center of Religion and Public Life in America, Boston College.

 In this period the European dimension has inevitably meant involvement with Brexit. Rollings has
 been involved in several events concerning Brexit, both local and national. Amongst the former
 was one bringing together the Business School and the Glasgow Chamber of Commerce;
 amongst the latter, an event at the British Academy bringing together academics, politicians and
 journalists from the Mile End Institute in London.

 Global

 Global collaborations are important for our increasing strength in global history and its impact,
 and are a particular demonstration of our commitment to the socially progressive application of
 historical research. They include Van Puyvelde’s role as PI on the Texas National Security
 Network Excellence Fund, University of Texas System – “Keeping Secrets: A Systematic Survey
 of Scientific Research on the Causes of Discretion, 2017-2018”, together with behavioural
 scientists at the University of Nevada, Reno; and as a collaborator on the U.S. Department of
 Defense, Minerva Research Initiative's Research for Defense Education Faculty (R-DEF)
 program – “The Cyber Deterrence Problem”, 2017-2018, bringing together an international team
 of researchers based in UK, US and Canada. The Unit, especially in the light of its globalizing
 agenda, encourages international academic connections of all kinds, including acting as
 keynote/plenary lecturers and members of the Unit have delivered keynotes/plenaries in Athens,
 Melbourne, Chlef, Nanterre, Leiden, Amsterdam, Ghent and Yale.

 Jessee’s work on genocide in Rwanda involves one of Glasgow’s methodological strengths, oral
 history, used in a novel and hugely important way. It has fed into, amongst other things, capacity
 building of archives in-country, dealing with genocide and other topics. Pollard and Banks have
 carried out innovative and transformative archaeological fieldwork at battlefields across the UK,
 Europe and the world. McClure founded the poverty research network
 (www.povertyresearchnetwork.com), an inter-disciplinary, international collaboration which

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 deepens understanding of the historically constructed nature of poverty, offering new insights
 into how poverty is caused and addressed. She was PI of an international AHRC/GCRF project,
 ‘Beyond Development: Local Visions of Global Poverty’ that held workshops in Brazil,
 Bangladesh, Mexico, Slovenia, and Senegal to investigate the intersection between local
 experiences of poverty in relation to global narratives of development. Emphasizing that global
 collaborations are important across all chronologies, McClure is a member of the Global Middle
 Ages Network. Scroop was Co-founder and Treasurer (2007-14) of Historians of the Twentieth
 Century United States (HOTCUS) and held the Walter Hines Page fellowship at the National
 Humanities Center in North Carolina, USA in 2015-16. Whyte held a Postdoctoral Fellowship at
 the Gilder Lehrman Center for the Study of Slavery, Resistance and Abolition, Yale University in
 2014.

 HCA, as part of the School of Humanities, has participated in a partnership with the School of
 Historical and Philosophical Studies, University of Melbourne, involving reciprocal visits by
 Abrams, Panayotakis, and others, to teach, give keynote lectures and discuss collaborative
 research projects. In 2014 Henderson was a Visiting International Scholar, School of Culture and
 Communication, University of Melbourne. The ‘History of working-class marriage’ project, funded
 by the AHRC, held an international symposium in conjunction with the Australian Research
 Council Centre of Excellence for the ‘History of the Emotions’ (2015). ESH has established
 research links with Kyoto University, involving reciprocal staff visits, and the recently expanded
 Erasmus-Mundus award for the collective teaching of a Master’s programme in Global issues
 (led by Ross and Fear) (began 2017) has led to the development of research links with
 universities including Barcelona, Rotterdam, Goettingen, Uppsala, and the University of Los
 Andes in Columbia.

 The BA International Partnership project between the University of Calcutta and Glasgow and
 resulting volume (Copper, Parchment, and Stone: Studies in the Sources for Landholding and
 Lordship in Early Medieval Bengal and Medieval Scotland, ed Davies and Bhattacharya 2019) is
 the first example of research in the global Middle Ages with an equal balance of UK-based and
 non-western-based scholars.

 Professional bodies and scholarly activities

 The Unit encourages staff at all stages of their career to contribute to the activities of scholarly
 societies and to scholarly publication, not only to provide important service to the discipline, but
 also to enhance their own understanding of the broader disciplinary landscape. In addition, the
 University recognises the esteem that may accrue from such activities through P&DR and
 promotion systems, and supports staff in work that enables them to contribute as active citizens
 to the wider research community. Such work enhances international visibility, as well as the
 potential for collaboration. Offices held by members of the Unit during the cycle include Vice-
 President of the RHS (2014-17), President of European Business History Association, (2013-
 2015); President, Association of Business Historians (2017-20); President of the Business
 History Conference (2020/21); Trustee, Convener, and Secretary, Scottish Historical Review
 Trust (2010-19); Convenor, Council of Scottish History Society from 2006; Treasurer of the
 Economic History Society (2014-2020); President of the Scottish History Society; Board
 Member, Fédération Internationale des Etudes Classiques (2019-).

 Reflecting its role as a major centre for gender history, editors of the journal Gender and History
 have included five members of the Unit over the cycle; and the Unit has supplied the two most
 recent managing editors Business History. The Unit has supported colleagues, including ECRs,

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in a range of other editorial roles: Editor, The Journal of Conflict Archaeology; editorial board
 Europe-Asia Studies; Editor-in-chief Philologus; Editor, Journal of Roman Studies; Editor,
 Journal of Scottish Labour History; Co-editor, special issue of European Review of History; Co-
 editor Studies in Church History (Ecclesiastical History Society) and Editor, Records of the
 Scottish Church History Society.

 Members of the UoA are active in editorial roles in book series, including co-editor of Cambridge
 University Press series Cambridge Studies in Early Modern History; joint general editor of the
 Studies in Celtic History monograph series, Boydell and Brewer; co-editor series Christianities in
 the Trans-Atlantic World (Palgrave Macmillan); co-editor,Scottish Religious Cultures: Historical
 Perspectives (Edinburgh University Press); co-editor of the three-volume History of Scottish
 Theology (Oxford University Press); Senior Series Editor for Baylor University’s Handbook for
 the Septuagint; and chief editor of the History of Biblical Exegesis series (Mohr Siebeck).




                                                                                            Page 21
