Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA29 Classics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Overview

 The Department of Classics, Ancient History and Archaeology (CAHA) is vibrant, integrated and
 outward-looking. It encompasses the greatest chronological and geographical breadth of any
 Classics department in the UK. Its members study the history and culture of the ancient world
 from prehistoric Europe to Byzantium and its legacy. We cover a geographical range from the
 UK to the Near East, embedding Assyriology, Egyptology, Classics (including classical
 reception), Ancient History, Archaeology, Byzantine Studies and Modern Greek culture, the latter
 in the internationally-recognised Centre for Byzantine, Ottoman and Modern Greek Studies
 (CBOMGS), which celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2016. Our approach is interdisciplinary and
 broad in time, space and methodologies. Appropriately, we sit within the School of History and
 Cultures (SHaC) in the College of Arts and Law (CAL). The submitting UoA (18.7 FTE) also
 includes one member from the Ironbridge International Institute for Cultural Heritage, who is
 closely linked to CAHA through their research specialism and activities, but ‘UoA’ and ‘CAHA’ is
 used synonymously in this statement for the sake of simplicity.

 1.2. Research Strategy

 The core aim of our research strategy is the support and development of disciplinary,
 interdisciplinary and cross-sector research across the cognate disciplines of Classics, Ancient
 History, Archaeology, Egyptology, Assyriology and Byzantine Studies. As a relatively small unit
 with a number of staff retiring in the current census period, we decided to 1) develop the UoA
 through ECR appointments; 2) build critical mass by developing further the research areas from
 REF2014; and 3) extend the REF2014 aim of supporting disciplines whilst expanding
 interdisciplinary links and enhancing collaborative and cross-sector research. Nurturing our
 distinctive combination of sub-disciplines has generated fruitful research collaborations,
 innovative PGR supervision teams and meaningful contributions to interdisciplinary and cross-
 sector research projects with real societal impact.

 1.2.1. Key research areas

 In order to build critical mass, organically link our sub-disciplines, engage in interdisciplinary and
 non-HEI collaborations, and grow international recognition, since 2014, CAHA has pursued an
 ambitious strategy of growth and consolidation of expertise within three key research areas:
 Rhetoric and Reception; The Ancient City; and Landscape, Nature and the Environment. These
 build on the REF2014 research areas of ‘the city’ and ‘landscape and the environment’ while
 sharpening the 2014 research areas of ‘text and cultural construction’ and ‘reception of the past’
 into Rhetoric and Reception. These research areas are not mutually exclusive and overlap in
 terms of content and staff.


 Research in Rhetoric and Reception is central to the unit and we have continued to invest
 strategically in this area. The established expertise of Brubaker, Burton, Livingstone, Nisbet,
 Spencer, Theodorakopoulos and Tziovas has been complemented by the research of recent
 strategic hires of early-career (Cornwell, Barbato, Hunt) and mid-career (van der Blom)

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers to generate innovative connections across our sub-disciplines. Van der Blom’s
 research on Roman rhetoric overlaps with Spencer’s and Livingstone’s work on rhetoric and
 republican Rome, and joins up with Barbato’s focus on ideological rhetoric in Athens. Cornwell’s
 studies of pax and the rhetoric of diplomatic space in Rome intersect with Spencer’s and van der
 Blom’s work on Roman concepts and communication thereof, and complement Hunt’s interest in
 the concept of sacred trees and the meaning of numen. Hunt’s work on modern theological
 readings of ancient religion also links up with the studies of Burton, Nisbet and
 Theodorakopoulos in Classical reception. Van der Blom’s Network for Oratory and Politics
 exemplifies some of the interdisciplinary and cross-sector collaborations arising from this
 research area (see §2.1).

 The Ancient City builds on expertise in urbanism and the archaeology of cities from long before
 this census period. The research of Bayliss, Brubaker, Macrides, Sears, Spencer, Wardle, and
 Honorary Professor Lamour has been expanded and enriched by new appointments: Mack on
 citizenship and political institutions of the Greek poleis, Cornwell on diplomatic space of ancient
 Rome, Hunt on the religious context of the Roman city, van der Blom on the political life of urban
 Rome, Jurman on the city of Memphis, Johnson on Mesopotamian urban life, and postdoctoral
 fellow Kampianaki on Constantinople. Further additions to our research staff have expanded our
 focus to include the cities’ rural hinterlands: White’s long-established research in the
 archaeology of Roman settlements in Britain, Reynolds’ studies of peasant communities in
 Byzantine provincial contexts, McHugh’s archaeological survey of rural Attica, and Olabarria’s
 excavation activity at Dayr al-Barsha (Egypt). Another cross-cutting aspect is our use of
 epigraphic sources from Greek, Roman, Mesopotamian, Egyptian and Byzantine contexts, which
 enables us to research epigraphic habits of the entire (Western) ancient world. Our shared focus
 on the ancient city allows for new research collaborations (Mack and Johnson on ancient
 citizenship, Bayliss and McHugh on city-rural communities), PGR supervision teams (Cornwell
 and van der Blom on tribunes in Rome), and interdisciplinary and cross-sector collaborations
 (e.g. Jurman’s work with 28 museums worldwide, and Bayliss’ burgeoning work on total
 institutions, which has scope for collaboration with sociologists).

 Landscape, Nature and the Environment has developed organically from cross-departmental
 synergies between ancient historians, archaeologists, Byzantinists, classicists and
 Egyptologists. The research area emerged in the AHRC-funded Iconoclasms Network (2011-13)
 on human acts of violence against nature and the environment, which brought together
 archaeologists and Byzantinists (Chapman and Brubaker). Departmental research meetings
 revealed that classicists and other archaeologists (Spencer, Garwood, Smith, Wardle) were
 researching the same area, and we decided to strengthen the area with further hires:
 Zarmakoupi on architecture and archaeology in the Greco-Roman world, Hunt on the ecological
 aspects of ancient religion, Reynolds on the archaeology of Christian communities, and
 Olabarria on the landscape of monuments in Egypt. Two of our teaching fellows also work in this
 area (McHugh, Dunn). Our two ICSs (Stonehenge, Wetlands) are embedded in this area.

 1.2.2. Cross-sector collaborations and community engagement

 CAHA has a long tradition of research-led cross-sector engagement, which both enriches our
 research and provides clear avenues through which our research (often from our key research
 areas) can make a positive impact on society. We have long-standing partnerships with national
 bodies (e.g. English Heritage, National Trust, Historic England), and museums within the UK
 (e.g. Birmingham Museums Trust [BMT], the British Museum, Museum of London, Beccles
 Museum, Ironbridge Gorge, Tate Britain) and 35+ museums across the world (see §4.2). The

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strengths of our partnerships have positioned us as a central partner with BMT senior
 management in Birmingham’s emerging cultural landscape, in line with The Big City plan.

 We work closely on research-led partnerships with community groups, often in areas of
 significant deprivation and educational disadvantage (as defined by the Office for Students).
 These include the reconstruction with local community volunteers of a late Neolithic trackway
 and house near Doncaster, based on Chapman’s research and in collaboration with Isle of
 Axholme and Hatfield Chase Landscape Partnership. Other examples include citizen science
 work with volunteer groups in south Yorkshire as part of the Wildscapes Project, and Reynolds’
 work in Salerno (see §1.3), which is also a marginalised area. Our work with teaching charity
 Classics for All (see §2.2) has established an active regional hub for schools and teachers from
 West Midlands communities, including some of the most deprived in the region. Initiatives such
 as the Greek Summer School (COVID-related postponement to 2021) enable us to bring our
 unique research strengths (e.g. covering Greek language and literature from the Archaic to
 Byzantine periods and beyond) to a wide section of the community. By targeting areas with low
 attainment and low HE participation levels, we challenge the societal relevance of our
 disciplinary bases and build capacities, which further enrich our research.

 1.3. Implementation of Research Strategy and Resulting Achievements

 To achieve excellence in disciplinary, interdisciplinary and cross-sector research across our
 three key research themes, we strategically

1.   Support research that significantly challenges current notions and contributes to our
     scholarly disciplines through generous study leave provision, mentoring and specialist
     assistance in grant winning and project delivery (see §2.2). Cornwell’s monograph on Roman
     peace and Jurman’s two-volume work on objects from ancient Memphis housed in museums
     worldwide are exemplary results (both REF2 outputs).

 2. Nurture interdisciplinary research for cognate disciplines through the CAHA Reading
    Group and the Birmingham Research Institute for History and Cultures (BRIHC) (see §2.2).
    Internal funding streams for events and pump-priming also enable scholars to work outside
    of CAHA disciplines, within the university and beyond. This commitment is reflected in the
    multi-disciplinary BRIHC workshop on Iconoclasm (CAHA, Modern Languages, History,
    English, Linguistics, BBC4, UoLeicester, UoLondon, UoNewcastle), the reception of Egypt
    research events in collaboration with English Literature, and the Crisis of Rhetoric Project
    (Classics, History, Politics, Philosophy, English, Linguistics, Media Studies, UoB, UCL, UEA,
    UoGlasgow, Queen Mary).

 3. Develop cross-sector collaborations and partnerships, which extend beyond knowledge
    exchange to co-production, resulting in real-world impact. Supported by a dedicated CAHA
    Impact Lead and professional services staff, internal impact funding, Impact Away Days and
    ‘buddy’ schemes, CAHA nurtures such collaborations from the first idea to fully-fledged
    collaborations. We focus on multi-organisational collaboration with the heritage, museum and
    education sectors, politics (policy and political activity), and with communities. Plural
    engagement and co-production with external institutions and decision-makers through to
    volunteers and communities is demonstrated in our Stonehenge and Wetlands ICS. Both
    represent research commenced prior to REF2014, and both link with a range of other
    impact-related projects (e.g. partnerships with BMT and Historic England Trust) to illustrate
    the success of our research-led strategy of engagement that matters beyond academia (see

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    §4.1). Beyond specific ICSs, cross-sector collaboration is also evident in Tziovas’ AHRC-
    funded The Cultural Politics of the Greek Crisis project (2014-16), which brought together
    academics, journalists, artists and the public to assess the cultural dimension of the Greek
    crisis from 2008. Reynolds works with the local council, archaeology service and local
    community groups in Salerno (Italy) to develop heritage management policies, increase
    public and institutional understanding of significant Lombard churches, and build ambitious
    schemes with cultural and economic impact in the local area.

 Our longstanding fortnightly CAHA Research Seminar, and the weekly CBOMGS seminar, are at
 the heart of our research culture and support our research strategy. Covering all CAHA’s sub-
 disciplines, the seminars are hubs for the exchange of research ideas with colleagues and PGRs
 from within and outside the university. The seminars aim towards a diverse set of speakers
 (CAHA seminar 2015-20: 27% male, 73% female; CBOMGS seminar 2017-20 near 50-50 ratio).
 MA students are obliged and PGR students strongly encouraged to attend the seminars to learn
 the invaluable skills of reflecting on and responding to a wide variety of research presentations.
 PGR students run their own weekly seminars, and have also presented their research in the
 CAHA Seminar. In line with our long-term accessibility strategy, seminars have been audio-
 recorded since September 2019 (when speakers permit) (see §2.1).

 CAHA staff engage in and contribute to the School research environment through BRIHC events
 such as the BRIHC Seminars for ECRs and visiting scholars (e.g. Barbato and Kampianaki in
 2019-20), the BRIHC Lectures (e.g. Cornwell in 2020), and special events (e.g. a BRIHC
 workshop series: Brubaker, Chapman, Reynolds). BRIHC is a conduit for engaging with
 colleagues from medieval to modern history, anthropology and heritage studies to consider
 transhistorical research themes (e.g., motherhood). In 2018, a CAHA PGR student led the
 BRIHC activity for International Women’s Day with a major competition on identifying influential
 women through history.

 Since REF2014, significant investment has facilitated a reorganisation of infrastructure, facilities
 and financial resources supporting our research strategy (see §3.1), which has led to

 1. Rejuvenated dedicated CAHA spaces for research and student learning
 2. Increased research grant applications
 3. A sustainable research culture at local and university levels, leading to a diverse range of
    research activities and networks supporting interdisciplinary and cross-institutional research
    (see §2.1, 3.1, 4.1)
 4. Increased PGR numbers (a 77% increase from 47 in 2008-13 to 83 completed doctorates in
    2014-20), a higher proportion of funded PGRs, and continued involvement of PGR students
    in our research environment (see §2.3.1).

 1.4. Research Strategy 2021 Onwards

 Our research strategy will continue to drive decisions on (i) staff and PGR recruitment and
 development; (ii) consolidating grant capture by building on our successes in the period 2014-
 20; and (iii) maximising the impact of our research for a broad, international audience. Key
 strategic priorities are to




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Strengthen our disciplinary research excellence in order to push international research
     agendas in Rhetoric and Reception, The Ancient City and its hinterland, Landscape,
     Nature and the Environment;
 •   Develop our increasing number of early-career researchers to fulfil their research potential
     and become international leaders in their fields;
 •   Extend our interdisciplinary and cross-sector collaborations, with local/regional, national and
     international collections and institutions, to ensure our research is grounded in the
     challenges of the 21st century, such as climate change (Landscape, Nature and the
     Environment) and social and cultural division conflict (Rhetoric and Reception, The
     Ancient City); and
 •   Increase our engagement with non-HEI communities and institutions at local, regional and
     national level – schools, heritage institutions and others – to make the ancient world, from a
     CAHA perspective, more widely accessible.

 We plan to achieve these goals by

 •   Strategically appointing excellent researchers who fit our key research areas and have
     potential for interdisciplinary/cross-sector collaborations (e.g. two incoming ECRs in Greek
     Literature);
 •   Supporting research and impact at all stages through the CAHA Research Reading group,
     bespoke mentoring and assistance, including grant application support (see §2.3, 3.2);
 •   Harnessing our distinctive combination of literature, history, art and archaeology scholars
     from prehistoric Europe to Byzantium to foster new ideas and projects; and
 •   Continuing to recognise research success – whether disciplinary, interdisciplinary, cross-
     sector and community-related – through formal and informal means such as Performance
     and Development Review (PDR) processes, promotion and exceptional salary increments
     and recognition in Departmental/School/College/university contexts.

 1.5. Open Access, Open Research and Research Integrity

 Our commitment to Open Access and Open Research extends beyond current REF and UKRI
 guidelines. White’s extensive work to deposit archives in museums from historical Birmingham
 Archaeology excavations, dating back 30 years, has provided open access to these data.
 Reynolds hosts the Birmingham East Mediterranean Archive, an international website of freely
 available images of Byzantine and Islamic sites. CBOMGS hosts the online David Talbot Rice
 Archive. Data arising from the Stonehenge Hidden Landscapes project (Chapman, Garwood)
 has been made available prior to publication in relation to the A303 road tunnel scheme and,
 separately, through Historic England, the National Trust and the Wiltshire County Archaeology
 Service Historic Environment Record. Data relating to Mack’s Proxenies project was made
 publicly available via an online database (Proxeny Networks of the Ancient World), used by
 universities in the UK and abroad (e.g. Manchester and Groningen, NL). Where appropriate,
 staff make data underpinning outputs publicly available through journals, including Science
 (Garwood) and PLOSOne (Wardle). Colleagues routinely archive data with appropriate open
 access bodies (e.g. Archaeology Data Service, OASIS) at project completion. OA publications
 by staff are deposited on a dedicated CAL Open Research website. All research projects (staff
 and PGR) are subject to UoB Ethics Review and staff receive training in research integrity,
 equality and diversity, and data protection (REF5a 2.2). Four staff members have sat/sit on the
 university’s Humanities and Social Sciences Ethical Review Committee (Bayliss, Brubaker,



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Carman, Spencer) and thus contribute to the culture of research integrity and feedback best
 practice.

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing Strategy

 Staffing strategy is driven by research strategy and a commitment to equality, diversity and
 inclusivity. This has resulted in a significant reduction in our career-age profile and a more
 balanced gender profile. Appointments during the census period were made by gender-balanced
 panels and new hires were also gender-balanced (4 female and 4 male new staff) (see §2.2).

 Nevertheless, we are mindful that there is a lack of diversity in Classics as a discipline. As part
 of our longer-term research strategy, Theodorakopoulos works closely with the teaching charity
 Classics for All (CfA) to address this by

 •    Advising CfA and securing funding to set up and run the West Midlands Schools Classics
      Hub (extended to 2021 in recognition of results and potential further impact).
 •    Along with an administrator (former Birmingham Classics PhD), working with CfA to make
      Latin and Greek accessible to underprivileged schools in the West Midlands and thus
      diversify the recruitment base for Classics students and staff: training sessions for teachers
      (so far 181 teachers with 5,703 pupils new to Classics), tailored activities for pupils in
      schools and on campus (so far 34 primary and secondary schools, including 20 with no
      prior Classics teaching), outreach events at local libraries, and the Birmingham Greek
      Summer School, which offers subsidised places for state-school teachers.

 In recognition of this significant aim, we appointed an early-career BRIHC Fellow (Kampianaki)
 in 2018 to support this endeavour, with an emphasis on introducing Classical Civilisation/Ancient
 History subjects to local schools to complement the Latin/Greek focus of CfA.

 Our staff spearhead national EDI agendas. Within Byzantine Studies, Reynolds’ ‘Broadening
 Byzantium: Inclusivity and Diversity in Byzantine Studies’ project collaborates with the Society
 for the Promotion of Byzantine Studies (SPBS) to facilitate the integration of EDI into the working
 practices of Byzantine Studies in the UK, including the long-term diversification of student and
 staff constituencies. Within Classics, Theodorakopoulos co-founded the Women’s Classical
 Committee (WCC; co-chair 2015-17), which nominated REF panel members upon HEFCE
 invitation. CAHA and the School supported the WCC financially and hosted ECR events for
 WCC. We also follow the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers.

 Strategic appointments within the census period targeted our key research areas (see §1.2.1).
 They have additionally boosted our research profile in the Roman Late Republic and Early
 Imperial Period (Cornwell, Hunt, van der Blom), cemented our expertise in Greek history
 (Barbato, Mack), and extended disciplinary breadth in Assyriology (Johnson), Byzantine History
 (Reynolds), and Egyptology (Jurman, Olabarria). Sustained contribution by senior staff on 0.2
 FTE contracts (Brubaker, Poulter) supports our key research areas, PGR supervision, and
 research infrastructure at Departmental, School and College levels. Together, these
 appointments have also led to a 77% increase in PGR numbers (see below).



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have extended our focus on inter- and multidisciplinary research by appointing staff who are
 able to work across disciplines within the department (e.g. Jurman for Egyptology/Archaeology;
 Mack and Johnson for Greek History/Assyriology; Reynolds for Byzantine History/Archaeology)
 and within the University (e.g. van der Blom with Theology on the Epistolary Visions of
 Transformational Leadership [EVTL] project). Newly-appointed staff also work with partners
 outside of the University (e.g. Reynolds with War Studies specialists, museum curators and
 television editors on the iconoclasm project; van der Blom with political theorists, modern
 historians, linguists and media experts in the Network for Oratory and Politics). Strategic hiring
 has also increased the number of staff actively engaging with external partners for impactful
 work: Jurman collaborated with 28 museums across the world in his analysis of material from
 ancient Memphis; Johnson works with the BMT on their cuneiform tablets; and van der Blom
 collaborates with political speech practitioners and reporters to discuss political speech in Britain
 (see §4).

 Our research strategy to collaborate with non-UoB colleagues enlarges our research network
 and influence. One indicator of the scope of that influence is the seven staff who co-supervise
 research students registered at HEIs other than Birmingham (in the UK and three European
 countries). These co-supervisory arrangements often arise as a result of research collaborations
 with colleagues at other institutions in the UK or abroad.

 Our research strategy has led to high-quality post-doctoral appointments: two Birmingham
 Fellows (the University’s flagship ECR scheme (REF5a 3.4.1): Jankowiak, Zarmakoupi), two
 Leverhulme EC Fellows (Cornwell coming from ICS, Barbato), two Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Fellows (Dell’Acqua, Harpster), one British Academy Post-doctoral Fellow (Reynolds), and one
 BRIHC Fellow (Kampianaki). This broadens our research base, strengthens our key research
 areas and invigorates our research culture. For example, Barbato contributes to the
 Mack/Johnson citizenship project, and thus the key research area of The Ancient City,
 organising an international workshop on ‘Institutionalising citizenship in ancient Greece’.
 Kampianaki is our dedicated Outreach BRIHC fellow, bridging Classics and Byzantine studies
 (see above). Of the eight post-doctoral researchers, six are now in permanent academic
 positions at Birmingham (Cornwell, Reynolds) and elsewhere (Dell’Acqua, Harpster, Jankowiak,
 Zarmakoupi), while two are still in their post-doc period (Barbato, Kampianaki).

 2.2. Staff Development Strategy, including EDI

 CAHA prioritises equality, diversity and inclusivity in its mentoring activities for all staff and
 PGRs. EDI is a standard item on the Departmental and School meeting agenda, and
 Reynolds (as Staff-Student Liaison Lead) and Cornwell (as School EDI Lead) are reforming the
 Staff-Student Committee to include UG and PG EDI leads and EDI on the meeting agenda.
 CAHA is heavily involved in an Athena SWAN committee on behalf of the School and has
 conducted a review of EDI by gathering data from workshops and questionnaires designed by
 Cornwell and Reynolds (who received special commendation from the Athena SWAN lead for
 their extraordinary contribution). As part of this initiative, they have led the EDI policy by
 example, for instance by signalling their openness to discussions around LGBT+ issues and
 promoting door posters of outstanding BAME, LGBT+, and female role models. As a result,
 Cornwell was appointed School EDI Lead to develop new approaches to enhance inclusion of
 staff and students with protected characteristics. She is planning a College-wide Stonewall
 Trans Ally training session (after COVID-19 restrictions have been lifted) and a School-wide
 podcast to discuss our discipline’s approach to inclusivity. In addition to his national work to
 make Byzantine Studies more inclusive, Reynolds has ensured that the university-wide student-

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development project ‘Sprint Forward’ particularly welcomes BAME, LGBT+ and disabled
 participants to embed EDI issues from the bottom up. CAHA supports research-led engagement
 with diversity-related topics such as History Months promoting protected characteristics and
 International Women’s Day, which also help to create awareness of EDI within our research
 areas.

 Career progression of all staff is supported by flexible meeting schedules, an email code of
 practice which respects evenings and weekends, electronic meeting options to accommodate
 caring responsibilities (if individuals deem this useful), and part-time employment (several staff in
 the census period). Parental, sick, and carer leave are counted as active service for the purpose
 of eligibility for research leave, and staff with research responsibilities who have taken statutory
 maternity, adoption or shared parental leave are entitled to a work-load remission in one of their
 three contractual responsibilities (research, teaching, administration) in the first term after the
 leave to allow staff time to re-focus their research or teaching as appropriate. All requests to
 reduce contract percentage for a range of personal reasons have been approved for staff in the
 census period, and staff returning from substantial periods of leave are supported through a
 phased-in approach and one-to-one mentoring by Head of Department as appropriate. See
 REF5a 3.4.5 for additional institutional staff support for wellbeing.

 About half of our output-submitting staff have caring responsibilities, several of whom became
 new parents in the census period. Some of our strongest outputs come from this group of staff.
 We are aware of other potential risks of inequality in the REF output grading and selection
 process. Therefore, the department’s internal REF reading group have received unconscious
 bias training, and the selection process has looked carefully at achieving a fair representation of
 staff with protected characteristics within CAHA, in line with the UoB REF Code of Practice.

 As a result of our generational change, we have initiated succession planning as part of our
 research strategy, and nominated staff at earlier career age (Bayliss, Chapman, Cornwell,
 Sears, van der Blom) to academic and research leadership programmes (REF5a 3.4.4). After
 appropriate mentoring, many of our early and mid-career staff now hold Departmental or School
 (research) leadership roles: e.g. Bayliss, School and College Academic Integrity Officer;
 Chapman, CAL Deputy Director of Research with responsibility for Impact; Cornwell, School EDI
 Lead; Sears, Head of Department and Deputy Head of School; van der Blom, CAHA Director of
 Research and Impact Lead. Moreover, Bayliss, Chapman, Sears, van der Blom are Personal
 Development Review (PDR) reviewers (see below).

 The gender balance in these leadership roles (across all career ages) is roughly 50-50; for
 example, the current and immediately prior Director of Research are both female (van der Blom,
 Brubaker). This is in line with School policy of female representation in all research-related roles
 and activities, including REF output selection (UoB CoP Appendix 1a).

 2.3. Support for Research

 Our research strategy is underpinned and managed by a Director of Research. CAHA staff have
 access to a three-tier mentoring system (in addition to PDR process, see below), and
 institutional support (see §3.1, 3.2) appropriate to each career stage and aimed at guaranteeing
 equality of opportunity: 1) one-to-one discussions with CAHA Director of Research, Research
 Lead for Impact and Head of Department; 2) ad hoc support arranged through the Director of
 Research; 3) a long-standing Research Reading Group (from well before REF2014), which
 meets regularly to critique in detail a forthcoming publication, grant application or book proposal,

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 or to workshop a research idea. This spurred the development of our research area Landscape,
 Nature and the Environment, and has resulted in high-quality outputs and applications (e.g.
 outputs by Barbato, Bayliss, Chapman, Cornwell, Hunt, Mack, Reynolds; book contracts to
 McHugh and Mitchell; and grants: see §3.1, 3.2). It has also led to new collaborations between
 staff members (e.g. Mack and Johnson on citizenship), and a much keener awareness of each
 other’s research. The Research Reading Group actively supports neurodiverse CAHA staff
 (including SpLD: dyslexia) by providing extra language checks and alternative methods of
 feedback. It also prioritises pieces by ECRs and staff on fixed-term contracts to support these
 colleagues at what is often a crucial point in their research careers.

 Impact and cross-sector activities are also championed by a dedicated CAHA Research Impact
 Lead and a School Impact Lead, who provide tailored guidance and support to all impact efforts.
 An Impact Development Officer at College level, a Research Development Officer (Impact) at
 School level, and a Research Planning Partner (all Professional Services staff) offer sustained
 support to all research impact efforts, and all staff are eligible for dedicated College and
 University funding to support impact activities (§3.1, §3.2). Impact is a regular item on our
 Departmental meeting agenda, and all staff are encouraged to think impact into all their research
 endeavours.

 In addition, all staff are supported through UoB’s Probationary Personal Development Planning
 (PPDP) scheme for lecturers on probation (eight staff in current census period) or the annual
 PDR scheme (all staff not on PPDP, including temporary Teaching Fellows) (REF5a 3.4.3).
 Mentoring by PDR reviewers and other mentors from senior staff is tailored to individuals
 (including staff on teaching-only contracts) with close attention paid to the fit between research
 and career progression. Workshops and mentors encourage and support staff members seeking
 promotion. Contributions to research and impact are recognised in promotion procedures, where
 impact is embedded as an indicator of excellence. In the census period, 13 promotions in CAHA
 were granted in total, with female representation at all levels from Senior Lecturer to Professor.

 All staff in CAL are supported by a personal research allowance (usually £1,000/year) and by
 opportunities to apply for research leave (usually one term/six teaching terms [16 in census
 period], with the potential for two consecutive terms of leave [11]). All CAL staff have a weekly
 research day.

 Post-doctoral researchers have access to the same mentoring arrangements and opportunities
 for participation in the academic life of the department as academic staff, including organising
 research events and expanding research networks through these. Probationary lecturers are
 automatically given a workload reduction (in addition to a normal research allocation) to
 safeguard their research during the probationary process. Staff on fixed-term contracts have
 access to training, research allowance and research time even when on a teaching-only contract
 to help them pursue their research and support their long-term employment prospects. Five such
 staff in the REF period have secured permanent academic contracts, while two were awarded
 Leverhulme and BA postdoctoral fellowships.

 2.3.1. PGR students

 Research students – PhD and MRes – are integrated and valued members of our research
 community. PGRs attend (and sometimes present in) Departmental research seminars, run their
 own seminar series and research societies (Rosetta Forum and Gate to the Eastern
 Mediterranean, both with PGR-run journals), participate in BRIHC workshops and seminars,

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organise the annual CAHA (PG) and CBOMGS Colloquia, and are actively supported in
 presenting at national and international research events. All PGR students in the College have
 access to research development funds for travel to conferences, archives and research libraries.

 For the assessment period, CAHA awarded 92 doctoral degrees (compared with 47 in the last
 census period). Our overall PGR student numbers are higher because they include MRes
 students; in the census period, we enrolled 256 PGR students in total. This increase in
 admission and completion figures stems from our recruitment of new staff and promotion of staff
 to Senior Lecturer level and above, resulting in higher research profile. The increase was also
 driven by the expansion of College and AHRC M4C funding (see below) and additional visibility
 of our PGR provision via Departmental webpages, Open Days and discipline-wide mailing lists.

 All PGR students benefit from supervision teams, a specified number of supervisions (min. 10
 FT, 6 PT/year), robust reporting and progress mechanisms. They undertake induction
 programmes, and are provided with training opportunities in response to development needs
 analyses. Dedicated Graduate School and School/Departmental PG leads support their
 academic progress and pastoral needs, and ensure that EDI policies include PGRs. For the
 period 2017/18-19/20 (for which we have data), the gender balance in our PGR population was
 c. 65-35 (F/M).

 CAHA has a strong track record in securing excellent PGR students through

  •   The competitive AHRC-funded Midlands4Cities Doctoral Training Partnership (M4C,
      formerly M3C). In the census period, 11% of all UoB (mainly CAL) M4C students were
      supervised by CAHA staff, who make up only 5.5% of REF-eligible academic staff within
      CAL.
  •   Scholarships under the auspices of BRIHC and CAL: 8-20 PGR students/year.
  •   For Modern Greek: 3 Leventis studentships.

 These scholarships have enlarged our body of PGRs and strengthened CAHA’s research
 community. PGRs on M4C scholarships can apply for additional funding for conference
 attendance and training courses, and can apply for placements to prepare them for careers
 outside academia. Externally-funded and self-funded PGR students alike in CAHA have first-rate
 opportunities for training and practice in teaching and project management (e.g. 78 PGR
 students have taught for CAHA in the census period). The success of our research training and
 research strategy is reflected in the prestigious fellowships and research prizes awarded to
 CAHA PGRs (§4.1), and in the recruitment of our PhD graduates to academic posts around the
 world (e.g. at universities in Cyprus, Greece, Germany, the US, UK, and Turkey), and to
 institutions such as the British Museum, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Egypt Exploration Society,
 Cycladic Museum (Greece) and the Greek Archaeological Service.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Income

 Our research income in the assessment period was £3,623,575. Our research strategy actively
 encourages and supports ambitious grant applications appropriate to career stage and research
 strengths. The success of our strategy and support is reflected in the grants awarded by a wide
 range of funders: AHRC, Leverhulme, the British Academy, Historic England, Trent and Peak


                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Archaeological Trust, the European Commission’s Horizon2020, the Hellenic Foundation, Natur
 og Kultur (Denmark), and the Independent Research Fund Denmark. This funding includes a
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship (Tziovas), bespoke consultancy for institutions and
 commercial companies (Smith, Chapman) and a string of highly-competitive post-doctoral
 awards (§2.1).

 As a result of our strategy to engage in interdisciplinary and cross-sector research, we are also
 heavily involved in projects as Co-Is where funding supports activities without appearing
 (greatly) in our income stream, such as Chapman’s National Heritage Lottery-funded Wildscapes
 project (£130K), Smith’s Horizon 2020-funded Europe’s Lost Frontiers project (total €2.4M; UoB
 €98K), Sears’ AHRC-funded Curious Travellers (£305K) (all Landscape, Nature and the
 Environment), and van der Blom’s Independent Research Fund Denmark-funded EVTL project
 (total DKK5.9M ~ £700K; UoB £36K) (Rhetoric and Reception; The Ancient City).

 3.2. Scholarly, Operational and Organisational Research Infrastructure

 The Departmental Director of Research and Research Lead for Impact, the Departmental
 Research Reading Group, together with School Director of Research, School Research Lead for
 Impact and the College Research Hub (see REF5a 4.1) support all impact and research from
 first idea to completion of project, and all in direct relation to our research strategy. This includes
 access to examples of successful funding applications, one-to-one meetings with Research Hub
 staff and Director of Research, peer-review of draft applications, the possibility to present draft
 applications to the CAHA Research Reading Group for comment, and specialist attention to
 impact (§2.2). Staff receive weekly funding alerts, tailored to individual research interests. All
 new staff meet with the Director of Research and the Research Facilitator to ensure awareness
 of developing areas of scholarly interest and potential funding opportunities that will develop
 their careers further. This combined expertise has been instrumental in securing the awards
 mentioned above.

 Alongside a personal research allowance, all staff can apply to the Birmingham International
 Engagement Fund (e.g. to bring Professor Kaldellis, Ohio, to CBOMGS’ PGR-led Medieval
 Dynasties Workshop 2018), and College Impact and Research Fund (successful applications to
 support ICS Wetlands, Reynolds’ work in Salerno, and to co-fund White’s project at Atcham).

 Further indication of the success of our research strategy comes from the link between excellent
 research outputs and grant-funded research. Key examples include two REF outputs arising
 from Tziovas’ Hellenic Foundation-funded From Junta to Crisis project and AHRC-funded
 Greece in Crisis project; Reynolds’ two outputs and more forthcoming enabled by his BA post-
 doctoral award; and Cornwell’s one output and more forthcoming from her Leverhulme EC
 Fellowship.

 Staff and PGRs benefit from UoB’s library, which reopened in a new state-of-the-art building in
 2016, housing 2.3 million books and 85,000 journals (print and online) especially in the research
 areas represented by CAHA staff (REF5a 4.3). Library Services offers study places, computer
 access (in library and loanable laptops), and a dedicated research room for PGRs and research
 staff. A CAL librarian supports staff research queries, and the library provides specialist training
 and support for PGRs.

 CAHA research benefits from specialist collections such as the Cadbury Research Library
 (special collections and manuscripts), the Eton Myers collection of Egyptian antiquities, the

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Barber Institute Coin Collection (world-leading collection of Byzantine coins, excellent collection
 of Greco-Roman coins, full-time curator appointed during census period), the Gorham and the
 Girling collection of insects (on loan from Birmingham Museums and Galleries and Historic
 England, respectively), and an animal bone collection. These collections are frequently used for
 PGR and staff research. For example, they underpin Smith’s industry-recognised expertise in
 the identification of mineralised insect remains, and are a rich resource for our research areas of
 The Ancient City and Landscape, Nature and the Environment.

 These collections enable CAHA staff to engage students, researchers and the wider public in
 hands-on experiences to develop researcher skills and community engagement. The Barber and
 Eton Myers collections in particular are magnets for visiting scholars. The Keeper of Coins is a
 member of CBOMGS and the coin collection is used in CAHA teaching and research, including
 PGR training and research (exhibitions, cataloguing, conferences and events, audio and on-site
 tours). Olabarria’s work to embed the Eton Myers collection into research, teaching and outreach
 is boosting accessibility of this significant private collection to researchers, students and the
 general public. CAHA also benefits from two on-site collections: the specialist, recently
 refurbished and restructured, Byzantine collection of books and images in the Whitting Room,
 and the CAHA Museum.

 In light of our research strategy’s emphasis on interdisciplinarity, cross-sector collaboration, and
 engagement and knowledge exchange beyond academia, a full redisplay of the CAHA Museum
 was initiated. The Museum contains c.2,000 objects covering all specialisms within the
 department, and has been run partly through PGR student volunteers. Teaching Fellow McHugh
 is leading the redisplay as a career-development project. Podcasts, object talks and
 descriptions/translations written by 12 subject-specific CAHA staff is widening access to and
 involvement with the research collection for staff, students and the wider public.

 CAHA research is also supported by recently-refurbished, discipline-specific archaeology labs,
 including an Environmental Lab for archaeology research and Archaeology Finds Lab support
 research in material culture and our key research areas (e.g. for Stonehenge projects).
 Moreover, CAL financed purchases of equipment such as survey-grade GPS and high-
 performance computing to support all projects in the UK, including at Stonehenge, Atcham and
 Berth (Chapman, Garwood, Smith, White) and in the North Sea (Smith), and photogrammetic
 modelling related to projects at Stonehenge and Berth (Chapman and PGR students). These
 refurbishments and purchases have supported disciplinary research as well as impactful projects
 in connection with our research strategy.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base

 CAHA’s research strategy places us in an admirable position for collaboration across disciplines
 and sectors and for significant contributions to our sub-disciplines and the research base.

 Our strategy to support disciplinary research expertise in our key research areas has led to
 engagement in national and international research projects. Cornwell’s expertise in peace and
 war (Rhetoric and Reception) led to an invitation from the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
 research network ‘Interner Krieg’ (2018-21), while Smith’s longstanding research into insect
 remains (Landscape, Nature and the Environment) made him a natural partner of the


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Biodiversity and land-use change in the British Isles project (UoPlymouth, 2019-22). Van der
 Blom leads the Cicero part (Rhetoric and Reception) of the EVTL project (2018-21) with
 Theology and Classics colleagues in Denmark and Germany.

 The unit’s strategic emphasis on outward-facing, innovative and impactful research projects
 is demonstrated by involvement in a range of national and international projects with
 collaboration across disciplines and sectors. Impactful projects in relation to our ICSs
 include the Stonehenge Hidden Landscapes project, Stonehenge Landscape EMI project,
 Wildscapes project, Building Online Guidance for Wetland Landscapes, Archaeology and
 Natural Deposits, and Bog Bodies project with a range of universities, museums and heritage
 institutions in the UK, Austria, Belgium, and Denmark (all Landscape, Nature and the
 Environment). Our impactful research goes beyond the ICSs, e.g. the ERC-funded Europe’s
 Lost Frontiers project (Smith) with six UK universities and the Natural History Museum (London);
 the AHRC-funded The Cultural Politics of the Greek Crisis (Tziovas) with academics, artists and
 cultural agents across Europe and beyond; the Crossroads of Empires Project/Sant’Ambrogio
 Project/Sant’Ambrogio-Montecorvino Rovello projects (Reynolds; Dell’Acqua) with the university,
 archaeological service and council of Salerno; and the Crisis of Rhetoric project (van der Blom)
 with four UK universities and a range of non-academic stakeholders (together contributing to our
 research areas Landscape; Nature and the Environment; Rhetoric and Reception; The
 Ancient City).

 Recognition of our research excellence reaching beyond academia is demonstrated by awards
 and media coverage of the Durrington Walls Superhenge excavation project (part of ICS
 Stonehenge), which won the Current Archaeology Award for the Research Project of the
 Year (2017) and was broadcast in the BBC2 two-part mini-series ‘Operation Stonehenge’ (three
 years, min. 16 countries), National Geographic Channel’s (US & Global) ‘The Story of God with
 Morgan Freeman’ (2016 and repeat broadcasts), in BBC ‘Countryfile’ (2016), and Channel 5’s
 ‘Beneath Britain’ (2019). Other projects which have reached significant public audiences through
 media include the Bog Bodies project (part of ICS Wetlands): Public Broadcasting Service
 ‘Ghosts of Murdered Kings’ programme (2014), Smithsonian Channel programmes ‘Secrets 4.7:
 Bog Bodies’ (2017 US and internationally) and ‘Mystic Britain’ (2019), and Discovery Channel
 programme ‘Mummies Unwrapped 6: The Train of the Murdered Mummies’ (2019). These
 examples showcase our research expertise in the Landscape, Nature and the Environment
 research area.

 Recognition also comes from the string of fellowships and prizes awarded and appointments to
 prestigious committees offered to our staff. Visiting Fellowships were awarded to Macrides
 (IAS Princeton), and Brubaker at Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collections (Harvard’s
 Center for Byzantine Studies). During the census period, five PGRs from CAHA received highly-
 competitive Junior Fellowships at Dumbarton Oaks, more than from any other university,
 including Harvard. Other PGRs have been accepted on competitive research programmes such
 as the Advanced Seminar in the Humanities (Assyriology), have received PGR research prizes
 such as the Egypt Exploration Society’s Patrons’ Award, and postdoctoral awards from the
 Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Hellenic Centre, and the Institute for Classical Studies.

 During the REF period, Brubaker was Visiting Distinguished Professor at both UCLA and UC
 Berkeley (USA) and recognition of our research excellence in our key research areas has led to
 keynote lecture invitations at prestigious international conferences and institutions for ten
 members of staff at 20 institutions across Europe, US and Australia. In this assessment period,
 our staff delivered 298 lectures in 33 countries and at 161 conferences.

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our strategy to support disciplinary and interdisciplinary research excellence means that we
 have been invited to contribute to the research base through work on committees, editorial and
 reviewing work for publishers, journals and funding bodies. Seven staff have served on a
 number of national and international committees such as the SPBS, the Classical Association
 Council, Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies, British Academy, British School at Athens,
 British School at Rome, Dumbarton Oaks, and English Heritage/Historic England. Apart from the
 recognition of our research excellence, these appointments allow us positively and constructively
 to influence the wider research agendas and strategies in national and international institutions.
 This in turn benefits disciplinary research, interdisciplinary and cross-sector research
 collaborations and thereby wider society. Moreover, these appointments have allowed staff to
 initiate EDI projects with national significance such as Reynolds’ ‘Broadening Byzantium’ (§2.1).

 Our editorial and reviewing work allows us to stay at the forefront of our disciplines and
 contribute to the research base. We edit four book series including the Birmingham Modern
 Greek Translations (Tziovas), a flagship series housed in CBOMGS, which received a Greek
 State Literature Translation Award 2017. We also sit on editorial boards for six book series
 for publishers such as Brepols (2x), LiverpoolUP (2x), EdinburghUP, ZaragozaUP. These
 positions underline our research expertise in Rhetoric and Reception, The Ancient City, and
 Landscape, Nature and the Environment. Staff also edit peer-reviewed journals (Macrides:
 Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies) and sit on editorial boards for 16 international journals,
 including the world-leading Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies (owned by CBOMGS) and
 Journal of Roman Studies.

 The vast majority of CAHA staff regularly referee articles and book manuscripts for 55
 individual journals across our sub-disciplines such as American Journal of Philology, Antiquity,
 Classical Philology, Classical Receptions Journal, Classical Quarterly, Comparative Literature,
 Dumbarton Oaks Papers, Environmental Archaeology, Journal of Archaeological Science,
 Journal of Egyptian Archaeology, Journal of Hellenic Studies, Journal of Modern Greek Studies,
 PlosOne, Transactions of the American Philological Association, and World Archaeology. We
 also provided peer reviews to 18 book publishers including Blackwell, Bloomsbury, Brill,
 CambridgeUP, de Gruyter, HarvardUP, OxfordUP, Palgrave and Routledge.

 Our strategic aim to support excellent research through grant capture also means that 10
 staff contributed to the research base by reviewing research funding applications for 21
 (mostly national/governmental) funding bodies based in 16 countries across three continents
 within the census period, including the major UK funding bodies. Notably, Brubaker sat on the
 committee for the Wittgenstein Prize in 2015, the largest non-STEM award allocated in Austria.
 This engagement means that the CAHA Research Reading Group is fully-informed about current
 research agendas and ideas from incipient research, publishing houses and national and
 international funding bodies, which thereby undergird CAHA’s research strategy and
 environment.

 We are committed to the development of PGR researchers within CAHA and in formal co-
 supervision arrangements, as outlined above. Eleven staff also engage in PGR development by
 examining doctorates at 13 UK HEIs and 15 non-UK HEIs across Europe, Asia and Australia,
 all within the census period.

 Our contribution to the research base is moreover reflected in CAHA staff engaged in HEI
 consultancies. Examples include Brubaker’s representation of Byzantine Studies on the

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2014 and REF2021 panels and her position on the Scientific Advisory Board, Institut für
 Mittelalterforschung, Österreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften (Vienna, Austria); Tziovas’
 membership of an expert panel for the Hellenic Quality Assurance & Accreditation Agency
 (HQA), regarding the Accreditation of the Higher Education Institutions of Greece; Garwood’s
 membership of the QAA Archaeology Subject Benchmark Revision Panel (2014); and van der
 Blom’s role on appointment panels at University of Aalborg and University of Copenhagen
 (Denmark).

 We also organise major conferences and specialist research events to support disciplinary
 research and develop new interdisciplinary collaborations. Examples include the Association for
 Environmental Archaeology Spring Conference (2018, Landscape, Nature and the
 Environment), Dumbarton Oaks Spring Symposium (2018), the (Birmingham) Spring
 Symposium of Byzantine Studies (2017 and 2020 [now 2021 because of COVID], Landscape,
 Nature and the Environment), and an international three-day conference on the Roman Civil
 Wars at the British School at Rome (2019). We also host a number of one-day events
 associated with ongoing research projects (e.g. Crisis of Rhetoric [Rhetoric and Reception],
 Byzantine Dynasties), circulating specialist events (e.g. ‘Cicero Away Day XI’, 2020 [Rhetoric
 and Reception]), and new initiatives (e.g. McHugh/Bayliss on rural Greek communities [The
 Ancient City and its hinterland]). All of these events contribute to the various sub-disciplines
 represented by CAHA and our key research areas, and significantly enhance the quality of our
 research through collaboration with fellow specialists across the country and abroad.

 4.2. Collaboration and Contribution to the Economy and Society

 The impactful research and collaborative approach means that CAHA staff continue to have a
 positive effect on the economy and society: staff advise a range of non-academic institutions
 such as HighSpeed2, the National Trust, Historic England, Highways England, the Secretary of
 State for Transport, and six staff gave talks to 44 archaeological and historical societies on
 research findings with direct bearing on wider society. Indeed, Smith is the go-to person for
 consultancy work on wetlands, waterlogged environments and insect remains in the UK. This
 work has increasing impact as the UK environmental strategy develops.

 CAHA staff and PGR students also contribute to museums and heritage institutions, for
 example at the Eton Myers collection of Egyptian Antiquities. Several PGR students have held
 curatorial positions as part of their PGR studies, putting on exhibitions, cataloguing and digitising
 the collection, giving tours, teaching undergraduates and researching the collection – two of
 them are now Director and Collections Manager at the Egypt Exploration Society. We contribute
 to Birmingham Museums Trust (BMT material in CAHA Museum), Museum Silkeborg (Denmark:
 future permanent exhibition of bog bodies), Mamuz Museum (Austria)’s exhibition on
 Stonehenge, in addition to the partnerships mentioned under §2.1.

 CAHA’s commitment to research collaborations beyond academia is evidenced through our
 engagement with the UoB Cultural Fellowships Scheme (Ellen McAdam, Director of Birmingham
 Museums Trust 2013-20; Toby Watley, Deputy Director of Birmingham Museums Trust, who are
 both collaborating with CAHA staff), the Cultural Intern Scheme (5 CAHA students in the census
 period), and the creation of Honorary Fellows such as Ellen McAdam. The creation of a College
 honorary Professor in Culture and Cities (Gary Topp) demonstrates our commitment to culture in
 the city region and beyond.

 Our wider contributions to economy and society include our ongoing engagement with

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 diverse communities and public audiences through public lectures, on-site talks and tours
 (e.g. Classics for All West Midlands hub: §2.1). We have delivered well-attended public talks at
 literary and community festivals such as the Cheltenham Festival, Hay Festival and UoB’s
 Green Heart Festival. Other lecture venues include museums (e.g. British Museum) and
 commercial companies (Bayliss’s invitation to Google’s London office about his book The
 Spartans). In all of these diverse for a, staff have been able to demonstrate the value of
 Humanities disciplines to wider society. Staff have considerable media engagement experience
 (mainstream and social media). This includes television work in relation to Stonehenge and
 Wetlands research projects (§4.1) and radio work arising from staff research interests (Spencer,
 BBC R4 ‘In Our Time’; Cornwell, BBC R4 ‘When Greeks Flew Kites’; van der Blom, BBC World
 Service ‘The Why Factor’), in which we are supported by College and UoB media staff. In line
 with our research strategy, through consultancy work, public understanding events, CPD
 events, and support to the economic basis of commercial archaeology groups, CAHA staff
 contribute to the wider economy and society.




                                                                                          Page 16
