Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: 26 Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Huddersfield’s UOA 26 research is situated primarily in the subject area of Linguistics and Modern
 Languages (L&ML). L&ML is part of the Department of History, English, Linguistics and Music,
 within the School of Music, Humanities and Media. L&ML is composed of seven full-time
 permanent staff: two Professors (Jeffries and McIntyre), one Reader (Gold) and four Senior
 Lecturers (Devlin, Holt, Nuttall and O’Driscoll). A further full-time permanent Senior Lecturer
 (Karpenko-Seccombe) with close links to L&ML colleagues is based in the University’s Research
 and Enterprise department. In addition, we have one temporary 0.6 FTE Senior Lecturer (Evans),
 one temporary 0.4 FTE postdoctoral Research Fellow (Price) and one temporary 0.2 FTE
 Research Assistant (Stradling). All staff in the UOA have doctorates, with the exception of
 Stradling, who is registered for a PhD at Huddersfield. All permanent staff are Fellows of the Higher
 Education Academy. Over the REF cycle we have also employed a number of temporary research
 staff whose contracts ended before the census date, three of whom are referred to in this
 statement. They are Earnshaw and Ross (Research Assistants) and Sanjurjo-Gonzalez
 (Research Fellow).
          L&ML has a strong international reputation in stylistics, corpus linguistics, pragmatics,
 conversation analysis and phonetics (particularly forensic speech science), as well as in applied
 linguistics generally. External recognition of this expertise includes 17 international conference
 plenaries during the current REF cycle; 24 external PhD vivas; visiting professorships at Fuzhou
 University, China and Jean Moulin University, Lyon 3, France; and links with various overseas
 institutions, including Heidelberg University (Germany), Leiden University (Netherlands) and
 Waseda University (Japan). Research in L&ML is focused in the Institute for Applied Linguistics
 which consists of two research centres (the Stylistics Research Centre and the Centre for
 Intercultural Politeness Research) and one research group (the Language Variation and Change
 Research Group). In REF 2014, researchers now in L&ML submitted to UOA 29 English Language
 and Literature, along with colleagues in literature and creative writing. In line with the strategy
 outlined in our previous submission, L&ML is now an independent subject area. Our strategic aims
 for this REF cycle, described in our REF 2014 submission, were as follows:

 A1 Consolidate our existing expertise in stylistics and intercultural pragmatics and extend this
    into applied linguistics generally.
 A2 Shift from a lone researcher model to the team-based model more common in the natural and
    social sciences.
 A3 Communicate the subject matter of linguistics to a wider, non-academic audience and use the
    findings from our research in the solution of real-world problems.

 A1 had three components: (i) consolidate expertise in stylistics, (ii) consolidate expertise in
 intercultural pragmatics, and (iii) extend our research base into applied linguistics. To achieve (i),
 we made a strategic appointment (Nuttall) to add expertise in cognitive stylistics to our team, giving
 us broad coverage of all major fields of stylistics (corpus, critical and cognitive). We have also
 worked to increase our already considerable external profile in this area. For example, in 2017
 McIntyre took on the editorship of Language and Literature, the premier journal in stylistics, and
 Nuttall joined McIntyre as co-editor of the Bloomsbury book series Advances in Stylistics. The
 stylistics team also organised and hosted the 7th Conference of the International Association for
 Literary Semantics (2017), with Nuttall subsequently elected secretary of that organisation.
 McIntyre was an invited plenary speaker at the 37th conference of the Poetics and Linguistics
 Association (PALA) in West Chester, Philadelphia, USA in 2017, and Nuttall at the 40th PALA
 conference in Aix-Marseille, France in 2020 (postponed due to COVID-19). Jeffries has led the
 development of Hansard at Huddersfield, a major AHRC-funded web resource to support the
 corpus stylistic analysis of the UK’s parliamentary record.
          To achieve (ii) and consolidate expertise in intercultural pragmatics, we have worked to
 integrate existing capability in conversation analysis (CA) into our Centre for Intercultural

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Politeness Research (CIPR), giving us a unique direction in pragmatics research. Evidence of this
 can be seen in the international workshop on ‘Interfaces between CA and Pragmatics’ that Holt
 organised in 2016. Holt took over the directorship of CIPR in 2017 and is currently working with
 O’Driscoll to extend its remit.
          To achieve (iii), we made a strategic appointment (Gold) who established the Language
 Variation and Change Research Group and set up a forensic speech science lab, supported by a
 £54k investment from the University Research Fund (URF). This investment was key to Gold’s
 successful application for a three-year ESRC Future Research Leaders Award (see section 3). A
 further post in phonetics (Devlin) allowed us to build critical mass in this area. Further investment
 of £101k from the URF also allowed us to appoint a Research Assistant (Price) to a three-year
 post as part of our strategy to develop our impact-focused work (on completion of her PhD in 2019,
 Price was employed as a postdoctoral Research Fellow). Ultimately this activity led to the
 establishment of the Institute for Applied Linguistics. The Institute provides a base for our in-house
 consultancy service (Language Unlocked), which offers research expertise in corpus-based
 stylistic and pragmatic analysis to public, private and third-sector clients.
          The establishment of the Institute was also intended to support the second strategic aim,
 A2 (shift from a lone researcher model), by integrating the work of all our staff under an
 overarching research umbrella with a clear strategic goal: to ensure that all the research we
 produce makes a contribution to the solution of real-world problems. By structuring our subject
 area in this way and focusing our work around a single common goal, we have opened up
 opportunities for collaborative work between colleagues, enabling us to support the research
 development of ECRs and resulting in 58% of our REF outputs being co-authored. For example,
 Evans and Jeffries (2015) have collaborated on the corpus-based analysis of textual meaning
 while Gold and McIntyre (2019) have collaborated on the integration of corpus linguistic and
 phonetic analytical methods for forensic purposes.
          Our final aim from REF 2014, A3, was an impact strategy objective, aimed at
 communicating the value of linguistics to a non-academic audience and using our research to
 tackle real-world problems. To this end, the Institute has facilitated our development of research
 impact during the current cycle by providing a management structure to support this. We have
 been supported in our impact-focused work by our School’s Impact Officer. We also continued to
 use our linguistic consultancy, Language Unlocked (one of our impact case studies in REF 2014),
 as a vehicle for collaborating with outside organisations, to enable the methods and findings from
 our research to be made accessible to the outside world (for example, we have carried out
 consultancy work for the House of Lords, investigating ways of improving the speed and quality of
 live subtitling of parliamentary debates). Moreover, our reputation for consultancy work enabled
 us to establish one of the collaborations that facilitated our achievement of specific research
 impact in this cycle. The work detailed in the Hansard at Huddersfield impact case study (ICS) has
 benefitted from our collaboration with John Vice (House of Lords), editor of Debates (Hansard).
 Our second ICS (Babel: The Language Magazine) is also a direct outcome of the benefits we have
 gained from structuring our work around the Institute for Applied Linguistics. To further support
 our aim to communicate the value of linguistics to the public, we invested significant time and
 resources into Babel, the language magazine that we founded and continue to produce at
 Huddersfield. Babel is the only popular linguistics magazine in the world and is now subscribed to
 and read across the globe (more information on this development is provided in section 4 and in
 the relevant ICS). This growth and development was made possible by the network of support
 provided by the Institute. Both our ICSs evidence the successful achievement of our impact
 strategy objectives.
          In addition to achieving our aims from REF 2014, we have also deepened our commitment
 to interdisciplinary research. The benefits to our profile of structuring our work in the Institute for
 Applied Linguistics have led us to establish a range of valuable connections with academics and
 practitioners outside our discipline. Our achievements in interdisciplinarity are evidenced in
 several collaborative projects. For example, through our membership of the University’s
 interdisciplinary Secure Societies Institute, we established a collaborative relationship with the
 Visualisation, Interaction and Vision Research Group in the School of Computing and Engineering.
 This led to a two-year project, supported by the University Research Fund, to develop web-based
 software for Text World Theory analysis of statements given to police (this software is open access
 via GitHub). We have also continued to collaborate with colleagues working in Peace Studies and

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conflict Resolution, and with mediation professionals, resulting in our editing of The Routledge
 Handbook of Language in Conflict (Evans, Jeffries and O’Driscoll 2019). The Co-I on our Hansard
 at Huddersfield project is a colleague from History (von Lunen), and our consultancy work on
 subtitling for the House of Lords has involved working with a freelance subtitler (Moores). We have
 continued to develop our interdisciplinary profile, most recently by collaborating with colleagues in
 Politics on the use of corpus linguistic methodologies in the analysis of post-conflict community
 building in Bosnia. This collaboration was initiated and funded through an internal research sandpit
 event. The collaborative relationships we have established over the current cycle will be taken
 forwards through a series of planned external funding applications to continue the projects we
 have initiated.
          In addition to developing our interdisciplinary profile, we have also aimed to make
 substantial progress towards an open research environment with regard to outputs, data, methods
 and research findings. For example, our ESRC-funded West Yorkshire Regional English Database
 (WYRED) is freely available via the UK Data Service. Similarly, the code for our AHRC-funded
 Hansard at Huddersfield software is available on GitHub, and we have made the various specialist
 corpora that we have constructed freely available where copyright allows (e.g. our 13m-word
 HUM19UK Corpus, built in collaboration with Utrecht University, is indexed in the University of
 Helsinki’s Corpus Resource Database and freely downloadable). Open access outputs are
 available via the Elsevier’s PURE management information system, used by the University.
 Alongside this commitment to open research is a commitment to a culture of research integrity. All
 research projects, from undergraduate to post-doctoral level, are subject to ethical approval from
 our School Research Ethics Committee, whose membership is drawn from the constituent
 departments of the School.
          Having achieved our goals from REF 2014, during this cycle we have developed a further
 set of strategic aims to underpin our work leading into the post-REF 2021 period. The driving
 theme for our work as we move forwards is Applications for Linguistics. Our aim is to further
 develop our work in applied linguistics so that its relevance becomes ever clearer to the world
 outside the academy. We will support the achievement of this aim by (i) capitalising on the public
 profile we have developed via Babel: The Language Magazine (see section 4 and ICS for details)
 and (ii) developing our network of partnerships both locally and internationally in pursuit of
 knowledge transfer opportunities and social/economic impact. The underpinning aims of our
 development plan are:

 A1 To consolidate our proven research excellence in stylistics, pragmatics, corpus linguistics and
    phonetics.
 A2 To create a step change in our public engagement activities by embedding the concept of
    public linguistics in the work of all our research centres and groups.
 A3 To expand our provision of applied linguistics generally, with a specific focus on practical
    applications for linguistics.
 A4 To generate clear applications for our research findings and to implement these in
    collaboration with research users.
 A5 To strengthen our postgraduate provision by expanding training and support for PGRs and by
    intensifying the link between PGRs and the work of the Institute for Applied Linguistics.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy emerges from the strategic aims that underpin the internal structure of our
 subject area. Our aim in developing Linguistics and Modern Languages (L&ML) at Huddersfield
 has been to focus on first establishing excellence at the level of the research group. Once a
 reputation and public profile has been established in a particular area, we then formalise this by
 upgrading the research group to a research centre, with a concomitant addition to staffing in this
 area, supported financially by any or all of the following: increased undergraduate and taught
 postgraduate numbers, increased PhD numbers and external grant income. This strategy has
 seen the development of the Stylistics Research Centre and the Centre for Intercultural Politeness
 Research, and is currently underway with our Language Variation and Change Research Group.
 This strategy enables us to build capacity in particular areas in a sustainable way and to develop

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 critical mass by focusing expansion around a common core of activities. In all instances, we have
 aimed to employ early career staff and support their research development, as opposed to buying
 in senior staff. In this way we have been able to foster an environment in which all staff feel
 personally invested in the strategic development of the subject area.

 Support for researcher development
 Huddersfield is committed to Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, and in L&ML we provide a variety of support mechanisms to ensure that this
 development takes place at the level of the UOA and that we meet our obligations to the
 Concordat. We have aimed to support research across the whole potential span of a career, from
 undergraduate to professor. This has the ancillary benefit of supporting our recruitment of PGT
 and PGR students. For example, the research culture that we have embedded at undergraduate
 level cultivates interest in our postgraduate programmes; specific initiatives that we have put in
 place to create this culture include establishing an annual undergraduate dissertation conference,
 offering internships on our Babel and WYRED projects, and encouraging undergraduates to attend
 our weekly research seminars alongside postgraduates and staff. In this way, we have generated
 an appetite for research among our undergraduate population and opened up a defined route to
 a research career. We have also put in place measures to mitigate any financial barriers to
 students wishing to continue their education. For example, via a University policy we have been
 able to offer fee-waiver scholarships for MAs by Research to our own students who graduate with
 a first class degree. Subject to satisfactory progress, MA (Res) students have then been able to
 apply for further University funding to transfer from the MA to a PhD programme. Through this
 initiative we have been able to support the research ambitions of a number of our best
 undergraduate students, thereby enabling us to retain talent. We have also offered full and partial
 fee-waiver scholarships at PhD level to all applicants (home, EU and overseas), regardless of
 whether they studied at Huddersfield previously. Throughout most of the REF cycle, applications
 for fee waivers required the support of the prospective supervisor and the agreement of the Head
 of Department and School Director of Graduate Education, and were assessed purely on the basis
 of academic merit. More recently, these schemes have been succeeded by the Vice Chancellor’s
 Scholarship scheme for Huddersfield alumni (offering a combination of fee-waiver scholarships
 and £3000 bursaries) and the School of Music, Humanities and Media scheme, which is open to
 home, EU and overseas students and offers fee-waiver scholarships in areas of strategic research
 importance (for L&ML, these include variation and change in English dialects and the stylistics of
 TV and film drama).
          Finally, at the same time as bolstering PGR recruitment, we have sought to develop links
 with the Further Education community by offering Bridge Fellowships to A-level English Language
 teachers. The concept of a Bridge Fellowship was developed in L&ML and has since been rolled
 out across the School. Bridge Fellows receive a fee-waiver scholarship to support either an MA
 by Research or a PhD, along with all the benefits of a university affiliation. In return, they commit
 to advising on our curriculum content to ensure it builds on A-level schemes of work, and to offering
 talks/advice to undergraduate and postgraduate students on entering the teaching profession. As
 a result of these initiatives, we have been able to (i) build critical mass in particular areas (e.g.
 stylistics, forensic speech science, applied linguistics), (ii) support the development of a diverse
 PhD community underpinned by a principle of inclusivity (e.g. 21 of our 30 completed PhDs are
 women; 16 of these were overseas students), and (iii) ensure that access to doctoral-level
 education is not restricted to the independently wealthy or those with research council support.
          Underpinning the support we offer to our academic staff is the general principle that staff
 should retain autonomy over their research careers, and should not feel compelled to pursue
 particular research agendas for purely utilitarian purposes. Consequently, our strategic aims for
 the subject area have emerged through a bottom-up process of peer-to-peer discussion. This
 process began at the onset of the current cycle with a reconvening of our international Research
 Advisory Panel for a two-day research strategy meeting in summer 2015. Membership of the panel
 has been expanded since REF 2014 and currently consists of Prof. David Hoover (New York
 University, USA), Prof. Keith Johnson (Lancaster University, UK), Prof. Anne-Marie Simon-
 Vandenbergen (Gent University, Belgium), Prof. Mick Short (Lancaster University, UK), Prof. Chris
 Butler (York St John University, UK) and Prof. Manuel Jobert (Jean Moulin University, Lyon 3,
 France). Our general research strategy for this cycle was agreed on during the meeting and later

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 finessed in our subject area committee meetings. This approach helped to ensure that all staff felt
 able to contribute to our strategic direction and support our general research trajectory. We value
 creativity in research and strive to maintain an environment in which this can flourish and in which
 staff can be productive, whatever their personal circumstances. To this end we have put measures
 in place to support those staff with caring responsibilities, those with part-time contracts and those
 returning from periods of leave (for example, maternity leave). In all cases, we take into account
 individual requirements. The annual appraisal system offers a forum for discussion of these issues
 but in cases where individual circumstances arise mid-year, these can be dealt with through
 discussion with the Head of Subject. We have supported staff by, for example, clustering teaching
 responsibilities to free up time at the beginning and end of the day, bringing forward sabbatical
 terms so as to append these to periods of maternity leave, and providing teaching relief where
 appropriate. In this way we have aimed to ensure that our research environment is one in which
 staff feel supported to achieve their personal goals while also working towards the achievement
 of the strategic goals of the UOA.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion described above is formalised through a
 number of University and School initiatives. The University holds an Athena Swan Bronze Award
 for its commitment to gender equality and inclusive working practices, as does the School of Music
 Humanities and Media, of which L&ML is a part. The School also has an Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion Committee to ensure these issues are properly considered in the work of all its
 constituent subject areas. All staff involved in the recruitment and/or selection of staff are required
 to undergo the University’s e-training programme in unconscious bias. This training underpinned
 our identification of staff as either having significant responsibility for research (SRR) or as being
 independent researchers (IR), as well as our selection of outputs for submission to the REF. In
 the identification of SRRs and IRs, the University’s Equality Impact Assessment indicates no
 evidence of bias relating to age, sexuality, religion, marital status, or whether staff have taken
 maternity or paternity leave. No disability declarations were made for our UOA. Concerning
 gender, the University data reveals a variance of 0% in the percentage of males and females
 identified as SRR or IR for UOA26. Concerning output selection, 56.5% of our outputs are
 attributed to females and 43.5% to males, against a 60:40 female/male balance. This slight
 variance (which equates to one publication) was taken into account in the selection of outputs and
 was considered not to be significant. The practical measures that have enabled us to be confident
 of our equal treatment of academic staff and students are described below.

 Support for academic staff
 All staff have an annual research audit with the L&ML Research Coordinator and the School’s
 Associate Dean for Research and Enterprise. This is used for setting an annual research agenda,
 for tracking progress towards the UOA’s strategic goals and for determining the resources needed
 to support each member of staff’s research ambitions. All academic and research staff have one
 research day per week (pro rata) that is kept free of teaching and administrative commitments and
 up to 30 days’ additional research leave per annum to provide consolidated time for research.
 Research leave of one term is available to permanent staff after seven teaching terms
 (approximately four years), subject to approval by the School Research Committee of the
 proposed programme of work to be completed. Financial support for travel during a sabbatical
 term has been offered on a competitive basis by the University, and during the current cycle this
 has been awarded to McIntyre (for a period as a Visiting Scholar at the University of Heidelberg),
 Gold (to support a research visit to the University of California San Diego) and Jeffries (to support
 a research visit to the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile). Additionally, the School offers impact
 sabbaticals of varying lengths of time to support the development of impact from specific research
 activity. All permanent staff are eligible to apply to this scheme, with the support of the UOA
 Research Coordinator. Impact sabbaticals take the form of teaching replacement. Jeffries’s work
 on the Hansard at Huddersfield project and Gold’s work on WYRED were supported by this
 scheme.
          A range of financial support for research is available to post-doctoral academic staff, both
 permanent and temporary, full-time and fractional. At UOA level, funding for conference
 attendance is provided from the L&ML QR budget. No specific allowance is made to staff, since

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we have to date been able to cover all costs of conference-related travel. Our QR budget also
 supports a range of other costs associated with research; for example, purchase of hardware and
 software, payment to participants in experimental work, registration costs for research methods
 events, general travel expenses, etc. Staff in L&ML are also eligible to bid each year for a larger
 sum from QR funding. This funding is aimed at supporting the development of impact-focused
 research. For example, in 2018/19, this funding was used to extend the contracts of Ross and
 Earnshaw, following the end of our ESRC-funded WYRED project, and to employ Stradling and a
 former RF, Sanjurjo-Gonzalez, to do additional work on our AHRC-funded Hansard at
 Huddersfield project.
          At School level, further funding for conference travel is available to early career
 researchers (ECRs). ECR staff are also eligible to apply for pump-priming money to initiate
 research projects. This is offered in order to support ECRs in developing a significant new project
 post-PhD. Additionally, the School has provided £87k over the REF cycle in teaching relief for
 lecturers and senior lecturers, in support of the production of high quality outputs.
          At University level, funding is available on a competitive basis from the University Research
 Fund (URF) and the Collaborative Ventures Fund (CVF), which offers matched funding for impact-
 related work with outside agencies. We have used URF funding to support physical infrastructure
 development (e.g. our Forensic Speech Science Lab) and operational development (e.g. the
 three-year RA post held by Price which we used to support the development of the Institute for
 Applied Linguistics). We have used CVF funding to develop collaborative work with the House of
 Lords on live subtitling, and to carry out consultancy work on subtitling for IOU Theatre Company,
 Halifax. CVF funding has also enabled us to provide pro bono work, via Language Unlocked, in
 situations where the project partner is only able to provide in-kind funding. An example of this is
 our work with the archive and database company Microform Imaging Ltd, for whom we carried out
 a scoping exercise exploring the potential of integrating corpus linguistic methods into Microform’s
 search engines.
          The purpose of the range of internal funding schemes is to facilitate a broad range of
 research and impact work and, where appropriate, to provide seed corn funding for projects likely
 to gain external Research Council support. Staff have been supported in grant writing by a School
 Research Development Manager and a School Impact Officer, whose posts were dedicated to
 external grant capture and impact creation respectively.
          In addition to providing financial support for the research of all our academics, we are also
 committed to supporting the long-term career development of staff, including those staff on fixed-
 term contracts. To this end, we have used L&ML QR funding either to increase the FTE contracts
 of fixed-term staff (in the case of Sanjurjo-Gonzalez), or to employ them beyond the life of the
 projects to which they were contracted (in the case of Stradling, Sanjurjo-Gonzalez, Earnshaw
 and Ross). The purpose of these increases and extensions, beyond supporting valuable
 colleagues, has usually been to develop impact from the project. We have also committed to
 providing an institutional affiliation and associated benefits (e.g. a University email address,
 access to the library and electronic resources, and the title Research Affiliate) to all fixed-term staff
 after the end of their contracts, until they secure a permanent post. This is done via the University’s
 Affiliates scheme.
          The success of our support mechanisms for the career development of staff is evidenced
 by a number of measures, including, among others: external grant capture (Gold, 1 ESRC grant;
 Jeffries, 2 AHRC grants and a grant from the UK Parliament), plenary invitations (Jeffries, 4;
 McIntyre, 13, Nuttall 1), invited talks (all staff, 30+), prizes (Price’s 2019 PALA Prize for best article
 by an ECR) and election to board membership of scholarly societies (Jeffries, Chair of the
 University Council of General and Applied Linguistics [UCGAL]; Nuttall, Secretary of the
 International Association for Literary Semantics [IALS]). Additionally, four of our team received
 promotion during the current cycle (Devlin and Nuttall from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, Holt from
 Senior Lecturer to Head of Subject and Gold from Senior Lecturer to Reader) and two temporary
 staff gained permanent posts elsewhere (Sanjurjo-Gonzalez at Universidad de Deusto, Spain, and
 Earnshaw at JP French Associates, UK).

 Support for postgraduate research students
 Our postgraduate research students all have both a main and a second supervisor and receive
 the equivalent of one formal hour of supervision per fortnight. In addition, our social infrastructure

                                                                                                    Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (see section 3) provides opportunities for informal contact with staff, as well as opportunities to
 network with other academics nationally. Records of supervisions are kept by both students and
 supervisors in SkillsForge. Progression vivas are held after 9 and 21 months; students are required
 to submit an annual report detailing their progress and give a short presentation to a panel
 consisting of two academics from the subject area not involved in the student’s supervision
 (allowing for frank discussion of the student’s level of satisfaction with the supervision provided).
 The examiners must be satisfied that the student has made sufficient progress both intellectually
 and in terms of timescale for completion. Research training needs form part of the discussion in
 these vivas. PGR students are also able to access specialist support for academic writing via the
 In-Sessional Academic English Support Programme provided by the University’s Research and
 Enterprise department. This is managed by Karpenko-Seccombe from our UOA. Consequently,
 course content is strongly informed by findings from our research in applied linguistics. For
 example, the workshop ‘Concordancers for Academic Writing’ is based on Karpenko-Seccombe’s
 research into the use of corpus linguistic methods for improving the writing ability of postgraduate
 students (now published as Academic Writing with Corpora: A Resource Book for Data-Driven
 Learning, Routledge 2020).
         We also support students to develop their research careers by attending and presenting
 at conferences. To this end, we run an annual postgraduate linguistics conference organised each
 year by PGR students. Funding for this event comes from L&ML’s QR budget. The conference
 provides an opportunity for students to gain experience of attending, presenting and chairing, prior
 to attending a national or international conference for the first time. The student organisers are
 responsible for writing the call for papers, timetabling sessions, inviting an external plenary
 speaker, and dealing with travel and catering arrangements. They are supported by the UOA
 Research Coordinator. Prior to the conference, we run a workshop on presenting, incorporating
 advice on public speaking, dealing with questions, and chairing sessions. We then encourage our
 students to present their work nationally and internationally at external conferences. School
 funding is available to support this, with PhD students able to access £800 in conference funding
 over their degree cycle. Release of this funding is at the discretion of the School Director of
 Graduate Education and is subject to a satisfactory application (consisting of the abstract for the
 conference the student wishes to attend and a brief outline of why attendance is of value to their
 research). In this way, students are introduced to the process of making high quality funding
 applications. We also encourage all our PhD students to publish prior to their viva and support
 them in doing so, often by co-authoring with our students in order to introduce them to the
 publishing process (e.g. Earnshaw and Gold 2019, McIntyre and Price 2018). PhD students are
 also eligible to apply to the University’s Postgraduate Researcher Environment Development
 Fund, for up to £2k to support the development of public engagement or impact-focused projects
 designed to be of benefit to other PGR students; for example, in 2018, Price used such funding to
 organise a symposium on Impact in Linguistics to establish a national conversation among
 linguists about research impact and to launch a book on the topic edited by her and her main
 supervisor (McIntyre and Price 2018; discussed in more detail in section 3). We also encourage
 our PhD students to see research and teaching as symbiotic; to this end we provide opportunities
 to gain teaching experience to those students who wish to do so. This experience encompasses
 seminar tuition, workshop provision, lecturing (supported by permanent staff), and co-teaching of
 small groups (in collaboration with permanent staff). Students are also encouraged to take the
 University’s Teaching Assistant Preparation Programme. In this way, graduates emerge from our
 PhD programmes well prepared for careers in research, teaching and related careers.
         Our staff have also been centrally involved in the provision of international PGR training.
 For example, Jeffries and McIntyre, along with Brian Walker (former Senior Lecturer and now
 Visiting Research Fellow), have taught three summer schools for the Poetics and Linguistics
 Association, in 2014 (University of Maribor, Slovenia), 2015 (University of Kent, UK) and 2018
 (University of Birmingham, UK), on corpus linguistic and critical stylistic methodologies. McIntyre
 has also taught workshops on corpus linguistics at University College Roosevelt (Utrecht
 University, Netherlands; 2015 and 2016) and at Jean Moulin University, Lyon 3 (France; 2019).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our strategy for income generation through external grant capture arises from the measures for
 supporting people described in section 2. We use annual research audits to discuss prospective
 projects with individuals and identify appropriate funding streams. Where appropriate, we then
 encourage staff to apply for internal seed corn funding to carry out pilot projects. This funding
 includes L&ML QR funding, School funding for ECRs, University research funding for larger
 projects and CVF funding for impact-focused work. Our School has a dedicated Research
 Development Manager based in the University’s Research and Enterprise department, who
 provides advice and support on the process of developing external bids (both the financial and
 academic aspects). Through this strategy, over the current REF cycle we have secured £432,038
 in external research funding. This income includes Gold’s three-year ESRC Future Research
 Leaders Award (grant reference: ES/N003268/1) for the project ‘Using BIG data to understand the
 BIG picture: overcoming heterogeneity in speech for forensic applications’ and Jeffries’ AHRC-
 funded project ‘Hansard at Huddersfield: making the parliamentary record more accessible’ (grant
 reference: AH/R007136/1). This latter project was supplemented by £44k in follow-on funding from
 the UK Parliament. In addition, staff have also secured funding from a range of non-HESA-
 recognised sources. This includes £5k from the BBC and £2.5k from the House of Lords for
 consultancy work via Language Unlocked; £2k in Santander Mobility Awards to support the
 development of collaborative links with international institutions; and £1k from the Arts Council
 England Museum Resilience Fund, to support a pilot study by Devlin of Caribbean English
 speakers in the East Midlands. In addition to research income, we have also generated enterprise
 income from Babel: The Language Magazine of approximately £83k over the cycle.

 Infrastructure and research facilities
 There are three components to infrastructure development in our subject area: (i) organisational,
 (ii) operational and scholarly, and (iii) social. Together these facilitate the high quality research
 and research impact that we produce.
          Concerning (i), the Institute for Applied Linguistics, with its constituent research centres
 and groups (see section 1 for details), provides the organisational infrastructure for all our research
 activity. The Directorship is a rotating role among senior staff in the UOA, in order to ensure regular
 refreshment of ideas. All staff in the UOA are members of the Institute and are attached to one
 research centre or group in particular (though often collaborate across these). Research strategy
 development is managed through the Institute, as are applications for project support from QR
 funding (which are judged by a rotating committee with representatives from both the subject area
 and the School). The Institute also manages internal peer review of draft funding applications and
 outputs, and administers L&ML’s research mentoring policy, with each member of staff being
 appointed a mentor senior to them (professors are mentored by the Associate Dean for Research
 and Enterprise).
          Concerning (ii), with regard to operational and scholarly infrastructure, L&ML is situated in
 purpose-built accommodation in the University’s Oastler Building, opened in 2017 at a cost of
 £27m and shortlisted for the Guardian HE Award for Outstanding Building (2019). In addition to
 dedicated teaching space and staff offices, Oastler includes a forensic speech science lab, three
 language labs, an interpreting suite, a language resource centre with a specialist linguistics library,
 and dedicated social space. Our forensics lab is equipped with state-of-the-art hardware and
 software for speech science research, including Vocalise voice recognition software, BioMetrics
 software for computing and presenting voice recognition results, a purpose-built sound booth, a
 range of hand-held and solid-state recorders, headband microphones, GoPro cameras, and an
 ultrasound machine. Our language resource centre includes dedicated computing facilities for
 linguistics students and is staffed by PhD researchers who are able to provide advice and support
 to undergraduates when necessary. Both the resource centre and our language labs are equipped
 with a range of electronic resources specifically for language research, including a suite of licensed
 corpus linguistics software (e.g. Wmatrix, WordSmith Tools and Sketch Engine) and a wide variety
 of linguistic corpora (including the BNC corpora, the ICAME corpus collection, a large number of
 specialist corpora constructed by Huddersfield staff, and licensed access to english-corpora.org).
 Additionally, all expected freeware for linguistic research (e.g. Praat, AntConc, Aegisub, etc.) is
 available as standard on all PCs, as is access to standard databases such as Ethnologue, Early
 English Books Online, Proquest (providing access to news archives), the online Oxford English
 Dictionary (OED) and the Historical Thesaurus of the OED. The University also subscribes to an

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 extensive range of online journal packages (e.g. ScienceDirect, Wiley, Taylor & Francis, Project
 Muse), and provides a free interlibrary loan service to access resources beyond the available
 collections. Academic librarians are assigned to each subject area to assist academics and PhD
 students in accessing literature and resources. The Library also contribute to a programme of
 regular skills development sessions for PhD students.
          Scholarly infrastructure is formalised through our regular weekly research seminars, 95%
 of which are given by external speakers. This practice ensures that our research staff are
 connected to the national network of linguistics research, and in addition provides opportunities
 for informal networking. As a result of COVID-19, for the academic year 2020-21 we have moved
 these talks online and opened them up for anyone to attend. This has resulted in weekly audiences
 of over 50, with attendees and speakers from all over the world. A wide range of other events are
 held throughout the year to support the ongoing vitality of the UOA; these include our annual Babel
 lecture (see section 4 for details), annual postgraduate conference and annual A-Level English
 Language conference, as well as frequent international conferences (e.g. IALS 2017 and IAFPA
 2018). We also run an academic visitors programme which usually sees at least two visiting
 scholars per year joining us for anywhere between one term and 12 months. This programme
 invigorates our subject area and, as well as being of benefit to the visitors themselves, provides
 further opportunities for us to establish international links and collaborations. Recent visitors have
 come from, for example, China, Japan and Indonesia.
          Concerning (iii), our establishment of a strong social structure is as important as our
 operational, organisational and scholarly infrastructure, since the development of good
 interpersonal relationships increases the likelihood of productive professional collaborations
 emerging. We strive to ensure that our collegial and supportive work environment extends across
 the full breadth of our department, encompassing undergraduates and postgraduates as well as
 academic staff. For example, weekly research seminars begin with an informal gathering at which
 refreshments are served and are usually followed by a social event (2020-21 is an exception as a
 result of COVID-19). We take care that these events are as inclusive as possible; for instance, we
 ensure that venues vary between those that serve alcohol and those that don’t, and we fully fund
 at least one social event per term for postgraduate students (PGT and PGR) to ensure that money
 is no barrier to participating in the informal life of our subject area. For academic staff, we ensure
 as far as possible that no-one has teaching scheduled at lunchtime, in order to make it possible
 for colleagues to spend time informally with one another; we value the creative and serendipitous
 outcomes that can emerge from the unscheduled discussions that take place during these times.
          The development of impact from our research is central to our strategy as a research
 Institute. This focus is reflected in a recent collection edited by McIntyre and Price, entitled
 Applying Linguistics: Language and the Impact Agenda (Routledge, 2018). We facilitate research
 impact through a number of initiatives. Staff are encouraged to discuss possible impact from their
 research during annual research audits. This allows for the building-in of impact from the outset
 of any new research projects. Pump-priming funds can then be made available from the L&ML
 QR budget to facilitate impact activities. Throughout this REF cycle these have been planned in
 collaboration with our School’s Impact Officer. Where appropriate, we also draw on University-
 level resources, such as the Collaborative Ventures Fund (CVF; see section 2 for details).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 External partnerships

 In pursuit of our objective of developing a research base in applied linguistics, we have established
 partnerships and/or collaborated with a range of private companies and public organisations in
 order to ensure that our research reaches those who will benefit from it. Examples include:

  Collaboration with forensic speech science labs: Our forensic speech science team benefits
   from our association with Soundscape Voice Evidence and JP French Associates, leading
   private forensic speech and acoustics laboratories. JP French have provided us with data and
   an opportunity for staff to gain consultancy experience (e.g. Gold has consulted on numerous
   cases; Earnshaw went on to a permanent post as an analyst). We in turn have developed the
   ESRC-funded West Yorkshire Regional English Database (WYRED), a resource for the
   forensic speech science community generally, which will improve the reliability of speaker

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    comparison work. WYRED has become an integral resource for Soundscape Voice Evidence
    after collaborative work by Gold and Soundscape’s Director, Christin Kirchhübel.
  Partnership with the UK Parliament: Our AHRC-funded Hansard at Huddersfield project (see
   Impact Case Study) was carried out collaboratively with the House of Lords and uses corpus
   linguistic methods to improve the searchability of the parliamentary record. We have also
   collaborated with the House of Lords on a feasibility study investigating the potential for the live
   subtitling of parliamentary debates to be taken in-house, and for the speed and quality of live
   subtitling to be improved using insights from corpus linguistics. Our report on this work was
   used by John Vice (editor, Debates, Hansard) to inform the decision to appoint subtitlers to the
   Hansard editorial team.
  Various partnerships with organisations focused on mediation and conflict resolution: Our team
   has a long-standing relationship with mediation services throughout the UK. Jeffries and
   O’Driscoll have led 16 workshops for these services, including the London Community
   Mediation Council’s AGMs 2016-2018, where Jeffries also gave a plenary lecture in 2018. One
   result of our work with these organisations is The Routledge Handbook of Language in Conflict
   (2019), edited by Evans, Jeffries and O’Driscoll, which combines theoretical research and
   practical approaches to the question of the role of language in conflict and in its
   transformation/resolution.

 We have also continued the work of our consultancy, Language Unlocked (a REF impact case
 study in 2014), to ensure our research contributes to wider society; e.g. we have consulted for the
 BBC (exploring whether corpus analysis of viewer responses can be used to trace the long-term
 decline of a programme’s popularity), for Microform Imaging Ltd (investigating the potential for
 integrating corpus linguistic analytical tools into Microform’s search engine for better searching of
 their archives and databases), for the House of Lords (exploring methods of improving the speed
 and quality of live subtitling of parliamentary debates), and for a major financial company (using
 corpus linguistic tools and methods to test the effects of a new marketing campaign; N.B.
 commercial sensitivity means we are unable to reveal this company’s name, though the research
 was commissioned by Bulletin Academic, who can testify that the work was carried out).

 Contributions to the research base and society
 In addition to facilitating knowledge exchange between the University and outside agencies, we
 have also worked to make a contribution to the general health of our discipline by providing
 linguists nationally and internationally with an outlet for popularising their research. We have done
 this by raising the profile of our publication, Babel: The Language Magazine
 (https://babelzine.co.uk), to the extent that it is now recognised as the world’s premier popular outlet
 for research in linguistics (see our impact case study on Babel for more details). Babel is based
 on Jeffries’ and McIntyre’s pedagogic research and was founded by them in 2012. Published
 quarterly, Babel’s guiding principle is that articles must be written by linguists who have carried
 out the research they are writing about, rather than by journalists. To further increase the
 magazine’s profile, we established an annual Babel Lecture at Huddersfield, which is given by a
 high profile speaker. Lectures are free and have seen upwards of 300 people per lecture coming
 on to campus to learn about linguistics. Our Babel lecturers to date have been Brendan Gunn
 (dialect coach, 2015), David Crystal (writer and public linguist, 2016), Peter French (forensic
 linguist and founder of the UK’s first forensic speech and acoustics company, 2017), Susie Dent
 (writer and TV presenter, 2018) and Jessica Coon (consultant linguist on the 2016 film Arrival,
 2019). Jean Berko-Gleeson (professor and inventor of the Wug test) was scheduled to give the
 2020 lecture which was cancelled due to COVID-19 (we aim to reschedule as soon as practicable).
 The range of Babel’s influence can be seen in our 11k followers on Facebook (Babel: The
 Language Magazine) and 12k followers on Twitter (@Babelzine). The effect of our work on Babel
 has been to increase the public profile of linguistics as a discipline, as well as to extend the range
 of opportunities open to linguists for engaging with the public and generating impact from their
 work. To this end, we view Babel as providing a service to our wider discipline.

 Service to the discipline
 In addition to the above activity, all staff are committed to providing service to the wider discipline
 of linguistics. This aspect of our work is focused around four commitments: (i) supporting the work

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of students; (ii) supporting the work of peers; (iii) supporting the management of the discipline;
 and (iv) advancing the discipline.
          With regard to (i) our commitment to supporting the work of students is evidenced by a
 number of measures. For example, over the REF cycle, staff in the UOA have acted as external
 examiners for 24 PhDs, nationally and internationally. Examples include the University of
 Nottingham (5), University of Birmingham (2), University of Copenhagen and Universidad
 Autónoma de Madrid. This commitment extends to postdoctoral students, as evidenced by
 Jeffries’ examination of a Habilitation at the University of Southern Denmark. We have also
 championed undergraduate research in linguistics through the annual Young Writers’ Competition
 that we run in Babel: The Language Magazine (see Impact Case Study for more details).
          Regarding (ii), our support for the work of our peers can be seen particularly in our peer
 review work. We have reviewed articles for over 25 journals during the cycle, as well as
 manuscripts for such major publishers as Cambridge University Press, John Benjamins, Mouton
 de Gruyter, Palgrave, Routledge and the University of Chicago Press. We have also reviewed
 grant applications for a wide range of funding bodies, including the Austrian Science Fund, British
 Academy, ESRC, European Research Council, French National Centre for Scientific Research,
 Irish Research Council, the Leverhulme Trust and the Swiss National Science Foundation.
          With regard to (iii), staff in the UOA are centrally involved in the management of learned
 societies. For example, Jeffries is Chair of UCGAL, Nuttall is Secretary of IALS, Gold is on the
 research committee of the International Association for Forensic Phonetics and Acoustics
 (IAFPA), and McIntyre is a committee member of PALA. Senior staff have also acted as reviewers
 for other national research assessments. For example, McIntyre acted as an external reviewer for
 the 2016 VQR (Valutazione della Qualità della Ricerca), Italy’s national research assessment
 exercise, while Jeffries acted as impact assessor for the Chinese University of Hong Kong in 2017
 for their mock REF-equivalent exercise and was a panel member of UOA 28 for REF 2014.
          Concerning (iv), staff in the UOA are committed to contributing towards the scholarly
 infrastructure needed to advance our discipline and apply its findings. For example, Gold is an
 Affiliate Member of the Organization of Scientific Area Committees for Forensic Science in the US,
 helping to create standards for the field. And our staff edit a range of journals and book series.
 McIntyre is editor of Language and Literature (SAGE) and O’Driscoll was appointed editor of the
 Journal of Politeness Research (Mouton de Gruyter). Jeffries and McIntyre are series editors of
 Perspectives on the English Language (Palgrave) and McIntyre and Nuttall are series editors of
 Advances in Stylistics (Bloomsbury). Six staff serve on editorial boards for such major journals as
 English Text Construction, Journal of Corpora and Discourse Studies, Social Psychology
 Quarterly and the Journal of Language, Aggression and Conflict. In addition to publishing, the
 opportunity to present work at conferences is also key to the development of ideas. We frequently
 organise events to facilitate this, such as the Stylistics Research Centre 10th Anniversary
 Symposium (2015), the Impact in Linguistics Symposium (2018) and frequent CA data sessions
 (e.g. 2019). In addition to small colloquia like these, we have organised four major international
 conferences during the cycle: the 8th International Conference on Politeness (2014), Interfaces
 between CA and Pragmatics (2016), the 7th IALS Conference (2017) and the 27th IAFPA
 Conference (2018).




                                                                                            Page 11
