Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Liverpool
 Unit of Assessment: 14 Geography and Environmental Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy
 1.1 Research structure and context
 The Department of Geography and Planning, in the School of Environmental Sciences,
 combines the world’s first School of Planning (1909) and one of Britain’s first (1887) Geography
 Departments offering degrees. Our ethos is to undertake research to: understand better the
 physical and human processes shaping our environment and communities; understand the
 cognition and utilisation of these processes to support decision-making; and predict the
 trajectories and causes of future change. Our prioritising equality, diversity and inclusivity is
 evidenced by successive School Athena SWAN Bronze (2016) and Silver (2019) Awards. We
 strive to conduct impactful research of societal relevance. Our commitment to civic, policy and
 business engagement drives our impact strategy, with direct benefits for local, national, and
 global societies, e.g., our European Regional Development Fund (ERDF: 2012-2023) eco-
 innovation research that engaged with 300 enterprises driving £3M of investment into the
 Northwest region.




 Fig. 1. Structure of the Department of Geography and Planning.

 We are one of two departments in the School, which provides overarching structures for
 research, strategy, management, and cross-disciplinary interaction. The Head of Department

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 manages the Department, with the Dean of School and a School Management Team. Four
 mature, inclusive, vibrant, and cognate Research Groups (Fig. 1) have facilitated research
 excellence in our priority areas of (i) Environmental Change, (ii) Geographic Data Science, (iii)
 Power, Space and Cultural Change, and (iv) Planning, Environmental Assessment and
 Management (Fig. 1). We drive our Interdisciplinary and Impact Agenda by (co-) leading
 University Centres and Institutes, bringing together researchers from across disciplines and the
 world (Fig. 1). Since 2014, we have supported research excellence by growing to 52 FTE (55%
 growth) sustaining critical masses of researchers across our research groups, 60% of whom
 have joined as early career academics. We co-located in 2015, moving from three buildings, to
 integrate physically our research groups (Fig. 1). We realised immediately the benefits, with
 interdisciplinary successes e.g., in Sustainable Coasts and Oceans, with the EU funded Celtic
 Sea Partnership (2016), and our ESRC funded £9.5M (2015-2022) Consumer Data Research
 Centre (Fig. 1). The University’s £1B Estate Strategy prioritises further redevelopment of the
 School in new £40M state-of-the-art accommodation, which is progressing through Architects
 and RIBA Plan of Work Stage 2. This committed £1M in 2020-21, notwithstanding COVID-19
 disruption of University capital plans. Ultimately, this would complete our vision for a shared
 intellectual space, where social and physical sciences collaborate to address global
 environmental challenges.

 1.2 Research and impact strategy
 We have championed the growth, development, and excellence of our staff, by investing in early
 career academics, growing our research income and postgraduate community. Our stated
 REF2014 prioritises were to develop Coasts and Oceans and Geographic Data Science, both
 areas where we were emerging as global leaders. We used strategic investment 2014-2020 to
 grow our staff numbers, collocate our Research Groups, and as a result our research income
 has increased to £1.4M per annum up from c. £1M (REF2014) to a total of £9.6M. That total
 does not include £3.1M of our European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) spend on eco-
 innovation research, supporting PhD partnerships with small and medium-sized enterprises,
 which would increase our research income to £1.82M per annum. Our PGR recruitment (2014-
 2020: 114 total, 42% BAME) increased to 2.2 per FTE (REF2021) from 1.4 per FTE (REF2014).
 We have prioritised impactful research across our research groups (Fig. 1), which has had
 profound societal relevance, rising to the challenges and debates facing global society, and
 provided information essential for policy makers and other stakeholders. Our strategic priorities
 (SP1-5) have driven this growth and are affirmed here in our development to 2026; they are to:

  SP1: Expand our world leading research excellence in environmental processes and
   change; geographic data science; power, space, and cultural change; planning,
   environmental assessment, and management.
  SP2: Enhance the positioning of civic, policy and business engagement as core and
   underpinning our world-leading reputation for conducting impactful research of societal
   relevance that rises to the challenges facing global society.
  SP3: Grow our burgeoning strength in inter-disciplinary research and impact through agile
   partnerships across our leadership of nine interdisciplinary Centres and Institutes and
   diversifying our pool of grant funders and our awardees.
  SP4: Develop further our emphasis on equality, diversity, and inclusivity by placing staff
   well-being as central to our research environment. Our inclusive approach nurtures our
   postgraduates, postdoctoral researchers and supports the evolution of early career
   colleagues into discipline leaders.
  SP5: Continue our leadership of research that meets the highest standards in open
   access, research integrity and ethics, where our approaches are enabling interaction with
   hard-to-access and ethically demanding datasets and populations.

 Our Environmental Change research focused on geomorphology and global environmental
 change. Our strategic growth (54%) FTE has targeted new strengths in contemporary processes
 and environmental modelling recruiting Mair, Dean, Higham, Nias and Leonardi to research the
 environmental stresses on earth systems and societies. Parallel growth has strengthened and
 broadened our Environmental Change research recruiting Smedley, Montoya, Hacket-Pain, Lea,

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Blackford and Sangster. These strengths align strategically and drive the University’s Climate
 futures theme, discovering how we are responding to the global climate crisis through our
 research.

 From strengths in geocomputation, demographics and migration, we have grown Geographic
 Data Science Lab (33% FTE) to become a world-leading centre of excellence for research
 solving grand human challenges through Geographic Data Science recruiting Darlington-Pollock,
 Arribas-Bel, Dolega, Dong, Green, Goodwin-White, Robinson and Rowe. Core investment has
 targeted the themes of Population and Health, Artificial Intelligence, Big Data and Consumer
 Data Analysis, which align strategically and drive the University’s Digital and Personalised
 Health Themes.

 Growth of 100% FTE has extended our Power, Space and Cultural Change foci on social and
 cultural geographies alongside political and economic change. Recruiting Gahman, Isakjee,
 Peters and Turner targeted of five key areas of inquiry: Material Mobilities; Activism and
 Alternatives; Histories, Pasts and Memories; Governance and Discipline; and Knowledges,
 Identities and Everyday Practices, in part aligned with University’s themes in Personalised
 Health and Heritage.

 Supporting REF2014 foci on Environmental Assessment and Spatial Policy and Planning
 research with 60% FTE growth, we have recruited Chen, Clement, Abrahams, Dunning,
 Dembski, Moore and Nurse. This strategic investment has realised Planning, Environmental
 Assessment and Management group strengths around the four cognate themes of Sustainable
 Cities (Housing, Social Inequalities and Cohesion), Marine Spatial Planning (Sustainable Coasts
 and Oceans), Environmental Assessment and Management, and Public Policy and Regional
 Development.

 We have diversified our funding portfolio to build resilience
 achieving 60% more individual funders (awards >£50k) than
 REF2014 including six UK research councils. We used internal
 ODA Seed Funds (x8) to develop research in low- and middle-
 income countries and to pump-prime £1.5M in Global Challenges
 Research Fund grant successes, e.g., ODA Seed Fund research
 (Gahman) on Community Empowerment in Maya Culture led to a
 successful British Academy – Heritage, Dignity, and Violence
 programme GCRF grant (£300k). Our School Fellowships Officer
 supports individuals in building fellowship funding applications. Our
 Impact Leads play an important role in supporting exchanges and
 communication of our societally relevant research through a wealth
 of community and professional outreach activities. Our impact
 successes have required a Civic Engagement Directory to
 document our connections and support for the wider community. In
 this, successive European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)
 Eco-innovation research programmes have engaged with 300
 small and medium enterprises producing £3M of inward
 investment, creating 236 jobs and 51 new eco-innovative products
 and services. The ERDF-funded Centre for Global Eco-Innovation
 (CGE) won the Green Gown Research and Development,
 PraxisUnico UKRI 'Outstanding KEC Initiative' Awards (2015) and
 the Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory won the Mersey Maritime 2020              Fig. 2: Award-winning
 Environmental Impact Award (P-I: Plater) and Dr Cai Bird a CGE          environment-focused
 PhD graduate and now Director of Research at Marlan Maritime            community-centred
 Technologies won the 2020 Mersey Maritime Industry Rising Star          research (ICS1).
 Award (Fig. 2).




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Impact through our civic, policy and business engagement
 Conducting research that has an impact on society is an ethos enshrined in our strategic
 priorities (SP2) and we specialise in societally relevant research detailing these successes in
 sections 3.4 and 4. Our impact and civic engagement agenda are recognised in formal
 administrative roles (led by Darlington-Pollock and Lord). These impact leads support our
 Research Groups (Fig. 1), interdisciplinary Centres and Institutes, and postgraduate community
 in forging connections between world-leading research and end-users. They also supported the
 development of five Impact Cases (ICS1 to 5):
       ICS1. Generating geographic data to inform policy, social welfare and learning for tackling
       health and social inequalities.
       ICS2. Achieving low-carbon growth across small businesses in Liverpool City Region.
       ICS3. New Policy-focused Practices in Marine Ecosystem-Based Management.
       ICS4. Spatial Planning research reforms practice, participation, and policy to empower city
       regions and communities.
       ICS5. Behavioural insights research transforms community infrastructure investment
       through policy changes to developer contributions.
 School, Institutional and UKRI Impact Accelerator Awards have encouraged new impact
 initiatives. Our GCRF projects drive our research in low- and middle-income countries
 addressing global challenges and having profound impact for communities internationally (SP2).

 Geographic Data Science Lab work closely with Public Health England, United Nations, the
 ONS Data Science Campus and the UK2070 Commission to deliver data products to better
 understand and support decision making to improve health outcomes, create sustainable cities,
 and reduce regional socio-economic inequalities (ICS1). This research includes the ESRC
 funded £9.5M (2015-2022) Consumer Data Research Centre (SP2). Singleton and Green were
 also funded by the ESRC (£148k) to provide analytical support to Local Authorities in responding
 to COVID-19, including novel geospatial analyses using ONS data for selecting the location of
 testing sites for Liverpool City Council within Liverpool’s whole city testing pilot.

 Our Planning Research Institute has been active in addressing the challenge of how we build
 urban resilience to climate change and harness financial contributions gathered through the
 development process to ‘level up’ economic activity across England (ICS5) (SP1&2). The
 Heseltine Institute for Public Policy, Practice and Place (M-Boyle) has led our COVID-19
 civic response in bolstering economic resilience collaborating with Liverpool City Region
 Combined Authority producing 36 policy briefs on topics including: ‘building back better’ (North),
 merits of the Universal Basic Income (Thompson), and EPSRC/Decarbon8 and Research
 England Industrial Strategy-funded research on cycling and walking as safer and stronger active
 travel options in the region (Nurse, Dunning).

 Our major research grants and the engagement of our postgraduate community with industrial,
 civic and third sector partners (50% of our UKRI PhDs are with Industrial Partners) have aided
 our impact agenda. In Environmental Change, the £7.7M 2014-2023 Low-Carbon Eco-
 Innovatory and £6.9M 2012-2015 Centre for Global Ecoinnovation (Fig. 2) collaborative
 ERDF projects developed new low-carbon products and services in PhD partnerships with small
 and medium-sized enterprises across northwest England (ICS2). In Planning, two consecutive
 ESRC Joint Programming Initiative research awards (€1.4M 2014-18, €0.9M 2019-22) facilitated
 reform of key policy areas related to the financial and in-kind investments (‘developer
 contributions’) that accompany real estate development in England (ICS5).

 1.4 Interdisciplinary research
 Our leadership of University Research Centres and Institutes drives our interdisciplinary and
 impact agenda conducting and publishing research that cuts across Geography, Ocean Science,
 Health and Life Science, Computer Science, Engineering, Economics, Statistics and Sociology
 (Fig. 3), and collaborating with 12 partner Universities globally (SP3). These include research
 centres in (i) Environmental Assessment and Management (Fischer), (ii) Liverpool Institute

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for Sustainable Coasts and Oceans (Jay), (iii) Planning Research Institute (Lord), (iv)
 Consumer Data (Singleton), and our leading of the (v) Heseltine Institute for Public Policy,
 Practice and Place (MBoyle). We co-lead (vi) the ERDF-funded Low-Carbon Eco-Innovatory
 (Plater) (Fig. 2) and (vii) the Centre for Health, Medical and Environmental Humanities
 (Evans).

 Our interdisciplinary ambition has increased by addressing the University Strategy 2026
 Research Themes in Infectious Diseases, Personalised Health, Liverpool Digital and
 Climate Futures, and our Faculty’s Priority Research Challenges in Risk and Uncertainty,
 Coasts and Oceans, and Energy. Our ERDF-funded Centre for Global Eco-Innovation and
 Low-Carbon Eco-Innovatory are both outstanding examples of interdisciplinary research
 developing partnerships across Engineering, Integrative Biology, Chemistry, Management
 School and Architecture. Our targeting of GCRF initiatives have led to collaborative projects
 researching - risk reduction from mine tailings dams (Brazil) (ESRC-GCRF: £866k); drought
 hazards in China (NERC-GCRF: £137k); coastal erosion monitoring in St. Vincent (UKRI-GCRF:
 £73k); Hugli River of Cultures (India) (AHRC-GCRF: £162k); sustainable agriculture - agrarian
 life in Grenada (AHRC-GCRF:£194k), and violence and dignity perspectives of indigenous
 (Maya) communities (Belize) (BA-GCRF: £300k). Further, cross-faculty research (Fig. 3) on
 Infectious Diseases (Morse) with the Health Protection Research Unit in Emerging and Zoonotic
 Infections, includes the £7.7M UKRI-GCRF “One Health Regional Network for the Horn of Africa
 (HORN)” and £0.9M BBSRC project on bluetongue viral disease.




 Fig. 3. Interdisciplinarity shown as the proportion (circle size) and prominence (> towards rim) of
 our 960 total outputs (2014-2020) within other disciplines (SciVal).

 1.5 Open research environment
 Of the 960 UoA14 outputs published 2014-2021 42% were Gold Open access (Scopus), 73%
 were deposited in the University of Liverpool repository (>Green access) and 88% of the REF
 submitted outputs are open access. We exceed the University baseline commitment to Open
 Data (SP5) significantly, with the leadership of international open data initiatives developing
 state of the art and award-winning data facilities. One example is Geographic Data Science
 Lab hosting the Liverpool node of £9.5M ERSC-funded Consumer Data Research Centre
 funded in the ESRC Big Data Network, which conforms to best practice following the Information
 Commissioners Office’s Data Sharing Code of Practice; and hosts secure data lab that has
 attained ISO27001 accreditation. The Centre contributes towards ensuring the future
 sustainability of UK research using consumer data, supporting consumer related organisations

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to maximise their innovation potential, and driving economic growth by compiling, processing,
 and making available some of the vast amounts of UK consumer data generated each day in the
 form of open data products. The Centre operates parallel Online Interactive Map and Data
 Access Portals, a Research Approvals Group and provides research training. The Centre
 employs the UK Data Service’s three-tier access policy ranging from fully Open Data to
 Controlled Data with stringent and registered access.

 1.6 Research integrity
 Integrity and Ethics are strategic priorities (SP5) that enable rather than form barriers to our
 world leading research. Burrell (Chair) and Turner (Vice-Chair) lead on the University Ethics
 Committee formulating policy on Research Integrity (SP5). Liverpool signed (2016) the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), and Gahman is on the University’s
 Use of Responsible Metrics Advisory Committee leading policy and implementing university-
 wide training. Our leadership (Lea) of the University Staff and Postgraduate LGBT+ Network has
 driven changes to our risk assessment protocols for overseas fieldwork to take account of legally
 protected characteristics now adopted across the wider university. Mandatory staff training
 includes on-line Research Integrity and Ethics, EU General Data Protection Regulation and
 Information Security Essentials, Diversity and Equality, Keeping Healthy, Safe and Well at
 Liverpool, the Bribery Act 2010, and Managing Safety training courses. Staff and postgraduate
 ‘Research Ethics Training’ modules cover interaction with human participants, ethics and
 regulation, informed consent, confidentiality, liability, and inducement. Examples of our approach
 include the Consumer Data Research Centre (Section 1.5) which adheres to the highest
 standards in individual and corporate data security and anonymity (ISO27001 accreditation)
 (SP5). Integrity negotiations were intrinsic to research on Carceral spaces (Turner), Migration in
 contemporary Europe (Burrell), ‘Flying while fat’ (Evans), MRC-funded Dietary Transitions in
 African Cities (Green); Nuffield–funded Challenges and need in an aged population (Darlington-
 Pollock), and Leverhulme-funded Exploring the family farm crisis (Riley). These required
 mitigations of risk when operating in different cultural and legislative settings, sensitivity to
 emotions and relationships, ensuring informed consent, crossing of language barriers, and the
 compliance with the highest standards of GDPR, data security and confidentiality (SP5).

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 2.1.1 Staffing and recruitment policy
 Recruiting and supporting talented early career academics enabling them to flourish and
 progress to senior levels is a strategic priority (SP4). Our growth means we are submitting >55%
 more staff, retaining twenty-one REF2014 staff and our supportive initiatives (e.g., research
 leave) have enabled two colleagues with high administrative loads to invigorate their research
 activities. Three colleagues have retired, two retaining Emeritus status (Bradshaw, Marshall),
 and nine have moved on. Recruiting 30 people replaces 12 leavers and includes 18 new
 strategic investment posts. For fixed-term contract staff, the University has a redeployment
 scheme, and since 2014 Chen, Nurse and Sangster have benefitted from redeployment to
 tenured posts (CONCORDAT to Support the Career Development of Researchers). Research
 project leads and the Head of Department ensure that consultation with fixed-term contracted
 individuals takes place considering available options. Our School Fellowships Officer and peer
 review structures support colleagues and prospective fellows with applications to external
 funders (CONCORDAT), with successes including Thompson (Leverhulme Early Career),
 Arribas-Bel (A.I. Turing), Green (ESRC), Lea (UKRI-FLF), and Riley and Peters (both
 Leverhulme Research Fellows). We run annual workshops for prospective postdoctoral fellows
 based at Liverpool and elsewhere to assist with proposal development (CONCORDAT).

 We monitor our staff profile for gender and other protected characteristics (SP4). There are
 currently 36% female staff, with 44% of hires since 2014 female. Staff from BAME backgrounds
 have increased from 3% to 16%, and 9% of colleagues identify as LGBT+. We chair (Lea) the
 University LGBT+ Network driving changes to improve the LGBT+ environment (SP4). Our
 recruitment strategy has been identified as sector-wide good practice by the national Equality

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Challenge Unit within Advance HE (Athena SWAN award letter). Liverpool is a Disability
 Confident, Stonewall Diversity and Time to Change employer and is applying for Advance HE’s
 Race Equality Charter. As a Department we scrutinise adverts for bias and guaranteeing
 interviews to applicants who meet post essential criteria. Recruitment draws on gender-balanced
 panels who are trained in ‘Understanding Unconscious Bias’, highlighting this through Royal
 Society videos before shortlisting and interviews. Our shortlisting policy (SP4) requires a gender-
 balanced selection of candidates, with strategies including re-advertising posts and
 ‘Headhunting’ of individuals used to achieve balance, e.g., recruiting Peters, Goodwin-White and
 Robinson.

 2.1.2 Staff development strategy
 We provide strategic support for all staff (SP4) ensuring an inclusive, vibrant, and productive
 department. Academic colleagues are research active, with 98% on full-time permanent contract
 and 2% taking advantage of flexible working (e.g., Sangster). Academic and postdoctoral staff
 (CONCORDAT) have an annual Professional Development Review meeting with our gender-
 balanced pool of reviewers, discussing research and teaching achievements, plans and
 ambitions, individual progression, challenges in undertaking research, and training/support
 requirements. For new academic colleagues (SP4) during their period of probation, the Head of
 Department co-ordinates the completion of annual progress reports and ‘Confirmation in Post’
 paperwork. Colleagues interact with their line manager in tracking progression, and identifying
 support needed to address issues, e.g., research priorities, training, and support. Progression is
 core to our annual reviews, and in developing cases for promotion between the candidate, the
 Head of Department and Dean of School. Since REF2014, our strategic priority of recruiting and
 investing in a greater diversity of early career academics has seen eleven progress from lecturer
 to senior lecturer, seven to Reader, with five awarded Personal Chairs. Our level-based diversity
 is 45% female (lecturer), 38% (senior lecturer) and 42% (Reader), and we are on target
 (Strategy 2026) to extend this improving diversity to the professoriate. Hooke, in 2018, became
 the first female John Rankin Professor of Geography.

 2.1.3 Equality and diversity
 Equality and Diversity are a strategic priority (SP4) overseen by the School Diversity and
 Equality Committee (co-chairs: Evans and Darlington-Pollock) and are standing items for
 Department meetings. Darlington-Pollock is the current Chair of The Equality Trust, a registered
 charity working to improve the quality of life in the UK by reducing economic and social
 inequality. Our Athena SWAN Awards for the School, Bronze (April 2016) and Silver (May 2019),
 evidence successes of our Equality and Diversity strategy. Lea (Chair of our LGBT+ Network)
 has organised LGBT+ social events, university-wide rainbow lanyards and an internal LBGT+
 STEMM conference. We support family-friendly working arrangements, including meetings
 during school-friendly ‘core’ hours and providing childcare for Open Days. We support
 social/family circumstances protecting days of the week and providing carer- and family-friendly
 timetabling. Colleagues with children <4-years are not required for residential field classes. We
 have furthered these priorities by installing automated doors and lifts for disability access,
 providing designated spaces for baby changing and gender-neutral toilets. The new state-of-the-
 art School building will provide access to all facilities for all.

 Our research support is available to all, and we monitor uptake by gender and other protected
 characteristics (SP4). 60 % of the Department (40% female) have taken a semester research
 leave 2014-2020. The University Returner’s scheme provides research funding (<£5k) for
 colleagues after maternity leave to support resumption of research activities. We make
 necessary adjustments to workload and expectations, according to University HR policy, for staff
 with long-term medical, mental health, social or family circumstances to ensure continuation in
 role. Career breaks can enable staff (including research staff) to undertake uninterrupted
 reflection on their career, and to return or otherwise on completion. In 2015, following family
 relocation, a colleague undertook a period of part-time employment to establish whether they
 could continue with their role at Liverpool. We are fully committed participants in the University’s
 Annual Wellbeing Week, with a full programme of events. Wellbeing is a priority, with Staff
 Satisfactory Surveys showing 92% enjoy their work and 88% feel a sense of personal

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 achievement from their work, and the School annual away day (University’s Ness Botanical
 Gardens) combines strategic discussion with togetherness and wellbeing activities and our
 Annual Staff Awards presentations.

 Our REF2020 preparation involved pre-publication reviews available to all and triannual ‘Raising
 the Level’ publication workshops embed a constructive approach supporting publishing
 research. Many colleagues (30%) have outputs reviewed before submission for publication. This
 support has seen significant increase in the targeting of top ranked journals (Fig. 4). Authors,
 including our REF ineligible PDRA community (CONCORDAT), can nominate up to four papers
 for our anonymised annual REF review process. Our Review Panel is 12 people (34% female)
 and female colleagues completed 38% of the reviews. Impact Leads coordinated our impact-
 case development, reviews, and submission. Grades for outputs and impact informed our REF
 Selection Panels, which comprised School/Department Heads, Research Director, 2x Early
 Career and 3 other members to ensure academic coverage (43% female).




 Fig. 4. UoA14’s 960 (2014-2020) % outputs in the top journals (SciVal - Citescore).

 2.1.4 Supporting our researchers
 All colleagues (SP4) receive an annual workload allocation for research (40%), augmented by a
 budget allocated and dispensed by research groups. Our workload model follows our Athena
 SWAN action plan and integrates core activities (research/impact, teaching, administration,
 collegiality) protecting individual research time (>1 research day per week during semesters).
 New colleagues receive an individual start-up fund of c. £5k (according to equipment and travel
 needs) to support their first three research years. Further, eight colleagues benefited from the
 University Early Career Researcher and Returners Research Fund that provides small (<£5k)
 research grants. The N8 Research Partnership (the research-intensive universities in northern
 England) identified Dean and Hacket-Pain, beneficiaries of ECR Research Funding, as N8 New
 Pioneers celebrating our exceptional early career academics. Multiple internal ODA Seed Fund
 awards, including support for numerous early career colleagues, have facilitated our research in
 low- and middle-income countries, and leading to >£1.5M in larger GCRF grant successes.

 New colleagues have individual meetings with the Dean of School (biannual) and with Head of
 Department (quarterly) to facilitate a strong induction to life at Liverpool. Mentoring support from
 senior academics and lighter initial teaching loads assist our newly appointed people.
 Colleagues give introductory research presentations at our quarterly New Staff Research
 Interest Sharing Events. The School Early Career Academic Forum runs regular themed events
 including Early Career Networking, Probation and Promotion, and Grant Writing workshops. Our
 administrative structures have Early Career and postdoctoral researcher representation,
 including School Management Team and Research Strategy Group. All new colleagues
 undertake training courses through The Academy (CONCORDAT), to help develop research,

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leadership, and teaching skills. We facilitate Early Career colleagues driving PhD supervision by
 using a ‘buddy-system’ of co-supervision with senior colleagues and by it forming a secondary
 recruitment metric for competitive studentships. In Geography and Planning 100% of academic
 staff were involved in PhD supervision 2014-2020. Exemplifying our approach, Smedley
 recruited in 2018 was supported with research time, a starters fund, technical support,
 Liverpool’s Early Career and Returners Fund Grant, two funded PhD students (NERC and
 University) and some laboratory funding, which have enabled her to grow a research team and
 obtain further funding developing a world-class Liverpool Luminescence Laboratory.

 2.1.5 Research leave policy
 One semester of research leave in five years, on average, is available to all staff to facilitate their
 excellence across research, impact and knowledge exchange activities. Many (60%) have taken
 advantage of these opportunities with the shortfall reflecting new appointments, and the 40%
 female uptake of research leave exceeds our 30% proportion of female staff. Of those awarded
 research leave, 56% achieved promotion within 18 months evidencing the success of this policy.
 Successes arising from leave include: Peters and Davies using their respective research leaves
 to produce new books, with Peters 'Sound, space, society: Rebel radio' receiving excellent
 reviews, being selected for the ‘Author meets critic’ Panel at the Annual Association of American
 Geographers conference and contributing towards promotions to Senior Lecturer and Reader.
 Davies produced the book ‘Geographies of Anticolonialism: Political Networks across and
 beyond South India, c. 1900-1930’ contributing towards promotion to Senior Lecturer. Arribas-
 Bel used his 2019 leave to win a £433k ESRC/Turing A.I. Fellowship leading to promotion to
 Senior Lecturer and becoming the inaugural Spatial Data Scientist of the year (2020). Leonardi
 used leave 2018-19 for NERC/NSF funded research to model numerically wetlands behaviour
 under different wave climate and storms conditions, which contributed towards promotion to
 Senior Lecturer. Cooper used leave 2016-17 to secure NERC funding for the ‘Erosion Hazards
 in River Catchments: Making Critical Infrastructure More Climate Resilient’ project and an E.U.
 Horizon 2020 HYDRALAB+ Transnational access grant contributed to promotion to Reader. Lea
 used research leave (2018) to win a £1.05M UKRI Fellowship (2019-2026) focused on ‘Ice sheet
 and glacier stability in a warming world’ and was promoted to Senior Lecturer.

 2.1.6 Research exchanges and civic engagement
 Civic engagement and conducting research of relevance to society are strategic priorities for the
 Department (SP2). Our Research Groups support these activities using their annual budget in
 part to support civic engagement and knowledge exchange activities. The Environmental
 Change Research Group convened a Climate Impacts Workshop (2018) facilitating exchanges
 and showcasing our research with guests from the Environment Agency (Maas and Orr) and the
 UK Government’s independent Committee on Climate Change (Russell). The University Press
 Office and the Consultancy Team maintain a registry of research expertise and encourage
 individuals in their interaction with business, industry, and the public/third sector. Our LGBT+
 Network encouraged a strong presence at the 2020 LGBT+ STEMMinar, an annual research
 conference celebrating the work of STEMM researchers who identify as LGBT+ (SP4). Research
 grants facilitate our research interactions, such as two successive multiple-prize winning
 European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) projects, the Centre for Global Eco-Innovation
 (2012-2015) and the Low-Carbon Eco-Innovatory (2015-2023). These were the only centres of
 their kind in Europe and focused on collaborations between Universities in Northwest England
 and the region’s small and medium enterprises to develop new low-carbon products and
 services (ICS2).

 Funding support to facilitate our exchanges with business, industry, and the public/third sector
 from 2014 to 2020 came from University Knowledge Exchange and Impact Vouchers (KE&I),
 School Impact awards and external sources. KE&I vouchers enabled research focused on
 ‘Reframing fatness’ (Evans) to produce the ‘Flying While Fat’ animation (with Stacy Bias and the
 Deaf and Disability Arts Festival 2017), which was launched at the Unity Theatre, displayed in
 the Bluecoat Gallery and Tate Liverpool (> 760k views Youtube/AlJazeera). Plater, with
 Liverpool City Council and the National Oceanography Centre, used a KE&I voucher to report on
 the viability of renewable energy technologies for the River Mersey. This supported the Liverpool

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 City Region Metro Mayor’s (Steve Rotherham) vision for a zero-carbon city-region by 2040 and
 resulted in membership of the Liverpool Energy Strategy Advisory Group.

 Our various doctoral training centres either require or encourage connections with Stakeholders,
 Business, and Industry. With 2014-2020, the ESRC Data Analytics and Society Centre for
 Doctoral Training developing 100% of PhDs with partner organisations, 50% of ESRC North
 West Doctoral Training Partnership PhD studentships conducted with CASE partners including
 local community and national organisations. The Liverpool-Manchester- NOC NERC Doctoral
 Training Partnership included 60% PhD’s with CASE Industry Partnerships and our EPSRC Risk
 and Uncertainty Centre for Doctoral Training PhDs were 100% stakeholder partnerships.

 2.1.7 Stimulating research impact
 Impact of our research is a strategic priority (SP2) and activity eligible for School Research
 Leave, recognised in workload models, and demonstrations of current and emerging impact are
 recognised in our recruitment and promotion criteria. Liverpool has an institutional EPSRC Grant
 used to award Impact Accelerator Accounts (EPSRC-IAA) to operationalise our research. Plater
 built on the EPSRC-funded ARCoES (Adaptation and Resilience of Coastal Energy Supply)
 project to build decision support tools of direct relevance to the nuclear energy and coastal
 management sectors. Research ‘Future-proofing the UK’s coastal energy supply from climate
 change’ is responding to the urgent need to predict the long-term impacts of climate change on
 Britain’s shores enhancing the resilience of power stations and coastal communities (e.g., rising
 sea levels, increases in extreme weather and storms over the coming decades. Impact funding
 has (i) determined the flood risk (e.g., storm and wave height) for Magnox nuclear energy sites
 (e.g., Dungeness) and (ii) evidencing the mitigation of coastal flood and erosion risk achieved by
 beach mega-recharge on Walney Island and the Fylde Peninsula protecting National Grid
 assets.

 In providing bespoke research support for innovation across small/medium enterprises in the
 Northwest and Liverpool City Region, our ERDF-funded (P-I: Plater) Centre for Global Eco-
 Innovation (2012-2015) and Low-Carbon Eco-Innovatory (2015-2023) have both developed new
 products and services that reduce energy use, carbon emissions and waste. In funding 83
 industry-based PhDs (63 across all Faculties at the University of Liverpool), the projects have
 engaged with over 300 businesses, achieved £3M of inward investment, created 236 jobs,
 generated 51 new eco-innovative products and services, and diverted 95,000 tonnes of material
 from landfill (ICS2). Examples from this research include, Marlan’s enhanced radar-based
 products for monitoring coastal change in the intertidal zone and below the water line, which
 have numerous applications including guiding maintenance interventions such as routine
 pilotage and tug assistance, and bathymetric surveys and dredging operations to maintain
 navigable channels.

 Green and Rowe have played a key role in enabling policy actions, influencing decisions, and
 increasing public awareness and changing minds on geographical inequalities. To date Local
 and Central Government departments (28 and 175 unique downloads) have used these bespoke
 indicators developed for Public Health England (ICS1). The work has influenced governmental
 decision-making and priorities, being used as key sources for reports by the Ministry of Housing,
 the UK2070 Commission, Department for Communities & Local Government, the UK Chief
 Medical Officer and United Nations (ICS1). Parallel and extensive media engagement and
 contributions to A-level curricula have helped to inform the public. Planning at Liverpool has a
 rich history of shaping planning practice. Our support in developing planning policy historically
 included conducting the Department of Communities and Local Government funded 'Spatial
 Plans in Practice' (Shaw, Lord) contributing evidence to the Planning Act (2008) and Community
 Infrastructure Levy regulations (2010). Since then, Lord and Dunning held consecutive ESRC
 awards and led multi-institution (Cambridge, LSE, Oxford, Sheffield) research on developer
 contributions for the Ministry for Housing Communities and Local Government (reporting 2018
 and 2020). These studies led to a programme of planning reforms announced by the Prime
 Minister at the 2018 National Planning Conference that ultimately resulted in £1bn extra funding
 for community infrastructure and public goods (ICS5). Maximising our educational impact, we
 support to staff in translating their research into education materials (key stages 2-5 and A Level

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 masterclasses) in collaboration with the University’s Centre for Innovation in Education. We lead
 in organisations promoting ‘Research-led learning’, with Cooper on the EGU Education Working
 Group and Peters was the RGS-IBG Social and Cultural Geography Research Group’s
 Education Officer. Cooper co-authored the 2020 EGU Publication ‘Challenges and opportunities
 for University-level Geoscience teaching’ and convened the International Association of
 Hydraulic Engineering and Research joint academic-practitioners Higher Education conference.

 2.2 Research students
 2.2.1 Our ethos in postgraduate research
 Our postgraduates are key to the vibrancy and vitality of the research culture, indeed much of
 our ground-breaking research comes from high-risk, high-reward exploration undertaken by our
 postgraduates. Our PhD graduates are positioned to pursue a career in academia, and many
 others are great successes outside academia. Our ethos has been to centre societal relevance
 and civic engagement as core to their research (SP2) and this is reflected in our breadth of
 postgraduate training beyond specialist research skills, and the strong embedding of
 collaboration with industry and business in our postgraduate experience. The outcome is an
 employable motivated cohort with connections and experience both inside and outside
 academia. The vitality of our postgraduate environment is a strategic priority championing the
 growth, career development and excellence of our postgraduates (SP4). There are 114 PhD
 students (49% female, 42% BAME) recruitment 2014-2020 and an average annual intake that
 has increased from ~11 in 2012-2014 to >20 in 2016-2019 (Fig. 5). Postgraduate students
 starting since 2014 include 47% from the UK, 9% EU and 44% other overseas. We achieved this
 by driving funded doctoral training partnerships across our four research groups drawing on
 multiple Research Councils and our European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) projects.




 Fig. 5. Annual intake of postgraduate research students in Geography and Planning, and our
 REF2014 average.

 These partnerships include the largest ESRC doctoral training partnership in England, the
 Northwest Doctoral Training Centre running 2011-2016 with Universities of Lancaster and
 Manchester. It was renewed in 2016-2022 (~£18M), adding Keele University, and awarding > 41
 PhD studentships per year. Home to four pathways: Geography and Environment, Planning and
 Environment, Social Statistics, and Development and Humanitarianism, we have recruited 14
 students (2014-2020). In addition, the 3 cycles of the ESRC Data Analytics and Society
 Centre for Doctoral Training (Liverpool, Leeds, Manchester, and Sheffield) provides ~16
 studentships annually, all developed with business and industrial partners. Geographic Data
 Science Lab researchers have secured thirteen students (2014-2020). We have benefited from
 the NERC Adapting to the Challenges of a Changing Environment (ACCE) DTP (2013-
 2023), NERC Liverpool-Manchester-National Oceanography Centre DTP (2013-2018) and
 the EPRSC Risk and Uncertainty CDT, with 12 students (2014-2020) in Geography and
 Planning. Industry and business connections apply to 60% of our UKRI awards conducted as


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CASE studentships with stakeholder partners. Doctoral Training Partnerships embedded within
 our successive ERDF Ecoinnovatory projects (P-I: Plater) built strong links with small and
 medium enterprises in northwest England delivering collaborations (70 PhD projects) developing
 new low-carbon products and services (ICS2), and with 45 PhD students (2014-2019) based at
 Liverpool. A further 23 PhDs come from the extension of the Low Carbon Eco-innovatory
 (2019-2023), and the newly awarded Eco-Innovation NW partnership (2020-2023) with a
 consortium of 9 universities across the Northwest and N Wales.

 We had four PhDs funded through the Dual PhD programme between the National Tsing Hua
 University (NTHU: Taiwan) and University of Liverpool. Postgraduates funded directly from
 research grants, included six co-funded postgraduates on the EPSRC-funded ARCoES project
 (Plater). The NERC-funded BLUEcoast project (Plater) has three indirectly co-funded
 postgraduates, and the EU-funded Urban GreenUP project (Clement) has one co-funded
 postgraduate. The AHRC funded ‘Learning from the past’ project (Macdonald) had two funded
 postgraduates. Five Postgraduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) posts received 5 years of School
 funding, and these combine PhD research opportunities with teaching responsibility.
 Postgraduates from overseas, include PhDs funded by the Saudi Arabian Government (x7),
 scholarship schemes with the Commonwealth, China, Indonesia, Azerbijan and Mexico (x6), and
 we co-supervise postgraduates (x8) with our Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU) in
 China.

 2.2.2 Support, supervision, and training of postgraduate students
 Our training programme, monitoring framework, supervision (Fig. 6), alongside the quality of our
 students drives our ~95% completion rate (SP4). Postgraduates complete a ‘Training and
 Assessment Programme’ and a ‘Development Needs Analysis’ during induction with training
 offered across the University via the Liverpool Doctoral College and our Doctoral Training
 Partnerships, irrespective of their funding. The skills training includes communication, impact
 and knowledge exchange, ethics, employability and entrepreneurship, alongside more generic
 bespoke research skills.

 In the postgraduate survey (PRES 2019: Q12_1a) 96% respondents have gained skills in
 applying appropriate research methodologies, tools, and techniques from our supervision and
 training opportunities. A minimum of monthly formal recorded meetings ensures engagement,
 completion of training and progression. Our Annual Conference and progress review meetings
 provide formal independent monitoring of progression and a means for identifying any additional
 support mechanisms (Fig. 6). Peer mentoring operates for all postgraduates. Our PhD students
 gain experience in teaching, undergraduate supervision, and practical demonstration, but we
 define the maximum load, provide training and support.

 Our Doctoral Centres hold parallel Annual Conferences, workshops, and residential away days.
 Postgraduate participation is encouraged at all School research events, e.g., grant writing and
 paper-writing workshops. Support for academic development of our PhD students is evidenced
 by our postgraduate’s conference attendance (92%) and presentation (77%) (source: PRES
 2019: Q16_6 & 7). Our postgraduate students have won several prizes and awards at major
 international conferences, including the EGU Outstanding Student Poster/PICO Award (2018:
 Lyddon) and the British Society for Geomorphology Bernie Smith Poster Prize (2015:
 Vardhanabindu). Of the 960 Department outputs (2014-2020) 17% of the total had postgraduate
 students as lead or co-authors.




                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Fig. 6. Our postgraduate journey from application to completion

 2.2.3 Postgraduate culture, skills development, and career preparation
 To generate and implement initiatives for improving the postgraduate experience (SP4), the
 School has a formal postgraduate committee. All meetings of our Doctoral Centres, School and
 Faculty postgraduate committees have postgraduate representatives. Our Postgraduate Director
 operates a programme of informal drop-in events, including weekly on-line sessions under
 Covid-19, which focus on specific issues for postgraduates. Research Group meetings enable
 postgraduate students to develop communication and presentation skills, e.g., practice
 conference presentations. PhD students help organise Department and Research Group
 seminar series. School postgraduate workshops on fellowships, employability and impact
 engender a focus on career development. We host national vocational workshops for
 postgraduate communities, for example the 2019 RSG-IBG New to teaching in Geography,
 Earth, and Environmental Science event for northwest England (30 delegates).

 Our ERDF Centres function in part as Doctoral Training Partnerships and embed PhD
 researchers in a partner SME, leading to job creation and increased gross value added
 alongside resource and energy savings. They also provide training in elements of intellectual
 property, commercialization, marketing, and lifecycle analysis (SP2). These studentships provide
 exceptional vocational training for students who end up in a career outside of research.
 Successes of these research exchanges are evident in three collaborative PhDs with Marlan

                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Maritime Technologies all focused on improving understanding and monitoring of the intertidal
 and shallow water marine sectors (ICS2) and leading to former PGR student Bird becoming
 Director of Research at Marlan Maritime Technologies (Fig. 2). Our ERDF projects also provide
 for short (4-6 weeks) internships with Liverpool City Region small/medium enterprises to
 undertake research progressing innovation from the drawing board to market.

 Both our ESRC Doctoral Centres support student development with specific funds for Overseas
 Institutional Visits and in organising Interdisciplinary Events. There are also biannual competitive
 Internship schemes, which encourage personal and career development through <6-month
 placements with public, private, or civil society (voluntary) sector organisations. The Data
 Analytics and Society CDT programme requires candidate to conduct an internship and led to
 former PGR students gaining employment in these organisations, e.g., Data Scientist at Pets at
 Home (Dr Davies), and Public Health England (Dr Dearden). The EPSRC and NERC DTPs also
 support internships for our postgraduates, e.g., EPSRC Risk & Uncertainty postgraduate Phillips
 completed a 3-month NPIF EPSRC placement scheme at the Mersey Forest on rewilding
 initiatives and flood management.

 We are proud of achievements and quality of our postgraduates, with ~25% becoming lecturers
 including Hall (Manchester), Schillereff (Kings London), Gustavsson (Exeter), Clear (Liverpool
 Hope), Vardhanabindu (Mahidol~ Thailand) and Sangster (Liverpool). Others hold prestigious
 research fellowships: Prime (National Oceanography Centre), Shaw (Earth Observatory of
 Singapore) and Ramirez-Mendoza (Ensenada Center for Scientific Research).

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities
 3.1 Estate infrastructure
 Colocation of the Department in 2015 was part of a journey, and a £40M build project (2020-
 2024) will complete our vision for an integrated School of Environmental Sciences. A Project
 Control Group (45% female) oversees this bringing of the School together in new state-of-the-art
 integrated research facilities. Currently progressing through Architects and RIBA Plan of Work
 Stage 2 with £1M committed 2020-21, this forms part of the planned transformation of the
 University’s Precinct and the wider Knowledge Quarter of the City of Liverpool. Located in the
 Science and Engineering Zone, there are immediate adjacencies to the University’s Digital
 Innovation Facility and Liverpool’s Sensor City, whilst retaining our strong cross-campus
 collaborations with Health and Life Sciences, Humanities and Social Sciences, and the Heseltine
 Institute for Public Policy. Our research is integral to Liverpool’s new Digital Innovation Facility, a
 centre of excellence in simulation and virtual reality, with our contributions focused on
 developing new consumer data products and applying Artificial Intelligence in data analysis.

 Roxby Building colocation has developed an integrated research culture (SP3) installing >290
 m2 flexible community spaces for research teams. These five refurbished spaces provide flexible
 open plan working project suites available to our larger funded research projects. These spaces
 reconfigure easily to allow adaptation to future funding. This flexible ethos extends to hives of
 individual staff offices, breakout rooms and social spaces planned for the new School building.
 For example, one suite is home to 35 postgraduates, postdoctoral researchers and visiting
 fellows accommodating the continued growth of the Geographic Data Science Lab and ESRC-
 funded Data Analytics and Society CDT conducting ground-breaking research on the methods
 and applications in handling new forms of Big Data. Another hosts >24 postgraduates, research
 assistants, visiting fellows and project managers across our Planning, Environmental
 Assessment and Management group, hosting sustainable resource management and planning
 projects.

 3.2 Infrastructure supporting income generation
 Income generation sustaining our research is encouraged through our four research groups
 (SP1) and our leadership of interdisciplinary research centres/institutes (SP3). There is strategic
 resilience in our income generation by targeting a diverse range of funders (Fig. 7). We provide
 a supportive, collegiate, and inclusive environment for colleagues developing research funding
 applications, with a mandatory internal review process for all grants > £20k. The objective has
                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been to support all staff (SP4) in developing research bids (CONCORDAT), growing (80%
 including ERDF) our research income. Our income growth and greater diversity since REF2014
 reflects the early discussion of research ideas and impact opportunities at Research Group
 meetings, as well events organized by Research Strategy Group, e.g., School grant writing
 workshops. Our formal Internal Grant Review processes are accessible to all (CONCORDAT),
 and start >4 months before submission, with presentation of Outline Research Proposals either
 in research groups or at our UKRI Grant Pitching events. We review two-page grant concept
 notes outlining the research programme, providing feedback 3 months before submission. Our
 Internal Peer Review Colleges (e.g., for NERC) conducts reviews for all full bids at 1-2 months
 ahead of submission. The University of Liverpool was not under NERC demand management for
 much of REF 2014-2020, which reflects our successful internal review processes.




 Fig. 7. Diversity in our portfolio of research income sources across 2014-2020 (including ERDF).

 Our Research Offices support academics to sustain and grow research activities, by identifying
 diverse funding opportunities (Fig. 7), advising on research proposals, mock interview panels,
 co-ordinating and supporting large collaborative bids, demand management and other peer
 review schemes, consultancy contracts, project management, and delivering impact. We run
 Research Professional Development for all staff (CONCORDAT) via The Academy and our
 School ‘Grant Writing Workshops’, led by Parker-Derrington Ltd. (2015, 2019). Those workshops
 inspired 3x annual grant writing workshops run-locally and bespoke events for Early Career
 Academics (SP4). These initiatives helped individuals hone skills in writing research
 applications, with immediate cross-disciplinary successes e.g., Riley, Boyle and Chiverrell using
 the 2015 workshop to write a Leverhulme Trust funded interdisciplinary project assessing and
 modelling the past and future soil erosion impacts of agricultural change in Britain.

 3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure
 Delivering SP5 we have built, developed, and host physical and digital data archives and on-line
 data portals. These are examples of how our research has contributed significant archives and
 collections and include climate and health research (Morse) from the EU FP7 funded Liverpool
 Malaria Model and other infectious disease models (e.g., Malaria, Rift Valley Fever). The
 models, software, and reports are a significant freely available web resource. The Data
 Analytics and Society CDT and the Consumer Data Research Centre (P-I: Singleton) have
 space newly-built to enable the compilation, processing, and governance of the vast amount of
 UK consumer data generated each day. These large digital databases provide valuable insight
 helping organisations and researchers, with the data are available through parallel Online
 Interactive Map and Data Access Portals. The NERC funded MAST-NET project (Hacket-Pain)
 has built a database (MASTREE+) to facilitate investigation of the causes of synchronised and
 variable seed production in plants. Our Library Research Data Manager has helped produce

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 data sharing agreements and protocols for the management of intellectual property for
 MASTREE+.

 Our Department installed a new (£25k) 32 m2 bespoke video-conferencing facility (10-12 people)
 available to all academics and postgraduates. State-of-the-art presentation software, high-quality
 multimedia projection and audio systems feature in all our seminar and lecture theatres,
 including the capability to record all presentations (audio and visual). Development and
 application of the Liverpool Malaria Model and other climate infectious disease (e.g., blue
 tongue) models (Morse) on EU-FP7, BBSRC projects and the UKRI 'One Health Research
 Network for the Horn of Africa' projects drew on High Performance and High Throughput
 Computing facilities provided centrally.

 The School Map Library (>500 atlases, 100,000 maps) provided for Davies’ research on the
 1919 Race Riots in Liverpool. This participatory research produced maps of the city’s black
 population at the time, a short film which is now used in public education, public engagement-led
 impact with walking tours since 2017 (over 500 attendees), and a 2019 exhibition in the
 Liverpool Central Library. This exhibition included the first ever maps of Liverpool’s West African
 and Caribbean residencies detailing government responses to the 1919 riots (from The National
 Archives). Liverpool’s Victoria Gallery & Museum presents both the 127-year history of the
 University of Liverpool and our research e.g., the ‘Can’t See the Wood for The Trees’ exhibition
 (Hacket-Pain). Research on the long-term and future evolution of the Merseyside coast (Plater)
 featured at the ‘2019 Centenary of the Liverpool Tidal Institute’ at the Mersey Maritime Museum.

 3.4 Impact infrastructure and support
 Conducting research that is relevant to society is a strategic priority (SP2) and our Impact Leads
 play an important role in supporting and developing both our impact and a wealth of community
 and professional outreach activities. Annual Impact Showcases share our impact experiences
 with colleagues across the Department encouraging others in developing the future impact
 portfolio. Our Directory of Civic Engagement evidences the actions and events where we
 connect to and support, Liverpool City Region for example, in addressing problems, e.g., the
 regional COVID-19 response (SP2). University Media Officers help colleagues widening
 dissemination and impact of our research and provide Media professional development, for
 example the ‘Reacting to the News: Using your knowledge to gain media coverage’ workshop.
 The Press Office installed an audio-visual facility with high-resolution cameras and audio capture
 for media outlets to use for televised remote interviews, for example facilitating interviews of
 Green on BBC News (audience 550,000). The team advise over interactions with the media and
 help us publicise work through targeted press releases and encouraging their take-up and
 progression (see section 4.4). The University’s Consultancy Team provides a dedicated
 consultancy service, enabling academic staff to share their skills and apply their research
 expertise to help a wide range of organisations, adding breadth to our impact portfolio. For
 example, assisting the Marine Spatial Planning team (Jay) in positioning to provide consultancy
 services for the EU (£590k) addressing new directives requiring coastal Member States by 2021
 to prepare cross-sectoral maritime spatial plans for their waters and better manage the various
 activities that take place at sea (ICS3). Planning, Environmental Assessment and
 Management colleagues (Lord, Dunning) were assisted in developing a new research project
 that used their expertise in data analysis and knowledge of housing and communities with
 Cobalt Housing, a Liverpool housing association. This research informed Cobalt Housing’s
 vision for how existing and new housing stock supports the wider social and economic
 development in three deprived wards in north Liverpool, with the build of ~1000 homes in the
 coming decade with transformative impacts for these neighbourhoods (ICS5).

 3.5 Laboratory and Facility provision
 Providing facilities conducive to world-leading research is a strategic priority (SP1), and our
 laboratory facilities benefitted from £1.38M investment (2014-2020) and include the Hydraulics
 Laboratory (in the School of Engineering); facilities in the Roxby Building and the Higher
 Education Academy’s 2016 Collaborative Award for Teaching Excellence (CATE) winning
 Central Teaching Laboratory. The School, with the School of Physical Sciences, led the

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Central Teaching Laboratory development (£26M), which embedded ‘research-led’ science as
 fundamental to our learning program. The Department championed and runs Environmental
 Change facilities in the Central Teaching Laboratory, including a new Geotek Multi-Sensor
 Core Logger (£140k) and Bruker Near-infrared Spectrometer (£60k).

 Our Qualitative Research Hub supports the priorities of Power, Space & Cultural Change
 researchers. Qualitative research increasingly requires a range of equipment and technologies
 to enable our work and for methodological innovation. The hub is home to new (£15k) state-of-
 the-art DSLR cameras and tripods, underwater and rugged terrain cameras; Go Pros and
 mounts; Dictaphones, transcription kits and noise-cancelling headsets, all to support our
 qualitative research. In the Geographic Data Science Lab, the ISO27001 accredited Secure
 Data lab (£520k) provides central provision to sensitive consumer data held by the ESRC
 Consumer Data Research Centre and integral to provision of Office for National Statistics
 Secure Research Service access. Geographic Data Science Lab provides a range of
 advanced computational facilities including a cluster of Dell Precision workstations (£140k) and
 investment included analytics platforms including Tensor Flow, H2O and RAPIDS. The
 laboratory runs centrally a Hadoop cluster consisting of nine Dell R730XD, R630 Servers and
 disk storage of over 100 terabytes (£125k). The laboratory has pioneered new methods that
 have defined nationally extensive and small area measures of retail area extent, the “health”
 context of place (ICS1), and Internet use and engagement.

 The Environmental Change laboratories, supported by three technical staff, have also
 benefited from a total of ~£380k of core (2014-2020) investment. We have a new Thermo
 Evolution photospectrometer and a Spectro XEPOS Energy Dispersive X-ray Fluorescence
 Analyser (XRF) (£65k) extending our element analytical range. New particle size and shape
 analytical equipment include a Beckman-Coulter Ls330 Laser granulometer (£35k) and a
 Malvern Morphologi G3 automated particle size/shape analyser (£80k). These new Roxby
 facilities, when combined with new Central Teaching Laboratory research equipment facilitate
 our pioneering of new numerical and analytical approaches. These have included refining the
 application of Geotek µXRF core scanning (Chiverrell), novel methods for quantifying sediment
 components Diffuse Reflectance Near-infrared Spectrometry (Boyle, Chiverrell), and identifying
 signatures of flood magnitude in lake sediments using particle size data (Chiverrell).

 Liverpool Luminescence Laboratory was purpose built in 2005, with new leadership
 (Smedley) and investment 2018-2020 including an upgraded Risø TL/OSL DA-20 automated
 single-grain system (£40k), installing new diamond-tipped drill and low-speed saws for analysing
 rock slices for burial and exposure dating thereby developing novel approaches for
 reconstructing rock weathering rates (£15k, Royal Society). A new UVACube solar simulator
 allows experimental research replicating sunlight bleaching of luminescence signals. An
 excellent research facility, the Liverpool Luminescence Laboratory is developing and refining
 cutting-edge OSL methodologies.

 Environmental Change researchers are key stakeholders in the refurbished Faculty shared
 facility, the Hydraulics Laboratory, for fundamental research on how water and sediment
 move. Department investment has refurbished the Coastal Flow Channel to study near-shore
 sediment transport processes and the Waves & Currents Channel to study fluvial and estuarine
 processes (Cooper, Leonardi, Plater). New capabilities include a Turbidity Channel, and a
 Shallow Flow Channel and Rainfall Simulator for runoff and erosion experiments. New state-of-
 the-art equipment include a LaVision Tomographic Particle Image Velocimetry (PIV) system, IO
 Industries Large-Scale PIV system and iDS 3D camera for capturing turbulent flows, sediment
 movement and pollutant transport (Cooper, Higham). Joint investment with Engineering has
 provided a new acoustic equipment including Ultrasonic Velocity Profiler, Acoustic Doppler
 Velocimeter and Current Profiler, an AQUAscat, and a 2G Robotics underwater bedscanner.




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society
 4.1 Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships
 Strong collaborations underpin our research (SP1), and the global distribution of co-authors
 evidences the effectiveness of our international networks (Fig. 8). Of the UoA14 960 outputs
 authored 2014-2020 (Scopus), 498 (52%) involve international co-authors and the 2278 co-
 authors comprise 62% international collaborators distributed across six continents. Research
 grants drive some of these collaborative networks, e.g., in the Netherlands (Singleton), and




  Fig. 8. Distribution of research collaboration
  measured as % of all output co-authorships
  across countries in 2014-2020 (Scopus).

 Spain (Arribas-Bel); and in the USA (Singleton)
 with Carto and ESRI (Fig. 8). Leonardi’s
 cooperative agreements with the US Geological
 Survey, Woods Hole Science Centre, and Boston
 University address NERC-NSF funded research
 on Hurricane Sandy impacts on the Salt Marshes
 of New Jersey (Fig. 8). Arribas-Bel is honorary
 fellow at Spatial Data Science Centers (Chicago
 and California Riverside). With the United
 Nations and University of Queensland, Rowe
 collaborates on international projects on the
 impacts of internal migration differing across
 countries. Smedley, Montoya, Hooke, and
 Macdonald have burgeoning research
 connections across South America exploring
 forest ecosystem changes, fluvial dynamics, and
 the decline of the Patagonian ice-cap. In the UK,
 the NERC Consortium Britice-Chrono established
 strong links with >11 Universities and UKRI
 centres (Scottish Universities Environmental           Fig. 9. UK research collaboration
 Research Centre, British Geological Survey and         measured as % of all co-authored
 British Antarctic Survey) producing extensive UK       outputs in the period 2014-2020
 co-author networks (Chiverrell, Smedley) (Fig. 9).     (Scopus).


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our doctoral centres (Section 2.2) built numerous collaborative links. Our European Regional
 Development Fund (ERDF) funded projects connect Inventya LTD, Liverpool, Liverpool John
 Moores and Lancaster Universities (ICS2). The ESRC North West Doctoral Training Partnership
 links Liverpool, Lancaster, Keele and Manchester, the ESRC Data Analytics and Society Centre
 for Doctoral Training (Liverpool, Leeds, Manchester, and Sheffield), the 2013-2023 NERC
 Adapting to the Challenges of a Changing Environment (ACCE) DTP (Liverpool, Sheffield, and
 York), and the 2013-2018 NERC DTP Understanding the Earth, Atmosphere and Ocean
 (Liverpool, Manchester, and National Oceanography Centre Liverpool). Each of these doctoral
 training partnerships has contributed strong collaboration reflected in our UK co-author networks
 (Fig. 9).

 Collaborations with China benefit from our sister university Xi’an Jiaotong Liverpool University
 (XJTLU) (Suzhou), the largest joint venture university in China. Our research links include 25
 PhD students currently co-supervised and strengthening under with the advocacy of Liverpool
 Dean of XJTLU (Blackford). Our connections in China span the Chinese Academy of Sciences,
 Beijing Normal University, Nanjing University and East China Normal University, and are
 multifaceted (Fig. 8). They include National Natural Science Foundation of China funded
 collaborations, with Dong exploring the links between neighbourhood environments individuals
 and communities leading satisfying lives. Cooper works with Ministry of Education Key
 Laboratory for Coast and Island Development, Nanjing University and State Key Laboratory of
 Estuarine and Coastal Research supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China
 funding, examining why there has been a rapid disappearance of intertidal mudflats in this
 region. Lord is leading a £0.9M multi-institution, trans-national project funded by the ESRC and
 Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) that focuses on Land Value Capture (ICS5).

 Our international visitors foster collaboration, presenting seminars at Liverpool and building co-
 author networks in Japan, China, USA, Chile, Scandinavia, and southern Europe (Fig. 8).
 Examples include Burrell hosting Research Council (Norway) funded visitors Bevelander and
 Odden from Malmo and VID Specialized Universities. Cooper hosted numerous MEXT-funded
 (Japan) visits from Prof Onda and a further 12 visitors (Tsukuba University, Japan) for Nuclear
 Human Resource Development research on the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster. Cooper
 hosted Benwei Shi (Nanjing, China) under NSFC funding and Luca Mao (Pontificia Universidad
 Chile) under CONICYT-Fondecyt funding. Leonardi hosted Xiaomei Nian (State Key Laboratory
 for Estuary and Coastal Research, Shanghai) under China Scholarship Council funding.
 Spielman (Boulder, Colorado) visited Singleton working on an International Journal of
 Geographic Information Science output establishing the Open Geographic Information Science
 framework. University Exchange Scheme fellowships, led to Riley hosting Dr Williams, Burrell
 hosting Dr McCombs and Turner hosting Dr Purdum (all Georgia, USA) on Franklin College-
 University of Liverpool Fellowships. Vacchiano (Milan University) visited Hacket-Pain funded by
 an EU COST Action FP1304 “Towards robust projections of European forests under climate
 change (PROFOUND)” which led to the development of the NERC MAST-NET Project.

 Funded research networks also foster our collaborations, e.g., NERC Global Partnerships
 Seedcorn funded the Liverpool-based MAST-NET Project (Hacket-Pain), a collaboration and
 network building initiative bringing together researchers from Japan, USA, Switzerland, Italy, and
 Poland. Peters hosted 17 interdisciplinary scholars of seabed science from eight different EU
 countries (2017) as part of a Training School on seabed management funded through the EU
 COST Action Network (Co-I: Peters). This network, Ocean Governance for Sustainability:
 Challenges, Options and the Role of Science (2016-2020), produced a paper in Marine Policy
 and an edited book ‘Ocean Governance: Pasts, Presents, Futures’.

 4.2 Interaction and engagement with key research users
 Civic engagement is core to our research portfolio (SP2). Our regional Royal Geographical
 Society sponsored Roxby Lecture Series were initiated during our Geography Centenary
 celebrations and continue as a monthly, public-facing series attended by the public, schools, and
 academics (SP2). The Department and our Research Groups convene regular formal and
 informal under COVID-19 increasingly on-line seminar series. Liverpool’s hosting of major
 conferences included the ‘International workshop on Non-Pollen palynomorphs’ (Marret-Davies:
                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2017), ‘Satellite imagery to monitor urban change’ workshop (Arribas-Bel, Rowe: 2018), the ‘UK
 Luminescence and Electron Spin Resonance Meeting’ (2016), ‘International Conference for
 Carceral Geography’ (Turner: 2018) and ‘UK Planning Research Conference’ (Sturzaker: 2019).
 We provide research services to user communities (SP2), e.g., as expert reviewers for the
 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) on Oceanic - Cryospheric Change (Lea)
 and IPCC 6th Assessment Reports (Lea, Dean). Lea gave evidence and contributed to the final
 report addressing future iceberg risks to the House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee
 Inquiry on ‘The Changing Arctic’. Geographical Data Science Lab are an external member of an
 UK All-Party Parliamentary Group for 'Left Behind' Neighbourhoods committed to improving
 social and economic outcomes for residents in deprived communities. Robinson sits on the
 national Geographical Information Research UK (GISRUK) Steering Committee. We host a
 World Health Organization Collaborating Centre on ‘Health in Impact Assessments’ (Fischer,
 Jha Thakur). Rowe contributed to an UN expert group (2017) on sustainable cities, human
 mobility and international migration, an Office for National Statistics Government Statistical
 Service Advisory Committee on using administrative data (2018) and testified to the UK2070
 Commission (ICS1). Moore gave evidence to the Select Committee on Intergenerational
 Fairness and Provision on the role of communities in reducing inequality between generations
 and delivering an evidence workshop with housing sector stakeholders. Morse and Hooke are
 members of the N8 AgriFood Network. Morse sits on the United Nations Future Earth: Health
 Knowledge Action Network focused creating a sustainable world under the pressures of future
 change. Hooke sits on the UK Environment Agency/DEFRA Flood and Coastal Erosion Risk
 Management Research and Development Advisory Group, and Natural England’s Science
 Advisory Committee. Jay founded the Marine Spatial Planning Research Network running
 Maritime Spatial Planning workshops for the European Commission’s Member State Expert
 Group in in Las Palmas (Gran Canaria) and the European Commission’s Member State Expert
 Group (Brussels) (ICS3).

 4.3 Contributions to the economy and society
 The problem-solving ethos to our research and co-production of knowledge with stakeholders
 (SP2) ensures our research contributes to sustainable economies and communities building
 resilience to environmental and financial shocks. For example, Lord (ICS5) has assessed the
 economic potential for the Albert Dock area for Liverpool City Region Local Enterprise
 Partnership, and Clement showcased the importance of green infrastructure in the development
 of sustainable cities (Liverpool and the Mersey Forest). Darlington-Pollock is the Chair of The
 Equality Trust driving economic and social inequality agenda in the UK. Singleton is on the
 Scientific Committee of Carto, the world’s leading Location Intelligence platform enabling
 organizations to use spatial data and analysis better. Darlington-Pollock, Green, Nurse and
 Hacket-Pain engaged in the “Ideas for Liverpool” initiative, led by Arup PLC with Liverpool City
 Council to develop an “agenda” for the future development and enhancement of Liverpool. Lord
 is an invited member of the Liverpool City Region Land Commission. In developing a low-carbon
 economy in Northwest England (ICS2), Plater sits on the Liverpool City Region Energy Strategy
 Committee, reporting on potential renewable energy generation and storage, and is Faculty
 liaison with the Mersey Tidal Power Project. Plater also recently contributed to the Combined
 Authority submission for Liverpool’s Freeport status.

 Shaw led the revision of environment and habitat policy, working with practitioners and
 government agencies in Saudi Arabia and Egypt encouraging biodiversity and green growth
 principles in development decision-making. Nurse (ICS4) is an International Advisor to Seoul
 Metropolitan Government and the Changdong-Sanggye Industrial Cluster communicating urban
 regeneration lessons from the Liverpool-One retail-led experience to Seoul. Rowe works closely
 with the Latin American Demographic Centre and the UN Economic Commission for Latin
 America and the Caribbean (2015-), advised Victoria State Government (Australia) (2013-16),
 the National Council of Urban Development (Chile) (2016-17) and is part of the international
 IMAGE project (2011-) (ICS1). Jay was Chair of the Connecting Seas Conference (Hamburg)
 bringing together marine spatial planning experts from the North and Baltic Sea regions (2019)
 (ICS3) and sits on the Welsh Government Marine Planning Stakeholder Group.


                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 Engagement with communities and the public
 In our civic engagement activities (SP2), the University and the Liverpool City Region’s One
 Public Estate Programme established a new partnership on the housing supply chain (ICS5).
 Planning, Environmental Assessment and Management colleagues (Dunning, Lord and
 Moore) are working with local authorities, housing associations and the private sector to explore
 barriers to offsite construction and ways to overcome those barriers. Devolution of Planning
 powers to communities (2011) enabled so-called Neighbourhood Plans for local areas and is the
 focus of our research and impact. By bringing communities together with experts from the
 University (Sturzaker, Sykes), Liverpool City Region officers and members and third sector
 stakeholders we inform communities in their take up of the opportunities available to them
 (ICS4). Research (Green) on the spatial patterns and controls of health issues related to cancer,
 obesity in children and adults, and child mortality (Lancet, 2014, 2015) tackled a range of global
 and regional scales. Policy influence of the work (ICS1) includes informing recommendations in
 Public Health England’s Strategic Plan (4/2016) and feature in the National Health Service (UK)
 long-term plan (1/2019), attracting widespread media interest.




 Fig. 10. Research impact from outputs 2014-2020. A. Media posts and B: Twitter activity arising
 from UoA14 outputs (Altmetrics).

 Our COVID-19 civic response coordinated by the Heseltine Institute (M-Boyle) produced policy
 briefs with Liverpool City Region Combined Authority on active travel options in the region
 (Nurse, Dunning), Universal Basic Income (Thompson), and ‘building back better’ (North). We



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provided ESRC-funded novel geospatial analyses (Green) using ONS data to aid the locating of
 testing sites for Liverpool City Council within Liverpool’s whole city testing COVID-19 pilot.

 Global interest (Fig. 10) in our outputs in mainstream news and social media evidences the
 global public, policy influence, and media interest in our research. The Flying While Fat project
 (Evans) produced YouTube animations shown in Tate Liverpool and Bluecoat Gallery Liverpool
 stimulating public debate and international media coverage. Our flood research featured in UK
 Government reports highlighting the importance of historical and sedimentary data in flood
 frequency estimation. Highlighting how changing climate has shifted the timing of European
 floods (Macdonald) and the extreme nature of recent UK floods (Chiverrell), both attracting
 media attention (e.g., Der Tagesspiegal, the Guardian, BBC and ITV news). Research (Morse)
 on the climate sensitivity of important human and domestic animal pathogens, including malaria,
 Zika virus, blue tongue fever, has been used by the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, an
 EU Commission on Agriculture Scientific Reports, and in World Bank and World Health
 Organisations policy papers on Malaria, Climate Change and Poverty.

 4.5 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 We are committed to the development, reputation and wellbeing of the Geography and Planning
 disciplines (SP1). 100% of Geography colleagues are either fellows the Royal Geographical
 Society (RGS-IBG) or members of RGS-IBG Specialist Groups. Peters received the 2020 RGS-
 IBG Gill Memorial Award for Outstanding Early Career Research in Human Geography. In RGS-
 IBG Specialist Groups we are officers for the British Society for Geomorphology (Grants:
 Smedley), GIScience Research Group (ex-chair: Singleton), Geographies of Justice Research
 Group (Chair: Davies), Participatory Geographies Research Group (Gahman), Social and
 Cultural Geography Research Group (Education: Peters), Carceral Geography Working Group
 (Secretary: Turner), Population Geography Research Group (Communications: Darlington-
 Pollock), and the Quantitative Methods Research Group (Chair: Arribas-Bel, EDI: Robinson).
 Arribas-Bel was the recipient of the inaugural 2020 CARTO `Spatial Data Scientist of the Year’
 award. 70% of Planning colleagues are members of professional bodies or learned societies
 including the Royal Town Planning Institute, Architects Registration Board, and Institute of
 Environmental Management and Assessment. We fulfil officer roles with the International
 Association for Impact Assessment (Chair: Fischer), Planning Schools Forum (Chair: Sturzaker),
 Town and Country Planning (Policy: Sturzaker), Housing Studies Association (Vice-
 chair/Treasurer: Dunning), and International Geographical Union's Transport and Geography
 Commission (Vice-chair: Chen).We are officers with other learned societies: Society for
 Landscape Studies (Riley), British Society for Population Studies (Darlington-Pollock),
 International Union for the Scientific Study of Population (Rowe), International Association of
 Hydro-Environment Engineering & Research (Cooper), Quaternary Research Association
 Executive, the Association de Palynologie de Langue Francaise and the Micropalaeontological
 Society (Marret-Davies), and the British Hydrological Society (Macdonald).

 4.6 Wider influence and contribution to the research base
 Our editors of leading journals span the discipline and include Global and Planetary Change
 (Marret-Davies), Impact Assessment and Project Appraisal (Fischer), Geomorphology (2005-
 2018: Plater), REGION (Rowe), Environment and Planning B - Urban Analytics & City Science
 (Arribas-Bel), Journal of the Royal Statistical Society – Series A (Arribas-Bel), and ACME: An
 International Journal for Critical Geographies (Gahman). Staff have served on >30 editorial
 boards for leading academic journals, e.g., Journal of Ecology, Mobilities, and Annals of the
 Association of American Geographers. Morse is a panel reviewer for UKRI-FLF scheme.
 Chiverrell, Smedley, Hooke, Mair are all NERC Peer Review College Members, Williamson is an
 ESRC Senior College Member, and Evans, Lord, and North serve as ESRC Peer Review
 College Members. Morse, Evans and Green are peer reviewers or committee members for the
 Wellcome Trust. Morse was vice-chair on French National Research Agency panels. Marret-
 Davies sits on the Scholarships & Fellowships Selection Committee for Earth Sciences (Canada)
 and National Science Center (Poland). These examples evidence, our strategic commitment to



                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Geography and Planning (SP1) through our numerous roles with UK, European and other
 funding agencies, and with academic journals that cover the breadth of the discipline.




                                                                                          Page 23
