Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                                                         REF2021
 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 05 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The portfolio of research in the School of Biological Sciences (SoBS) is highly integrated,
 spanning genes, molecules, organisms, populations and communities. We deliver global impact
 for health care, food security and the environment.
 1.1 Growth since 2014
 Our research activity has significantly increased since 2014 (Fig. 1) facilitated by the
 interdisciplinary life sciences agenda (REF5a§2.6; §1.2.2). This is evidenced by £44.07M of our
 funding held in conjunction with other Units of Assessment (UoA 01, 07, 08, 09, 10, 12 and 14;
 §3.1) and our impact case studies (ICS) encompassing biodiversity (ICS 05-01, ICS 05-03),
 health care (ICS 05-07) and food security (ICS 05-09).
 We lead significant national and international research including a multi-centre doctoral training
 partnership, the BBSRC South Coast Biosciences (SoCoBio established 2019; PI and Director
 Terry), and the £26M UK National Biofilms Innovation Centre (NBIC established 2017; PI and
 Co-Director Webb; £5M to SoBS), an Innovation Knowledge Centre (IKC), renewed with a top
 rating in 2019.
 We collaborate closely with a new £25M Centre for Cancer Immunology (2018) with funding of
 £2.2M to SoBS and are the centre for the UK Against Breast Cancer Biobank.
   Figure 1. Significant advances in the research environment from REF2014 to REF2021.

                                                                                           Increased PhD         ATHENA Creati on
           Increased          number of grant        Increased      23% increase in
                                                                                          awards per FTE        Bronze  then of £26M
        field-weighted          applications       proporti on of         value of
                                                                                         from   0.26 to 0.43       Silver      NBIC
     citation impact from   increased from 70 female Prof/Assoc RCUK/UKRI awards
     1.55 to 1.99 x world      to 107, 14/15      Prof to lecturer    in second half                            Increased Creati on
                                                                                              204 of678
      average 2014-19      compared to 19/20 from 35% to 59%          of REF period                              H-index of BBSRC
                                                                                             applications
                                                                                          funded = 30.1%         from 36      DTP3
                                                                                             success  rate         to 57    SoCOBio
                           Top-100 for H index        Increased          19 CAT A
      Interdisciplinary
                            in 2020 QS World        international  appointments made
    grant-funding with 18                                                                   Increased value of       Compound annual
                           University Rankings     co-authors on     since 2014, net
     Schools/Institutions                                               gain of 14          grant  applications        growth rate in
                               for Biological    publications from
    across all 5 Faculties                                          REF-eligible   staff       by 47% 14/15          PhDs awarded of
                                 Sciences      55% to 68% 2014-19
                                                                                           compared to 19/20              +8.4%


 1.2 Structure
 1.2.1 Size
 Our UoA submission is 45.5 FTE, comprising 49 Category-A staff (+14 since REF2014) and 57
 level 4 researchers, 15 technicians, 1 experimental officer and 103 PhD students.
 1.2.2 Management and Leadership
 We are aligned to the Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS), an umbrella organisation for
 interdisciplinary research (§1.3.2) that unites ~ 400 staff spanning biosciences, medicine,
 mathematics and data sciences, engineering and social sciences: Its Director, Smith, is a
 member of SoBS (§1.3.1.1) and its School Board (chaired by Head of School, Holden-Dye).
 Terry (Deputy Head of School) leads research and enterprise, with Teeling (Director of
 Enterprise) providing focused leadership for impact.
 Early career researchers, technicians and PhD students are represented on School committees
 including the School Board.

                                                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                                                                    REF2021
 An External Advisory Board (§1.3.3.4) interacts on a regular basis to provide stakeholder input.
 Overall, this provides integrated management for optimising research and impact (Fig. 2).
  Figure 2. A Connected
                                                                                                 FACULTY BOARD
  Research Community.                                                                                                 Director of Institute for

  We are organised to                                                                                                      Life Sciences
                                        SCIENTIFIC EXTERNAL                               :
  ensure dialogue across all             ADVISORY BOARD
                                                                                                 Head of School

  levels of the organisation,
                                     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _1




  from early career                     Director of Enterprise
                                                                                              Deputy Head of School         Director of
                                                                                              Research & Enterprise    Internationalisation
  researchers to senior
  academics.                            Research & Enterprise                                                         School Hea lth & Safety
                                                                                                 SCHOOL BOARD
                                           Strategy Group                                                                     Forum


                                                                                              Graduate Programmes      Equality, Diversity &
                                                 Theme Leads
                                                                                                  Committee           lnclu sivity Committee


                                        Operational Research                                      Outreach and         Postdoctoral Steering
                                               Group                                          Engagement Committee           Group



 1.2.3 Research Organisation
 Staff align with a primary theme, and multiple subsidiaries (§1.3.1) in a flexible manner relevant
 to their evolving research profile (Fig. 3). More than half of our research awards (107 out of 204)
 are collaborative, reflecting the success of this approach.
 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our strategy is guided by our core principles of maximising research quality and impact,
 embedding equality, diversity and inclusion and promoting well-being. Achievements in relation
 to our strategy are detailed below.
 1.3.1 Theme Contribution to Research and Impact Strategy
 Our research spans evolution and ecosystems through to biomedical research underpinned by
 molecular and cellular biosciences and systems analyses. Extensive collaborative activity (Fig.
 3) builds critical mass in core areas simultaneously providing the optimal environment for major
 impact as exemplified by the success of NBIC.
 1.3.1.1 Molecular and Cellular Biosciences
 This theme interprets basic properties and genetic coding of macromolecules and applies this to
 organismal physiology in health and disease. There are strong collaborations with all other
 themes in the School (Fig. 3). Close working with the newly established Centre for Cancer
 Immunology (UoA 01) exploits structural and functional studies of the immune system (Crispin,
 Birts, Siddle, Tews) to understand how cancer cells evade it. Research encompasses
 molecular organisation of proteins and nucleic acids (Fox, Coldwell, Williamson, Tews,
 Werner, Rusling); cellular metabolism and mitochondrial efficiency (Smith); the immune system
 (Siddle); autophagy and cell growth (Tumbarello); cell cycle and mechanisms of chromosome
 segregation (Przewloka); membrane proteins and phosphoinositides in the nucleus (Divecha);
 the structure and function of glycoproteins (Crispin); metabolic and immunologic targeting on
 breast cancer development (Birts); epithelial-mesenchymal transition (Wang). Crispin
 (Thomson Reuters highly cited) has leveraged his expertise in glycoproteins to deliver significant
 research outputs and impact on SARS-CoV-2 (§4.3.2). Twenty-eight other staff align with
 Molecular and Cellular Biosciences as their secondary theme (Fig. 3). This, together with new
 appointments (§2.2), is realising our vision of Molecular and Cellular Biosciences as our unifying
 core strength.

                                                                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                                        REF2021
 1.3.1.2 Computational and Systems Biology
 Our research harnesses computational and systems-level analyses to address complex
 biological phenomena and biomedical challenges. This theme is highly collaborative; 87% of its
 grants (2014-20) are with another School or Faculty. Ewing models molecular networks for
 insight into cancer-related mutations and acts as 'Cancer Champion' promoting interactions with
 the Centre for Cancer Immunology. Gibson uses statistical genetics and bioinformatics to
 understand disease-related changes in the human genome, and Skipp uses proteomics and
 multi-dimensional data analytics for molecular phenotyping relating to a range of biological
 problems.
 The group analyses sequencing data using open-source tools and in-house pipelines including
 for several large genetic datasets e.g., 100,000 Genomes project and the UK biobank.
 Schofield extends expertise in molecular phenotyping; he is funded by Against Breast Cancer
 (ABC) and underpinned relocation of the ABC Biobank to SoBS. Innovation in the analysis of
 molecular networks inspired the launch of a spinout TOP-MD Precision Medicine Ltd (Skipp;
 §4.3.1.1). Skipp leads the cross-University Integrated Molecular Phenotyping Centre. Rackham
 strengthens this important underpinning expertise bringing with him computational approaches
 for cell reprogramming and disease-gene association and is co-founder of Mogrify which
 develops cell-based therapies.
  Figure 3. SoBS Research Themes. Staff primary theme indicated by matching colour of staff
  name - multiple subsidiary themes by overlap. CAPITALS = Theme leads; new hires are
  underlined; staff leavers in italics, * listed twice for ease of presentation.

                                             Neuroscience

                                                Bogdanov
                                                   Chad
                                                Deinhardt
                                              Gomez-Nicola
                                O'CONNOR         Mudher
                                Wijnen            Tee ling        Andrews
                                             Vargas-Caba ll ero                           Deve lopmental
           Plants and           Holden-Dye         Smith
                                                                             Clarkin
                                                                             Elias           Biology
          Food Security                                                      Jones
                                Williams       Molecu lar and                LILLYCROP
                                                                             Prior
                                              Cellular Bioscience
                                                                             Smyth
                                             Birts Crispin DIVECHA Fox
                                                                             Gostling
                 Taylor     Chapman             Rusling Siddle Tew s
                 Poppy                      Werner Willi amson Rackham      Tumbare llo      Bell   Gibson
                 Catfard              -                          Nobrega     Przewl oka
                 Morris               TERRY                     Schofield     Co ldwell
                                                   Wang
                             Pul!l                              SKIPP            Ewing


             Ecology and                       KEEVIL
                                                                             Computational
              Evolution                         Webb                          and Systems
                                           Microbiology                         Biology
               DONCASTER
                                               Teeling
                Gostling
                  Peh
                 Razqour




 1.3.1.3 Developmental Biology
 We focus on reproductive and developmental biology and mechanisms underpinning the
 developmental origins of health and disease. This theme holds 80% of its funding with UoA 01
 through its leading role in building the University's distinctive strengths in developmental origins
 of health and disease (DOHaD; REF5a§1.5) with emphasis on epigenetic processes (Lillycrop,

                                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                           REF2021
 Bell). Research includes embryonic stem cells and fracture repair (Clarkin), preimplantation
 development (Jones), extracellular matrix and stem cell biology (Smyth) and epigenetic
 programming and disease risk across the life-course (Bell, Lillycrop). Prior focuses on
 metabolic influences on cell fate and Elias investigates oriented cell division and polarity in
 mammary epithelia. World-leading expertise in epigenetics (Lillycrop; Thomson Reuters highly
 cited) resulted in our founding membership, with Singapore and New Zealand, of the global
 EpiGen Consortium, for nutrition, epigenetics and human health (REF5a§2.7).
 1.3.1.4 Neuroscience
 This theme emphasises neurobiology and includes synaptic and circuit function (O’Connor,
 Chad, Vargas-Caballero, Deinhardt) that overlaps with research in neurodegeneration and
 regeneration (Chad, Deinhardt, Gomez-Nicola, Mudher, O’Connor, Vargas-Caballero,
 Andrews), sleep and circadian rhythms (Wijnen), neuroinflammation and microglia (Teeling,
 Gomez-Nicola) and GABAergic signalling in the immune system (Bogdanov). Research
 deploys invertebrate systems Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster to address
 fundamental questions on the neural basis of behaviour and disease (O’Connor, Mudher,
 Wijnen). Invertebrate expertise links to research on pest control (O’Connor, Wijnen; §1.3.1.6).
 Collaboration with UoA 01 and public-private funding through the Dementia Consortium, the
 Wellcome Trust Consortium for the Neuroimmunology of Mood Disorders, and Alzheimer’s
 Disease (NIMA) have resulted in intervention studies for Alzheimer’s Disease (Gomez-Nicola,
 Teeling; §4.3.1.1) Collaboration with UoA 04 (Perry) on immune-to-brain communication and
 the Centre for Cancer Immunology is aimed at developing antibody-based immunotherapies for
 dementia (Teeling). Leadership (Vargas-Caballero, Gomez-Nicola) of the South Coast
 Alzheimer’s Research UK (ARUK) Network facilitates collaboration with regional experts in
 Dementia research. We are major stakeholders in the Southampton Neuroscience Group
 (SoNG), uniting ~40 neurobiologists, clinicians, psychologists, health care practitioners,
 engineers, chemists and computational neuroscientists to implement new experimental and
 therapeutic approaches in this fast-moving field.
 1.3.1.5 Microbiology
 We focus on biofilms and microbial communities ranging from the environment to the clinic,
 speaking to 21st century challenges of environmental sustainability and antimicrobial resistance.
 Webb and Keevil are on the steering group of the 'Global Network for Anti-microbial Resistance
 and Infection Prevention' (NAMRIP), a cross-Faculty collaboration facilitating international
 networking to combat antimicrobial resistance. This dovetails with the University interdisciplinary
 strategy (REF5a§2.6) which leveraged funding for extension of category-2 containment and the
 appointment of Nobrega who adds complementary interest in phage-bacteria interactions and
 novel approaches for microbe control. Collaborative research with other UoAs includes microbial
 communities involved in biogeochemical cycling and other important transformations (Dumont),
 molecular ecology of biofilms in environmental and clinical settings (Keevil) and how biofilms
 develop, disperse and respond to environmental stresses and therapeutic compounds (Webb).
 We have a strong multidisciplinary ethos for translational science leading to successful patient
 treatment regimens, catheter design and management, and surgical instrument decontamination
 and lead the UK National Innovation Biofilm Centre (Webb; NBIC). Research in this theme has
 underpinned important impact in health care (ICS 05-07).
 1.3.1.6 Plants and Food Security
 Research in this theme advances the UN Sustainable Development Goals relating to population
 growth and climate change and aims to deliver innovative solutions for food security relating to
 UN Sustainable Development Goal 2 'Zero Hunger'. Research in plant molecular biology
 investigates the regulation of photosynthesis, nutrition, phytoremediation and biofortification,

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                              REF2021
 evolutionary genomics and food waste and is complemented by basic research on the model
 plant Arabidopsis (Williams, Terry) and climate-change impacts on food security (Chapman).
 Agricultural ecology explores plant and soil interactions including the soil microbiome,
 conservation ecology, ecosystem services, and invasive species (Taylor, Poppy, Morris).
 Research into crop pests and pollinators focuses on the interaction of crops with beneficial
 insects such as pollinators, as well as a range of agricultural pests (Poppy, Morris, Holden-
 Dye). The theme was part of a BBSRC DTP (2013-2018) led by University of Reading (SoBS
 lead Poppy) on food security (§2.4.1). Holden-Dye (and O’Connor) and Terry are inventors on
 two patents filed for crop protection (§4.3.1.1). Work on nematicides by Holden-Dye (and
 O’Connor) supported phase 2 clinical trials for human filarial disease (§4.3.1.1). Poppy's
 research and secondment as Chief Scientific Advisor strongly influenced government policy (ICS
 05-09).
 1.3.1.7 Ecology and Evolution
 In this theme we address global issues of organismal adaptation to changing environments
 across all scales of biological organisation. This spans species (Catford, Doncaster),
 communities and ecosystems (Morris, Peh) and evolutionary timescales (Gostling, Chapman).
 We study responses to environmental challenges associated with climate change and human
 population growth, in relation to biodiversity conservation, with emphasis on invasive species
 (Catford); forests and lake restoration (Doncaster); trophic interactions (Morris); ecosystem
 services (Peh); climate-change impacts on indicator species (Razgour). We have expertise in
 ecological and evolutionary processes, conservation science, and modern analytical approaches
 for big and complex data. Our societal impact has broad reach, with global uptake of the TESSA
 toolkit for site-based assessment of ecosystem services, now incorporated into the Policy Portal
 of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (ICS
 05-01). Doncaster has developed open-access conservation technology, with AudioMoth
 acoustic sensors deployed on six continents by government and non-government environmental
 organisations and citizen scientists (ICS 05-03).
 1.3.2 Integration with the 'Life Sciences' Interdisciplinary Agenda
 Over 90% of SoBS staff are members of the IfLS, with participation across its 4 themes: Health
 and Medicine, Living Systems, Insights Through Data, and Life Technologies. SoBS is integral to
 the Life Sciences agenda through its Director Smith, steering group member Webb and its
 leadership on interdisciplinary research areas (Fig. 4). The IfLS champions interdisciplinary
 research by providing administrative support, and pump-priming funding for networking, scoping
 activity, research proposals and studentships. IfLS has invested £308,670 in collaborative pump-
 priming projects in SoBS (32% of the total IfLS investment) and funded 13 conferences and 23
 interdisciplinary PhD studentships in SoBS during the REF period. This has yielded £2M in grant
 funding to collaborative teams of which at least one researcher is from SoBS.
  Figure 4. SoBS staff                                                       Evolution
  are closely integrated                                                  Leads: CHAPMAN

  with the IfLS.
                                                                            Cell Biology
  The IfLS is one of five                                            Leads: DIVECHA, O'CONNOR

  interdisciplinary               Institute for Life Sciences
                                                                      Musculoskeletal Health
  research institutes                    Director: SMITH
                                                                       Steering Group: CLARKIN
                                      Steering Group : WEBB
  supported by the
  University strategy                                                  Dementia and Ageing
                                                                Steering Group: TEELING, GOMEZ-NICOLA
  (REF5a§2.6).
                                                                  Omics and Quantitative Biology
                                                                        Steering Group: EWING




                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                                         REF2021
 1.3.3 Culture
 Our strategy to realise quality and impact from research activity is underpinned by seven core
 principles:
 1.3.3.1 Collaborative
 Success at instilling a collegial and supportive research culture since REF2014 is evidenced by
 interdisciplinary funding and co-authored outputs (§4).
 1.3.3.2 Outward looking
 Through line management, we encourage staff to take on external appointments (§2.3.3). For
 example, Terry, in his role as Director of SoCoBio, co-ordinates our BBSRC research across
 UoA 01, 07, 08, 11, 12, 14 with partners at Universities of Sussex, Kent and Portsmouth, East
 Malling Research (NIAB-EMR) and extensive industry collaboration. Smith sits on the board of
 the Rosalind Franklin Institute and serves on the EPSRC Value for Money Committee.
 1.3.3.3 International
 SoBS Director of Internationalisation (Dumont; Fig. 2) connects us to University initiatives,
 including the Worldwide Universities Network (WUN; REF5a§2.7). The signing of two
 Memoranda of Understanding between NBIC, the Singapore Centre for Environmental Life
 Sciences Engineering (SCELSE) and the Singapore National Biofilm Centre (SNBC) is an
 example of internationalisation which is strengthening the UK global position in biofilm
 innovation. Further evidence of international reach is provided in section 4.
 1.3.3.4 Inculcating impact
 SoBS Director of Enterprise (Teeling) works with Research and Innovation Services (RIS;
 REF5a§1.5), Public Policy Southampton (REF5a§2.9; Chair Poppy) and a Business Fellow
 (Clarkin) to facilitate collaborations with external partners (Fig. 5).
 Our External Advisory Board includes senior industry leaders from global companies (Syngenta,
 Bio-Rad, Eli Lilly, Sal Scientific, Sandoz and Leica Microsystems). They attend strategy
 meetings, providing input and acting as critical friends. This facilitates enterprise: 65% of staff
 have industrial collaborations that include Pharma, Animal Health, Crop Protection, Food
 Production and Conservation. Through our Outreach and Engagement Committee (Fig. 2) we
 engage undergraduates through to Professors in impact (§4.3.3). Our strategy provides a
 pipeline for emerging impact to mature into tangible economic and societal benefit (ICS 05-01,
 05-03, 05-07, 05-09).

  Figure 5. Impact Strategy. A                         SoBS Director of Enterprise linking to
  wide-ranging approach has been                           RIS to build better networks
  refined and developed through the
  REF period. See section 4 for
  deliverables.                                                     Expertise
                                                                                                Patents, especially
                                         Consultancy                 Services                     with industry
                                                                   Intel lectua I
                                                                    Property
                                                                 Model Systems
                                                                  Experimental
                                                                    Platforms
                                                                                          Visibility, social
                                           University-wide
                                                                                        media, publications,
                                             networks
                                                                                          search engines




                                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                           REF2021
 1.3.3.5 Committed to Open research
 We promote open-access publishing, facilitated by Institutional support (REF5a§2.4). We have
 increased the public availability of our research tools and data to promote end-user uptake for
 academic and societal impact. Dissemination of our Open Research expertise also forms an
 explicit component of our capacity building and extends into our research training: All PGRs are
 required to develop Open Data Management Plans as part of their progression (§2.4.5). We
 have published 43 open-data papers or papers with associated open datasets, generating 419
 news mentions and 4,534 tweets, and all four of our ICS are underpinned by open data. For
 example, Doncaster contributed to developing novel open-source hardware and software with
 AudioMoth acoustic sensors (ICS 05-03), which sold more than 13,800 units worldwide within 3
 years of release. Doncaster further developed a framework for sustaining the open-access
 model, published in Conservation Letters. The framework identifies novel solutions for three
 longstanding barriers to the uptake of open-source hardware: user inexperience with hardware,
 costly and complex manufacturing and distribution, lapsed creator and user support post
 development. Tews, Werner and Williamson have contributed to the executive boards of the
 CCP/CCPN network, public not-for profit projects funded by the BBSRC/MRC that develop
 software to support the crystallography (20,000 licenses worldwide, >140 industrial users) and
 NMR communities, respectively.
 1.3.3.6 Ensuring Research Quality and Integrity
 We rigorously promote a culture for the highest quality and integrity of research through our
 Ethics Coordinator (Vargas-Caballero), membership of the University’s Animal Welfare and
 Ethical Review Body (Andrews), the ‘Genetic Modification and Biological Safety Committee’
 (member Skipp), and our Academic Integrity Officer (Clarkin). Instruction on publication and co-
 authorship is given to PDRAs and PGRs, with the expectation that they will be lead author on
 their work, as per the Vancouver Protocol (evidenced by PGR authorship of outputs, §2.4.6). We
 promote research reproducibility through accurate logging and archiving of all research records
 e.g., the School issues laboratory notebooks, and trains all our researchers in research integrity.
 Holden-Dye has overall responsibility for compliance with the 'Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity', and for reporting of misconduct, liaising with Faculty and University procedures as
 appropriate (REF5a§2.8).
 1.3.3.7 Providing a Safe and Inclusive Environment
 Health and Safety is the responsibility of Holden-Dye who chairs the Health and Safety Forum
 which oversees the risk register, inspections, training records, well-being, incidents and near
 misses and reports to the Faculty Health and Safety Committee.
 1.4 Strategy to 2025
 1.4.1 Sustainability and Vitality
 Our future has been secured by an upsurge in research income (Fig. 7), major grant funding in
 the last 2 years (§3.1), an increase in PGRs (§2.4.2) and the adoption of the Life Sciences
 Strategy by the University in 2018 (led by Smith).
 1.4.2 Growth
 We exceeded our REF2014 ambition with a net increase of 14 Category-A staff, including
 appointment of two Associate Professors (Divecha, Rackham) and one Professor (Crispin). We
 plan to match this in the next REF cycle, i.e., 14 new Category-A staff focusing on BBSRC
 strategic priorities. We have demonstrated that we can recruit world-leaders in their fields that
 map onto our strengths (§2.2) and will use future appointments to enhance our position as a hub
 for life sciences research at the University. Importantly, we will be proactive in recruiting early


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                            REF2021
 career researchers to tenure track fellowships (§2.3.4).
 Our planned growth will require investment in infrastructure. Smith leads the working group that
 is developing plans to expand biomedical research on the medical campus in a new strategic
 build (planned completion circa 2027). We will create financial headroom by increasing grant
 income (supported by staff development, §2.2), careful cost recovery on funding and through
 generating new income streams including through increasing revenue from enterprise (§4.4).

 2. People
 We carefully manage staff well-being, recruitment and development creating an environment in
 which all staff are equipped to deliver international quality research with significant impact. Below
 we describe our 'people' strategy which strengthens our capacity for impactful research,
 highlighting the agenda for ED&I, which is embedded in all our activities.
 2.1 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I)
 Head of School (HoS; Holden-Dye) works with line managers to implement our ED&I agenda
 including our Athena SWAN Silver Action Plan (awarded 2017). Within the constraints of staff
 makeup, our committees ensure the best possible gender, age and ethnic representation;
 additionally, all staff and students take mandatory unconscious-bias training. The ED&I
 committee chaired by Elias leads discussion at monthly all-staff meetings. The ED&I committee
 draws its membership from across the School, links to Faculty and University committees, and
 ensures we implement University policies (REF5a§3.8) for all protected characteristics and
 develop local action plans. We promote work/life balance, mental health and well-being and anti-
 harassment and anti-bullying policies. We adhere to core hours of 10 am to 4 pm and, after staff
 consultation in 2019, encourage one day a week (Friday) to be meeting free. We provide mental
 health first aid training (7 staff trained 2019) and mental health awareness training (workshops
 2019 and online training >90% uptake) and engage with a University-wide Mental Health
 Working Group (Deinhardt) aiming to achieve the Mental Health Charter. We have promoted
 good working relationships, facilitated by external providers e.g., 'Honest Conversations'
 workshop. We provide workshops with guidance on maternity and paternity leave and
 opportunities for job-sharing at all levels. We provide funding for those on family leave to pay for
 support to sustain their research during their absence (e.g., Siddle). Support for female
 researchers is available through courses, e.g., 'Springboard Development Programme for
 Women'. We operate a conference attendance and training fund that prioritises support for
 students or staff who require additional funding to support childcare whilst undertaking activities
 for career development. ED&I in staff and research student recruitment is rigorously
 implemented in line with University policy e.g., with respect to gender representation on panels.
 ED&I is also foremost in promotion meetings; these are preceded by a reminder of the threat of
 unconscious bias and concluded with a summary of the impact of the promotion decisions on
 demography. Collectively, the steps outlined above generate a culture in which ED&I, work/life
 balance and well-being are high profile with the goal of continual improvement. We are well
 placed for renewal of our Athena Swan Silver Award in 2021 and on track for our longer-term
 ambition of achieving Gold.
 ED&I has been integral to our REF submission. All staff have contributed and commented on our
 REF5b and throughout the assessment we have considered the profile of protected
 characteristics. We have closely followed Southampton’s REF Code of Practice (REF5a§3.9)
 with 100% compliance with unconscious bias training. Our profile of research outputs is
 representative of the School’s male (M), female (F) gender split (gender split of UoA5, 71.4%M,
 28.6%F: gender profile of outputs 67.3%M, 37.7%F).



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                                                                                           REF2021
 2.1.1 Demographics
 We have 35M and 14F Category-A staff; 73% are less than 55 years of age, indicating a good
 balance between more senior and earlier career staff imparting excellent vitality. Success in our
 ED&I strategy is shown by increased diversity in our staff since 2014: +7% BAME, +1% EU,
 +7% 'rest of world’. Overall, the gender balance of the School has improved with a marginal shift
 towards females by +6%. Additionally, there is evidence of success at tackling the ‘glass ceiling’
 (Fig. 6). The proportion of female staff at Professor and Associate Professor levels relative to
 Lecturer level has increased from 35% to 59%.
  Figure 6. Promotion for Teaching and Research and Research-Only Staff, a. by gender;
  b. by level. Since 2013, 7 female staff have been promoted to levels 5,6,7 compared to 13
  male staff, improving gender balance in senior positions.
          a.                                 Gender                                    b.                                      Promotion
                                                                                                                                 ■ to level 7
                                               ■ M
   ::: 6                                                                               6                                         ■ to leve l 6
                                               ■ F
                                                                                                                                 ■ to level 5
   £9
   "'
   .... 4                                                                              4
   0
   ,._                                                                                                                                                         4
   "' 2
   E                                                                                   2         2           2            2
   :::,
   z                                                 -~---~----~----~o
               2013 - 14 2014 - 15 2015 - 16 2016 - 17 2017 - 18 2018 - 19 2019 - 20
                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                   1

                                                                                           +-..L.Cl'-'-~ -'--'1'-'--~ -'--'1....,_~ _,___,_ ~.i....;c
                                                                                                                                                   l ....._~ __.-~ -'-"-..L.......,
                                                                                            2013 - 14 2014 - 15 2015 - 16 2016 - 17 2017 - 18 2018 - 19 2019 - 20




 2.2 Staffing strategy
 The appointment process integrates with the interdisciplinary agenda, with Smith (Director of
 IfLS) participating in the panel and the panel chair appointed from outside SoBS.
 We have made strategic hires (previous appointment is shown in brackets):
    Developmental Cell Biology: Prior (Uni Cambridge); Elias (Sir William Dunn School Path,
     Oxford).
    Microbiology: Dumont (Max Planck Inst Marburg); Nobrega (Delft Uni Tech).
    Neuroscience: Andrews (Uni St Andrews); Vargas-Caballero (Uni Oxford).
    Ecology and Evolution: Morris (Dept Zool, Uni Oxford).
    Molecular and Cellular Bioscience: Tumbarello (Cambridge Inst Med Res); Przewloka (Uni
     Cambridge); Divecha (Manchester Cancer Institute); Wang (Ludwig Inst Cancer Res,
     Oxford); Crispin (Uni Oxford).
    Computational and Systems Biology: Rackham (Duke NUS Singapore).
 We have facilitated movement of staff between career pathways and post-doctoral staff into
 Level-5 positions: Gostling transferred from an education to balanced pathway; Rusling,
 Schofield and Birts were postdoctoral fellows developed into Category-A staff; Gomez-Nicola
 progressed from a Marie Curie Fellowship to an MRC NIRG and then a lectureship. Three new
 hires have left (Bell, Catford and Razgour); overall, however, our research profile remains
 significantly strengthened compared to 2014. The most recent appointment, Rackham is 0.2
 FTE due to difficulties in moving from Singapore during the pandemic. He should move to a full
 appointment by 2022. His move to Southampton is the latest exemplar of our strategic
 recruitment of high-quality research staff.
 Our strategy has resulted in a net increase of 14 (40%) REF-eligible staff compared to 2014.
 2.3 Staff: Career development and support
 Expert line management, with mandatory training for all managers, is enabling us to deliver on
 the School’s and University's goals for internationally leading, impactful research.


                                                                                                                                                                         Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                          REF2021
 2.3.1 Line management and mentoring
 We identify goals and training needs, aided by the University commitment to ‘developing our
 people’ (REF5a§3) and an embedded mentoring scheme for all staff. All line managers receive
 mandatory appraisal training and the senior team meet bi-monthly to ensure alignment with our
 strategy. Enterprise is part of each academic’s annual performance review. We refine research
 proposals through a 'Grants Forum' (leads Chapman, Andrews) and mandatory internal review
 prior to submission (grant success rate of 30%). Leadership is developed through nomination of
 staff for an annual University-wide 'Leadership Circle Programme'. In the last five years 2M and
 3F from SoBS have participated. New appointees are carefully managed through a two-year
 probation period with clear identification of the expectations to be achieved encapsulated in a
 formal letter within 3 months of appointment.
 2.3.2 Promotion
 Staff are guided towards achieving a portfolio of success in research and impact. All staff
 seeking promotion are able to obtain feedback from the School senior line management prior to
 submission of their application to the Faculty. Since 2014 we made 1 promotion from Level 4 to
 5, 11 from Level 5 to 6, and 8 from Level 6 to 7.
 2.3.3 Workload management
 We use a transparent job allocation model (JAM) to assist in decision making and manage
 opportunities for staff to take on external appointments. All research staff have a baseline of 40%
 time allocated for research. Staff with 'Directly Allocated' hours on external grants that exceed
 this baseline research allocation receive an equivalent reduction in teaching/administration. The
 workload distribution is reviewed by the senior line management and modified with two goals in
 mind: i) facilitate the career progression of staff; ii) facilitate productivity and external
 engagement to enhance our global profile and influence. JAM provides oversight of gender
 equality in workload that is reviewed by line managers and mitigated where needed. Staff may
 request a sabbatical every 4 years in line with University policy (REF5a§3.2).
 2.3.4 Postdoctoral researchers (PDRAs)
 We promote the principles of the ‘Concordat to Support the Development of Research Careers’
 through a Concordat Champion, Chapman. PDRAs are appraised annually by trained
 appraisers (100% compliance). All PDRAs have assigned mentors to develop their career plans.
 They are represented on the School Board and the HoS holds bi-monthly 'no agenda' meetings
 to identify emerging issues. PDRAs have Faculty administrative support for networking and an
 annual conference, ‘Meet the Fellow’ events, and CV workshops. We run an annual 'Dean's
 Roadshow' to connect PDRAs to Faculty leadership. We strongly support PDRAs in submission
 of fellowships, small grants and as co-investigators through writing workshops and internal
 review, with 7 awards made to PDRAs as PI; for example, Rachel Owen was awarded a grant
 from the Morris Animal Foundation in 2019 to study vaccination strategies against contagious
 cancers in Tasmanian Devils. Areas for improvement in PDRA support is monitored via the
 'Careers in Research Online Survey'. Feedback on appraisal completion is excellent (2017). We
 responded to requests for information on parental leave with a ‘drop-in lunch’ on this topic
 (2018).
 2.3.5 Technician Commitment
 Our Senior Technical Manager is a member of a University-wide steering group for
 implementation of the Technician Commitment to ensure we improve career development for
 technical expertise underpinning research. The HoS holds bi-monthly 'no agenda' meetings with
 technical staff to facilitate engagement in the School.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                           REF2021
 2.3.6 Reward and Recognition
 We recognise staff achievements with nominations for the Vice Chancellor's Staff Achievement
 award and host an annual Dean's Prize to celebrate Achievements in research and impact.
 Achievements in external recognition contribute to career progression. Crispin was awarded a
 Professor Adjunct at the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla (CA) and a Supernumerary
 Fellowship (Oriel College, Oxford). Morris received a Royal Society University Research
 Fellowship (2007-2017) bringing expertise in experimental community ecology and tropical
 ecology and Fox was elected Director of the Faraday Institute for Science and Religion in 2020.
 Keevil was awarded a Royal Exhibition 1851 Industrial Fellowship with Bioquell in 2016.
 O’Connor received a Humboldt Fellowship in 2018 for sabbatical research at the Max Planck
 Institute. A PDRA supervised by Deinhardt was elected Early Career Representative for the
 British Neuroscience Association from 2015-2017.
 2.4 Doctoral Research students (PGRs)
 We are committed to training the next generation of life scientists by supporting their personal
 progression and developing talent to deliver economic and societal benefit.
 2.4.1 PGR Funding
 Our PhDs are funded by UKRI Doctoral Training Programmes (BBSRC, NERC and MRC),
 charities, industry and international scholarships. We were members of a BBSRC DTP on Food
 Security (led by University of Reading; 2013-2018; SoBS lead, Poppy) and currently lead on the
 BBSRC DTP South Coast Biosciences (SoCoBio; funded 2019-2024; PI and Director Terry).
 SoCoBio provides 14 PhD studentships and 5 CASE studentships (with numbers enhanced
 through partnerships with industry), with partners the Universities of Kent, Sussex and
 Portsmouth, and with NIAB-EMR, an agricultural research institute and an excellent environment
 for interdisciplinary training with involvement of UoA 01, 08 and 12. We also have students
 through the NERC Spitfire and Inspire DTPs (2013-2018 and 2019-2023) and an MRC DTP in
 Translational Immunology (2016-2020 led by the Faculty of Medicine). We invite staff to bid
 annually for 6 half-studentships from a ring-fenced budget to leverage external funding. In
 addition, the IfLS, the VC Scholarship and two local charities, the Gerald Kerkut Trust and the
 Wessex Medical Trust invite bids annually. We are proactive in seeking funding for international
 students e.g., through Chinese Scholarships and CONACyT (Mexico) (6 and 6 students,
 respectively since 2014).
 2.4.2 PGR Recruitment
 Our recruitment is buoyant and growing with international student numbers a steady and
 significant proportion (average 29.5%). Since 2014 SoBS has enrolled 251 PhDs, an increase
 from 28 in 2013/14 to 44 in 2019/20. Recruitment follows Faculty policy to ensure gender
 representation on panels and that quality criteria are met; the M:F split is roughly equal e.g.,
 20:24 in 2019/20. In 2020, we have 103 PhD students with 43 supervisors and with funding as
 follows: 12% UKRI, 41% charity, 17% industry, 18% overseas, 5% local, 7% self.
 2.4.3 PGR Well-being
 We manage this through the Graduate School Committee who liaise with supervisors and
 signpost to professional support as required. Processes to improve PGR well-being are led by a
 University-wide Mental Health Steering Group with representation from SoBS (Deinhardt).
 PGRs have bimonthly 'no agenda' meetings with the HoS and the Chair of the Graduate School
 and are financially supported in running a highly successful and inclusive postgraduate society
 (Biological Sciences Postgraduate Society).




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                          REF2021
 2.4.4 PGR Supervision, Mentoring and Progression
 This is managed by a Steering Group (chair, Wijnen), with PGR representation, integrated with
 the Faculty structure and the University Doctoral College for governance. This oversees PGR
 supervision and monitoring at established milestones in years 1 through to 4.
 Each PGR has a supervisory team with at least two academics (plus industrial supervisor for
 CASE/industrial PGRs). New supervisors complete the University PhD supervisors’ course and
 are teamed with experienced staff. Feedback for PGRs occurs at all stages, enhanced by the
 online PGR Tracker for milestones. In the REF period, the number of PhDs awarded shows a
 compound annual growth rate of +8.4%, with an overall male to female of 47:53, and an average
 time to submission of 3.97 years.
 2.4.5 PGR Research skills and Training
 Training includes induction, generic skills (e.g. bioethics, research integrity, open-data
 management, health and safety, communication skills), bioscience technologies (aligned with
 Vitae Researcher Development Framework), networking, team building and outreach activities in
 schools, research and enterprise centres (e.g. Southampton’s award-winning Science and
 Engineering Day; Twilight sessions and Research shadowing for sixth formers; Biotechnology
 Young Entrepreneurs Scheme, SET for Britain; University 'Future Worlds'). These enhance
 transferable skills (e.g., CV production, job interviews, outreach, IP, entrepreneurship). PGRs
 have access to our Royal Society Entrepreneur in Residence, James Otter and are required to
 contribute to research group meetings, journal clubs, and oral/poster presentations at the Annual
 PGR Conference and external conferences.
 2.4.6 Deliverables
 100% of PGRs responding to the Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) survey
 went on to positive employment. Between 2015-2017, out of 27 responders, 11 were in
 professional/managerial roles with 21 in research roles, the remainder in medicine or business.
 Our PGRs overall satisfaction rating of 83.8% is higher than the national average (81%; PG
 Experience Survey, PRES; 2017).
 Their success in contributing to our research environment is evidenced by their research
 outputs: of the 448 PhD students supervised by SoBS staff as principal or secondary supervisor,
 during the REF period, 116 were first authors on 165 publications originating from SoBS (Web of
 Science).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Our portfolio of income substantiates our position as a vibrant University hub for biosciences
 research. Our income has significantly grown (Fig. 7) and our reach is extensive (Fig. 8).
 3.1 Income
 Since 2014 we have held 204 grants worth £59.18M as PI or Co-I. The UoA 05 share of
 £30.75M from these grants is a substantial increase over the value awarded in the last REF
 which reported a total income of £19.98M from 2008 to 2014. Average income per FTE per year
 during the REF period was £88,579 (increased from £79,209 in 2013/14). We have seen a year-
 on-year increase in our research income since 2016/17 (Fig. 7) reflecting the success of our
 strategy. Highlights include: £5.1M Nestec Ltd (SoBS share £1.1M), £3.2M Against Breast
 Cancer, £3.1M Global Challenges Fund, £1.7M Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, £1.2M
 British Heart Foundation and awards from pharma industry totalling £4.4M.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                                                  REF2021
  Figure 7. Biological Sciences research income since 2014. a. All research income by financial
  year. b. Distribution by funder. c. Share of awards by theme.
          a.          6                                   --+-        Annual income




                                                         ~
                ~ 5                                                   annual income
                4-1

                E
                 Q)   4
                                               •
                 0    3
                 u
                 C
                ..c 2
                 u
                 .....
                 ro
                 Q)    1
                 Vl
                 Q)
                a::: 0
                               2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
                                                               Financial year

     b.                                                          c.
                           -    UK Government: £2,173,967                         -   Molecular and Cellular Bioscience : £10.39M

                           -    Charities: £881,867                               -   computational and Systems Biology: E2.80M
                                                                                  -   Developmental Biology: £4.17M
                           -    Industries : £469,743
                                                                                  -   Neuroscience: E3.48M
                           -    EU: £212,027
                                                                                  -   Microbiology: £6.53M
                           -    Other: £292,756
                                                                                  -   Plants and Food Security: £1.54M
                           Total 5-year average = £4,030,360                      -   Ecology and Evolution: £1.84M


 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 We continue to benefit from improved research facilities following relocation to the purpose-built
 Life Sciences Building (LSB) in 2010. All but four research teams are located here with
 Lillycrop, Smyth, Teeling, Gomez-Nicola based at University Hospital Southampton where
 they have access to facilities via Faculty of Medicine. LSB includes a wide range of advanced
 facilities with technical support and management structure for operational and financial
 sustainability and user groups to promote collaborations and drive new equipment grant
 proposals. In the current period, we have invested an additional £4.01M from internal and
 external sources. All facilities benefit from support from our technical team (with some specific
 cases highlighted). These facilities include:
 3.2.1 Biomolecular Core (Academic lead Williamson) provides access to shared laboratory
 equipment with the support of a dedicated senior technician. Instruments are provided for the
 preparation and analysis of biomolecules, with a range of FPLC, HPLC, GC, GC-MS
 instrumentation, and a protein expression laboratory for production of recombinant proteins with
 preparative/ultra-centrifuges. A range of techniques are available for the characterisation of
 samples including UV/visible and circular dichroism spectrophotometers, isothermal calorimetry
 and multimodal plate readers providing high throughput analysis of absorbance, fluorescence,
 fluorescence polarization and luminescence. Investment since 2014 includes two real-time PCR
 systems and a scanning multi-mode plate reader.
 3.2.2 Macromolecular Crystallisation (Academic lead Tews) includes a suite of liquid handling
 robotics and microscopes (including a new Oryx 4 Protein Crystallization System and UVEX-m
 crystal imaging) with associated technical support funded through external income.
 Macromolecular Crystallisation forms part of a crystal-to-structure pipeline together with high-end
 X-ray diffraction equipment in Chemistry and through links with the Diamond Light Source,
 Oxfordshire.


                                                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                                                                                                                   REF2021
  Figure 8. Biological Sciences is a Hub for Interdisciplinary Research. Total award share
  across 18 Schools/Institutes from all five University Faculties, for all grants in which UoA 05 staff
  are/were either PI or Co-I, held during the REF period.
                                                       ISchool of Physics and Astronomy ) ISchool of Engineering )
             Ze ler Institute for Photonics and Nanoelectronics          0
                                                                                           0I            School of Electronics and Computer Science     I
             !1nstrtute for L~e Sciences I
                                                                      £0 .151M
                                                                                                                   0
                                 0                     £1 .041M
                                                                                     £1 .086M
                                                                                                                         ISchool of Chemistry   J




                                     £0.381M
                                                                                                       £0.940M
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                     £1 .107M

                           £2 .647M                                                                                              ISchool of Humanrties)
                                                                                                                                           0
   ISchool of Health Sciences)                                                                                            £0 .166M
                                                                                                                                                               Faculty

           0          £0.792M
                                         Q.J
                                             VJ
                                                                ISchool of Biological Sciences )                   IJ\
                                                                                                                                                               Q     Faculty of Arts and Humanities
                                                                                                                            ISouthampton Business School I Q Farurty of Engineering and Physical Sciences
                                        =:s
  I~  - - - - - - - - - ~ V)
   School of Ocean and Earth Science J.~
                                                                         £29.916M                                  E         £0.082M                0
                                                                                                                                                               Q     Faculty of Environmental and Life Sciences
                                        -I-'
                                                                                                                  .!!?
                                                                                                                   C                                           Q     FacuttyofMedidne

           0          £0.981M
                                             ~
                                              ~(<::!                     ------~                               §
                                                                                                                  6Ji
                                                                                                                          £0.257M
                                                                                                                                                               Q     FacuttyofSodal Sciences




             0              4.497M



                                     £5.231M
                                                  9;,,,(.
                                                        Q>,..
                                                            ch,               c..C,'-
                                                                                                          <.,<u
                                                                                                   · e-<:::-
                                                             ,,d ce//ular -0,0:, ____£0_.1_s_sM_ _ _ _ ______
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                          ISchool of Mathematical Sciences I

                                                                                                        ISchool of Economic, Social and Political Sciences]
                                                                                                                                0
  ICancer Sciences)                                                                                    £0.498M
                                                       £9.226M
                                                                      £0.075M        £0.196M

                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                        IFaculty of Social Sciences •Central)
                                                                          0                  0 IWessex lnstrtute )


 3.2.3 Centre for Proteomic Research (CPR) (Academic lead Skipp). The CPR supported over
 £42M in grant funding and increased its capacity and capability (£1.64M for new equipment
 since 2014) for sample preparation/mass spectrometry and bioinformatics computing. Housed
 within a dedicated laboratory, instrumentation includes liquid handling robots, two Waters Synapt
 mass spectrometers with 2D nanoUPLC systems, a Waters Synapt mass spectrometer with
 automated hydrogen-deuterium exchange capability, a Thermo Orbitrap Elite and Thermo
 Orbitrap Fusion mass spectrometer’s on-line to 2D nanoUPLC systems and a triple quadrupole
 tandem MS (Waters, Xevo TQ) for targeted analyses.
 3.2.4 Imaging and Microscopy Centre (IMC) (Academic lead Deinhardt). The IMC has
 expanded during this period with incorporation of equipment at University Hospital Southampton
 and the Electrophysiology laboratory in the LSB. In addition, £372K has been spent on new
 equipment including new scanning confocal and live imaging microscopes. Since 2014 there has
 been more than a four-fold increase in usage. Over the assessment period the IMC has
 supported 39 academic staff based in SoBS and 35 from other Schools, demonstrating its
 central role in our activities and our interaction with other life scientists. The IMC houses
 equipment to investigate cell structure and function and includes transmitted light, confocal,
 widefield epifluorescence and bioluminescence microscopes, as well as gel imaging and flow
 cytometry. It also houses atomic force microscopy, live cell imaging and histology microscopy
 and laser table attached to a light sheet microscope. It has part ownership and access to a
 multiphoton microscope in the photonics development laboratory within the facility. There is a
 containment level 2 area that increases the range of samples that can be analysed. The
 equipment is served by an experimental officer. A major development is the incorporation of


                                                                                                                                                                                                      Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                           REF2021
 electrophysiology equipment that has enabled central booking of eight different
 electrophysiology rigs with a broad range of capabilities including recording together with high
 powered image analysis. All workstations within the IMC are networked to a RAID server
 "IMCData" capable of storage and high-speed transfer of large datasets to users.
 3.2.5 Biological NMR (Academic lead Werner). The NMR Facility, jointly run with Chemistry,
 has collectively benefitted from investment of £2.1M over the latest assessment period allowing
 upgrade of a significant proportion of the NMR infrastructure, including that utilized in the
 biological sciences. The Facility provides access to a 600 MHz spectrometer with cryoprobe and
 a recently installed 700 MHz NMR spectrometer (£1.05M) equipped with sample changer for the
 analysis of liquid state NMR samples for structural biology and metabolomics. Solid-state NMR
 studies have benefited from the upgrade of a 400 MHz console, the purchase of a new triple
 resonance MAS probe (£303K) and a new fast-MAS probe for the 600 MHz solid-state
 spectrometer (£40K).
 3.2.6 Tissue culture (Academic lead Clarkin). This facility in LSB is equipped with CO2
 incubators and biological safety cabinets enabling the culture of cell lines, stem cells, primary
 tissue extraction and viral transduction in separate laboratories. Since 2014 we have seen an
 expansion of the facilities to four laboratories, comprising two containment level-1 and two level-
 2 laboratories, the latter adjacent to the animal holding facility.
 3.2.7 Invertebrate Facility (Academic lead Wijnen). This FERA-licensed facility (University
 award, £800K) comprises insect (e.g., Drosophila, Plutella xylostella) and nematode (plant
 parasitic nematodes) suites plus 9 controlled-environment rooms (CERs) for organism culture
 and bioassays and a preparation space. One CER houses several wind tunnels. Data are logged
 automatically and can be accessed remotely, improving energy efficiency of the lighting.
 3.2.8 Plant Growth Facility (Academic lead Williams). This has 9 CERs (2 FERA compliant)
 specialised for plant-insect interaction studies and a glasshouse (300 m2) located on the LSB
 roof (£1.8M University investment with £800K from the largest-ever, at the time, donation to the
 University) and is supported by a horticultural technician. The CERs have individually computer-
 controlled light, temperature and humidity with permanent environmental monitoring and remote
 access. The glasshouse (Cambridge HOK) comprises 8 separate growing zones with
 independent constant environmental monitoring and a potting area with autoclave. In 2019 we
 invested £150K to purchase 2 GeoClima air cooled water chillers for the CERs in the Plant
 Growth and Invertebrate Facilities.
 3.2.9 Chilworth Manor Experimental plots designed for long- and short-term ecology projects
 are in the Victorian Walled Gardens at Chilworth, 3 miles from campus, and supported by a
 horticultural technician. The garden has four large quadrants surrounded by wide margins,
 providing the potential for over 3,500 1-m2, experimental plots.
 3.2.10 Other shared facilities. SoBS has also been involved in the development of other
 shared facilities across the University e.g., Supercomputing (Computational Modelling Group),
 Lipidomics (Medicine), Biomedical Imaging Unit (Medicine) and Mass Spectrometry (Chemistry),
 including through direct financial contributions e.g., Category-3 Microbiology Suite (Medicine)
 and Biomedical Research Facility (Medicine), where Teeling and Andrews also served on the
 Scientific Strategy and Management Committee.
 At the National level Williamson has contributed to the development of the Biomolecular NMR
 Centre (Crick Institute), the Dynamic Nuclear Polarisation MAS NMR Facility (University of
 Nottingham) and the National High-Field NMR (University of Warwick). Tews has been a
 member of the user working group for the KMX upgrade to Beamline I24 at Diamond Light
 Source.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                           REF2021
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Overview Our highly collaborative activity is reflected in our outputs. From 2014 to 2020 we
 have produced 1,170 research publications (Web of Science), of which 479 are co-authored with
 one or more of 41 other Schools and Institutes at the University of Southampton, distributed
 across the Faculty of Environmental and Life Sciences (353 publications), Faculty of Medicine
 (215), Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences (99), and Faculty of Social Sciences (8).
 These strong internal collaborations (Fig. 8) add power to our research themes (§1.3.1) and our
 capacity to deliver impact to external academic and non-academic beneficiaries.
 Evidence of our advances in academic and non-academic impact since 2014 is provided by:
    Volume of original research outputs increased, from 659 for REF2014 to 1,170 for REF2021
     (Web of Science).
    Citations increased, from 7,235 and H-index 36 for REF2014 to 23,254 and H-index 57 for
     REF2021 (REF2014 submission and Web of Science census end-2020).
    Field-weighted citation impact increased from 1.55 to 1.99 times the world average (Scopus
     2014-2019).
    Proportion of publications in the top 10% of all worldwide field-weighted publications
     increased, from 19.7% to 28.2% (Scopus 2014-2019).
    Proportion of international collaborations increased, from 55.3% to 67.6% of outputs
     (Scopus 2014-2019).
    Filing of 16 patents with 5 granted, §4.3.1.1.
 Our publications from 2014 to 2020 averaged 19.9 citations each (21/1/2021 census), within the
 top 10% quantile for worldwide publications in biosciences over the same period (Web of
 Science). These include 34 in the top 1% of field-weighted citations (collecting 9,439 citations
 across General Science, Ecology, Neuroscience, Evolution, Cell Biology, Microbiology, Plant
 Sciences), and 104 reviews (including nine in the top 1% of field-weighted citations: Tumbarello,
 Teeling, Gomez-Nicola, Morris, and others).
 We have published in 594 source titles covered by Web of Science (i.e., with rigorous peer
 review and editorial standards), including most frequently Scientific Reports (40 outputs), PLoS
 ONE (21), Nature Communications (19), Glia (16), PNAS (16), Ecology and Evolution (15),
 Global Change Biology Bioenergy (13). Of the total of 123 science categories covered by these
 outputs, the most frequent are biochemistry and molecular biology (170 outputs), ecology (157),
 multidisciplinary (118), neuroscience (113), cell biology (84), environmental science (80),
 microbiology (62), plant sciences (60). Of the total of 1,686 funding agencies supporting the
 outputs, funding is most frequently obtained from BBSRC (212 outputs), European Union (209),
 NERC (181), MRC (145), Wellcome Trust (96), NIHR (88). Our publications are co-authored with
 3,096 other organisations in 121 countries, including most frequently University of Oxford (111
 outputs), University of Cambridge (76), Kings College London (43), University of Melbourne (37),
 UCL (34), University of Leeds (34), and Imperial College London (33). Our School has
 international collaborations that include 84 of the top 100 universities for Biosciences (2020 QS
 World University Rankings).
 We have funded collaborations with more than 50 companies and government organisations
 spanning food retail, global pharma (including five from the global top-10 listing in 2020), agri-
 tech and biotech companies, conservation organisations (including UN Environmental
 Programme) and government agencies. Collaborations with commercial partners linked to 23 of
 our Category-A staff from across our research themes indicating a strong enterprise and
 engagement culture.


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                             REF2021
 In the following sections we describe how we support the route for delivering impact (§4.1), how
 we engage with external academic and non-academic partners to realise benefit from our
 research (§4.2), and our wider contributions to the economy and society (§4.3).
 4.1. Support for delivering impact
 Our impact strategy is introduced in §1.3.3.4. The Director of Enterprise (Teeling) coordinates
 our activity providing an immediate point of contact for all external enquiries matching industrial
 partners and engagement opportunities with academics. She promotes research activities of
 interest to the business community through i) networking events ii) establishing introductory
 meetings and iii) integrating our activity with the wider University strategy. This resulted in close
 links with industry (49% of staff; 15M, 7F), government (20% of staff: 7M, 2F) and with
 supranational organisations (7% of staff; 3M). Teeling explores options for developing IP and
 links staff to RIS (REF5a§1.5), an Entrepreneur in Residence and a dedicated Collaboration
 Manager with industry/sector experience who guides exploitation and licence negotiation and a
 Faculty Patent Panel which evaluates requests to file patents and covers costs of filing for those
 approved. The value of this support in delivering impact is evidenced by SoBS entering into 112
 Confidentially Agreements, 15 Material Transfer Agreements and generating patents, §4.3.1.1.
 4.2 Influence that delivers impact
 We are advisory-board members of multiple national and international institutes and professional
 societies and have participated in exchanges and networks as indicated below.
 4.2.1 International funding bodies
 Lillycrop is influential as a member of the USA National Institute of Health Childhood Cancer
 Board and Epigenetics Steering Committee, contributing to the NIH strategic funding priorities;
 Poppy is the sole UK representative for EU COST action programmes. Other examples include
 contributions to the Paris Peace Forum on Global Governance, the Portuguese Governamento
 Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia, the UNESCO/UNITWIN Network on PhD Education
 and Research and the Swedish NMR centre. We have also served on grant and advisory panels
 for charities e.g., Alzheimer’s Society, Fight for Sight, Progressive supranuclear palsy
 Association, Hannah’s Willberry Wonder Pony, and international funding organisations, Agence
 Nationale de la Recherche, Finnish Environment Agency and Genome Canada.
 4.2.2 National funding bodies
 49% of submitted staff (13M, 9F) have contributed in advisory roles and panel memberships to
 the work of research councils and charities. The breadth of our expertise is reflected in 5 of the 8
 UKRI councils being represented below, along with a wide range of other funding bodies in the
 UK and overseas. Significant examples include Poppy who contributed to establishing, and now
 leads as Director, a new £47.5 million Strategic Priorities Fund research programme focused on
 transforming the UK food system; Teeling as Deputy chair of MRC iCASE panel (2014-2019)
 and member of the BBSRC follow-on Fund panel, which make final decisions on industrial
 studentships and commercialization of research. We are extensively represented on UKRI and
 other major funding panels with 6 on the BBSRC pool of experts; 2 on the BBSRC/MRC
 Collaborative Computing Project for NMR Executive Committee; a panel member on each of the
 following; MRC Neuroscience and Mental Health Board; MRC Covid rapid response panel; MRC
 Doctoral Training Partnership interview pane; MRC/Crick NMR centre; MRC/Global Challenges
 research Fund; Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) committee; NERC panel; NC3Rs panel;
 Wellcome Trust Grant Interview panel; Neuroimmunology Strategic Advisory Group; Royal
 Society Newton Advanced Fellowship; and 5 members on the International Exchange Scheme
 panel.


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                            REF2021
 4.2.3 Learned Societies, Other Professional Organizations and Journal Editorship
 Examples of organizations where we have significant roles e.g., steering group member, provide
 an indication of the breadth of our activity: British Neuroscience Association; Wessex
 Immunology group; British Society of Proteome Research; Genetics Society; Biochemistry
 Society; Society of Experimental Biology; Microbiome Expert Working Group of the Microbiology
 Society. We further contribute to the field through journal editorship. A total of 16 staff (8M, 8F)
 serve(d) as Editors, Associate Editors, or are on the Editorial Boards, of 33 major journals.
 4.2.4 Conferences and seminar series
 Since 2014, we organised conference sessions e.g., for the British Society for Immunology,
 British Neuroscience Association, British Pharmacology Society, Biochemical Society, Society of
 Experimental Biology. We presented at least 121 invited/keynote lectures at major conferences
 in Universities, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organisations, in the UK and overseas
 (>19 countries). Siddle received the Julia Bodmer Young Scientist Award from the European
 Federation of Immunogenetics in 2016 and was invited to deliver a keynote lecture at the annual
 European federation of immunogenetics to receive the award. Lillycrop won the prestigious
 Boyd Orr Trust Fund Medal from the Nutrition Society and gave the keynote Lecture at the 2018
 annual meeting of the British Society of Nutrition, which was attended by 400 delegates.
 Lillycrop delivered a keynote at the world congress of the International Society for
 Developmental origins of Health and Disease, reaching >1000 delegates. Birts received a
 fellowship from the European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism Research (2017-
 2018) and was invited speaker at the 41st ESPEN Congress on Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism
 in Krakow, Poland (2019). During the assessment period we delivered more than 32 sessions at
 major meetings and delivered conferences e.g., Jacques-Monod conference (vice-Chair, Terry),
 Euro Tau (Mudher). Williamson, Tews and Werner chaired national meetings for CCP
 (Collaborative Computing Programmes) and CCPN (Collaborative Computing for NMR) with
 >1500 delegates in 2021, making us key players in the structural biology community. We also
 hosted 9 meetings at Southampton including for the British Society for Proteomic Research
 (2019), Biofilms (2020), British Society of Immunology (2014-2019), UK EvoDevo (2019),
 International Young Microbiologists (2020).
 4.2.5 Networks and Partnerships
 These activities provide exemplars of our extensive influence on agenda setting and activity in
 biosciences and routes to impact. Our expertise on microbial communities led to the formation of
 the UKRI-funded National Biofilms Innovation Centre (NBIC) with a wider consortium of 41
 additional research organisations and more than 100 companies. Directed by Webb, NBIC
 represents a £26M commitment that brings the best of UK biofilm research together with
 industrial sectors to accelerate the adoption of new technologies into live products and services.
 Expertise in multi-omics technologies from Skipp, Schofield, Crispin, Rackham, Ewing,
 combined with world-leading clinical partners, is transforming precision medicine across the
 diseases spectrum from cancer immunology to respiratory conditions, attracting substantial
 funding and investment from key industry partners, including Unilever and GlaxoSmithKline.
 Lillycrop is co-founder of EpiGen, a collaborative global research consortium focussing on
 developmental plasticity, nutrition, epigenetics, and human health, with substantial and
 productive relationships and investment from the private sector (£35M). Other key contributions
 to major international programmes, include WATBIO, a £9M EU consortium of 22 partners on
 drought tolerance in bioenergy crops, and EPSRC/NERC core funding for future energy
 scenarios and ecosystem service impact led by Taylor (UKERC phase III and IV) and the public-
 private funded £5M Wellcome Trust Consortium for Neuroimmunology of Mood Disorders and
 Alzheimer’s Disease which involves researchers from 7 HEI’s and 4 pharmaceutical companies.

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                          REF2021
 Poppy championed food security in his role as Chief Scientific Adviser, and co-developed the
 bid that secured almost £50M of Strategic Priorities Funding now under his directorship.
 4.2.6 People exchange
 National and international visitors have strengthened our research portfolio and impact as
 evidenced by the following examples: we hosted 6 (3M, 3F) visiting academics from 4 countries,
 including 2 visiting University of Southampton Diamond Jubilee Fellows (Dr Zhou Wu, Kyushu-u
 University, Japan, 2016-2019; Dr Douglas Allan, University of British Columbia, Canada, 2015-
 2018), and 4 visiting research fellows, including Dr Wei Zhang, The Central Hospital of Wuhan,
 Wuhan, P.R. China; 2017; Dr Meihong Chen, Jiangxi Maternal and Child Health Hospital,
 Nanchang, P.R. China; 2018; Dr Sumei Yao, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nantong
 University, Nantong, P.R. China; 2019; and Dr Ayodeji Asuni, Lundbeck, Copenhagen,
 Denmark, 2015-present. We also held Visiting Professorships at other institutions, including
 Teeling (Southern Danish University, Denmark, 2018), and Webb (Sydney, Australia, 2017).
 Gostling is visiting researcher at the Charles Darwin Research Station, Charles Darwin
 Foundation, Galapagos. Wang is visiting professor at the Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical School,
 Huazhong University of Science and Technology since 2016 and a visiting professor at the
 Central Hospital of Wuhan since 2019.
 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 We have made significant contributions to the economy and to society through our extensive
 interactions with commerce and policy making bodies. This has generated enterprise and spin-
 out activity and patents as detailed below.
 4.3.1 Contributions to the commercial sector
 Our impact strategy has supported the commercial sector and governmental organisations (> 50
 companies linked to 49% of staff) and ensures we are responsive to national and international
 priorities. Examples of our funded collaborations are listed below against research theme:
    Molecular and Cellular Bioscience. Our collaborations further technology development in the
     Biotech sector: Boerhinger Ingelheim (Wang, Skipp), Femtogenix (Fox), Microsoft
     (Werner).
    Computational and Systems Biology. Our interactions provide innovation in precision
     medicine and diagnostics: GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, Unilever, Waters and Wickham
     (Skipp).
    Development Biology. Our broad ranging industry links address global priorities in health
     care e.g., healthy aging: Abbott (Lillycrop), Benevolent (Lillycrop), EpiGen (Lillycrop),
     Ministry of Defence (Clarkin, Keevil), Roche (Teeling, Clarkin).
    Neuroscience. Treatment of dementia is a high societal priority and we are translating our
     research to deliver advances through the following collaborations: Abbvie (Gomez-Nicola),
     AstraZeneca (Teeling, Mudher), BioInvent (Teeling), Biogen (Deinhardt), Chronos
     (O’Connor), Cortexyme (Teeling), Defence and Science Technology DSTL (Holden-Dye,
     O’Connor, Smith), Eli Lilly (Gomez-Nicola, Teeling, Deinhardt, O’Connor), Johnson and
     Johnson (Gomez-Nicola), Lundbeck (Teeling, O’Connor, Deinhardt),
     Medimmune/AstraZeneca (Teeling), MRC-T (Gomez-Nicola), Nutritious (Teeling), Nestle
     (Lillycrop), UCB (Teeling, Clarkin, Ewing), A*STAR (Wijnen), Novartis (Teeling).
    Microbiology. Antimicrobial resistance and infection present a major challenge for the 21st
     century. We are working with external partners to provide solutions: Antabio Pharma
     (Webb), Innovate UK (Terry, Webb, Keevil), Morrison’s (Keevil), Public Health England
     (O’Connor, Keevil), Unilever (Webb). Through this activity we developed ICS 05-07.


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                          REF2021
    Plants and Food Security. ‘Zero Hunger’ is the second UN Sustainability Goal. We are
     working with the commercial sector to improve the production of safe food: Adama (Terry,
     Holden-Dye, O’Connor), Acidophil (Holden-Dye), Algenuity (Terry), Amcor (Terry), Bayer
     (Holden-Dye, O’Connor), Branston (Terry), Dupont (Holden-Dye, O’Connor), Syngenta
     (Holden-Dye, O’Connor), Tesco (Terry), Vitacress (Taylor, Peh), Waitrose (Terry).
     Expertise in this area (Poppy) has provided leadership in national policy making §4.3.2, ICS
     05-09.
    Ecology and Evolution. Biodiversity and conservation, especially in the context of global
     climate change, are key international priorities. Our collaborations with the following
     organisations underpin progress in this arena: BirdLife International, Environment agency,
     Royal Society for the protection of Birds (RSPB), Tropical Biology Association and UNEP-
     World Conservation Monitoring Centre (Peh), British Antarctic Survey, Government of South
     Georgia and Sandwich Islands, Government of Bhutan, Operation Wallacea, Panthera,
     WWF-Canada, and Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust (Doncaster). Through these interactions
     we developed ICS 05-01 and 05-03.
 4.3.1.1 Patents, spinouts and clinical trials
 Extensive links to the commercial sector have facilitated impact, with filing of 16 patents since
 2014, some joint with external partners e.g., Lillycrop with Benevolent, Webb with NewSouth
 Innovations Pty Ltd (Australia) and Holden-Dye, O’Connor with Leeds University. RIS advises,
 guides and funds our patents through all stages pre- and post- granting of the patent. The
 following patents progressed to publication or have been granted within the REF period:
    ‘Phenotype prediction by determining the methylation status of genes’ (Lillycrop), published
     2015
    ‘Méthode de prédiction de la presence d’un ou plusiers phénotypes’ (Lillycrop), published
     2015
    ‘Plant or seed coating’ (Holden-Dye, O’Connor), published 29/4/2020
    ‘Cleaning liquid’ (Keevil), published 2015
    ‘P38 MapK inhibitors for the treatment of sarcopenia’ (Lillycrop), published 25/6/2020
    ’Compositions et leurs utilisations’ (Lillycrop), published 25/6/2020
    ‘Super-oscillatory lens apparatus and methods’ (Chad), granted 2015
    ‘Methods and compositions for regulating biofilm development’ (Webb), granted 2016
    ‘Polarisation microscope’ (Smith), granted 2019
    ‘Phenotype prediction’ (Lillycrop), granted 2016
    ‘Predictive use of methylation’ (Lillycrop), granted 2016
 We have engaged with 6 spinout/enterprise activities across our research themes. Holden-Dye
 and O'Connor launched an enterprise unit 'Neurivo' (2015) supported by a BBSRC Follow-on-
 Fund to facilitate contract research in anti-parasitic drugs. A flagship example of our recent
 success in enterprise is TopMD Precision Medicine Ltd (Skipp, Schofield). This developed
 through pre-seed funding (£37k, 2018) from the Solent Local Enterprise Partnership and
 SETsquared ICURe (£55k, 2019) and secured a SMART Innovate UK grant (£205k; July 2020),
 attracting angel investment of £100k, to extend and commercialise their pathway biomarker
 catalogue. TopMD is the main industrial partner for the biomarker discovery work package in
 H2020 DRAGON (€14.3M, Covid-19 response, June 2020) and the Health Holland respiratory
 programme, P402. TopMD has taken their product (worldwide patent filed) to market and is
 gaining strong market traction, working in partnership with major pharmaceutical and biotech
 companies (Chiesi, Smith & Nephew, Astra Zeneca; 2019).

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                             REF2021
 Expertise in neuroinflammation (Gomez-Nicola) has underpinned phase 1 clinical trials (2019)
 of JNJ-40346527, a CSF-1 receptor antagonist, as a novel treatment for Alzheimer’s disease.
 Further research (Holden-Dye, O’Connor) with Bayer AG on the selective toxicity of the
 anthelmintic emodepside was a key part of the decision making by the Drugs for Neglected
 Diseases Initiative to work with Bayer to launch clinical trials for the treatment of human filarial
 disease: phase 1 completed successfully in 2017 with phase 2 planned in Ghana for 2020
 (delayed by Covid).
 4.3.2 Contributions to policy making
 In his role as CSA of the Food standard Agency, London (2014-2020), Poppy, influenced >50
 policies in food security. He was appointed to the Assured Food Standards (AFS) Board, dealing
 with issues such as allergies and covering antimicrobial resistance as Red Tractor’s new
 scientific adviser for agricultural and food science.
 Keevil is a member of the Food Standards Agency London and Scotland and Chairs the
 Advisory Committee on the Microbiological Safety of Food. Keevil also serves as member of the
 Department of Health Decontamination working group, and he is a committee member of the
 Ministry of Defence Independent Science and Technical Advice (ISTA), the British Standards
 Institute EH/5 Wastewater Treatment and British Standards Institute CH-214 Antimicrobial
 Surfaces. We advised the Environment Agency on local river water management plan to control
 the levels of the River Itchen at its tidal confluence within Riverside Park in Southampton.
 Further examples of advice to policy makers include provision of written and oral evidence to the
 Agricultural Bill committee on the use of chlorinated chicken and food security (Poppy),
 providing policy input to UK Energy Research Centre in the area of bioenergy developments
 (Taylor) and involvement with USA-EU twinning activities on Life Cycle Assessments for
 bioenergy (Taylor).
 Contributions to the commercial sector include work on anti-microbial surfaces using copper
 (Keevil, ICS 05-07), preclinical testing of biologics for dementia (Teeling), consultancy on
 neuroimmunology for pharma (e.g., Eli Lilly, Abbvie, AstraZeneca, Lundbeck, Gomez-Nicola),
 consultancy on pest control agents with low environmental impact (Holden-Dye). Nobrega is co-
 founder of the Dutch Phage bank.
 Crispin contributed to a Royal Society of Chemistry report submitted to the House of Lords
 Science & Technology Select Committee, June 2020 entitled ‘The Science of Covid-19'.
 4.3.3 Contributions to Community and Public Engagement
 The significant extent to which the public engage with our work is evidenced by Altmetrics data
 on online engagement. Notable examples of top-1% attention scores compared to same-age
 outputs include work from Peh on carbon sink saturation, covered by 139 news outlets and
 1,133 tweeters, with an Altmetric of 2,008 (within the top 2,000 of all articles ever published with
 Altmetrics data across all disciplines by end-2020); Gostling on the early evolution of mammals,
 covered by 136 news outlets, with Altmetric of 1,251; Teeling on periodontitis in Alzheimer’s
 Disease, covered by 121 outlets, with Altmetrics of 1,044; work by Siddle on the origins of
 transmissible cancers in Tasmanian Devils, covered by 92 news outlets, with Altmetric of 987;
 also on immunotherapy resistance, covered by 88 news outlets, with Altmetric of 828; Lillycrop
 on dietary supplementation with seed oil, covered by 99 news outlets, with Altmetric of 797;
 Crispin on identifying site-specific glycans of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, covered by 32
 news outlets and 907 tweeters, with Altmetric of 737. Research outputs from SoBS during the
 assessment period have been referenced by 2,758 news outlets (top 5% quantile for biological
 sciences worldwide: Altmetric Explorer); 437 blogs (top 8%); 61 Wikipedia entries (top 3%); 68
 policy citations (top 2%), 43 patent citations (top 2%); 30,478 tweets from 164 countries (top


                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)                                          REF2021
 8%). UoA5 staff have published influential commentary/perspective/ideas publications, including
 Poppy in Nature Food, and Nature, and Doncaster in Conservation Letters. Gostling's
 Facebook page 'The Dinosaur on your Windowsill' has more than 3,900 members from 43
 countries. Doncaster's ‘Timeline of the Human Condition’ averages over 500 daily page views
 from over 160 countries.
 Notable examples of engagement include the display of a diamond as part of Against Breast
 Cancer campaign 'The world’s most valuable diamond' by Birts, Skipp and Crispin. This was
 an international fundraising campaign during Breast Cancer Awareness month in October 2019
 and included both TV and newspaper coverage, as well as coverage in Times Square New York.
 Taylor and Chapman participated in the Chelsea Flower show in 2018, raising awareness of the
 health benefits of watercress, being involved in a professional cooking session, reaching
 157,000 people attending the show. We took part in Marwell Wildlife’s ‘Zany Zebras’ sculpture
 trail, taking biodiversity and conservation research into Southampton city centre, attracting
 thousands of visitors. This engagement event was complemented by BioBlitz ecology walks for
 the general public (>500 participants). Holden-Dye led ‘The Beautiful Mind’ project, a
 collaboration with the Winchester School of Art, involving undergraduates and early career
 researchers, to raise awareness of Mental health amongst the general public, this included a
 Wellcome Trust-funded fashion show at the British Neuroscience Festival in London’s Barbican
 Centre in 2014, attracting >1000 visitors. At the University’s Science and Engineering Festival
 (2016), Doncaster worked with artist Chris Cudlip, who created a sculpture to raise awareness
 on the impact of pollution in Chinese lakes on biodiversity, reaching >4000 members of the
 public. Chapman participated in Countryfile Live, communicating NERC-funded work on crop
 domestication and genetics. During this event 600 school-age children extracted DNA from
 strawberries at the display. We lead exhibits in the annual 3-day New Forest show to
 communicate Research Council funded research, reaching 20,000 members of the public per
 day and won 'Best Local Stand' in 2016.
 Our early career researchers are also highly active public engagers, with PhD work by Rachel
 Owen on ‘Cancer in Tasmanian Devils’ supervised by Siddle one of six national finalists in the
 2019 UK 3-minute thesis competition, and microscopy images from PhD work supervised by
 Deinhardt being displayed at OXO gallery, London, as part of a dementia awareness campaign
 by Alzheimer’s Research UK.
 Our public engagement activities are presented in national and international news media.
 Examples include, Keevil (with postdoctoral fellow Callum Highmore) presenting a BBC R4
 programme on Chlorinated Chicken and antimicrobial resistance (2019), resulting in invitations
 to give evidence at the House of Commons. Keevil also wrote an article in ‘The Conversation’
 describing the anti-microbial effects of copper, which has been read by 273,000 people, and
 reported in 11 news outlets and 857 tweets.
 4.4 Future impact
 We have developed networks, partnerships and commercial opportunities and a breadth of
 influence that spans the environment to the clinic and engages with diverse communities. We
 have an embedded strategy that will serve to develop and deliver future impact, e.g. TopMD
 Precision Medicine Ltd. Moreover, NBIC provides an opportunity for a legacy that will stimulate
 exciting new opportunities for translating biofilms research to economic and societal benefit. We
 will continue to pump-prime new enterprise activity through IfLS funding, half-studentships to
 facilitate new industry collaborations, and traction from SoCoBio for commercial partnerships. All
 told, we have developed an excellent environment for revenue generation to sustain growth and
 future impact.



                                                                                            Page 22
