Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: D28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Departmental context

 The History Department at The Open University (OU) is a community of internationally recognised
 researchers, distinctive in applying leading-edge digital technologies to the generation and
 dissemination of knowledge. OU historians research the history of Britain, Europe, Africa, Asia
 and America from 1500 to the immediate past. We work collaboratively and with HEI and non-HEI
 partners, fostering interdisciplinary research including co-supervision of PhD students and
 collaborative interdisciplinary projects.

 Our Department has grown over the census period. Compared with REF2014, we have a larger
 academic staff base, increased external funding, and more successful PhD completions. We have
 developed and strengthened our strategic partnerships, resulting in public engagement and
 impact. History is a priority research area for the OU, resulting in strategic financial investment.
 For REF2014, we submitted 16 researchers (14.3 FTE) compared with 20 Cat-A staff (18.4 FTE)
 for REF2021.

 While we teach ‘at a distance’ in research terms, the OU operates like any other university, with
 the added advantage that OU historians benefit from unparalleled access to the OU’s unique
 channels for public engagement designed to communicate our research to diverse audiences.
 These include:

 •   OpenLearn, the OU’s free learning platform which allows historians to make research
     available to international audiences (over 80 million visitors to date) (see 1.3);

 •   the BBC/OU partnership to co-produce programmes for all BBC TV, radio, digital and online
     channels/platforms, enabling us to shape programmes which reach audiences of millions
     (see 1.3);

 •   FutureLearn, an innovative company founded and part-owned by the OU, which offers free
     online courses where OU historians make their research available to large public audiences
     (see ICS1).

 •   Our unique programme for learners in secure environments which reaches over 150
     prisons and 50 secure hospital units; history research has informed an innovative open
     educational course on prison education for learners in secure environments (see 1.3).

 Historians work in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, which provides a well-resourced
 support network for our research and impact activities. As part of the University’s commitment to
 research integrity, Faculties are responsible for ensuring that all new staff members are briefed
 on issues relating to good research practice. The Faculty promotes an open research environment
 in which staff and students benefit from numerous points of support and advice – discipline
 research leads, School Directors of Research, discipline PGRS coordinators, the Associate Dean
 for Research.

 Our research centres and groups provide well-resourced and stimulating intellectual homes for
 staff and PhD students. Some are long-standing, others evolved over the census period to reflect
 current research interests.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   The Centre for the History of Crime, Policing and Justice is our longest-established
     research group. Founded by Clive Emsley, centre members include Crone, Lawrence,
     O’Shea, Williams, two colleagues from Law and Social Sciences and 14 associate members.
     The Centre has had significant external funding successes, namely Crone’s AHRC Early
     Career Fellowship ‘Educating Criminals in Nineteenth-Century England’ (2015-18), and AHRC
     Follow-on Funding ‘Prison History for New Learners Inside and Outside the Prison’ (2019-21)
     with external partner Prisoners’ Education Trust. Members have established successful
     relationships with non-HEI institutions (e.g. Prisoners’ Education Trust, Howard League for
     Penal Reform, National Justice Museum, local and family history societies, police history
     societies, prison and policing museums). They have forged links with the Home Office via a
     successful collaboration with History & Policy (see 1.3 and ICS2). The Centre’s seminar series
     attracts academic and non-academic audiences, including practitioners. It also houses several
     substantial primary and secondary source collections that are used by researchers around the
     world. Eight PhD students were successfully supervised in the Centre during the REF period.

 •   The Ferguson Centre for African and Asian Studies was founded in 2002 to facilitate
     interdisciplinary research into the history of empire and postcolonialism with particular focus
     on external collaborations. It has 16 members from five disciplines and is located in the History
     Department. Members Slight, Hack, Hazareesingh, O’Shea, and Hughes have built
     interdisciplinary research capacity with a range of externally funded projects such as
     Hughes’s ESRC-funded project Cultural Rights and Kenya’s New Constitution (2014-2017)
     and Hazareesingh’s AHRC-funded GCRF project Changing Farming Lives in South Asia,
     Past and Present (2017-2019). We have enhanced the group’s vitality with the appointment of
     Slight whose research interest in the Middle East adds a new dimension to the Centre. Four
     affiliated PhD students were supervised to completion in the census period.

 •   The Research Group War and Peace in the Twentieth Century encompasses the interests
     of historians whose research focuses on the two World Wars (Mombauer, Slight, Trott), the
     Cold War, peace and anti-war activism (Brunet), and colonial violence (Hack). New
     appointments (Trott, Brunet, Slight) have enabled the expansion of this group which
     includes eight associated members from five other disciplines. The group successfully bid to
     host a Royal Historical Association Symposium on the commemoration of the First World
     War in 2019, as well as organising other interdisciplinary research events, including with
     partner institution LSE. The group is home to Brunet’s developing network on peace
     activism (for which an AHRC networking grant was submitted in January 2021); four PhD
     students have been supervised by the group in the census period.

 •   Following the recent appointment of medievalist Hayes and additional early modernist
     Wolfson, the Medieval and Early Modern History group was founded in 2020 to replace the
     History of Medicine and Early Modern Britain and Europe groups.

 Historians are also members of the interdisciplinary Medieval and Early Modern Group (Allen, De
 Renzi, Forbes, Wolfson, Younger) and The Centre for Research into Gender and Otherness in
 the Humanities (Allen, McEneaney).

 1.2 The Unit’s research objectives during the assessment period and over the next five
 years

 In 2014, we set ourselves three strategic research priorities:
     1. To increase and diversify external funding to enable further development of research in
        key areas of strength (e.g., History of Crime, Ferguson Centre);
     2. To foster links with non-HEI and HEI partners to enable innovation in collaborative and
        interdisciplinary research;



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. To maximise public engagement and impact with targeted engagement in a broad range
       of online and broadcast activities.

 We have been successful across all three areas:
 (1) Funding

 We have external research funding income of just under £1M (a 22% increase on funding
 submitted to REF2014). This enabled high-profile research projects in Africa, Asia and the UK,
 which benefited non HEI-partners and NGOs and produced high-quality scholarly outputs.

 Projects include:

    •   Hughes’s ESRC-funded ‘Cultural Rights and Kenya’s New Constitution’ (2014-2017,
        £628,157).

    •   Crone’s AHRC Early Career Fellowship ‘Educating Criminals in Nineteenth-Century
        England’ (2015-18, £184,260) and AHRC Follow-on Funding ‘Prison History for New
        Learners Inside and Outside the Prison’ (2019-21, £72,370) with external partner
        Prisoners’ Education Trust (which underpins ICS2).

    •   Hazareesingh’s AHRC-funded GCRF ‘Changing Farming Lives in South India Past and
        Present’ project (2017-19, £48,327) and British Academy-funded ‘Commodities of
        Empire’ project (2014-16, £10,000) (see 3.1). This has resulted in an application for
        further AHRC-GCRF funding for ‘Ancient Futures: supporting the revival of a millet-
        oriented food system in Karnataka, India’ (£172,998).

 (2) Collaborations

 We have fostered links with external collaborators, resulting in funded projects with HEI and non-
 HEI partners. The Department’s commitment to collaborative interdisciplinary research has
 enabled us to submit innovative funding applications and to reach diverse audiences. Examples
 include:

    •   Hughes’s collaboration with non-HEI organisations in Kenya, including the Katiba
        Institute, the British Institute in Eastern Africa (BIEA) and its French sister institute IFRA
        on the project ‘Cultural Rights and Kenya’s New Constitution’ with partner University of
        Nairobi. Project members worked with a network of community peace museums in rural
        Kenya and organised a public event on cultural rights at Storymoja National Museum
        Nairobi.

    •   NGO Green Foundation collaborated on Hazareesingh’s AHRC-funded oral history
        project on women farmers’ cultural memories in India. Hazareesingh co-organised an
        international two-day workshop on ‘Sustainable Farming Practices Past and Present’,
        Bangalore, India, and shared the research with local farming communities in Karnataka,
        India. Hazareesingh and partner Green Foundation jointly presented their project
        ‘Changing Farming Lives in South India’, Past and Present at a House of Commons
        conference (2019).

    •   Brunet, who is founder and co-director of the LSE-based Peace and Security Project,
        organised several joint OU/LSE research events. He compiled ‘Peace Activism in the UK
        during the Cold War’, an online resource based on archival collections of the LSE
        Library. Building on this collaboration, Brunet developed a successful OU/LSE Library
        Collaborative Doctoral Award (CDA) proposal. His collaboration with the LSE formed the
        foundation of an AHRC networking grant (submitted January 2021) involving nine
        partners in seven countries.



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   We have developed productive links with the Prisoners’ Education Trust, the Howard
        League for Penal Reform and the National Justice Museum, via Crone’s successful
        AHRC bids, which in turn have led to impact (1.3; ICS2).

    •   We have built a close working relationship with History & Policy (H&P), an umbrella
        organisation which connects historians with policymakers, leading to collaboration with
        the Home Office via a seminar series organized by Williams (ICS2).

    •   Goodrich developed close links with History of Parliament, resulting in a successful
        Collaborative Doctoral Award (CDA) to research the history of BAME presence in British
        politics and a developing funding bid for 2021.

    •   Vincent was visiting research fellow at the History of Conspiracies project at the Centre
        for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities Cambridge University.

 (3) Public engagement

 We have developed successful research-based courses for public engagement and impact
 using the exceptional opportunities afforded by the OU’s channels for public engagement.
 Examples include:

    •   Mombauer’s FutureLearn MOOCs which attracted over 34,000 learners in 97+ countries
        in four presentations (see ICS1).

    •   Crone’s Open Education Resource (OER) for which she drew on the OU’s expertise in
        teaching learners in secure environments, and her innovative research into prisons and
        prison education. The OER teaches prisoners and prison staff about the history of
        education in UK prisons and is a first step towards formal tertiary education; uniquely,
        former prisoners were involved in the production of the module.

    •   A continuous professional development course (CPD), freely available on OpenLearn,
        developed by Plassart, Mombauer and Trott, working with teachers to provide
        research-based professional development for secondary school history teachers.

 These successes in meeting our research objectives are due to the support we provide to all
 UOA members. Our strategy has focused on helping colleagues achieve their full potential in
 grant capture, outputs, public engagement, impact, and contributions to the wider discipline. The
 Department’s Director of Research (DoR Mombauer), along with a research steering group,
 provides mentoring, guidance and peer review of outputs and grant applications. We run
 research training events, a research workshop offering informal peer review on drafts, and a
 departmental research seminar which is a supportive forum for trying out new ideas.

 Following REF2014, History became a strategic priority area for the University, resulting in
 generous financial support, including a research fund for D28 (totalling c. £160,000 over the
 assessment period) to support research and impact activities. In total, c. £281,000 of internal
 funding was allocated to support historians’ research during the census period. This includes an
 annual individual research allowance for all OU researchers and additional School and Faculty
 funds available on request (see 3.2).


 1.2.1 Future Research Strategy

 Building on the work of the current assessment period we will continue actively to support all
 categories of staff to reach their full research potential. We will build on past successes in
 collaborative and interdisciplinary research and will:



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   strengthen internal and external collaborative research across disciplinary boundaries;
 •   encourage and enable bidding for external grants to enable and expand research for all
     staff, supporting Early Career Researchers and mid-career bidders and helping already
     successful bidders to develop their research projects further with larger grants;
 •   continue to support the work of our research centres and enable smaller research groups
     to develop to reflect evolving research interests (with internal funding and strategic
     appointments where possible);
 •   foster continuing and new links with external partners to grow research leadership and
     interdisciplinarity, for example via networking grants and CDAs;
 •   pursue impact in all areas of research and continue to utilise the OU’s unique channels for
     engaging diverse communities with the aim of generating meaningful impact from our
     research in the four nations and internationally.

 1.3 Research impact

 In line with the University’s inclusive mission, we have always communicated our research
 beyond the academy. The impact agenda has further embedded this aim. We are responsive to
 opportunities to engage public learners with our research, and we enable impact activities with
 targeted training, ring-fenced funding and workload allowance. We have achieved impact in the
 following ways:


 a) Digital reach for engagement and impact

 We reach large global audiences by publishing research-based articles and free courses on
 OpenLearn. Examples include ‘60 Years after the Treaty of Rome: Lessons from history for
 today's EU’ (Brunet); ‘The First World War continues: Britain’s dash for Mosul, Iraq, November
 1918’ (Slight); and Marsden’s ‘Methodism in Wales, 1730-1850’. To give an example of reach,
 Mombauer’s OpenLearn materials on the First World War attracted 277,774 unique page views
 in 176 countries over the census period.

 We engage learners via Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) such as World War One:
 Trauma, Memory, Controversy (2020), and with Continuous Professional Development (CPD)
 courses aimed at schoolteachers. In 2020, we piloted a CPD course based on research by Trott
 and Mombauer, working with secondary school teachers in Wales and England (see ICS1).

 b) Unique Partnership with the BBC

 The OU’s partnership with the BBC is the only such partnership the BBC maintains. We co-
 produce programmes for all BBC TV, radio, digital and online channels/platforms, combining the
 best of both organisations’ resources and talents to reach the widest possible audience (see
 also IES, 2.2). OU historians are ‘nominated academics’ within BBC production teams (a role
 that is distinct from invited media consultancies) and provide sustained input into the production
 process.

 During the census period we have worked with the production teams for BBC programmes
 which attracted 55.95 million viewers in total: The Blitz (audience 8.17 million); Full Steam
 Ahead (17.3m); Britain’s Great War (16.4m); Icons (8.56m); Dangerous Borders. A Journey
 across India and Pakistan (5.52m). Empire: Hidden Histories was delayed by Covid and is
 forthcoming.

 To accompany these programmes, OU historians devised ‘learning journeys’ and produced
 research-based educational materials which extend the programmes’ remits. These free
 resources enable us to connect our research expertise and popular BBC programmes.
 Examples of free print and digital items include Mombauer and Trott’s 18-page booklet ‘The
                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 First World War Experienced’ to accompany the 2014 BBC/Open University Series Britain’s
 Great War (10,000 free hard copies distributed; 63,990 unique page views for the online booklet
 in 99 countries). Williams’s poster ‘Our Railway’ accompanied the series Full Steam Ahead
 (BBC2, 2016, 50,000 hard copies).

 We created additional online content on OpenLearn to accompany BBC series. Examples
 include Hazareesingh’s three articles to accompany Dangerous Borders (2017); Mombauer’s
 materials on Germany’s experience of the Blitz to accompany and contextualise the BBC1 series
 The Blitz (2019); and Williams’s ‘The Railways in the 999 system’ alongside Full Steam Ahead
 (2016).

 c) Strategic Partnership with History & Policy (H&P)

 The Department collaborates with and supports the national network History & Policy. Since
 2015 Williams, working with H&P, has run a successful seminar series at the Home Office
 which provides historical context to topics of contemporary concern. Williams has represented
 H&P on initiatives with the Cabinet Office (including co-ordinating H&P’s support for its COVID-
 19 response), the Department for Education, the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial
 Strategy, and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (as part of a consultation process about
 Whitehall in-house historians prior to the appointment of the first such in-house historian to the
 Home Office in their 245-year existence). Williams’s collaboration with H&P and the Home
 Office led to impact on Home Office civil servants (ICS2). Since 2016, the OU has contributed
 £3000 annually to the running costs of H&P; in 2020 we increased our funding to £10k to secure
 the group’s future. Our backing of H&P supports the research environment nationally and
 benefits UK HEIs. In addition, OU staff (Williams, Lawrence, Slight), students (Wilburn),
 emeritus staff (Emsley) and alumni (Hassett) have presented at Williams’s Home Office
 seminar. Williams, Vincent, Marsden and Brunet have written policy papers for H&P. We plan
 to maintain these significant links with H&P and with policymakers, and to continue ongoing
 efforts (temporarily put on hold due to Covid-19) to replicate these in the Ministry of Justice.

 d) Generating impact and engaging public audiences in more traditional ways

 We host public events in Milton Keynes and in our national centres, using our technological
 infrastructure to broadcast to audiences at a distance. For example, via our public research
 lecture series we engage large audiences beyond the academy (with over 3,000 viewings of our
 2019 lectures).

 We collaborate with museums and libraries (e.g., National Museum of Singapore, Science
 Museum, National Justice Museum, National Museum Nairobi, British Library, LSE library).
 Trott’s research helped shape the British Library’s WW1 centenary exhibition; Goodrich was
 historical adviser for the BL’s exhibition ‘Georgians Revealed’ (2013/14); Vincent was a member
 of the advisory board for the Science Museum’s ‘Top Secret’ exhibition (2018/19).

 We make our research and primary sources open access via online databases. Examples
 include Allen’s collaboration with the Women’s Early Modern Letters Online project (2013-16)
 and Brunet’s and Crone’s open access primary source databases (see 1.2; ICS2).

 Our research expertise led to high-profile media engagements. For example, during the
 centenary of the First World War, Mombauer engaged international and national audiences via
 media interviews including Radio Bremen, Deutschlandfunk, BBC Radio 5 live, Turkish
 Government Channel TRT World, ABC, BBC World Service, BBC2 and international
 newspapers (see ICS1). The Covid-19 lockdown resulted in high demand for Vincent’s research
 expertise on the history of solitude as his April 2020 book A History of Solitude offered a unique
 perspective on the experience of lockdown (e.g., interviews in Toronto Globe and Mail, Die Welt;
 The Big Issue, ZDF/3Sat.de; Time Magazine, Singapore Straits Times, Australian Broadcasting
 Corporation National Radio, AgeUK website).


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Rationale for our impact case studies

 Our two ICSs for REF2021 showcase the different approaches to impact outlined in 1.3.

 ICS1 uses our research expertise in the history of the First World War to demonstrate impact
 resulting from engaging public audiences, e.g., via the OU’s online platforms and broadcast
 opportunities.

 ICS2 demonstrates impacts resulting from strategic partnerships via our relationships with
 History & Policy and the Home Office, and from our collaborations with non-HEI bodies such as
 the Prisoners’ Education Trust.


 1.5 Impact beyond REF2021

 We will continue our successful inclusive approach to supporting impact activities by providing
 mentoring and training to ensure that impact is a central part of research projects. To enable
 impact activities, we can draw on internal funds to support external engagement. Impact
 activities will continue to be included in annual work-load plans; they also form part of our
 promotion criteria.

 Future impact will result from projects delayed by Covid-19, including the work of our criminal
 justice historians. Crone’s OER for prisoners and prison staff will have impact on diverse
 learners in secure environments. Her ‘local lock-ups’ project (which invites members of the
 public to populate a large database collating evidence on lock-ups and local prisons) will
 generate more public participation over the next few years. Plans for a seminar series with the
 Ministry of Justice have been delayed by Covid-19 but have the potential for future impact, along
 with Williams’s ongoing commitment to H&P and collaboration with the Home Office.

 Our Continuous Professional Development course on the First World War will generate further
 impact in the classroom. Mombauer’s MOOC WW1: Trauma, Memory, Controversy has
 potential for further impact on international learners. Our ongoing collaborations with the BBC
 will continue to offer us opportunities for impact, with colleagues already planning further
 collaborations (Allen, Hack) for broadcast in 2021/2022.

 We are already developing new projects with impact potential, including Brunet’s research
 project on peace activism (a collaboration with several international partners), for which we
 sought external impact advice at the drafting stage. Newly appointed Layton-Jones’s research
 on public parks has already had impact on policy makers and has further impact potential over
 the next census period; we are supporting her developing funding bid with external partners.
 Goodrich is developing a large-scale collaboration with History of Parliament with impact
 potential.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 At census date, the Department consists of 11 Lecturers, 10 Senior Lecturers, four Professors
 and one Research Fellow. Since REF2014, three colleagues have been promoted to Professor
 (2 male/1 female) (Lawrence, Mombauer, Hack). Seven have been promoted to Senior
 Lecturer (6 female/1 male) (Allen, Crone, De Renzi, Goodrich, Loftus, Marsden, Plassart).
 Since 1 August 2013 we have made 13 new appointments. Staff initially appointed on fixed-term
 or fractional contracts now have permanent, full-time appointments (Trott’s 0.5 appointment
 became full-time in 2017; Slight’s temporary contract became permanent in 2019).

 Seven members of staff have retired (Laurence, Grell, Moore, Emsley, Vincent, Brunton,
 Hughes). Some emeritus staff continued their association with the Department: Emsley

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contributed to our research culture by participating in Centre for History of Crime seminars;
 Vincent re-joined the Department on a fractional contract, and Laurence joined our REF
 preparation panel.

 The Department consists of two distinct categories of academic staff: Central Academics and
 Staff Tutors (see IES 1.2). ‘Central Academics’, based in Milton Keynes, are contractually
 required to pursue research, teaching and administrative duties. They are entitled to at least 79
 research days p.a., approximately a third of contracted working hours. This can be taken by
 arrangement at almost any time of year and can also be ‘carried over’ in a teaching-heavy year
 or to support the demands of projects and research awards. All central academic staff are
 included in our REF submission.

 ‘Staff Tutors’ (ST) manage teaching provision in the nations and regions in addition to their own
 teaching. While not required to undertake research, they are entitled to 22 days research and
 scholarship time p.a. (with more on request). Across the University, few STs meet the 15%
 threshold for significant responsibility for research stipulated in our REF Code of Practice.
 However, in History we have always supported the research potential of all staff and two Staff
 Tutors are included in our submission. Irrespective of inclusion in REF2021, we will continue to
 support ST research to enable them to meet the criteria for inclusion in the future and to develop
 their academic careers and profiles.

 2.2 Staff recruitment, formal staff appraisal and development

 Newly appointed historians are formally inducted, including research mentoring with the DoR,
 and integrated into research groups and centres. ECRs are initially given a lighter teaching load
 to enable them to focus on research, and new staff are paired with a mentor.

 Staff benefit from a formal annual appraisal with the HoD (Lawrence). Using the University’s
 academic workload planning system, the process ensures that research time is allocated
 holistically and fairly across the Department, essential in an institution which operates without
 the rhythm of terms, vacations and sabbaticals. The appraisal also identifies staff development
 requirements for which extensive provisions are available. Individual research plans (2.3) are
 discussed along with the progress of funded research.

 2.3 Informal staff development

 All staff have a formal annual research review with the DoR which addresses research and
 publication plans, planned grant applications, impact activities etc. The DoR and HoD also offer
 informal advice and guidance throughout the year and provide peer-review on developing grant
 applications, book proposals and all draft outputs. New staff have mentors.

 The University’s Research, Enterprise and Scholarship team provided strategic research
 investment funds for D28 which were managed by the DoR and were available to all staff, with
 strategic priority given to early career researchers (e.g. enabling Trott to undertake exploratory
 US archive trips to develop his post-doc research project) and to supporting impact and external
 engagement activities (e.g. by supporting Crone’s work with former prisoners). These funds also
 covered publication costs and informal staff development, such as research training (e.g. ‘The
 Productive Researcher’ in November 2020).


 2.4 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS)

 Unlike our distance teaching for undergraduates, postgraduate supervision is more ‘traditional’,
 but with added flexibility tailored to our diverse student body. Many of our PhD students join us
 after pursuing other careers. They come from diverse backgrounds; while the majority are
 currently AHRC-funded, many are also self-funding and/or part-time.


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are distinctive in considering an applicant’s life experience and potential at the application
 stage, rather than rigidly insisting on formal prerequisites for a research degree. Our rigorous
 supervision and upgrade procedures ensure that successful candidates reach the required
 standards for a PhD. This inclusive approach benefits students with protected characteristics or
 from diverse educational backgrounds.

 Supervision is arranged in line with the Graduate School’s Research Degrees regulations,
 usually face-to-face and occasionally at a distance (but during the current pandemic conducted
 remotely), with at least ten supervision sessions p.a. for full-time students, five for part-time.
 When students request study breaks for health reasons or caring duties, we continue to provide
 informal supervision. The Graduate School oversees training and progression alongside a
 faculty Director of Research Degrees. A departmental postgraduate convenor is responsible for
 recruitment and discipline-specific training.

 Our provision for PhD research meets or exceeds the requirements of all research councils and
 Quality Assurance Agency standards. Each student has at least two supervisors and a third-
 party monitor. Progress and training are monitored through six-monthly progress reports, with
 initial MPhil registration upgraded to PhD following satisfactory performance in a presentation
 and upgrade viva assessed by two internal examiners (see also IES).

 Since 2014, 18 students (up from 15 in REF2014) have been awarded a History PhD (12 studied
 full-time; five were self-funded), including three AHRC collaborative doctoral awards. The
 Department currently has 13 postgraduate research students, including 8 AHRC-funded.

 Our students benefit from the OU’s membership of DTP1 - The Consortium for Humanities and
 the Arts South-East England (CHASE, 2013-2018) and DTP2 - The Open-Oxford-Cambridge
 Consortium (OOC, 2018–2023). Lawrence was central in developing these, co-writing both
 consortium applications. He served on the CHASE Management Board and chaired the Training
 and Development Group (2013-16), thus shaping the training of hundreds of research students.
 He was PI on the AHRC-funded Skills Development Grant ‘Becoming a Public Intellectual’ (2013
 - £45,581) and Co-I on the ‘Going Digital’ programme (2012 - £59,990). Lawrence has been
 Deputy Director of OOC since 2018 and will be its Director from April 2021, continuing to shape
 the consortium’s doctoral training and its collaboration with strategic partners (The BBC World
 Service, The National Trust, BT).

 Our research students benefit from an excellent research library with sector-leading online
 facilities and a large print collection (see 3.2). Full-time students are allocated workspace and
 networked laptops. All students receive generous financial support (£1000 p.a. for full-time
 students, £500 part-time, with more available by application). Both part-time and full-time
 students are fully integrated in the Department’s research culture, are members of our research
 centres and groups, and attend/present at our regular research events.

 A wide range of skills training is provided. Our PhD students can access our taught History MA,
 which is shaped by OU staff research interests, provides a grounding in research methods and
 has had a significant impact on recruitment, retention and progression. PhD students can
 acquire teaching experience by joining our teaching teams, lecturing students online via Adobe
 Connect and with the Brilliant Club.

 Because of the flexibility of our existing provision, it was possible quickly to adapt our research
 support during the Covid-19 pandemic. All research student training, inductions and supervision
 are currently delivered remotely. Our regular research seminar (with papers presented by staff
 and PGRS) takes place online. Virtual coffee-mornings provide opportunities to socialise at a
 distance. In consultation with their supervisors, research students keep logs of any disruptions to
 their research as a result of the pandemic. To date none of our PhD students have faced
 significant disruptions. Our students have been offered financial support from the University’s
 hardship fund, including a fee-free six-month extension for all full-time final year students.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have high levels of research student satisfaction. 100% of respondents to our exit survey of
 history graduates since 2017 agreed/agreed strongly they were pleased a) with the academic
 advice they received from their supervisors and b) with the training provided by the Department,
 Faculty and University. All would recommend studying for an OU History PhD to others (75%
 response rate). The OU ranked fifth nationally for research student satisfaction in Postgraduate
 Researcher Experience Survey (PRES) and first in overall satisfaction among BAME research
 students. History scored especially highly on PhD student satisfaction.

 Following graduation, our PhD students can become Honorary Research Fellows in the
 Department, ensuring continued library access, IT facilities and email, and involvement in the
 departmental research culture. They mentor current PhD students (a recent History initiative
 which has been adopted across the Faculty). Many of our PhD students have successful careers
 in academia (e.g., Trott is now a Lecturer in the Department; Wakefield is Lecturer in Museum
 Studies at Leicester University; Churchill is Associate Professor at Leeds University) and other
 professions, including teaching careers. Ryland-Epton won the Bryan Jerrard award for best
 Gloucestershire local history essay (2018) which was published in Parliamentary History in
 2019; Clark worked for the Hillsborough Independent Panel.

 2.5 Equality and diversity

 The History Department implements fully the University’s range of policies and practices
 intended to achieve equality for all staff and research students (IES Sections 3.1, 3.5). Women
 and men have been appointed to leadership roles within the School and Faculty.

 Diversity extends to our research and teaching. The History Department has long taken a
 decolonising approach to the teaching of history of empire and indigenous people and we have
 expanded that impetus to embed BAME history into our full curriculum at undergraduate and
 postgraduate levels. For example, we recently secured a CDA on the history of BAME presence
 in British politics which was awarded to a BAME candidate, and we have been successful in
 securing a new Lectureship for 2021 recruitment, with the specific aim of broadening the
 Department’s diversity.

 Campus life at the OU differs substantially from that of other universities. Our student body is
 dispersed, and we teach at a distance. OU historians (and our research students) are distributed
 around the four nations of the UK. The University facilitates research with a range of measures
 for remote and flexible working which accommodate life events and promote wellbeing. Meetings
 can be attended remotely using University-supplied software and PCs, benefitting those with
 caring responsibilities or periods of ill-health. This infrastructure has ensured that our work
 continued with minimal disruption during successive lockdowns.

 Members of the Department have taken parental leave. Staff returning from long-term periods of
 leave were given reduced teaching loads and flexible working hours. Several colleagues
 qualified for output reductions on account of ill-health, disability, or maternity/parental leave. The
 University offered contingency leave to support staff with Covid-19 impacts (plus additional
 closure days for all staff). During the pandemic, staff and research students have received
 guidance on well-being and safe working at home.

 We consider it important for collegiality to meet regularly in person (prior to Covid-19), including
 social occasions for all Department members and research students. During lockdown we have
 scheduled frequent online meetings, weekly virtual coffee mornings and informal ‘drop-ins’ with
 the HoD. We are proud of our robust, collegial and supportive community of researchers which
 provides equality of opportunity for all colleagues.

 The University’s approach to promotion takes full account of the profiles of part-time staff. The
 Faculty’s robust processes to review part-time promotion cases ensured, for example, that
 Goodrich (0.6 FTE) achieved promotion to Senior Lecturer. Part-time and fixed-term staff
 receive the same research privileges and support as full-time/permanent staff. For fixed-term

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff, exit interviews six months before the end of a temporary contract provide help with career
 planning.

 2.6 REF2021 Preparations

 Our REF submission has been prepared by a panel of six, chaired by Mombauer. All members
 of the Department were asked for expressions of interest to join the panel; final membership
 reflected representativeness of experience, research expertise and gender balance and included
 senior colleagues (former Pro-Vice Chancellor Vincent, former Arts Faculty Associate Dean
 Research Mombauer; Head of Department Lawrence; School Director of Research Allen); and
 junior lecturers Brunet and Slight. All members completed EDI training.

 The panel adhered to the OU’s REF Code of Practice for REF2021. It conducted an initial round
 of standardisation to ensure a fair assessment of outputs. For this purpose, five different types of
 outputs were selected from the potential output pool and read by all panel members and an
 external adviser. All outputs were subsequently evaluated by at least two members of the panel,
 borderline outputs were referred to the external assessor, before being discussed in the round in
 order to decide on the final output pool. The panel considered gender balance in selecting the
 final output pool.

 The panel worked collegially; our overriding concerns were fairness and transparency. The
 panel drafted all REF-related templates. All members of the UOA had the chance to review the
 paperwork and to feed into our research and impact strategies for the next REF period.

 Following the processes set out in the OU’s Code of Practice, six colleagues submitted cases
 detailing personal circumstances which had impacted upon the time available to them to conduct
 research during the REF period. The cases were considered individually and confidentially by an
 independent REF Equality Panel, separate from other aspects of institutional REF preparation.
 This process resulted in an output reduction of seven for D28.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding

 We have had significant external funding successes, continuing our upward REF income
 trajectory from £326,083 in RAE2008, £774,922 in REF2014 to £994,589 in this census period.
 Funders include the British Academy, AHRC, EHRC, UKRI, Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme Trust,
 the Royal Society of Edinburgh, the Economic History Society and the Police History Society.
 We have also been successful with several smaller funders, including the Rothschild Archive,
 Scouloudi Foundation, Max Batley Peace Studies Foundation, the Society for Renaissance
 Studies and the Royal Historical Society. We have successfully bid for seven AHRC CDAs with
 partners Imperial War Museum, British Library, National Library of Wales, Cambridge University
 Library, History of Parliament, LSE Library and the Bodleian. We have had significant DTP
 funding successes (see 2.4).

 Crone’s two AHRC grant successes have enabled a series of long-term research projects which
 have extended the Centre for the History of Crime’s external collaborations and have had impact
 on her field of criminal justice history: her 2014 AHRC Early Career Fellowship (‘Educating
 Criminals in Nineteenth-Century England’, £184,260 resulted in a website (prisonhistory.org)
 with two large datasets: 19th Century Prisons contains information on all 846 English prisons in
 operation between 1800 and 1899 and their surviving archives; Local Lock-Ups invites
 contributions from members of the public (see 3.1; ICS2). AHRC Follow-on Funding, £72,370
 (2019) for her collaboration with the Prisoners’ Education Trust resulted in her ground-breaking
 OER for prisoners and prison practitioners.

 Hughes’ ESRC-funded project ‘Cultural Rights and Kenya’s new constitution’ (£628,157, 2014-
 2017) resulted in the temporary appointment of three researchers (Lamont, Cormack,

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Stylianou). Her project was affiliated with the University of Nairobi and involved non-HEI
 partners the Katiba Institute, the British Institute in Eastern Africa (BIEA) and its French sister
 institute IFRA. The funding enabled a network of community peace museums in rural Kenya to
 develop curatorial capacity and generate new interpretations of a contested past. The project
 included a public event on cultural rights at Storymoja National Museum Nairobi and an
 international workshop, ‘Cultural rights in action: from global policy to local practice’, at BIEA.

 Hazareesingh’s British Academy grant, ‘Commodities of Empire’ £10,000 (2014-16) and AHRC-
 GCRF grant ‘Changing Farming Lives in South Asia, Past and Present’, £48,327 (2017-2019)
 resulted in an oral history project with local farming communities in India and enabled him to
 develop an AHRC-GCRF collaborative funding bid with India-based NGO partners Green
 Foundation, Amritabhoomi International Centre for Sustainable Development, and Science
 Gallery Bengaluru: ‘Ancient Futures: supporting the revival of a millet-oriented food system in
 Karnataka, India’ (£172,998).

 Bidding for research funding is a collaborative and iterative process in which DoR, Head of
 Department and others help colleagues develop their bidding plans and shape the bid text,
 allocating additional research leave and/or seed funding to support developing bids if necessary.
 The process is supported by a Faculty team which delivers:

    •   assistance with the financial elements of grant applications;
    •   oversight of the ethics committee approval process;
    •   advice on ensuring our research and impact capture is subjected to appropriate legal and
        professional scrutiny, conforming to the OU’s guidelines and processes, including
        accurate record-keeping, applying professional standards, and secure data management
        in line with GDPR (see IES, Section 2);
    •   post-award management and guidance.

 The Department is committed to supporting future funding applications to enable colleagues to
 pursue ambitious and rewarding research projects. We do not expect every colleague to submit
 a major grant application, but we provide support and practical help to enable everyone to bid.
 We recognize that successful bidding takes time and we provide additional research time and
 seed funding to develop bids. We are mindful that unsuccessful bids can affect a researcher’s
 confidence, and we work with individuals on seeking alternative funding opportunities where
 applications have failed, or on enabling projects to proceed instead with internal funding.

 3.2 Internal Research Funding

 Following REF2014, History was identified as a strategically important UOA for the University.
 We were given our own UOA budget, administered by the DoR, to support research and impact
 activities (c. £160,000 over the assessment period). All historians were able to apply for these
 funds, enabling them to travel to archives, engage research assistants and organise impact
 activities.

 Historians benefitted from the Faculty Strategic Research Investment Fund which provides seed-
 corn funding for individual and collaborative research projects (£17,500 for historians over the
 assessment period). The Faculty also allocates between £1,500 and £7,500 pa to research
 groups/centres to spend on seminars, conferences and collaborations; a total of £32,000 were
 made available to history research groups.

 In addition, historians receive a personal allocation of £500 a year which can be spent on
 conference attendance, library and archive visits, books and other research materials. We can
 also apply for additional funding from the School and Faculty for library/archive visits, conference
 participation or research assistance. In total, OU historians in D28 have benefitted from more
 than £275,000 of internal funds since 2014.



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Research infrastructure and facilities

 OU historians benefit from access to the extensive online holdings of the University Library (see
 IES, 4.2). Our efficient inter-library loan system is geared towards online and print access to
 research materials and complements these resources; it has proven invaluable during lockdown.
 The Library houses a significant collection of primary materials related to the history of policing,
 including collections of interviews and personal papers from senior police officers and UK police
 publications. This collection is used by academic, media and public enquirers.

 All OU History research publications and PhD theses are included in the University’s open
 access repository ORO (IES, 2.3) and, subject to embargo, are available freely online. To date
 (January 2021), there have been 169,261 downloads of 659 deposited history publications. In
 2018, the History Department launched a new initiative to deposit undergraduate research on
 ORO. 40 third-level dissertations have been already deposited and downloaded 12,897 times. In
 2020, the MA History was added, with 32 theses deposited (6,301 downloads).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Forging and maintaining national and international partnerships is one of our strategic priorities
 (see 3.1; 1.2). We supported the development of Hazareesingh’s successful AHRC networking
 bid and Brunet’s recently submitted networking bid, involving collaborators in seven countries,
 including the Wilson Center.

 The Faculty Research Office assists with formal grant collaboration agreements, covering
 finances, ethics, intellectual property, data protection and other issues required to establish
 secure working arrangements. The Faculty provides investment into strategically important
 collaborations, such as our financial and staff-time contributions to the running of History &
 Policy (see Section 1.3 (c)).

 4.2 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences

 Some of our engagement with diverse audiences has been outlined above (1.2; 1.3). Two
 examples demonstrate the variety of audiences we reach.

 Marsden’s successful UKRI Enhancing Place-based Partnerships application ‘BG Reach’
 (Blenau Gwent Residents Engaging in Arts, Community and Heritage) established a formal
 collaboration with non-HEI external partners Linc Cymru Housing Association and Aberbeeg
 Community Group. The project operates in economically impoverished and socially stigmatised
 communities in South Wales and utilises our unique footprint in the UK’s four nations.

 Crone’s working relationship with the Prisoners’ Education Trust and the Howard League for
 Penal Reform resulted in engagement with beneficiaries in secure environments, and with prison
 museums, community and family historians who use her Prison History website.

 History’s Social Media Lead (Slight) coordinates our open access public engagement through
 our blog and Twitter account @history_ou 917 followers, 22/2/2021.


 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society and engagement with diverse
 communities and the public

 We have access to a range of channels to make our research available to diverse communities
 (see 1.3). We also engage public audiences with research-based primary source websites, such
 as Brunet’s ‘Peace Activism in the UK during the Cold War’ which includes digitised archival
 documents from the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament and video interviews with academics,

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 peace activists and policymakers. Crone's website Prison History hosts two databases, 19th
 Century Prisons and Your Local Lock-up. Members of the public can add new information about
 their local lock-ups and publish their own accounts of historic penal facilities. 19th Century
 Prisons was used by the production team for Who Do You Think You Are television series to
 inform their programme. Prison History featured in WDYTYA Magazine's 'Websites to Watch in
 2020' (readership 74,300).

 We also engage diverse audiences in more traditional ways, from pre-theatre talks to public
 events in libraries and museums, presenting at Historical Association and Western Front
 Association meetings, in schools and at A-level revision conferences.

 We publish in many different places and formats, including The Big Issue (Vincent), the Liberal
 Democrats’ Journal of Liberal History (Goodrich), BBC History Magazine, History Today (e.g.,
 Crone, Mombauer), Who Do You Think You Are? magazine (Crone). Six members of the UOA
 contributed 12 research-informed articles to The Conversation, on topics ranging from Jack the
 Ripper to Game of Thrones, attracting c. 528,000 readers. Byford’s two articles on conspiracy
 theories attracted 402,000 readers and were picked up by CNN, Metro and BBC News.

 OU historians are frequently invited experts for TV and radio programmes. For example, Hack
 advised on Malaya and POW conditions for Heir Hunters (BBC1, 2016) and on SAS operations
 in the jungle for Black Ops 2: Crisis in Malaya (Amazon, UK and US, 2014). Brunet was
 academic advisor on Call the Midwife (BBC1, series 6, episode 6, set during the Cuban Missile
 Crisis, 2017). Mombauer was an expert on Armistice (BBC1, 2019), Max Hasting’s Necessary
 War (BBC1, 2014) and BBC World Service’s The History Hour: The end of World War One
 (2018). On the 70th anniversary of the independence of India and Pakistan, Hazareesingh was
 interviewed for BBC Radio 4: Printing A Nation (2017). Crone was interviewed for Inside...The
 Old Bailey (Channel 5, 2017) and for Classified Britain (BBC Radio 4, 2018). She was consultant
 and interviewed expert for Tate Walks, (Sky Arts, 2018) and Who Do You Think You Are (Series
 16, Episode 4, Kate Winslet, BBC1, 2019). Byford contributed to the BBC World Service
 Trending programme and a series of BBC reports on conspiracy theories (2020) and talked on
 the topic on BBC5 Live, BBC Oxford and Talk Radio. Vincent contributed to Radio 4
 programmes on Loneliness, Freedom of Information, and Solitude (2020).

 4.4 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline and wider influence

 As a department, we enable all staff to contribute meaningfully to the sustainability of the
 discipline and we are well supported by the University, in terms of time and resources, in this
 endeavour.

 We organise and host national and international conferences and symposia, often collectively.
 Examples include the ‘Women and Gender in Early Modern Britain and Ireland’ conference at
 the IHR in 2016 (Allen, Forbes, Goodrich, Younger) and hosting a successful RHS
 symposium in 2019 on the commemoration of the First World War (Mombauer, Brunet, Slight,
 Trott).

 Over many years, colleagues have convened strands of the Annual Social History Society
 conference (e.g. Loftus 2014-2021). We co-organise conferences with colleagues at other
 institutions, including the 2019 Society for the History of Women in the Americas (SHAW)
 conference (McEneaney); Global Histories of Anti-Nuclear and Peace Activism in the Late Cold
 War (Brunet) with the University of Sheffield, LSE, Università Roma Tre and the Woodrow
 Wilson Center (May 2020 - postponed to March 2021 due to Covid-19); the international network
 on Western Military Power and Reordering Asia with the US Naval Postgraduate School and
 University of New South Wales (Hack); the Environmental Histories of Commodities 1800-2000
 conference with the Institute of the Americas at UCL (Hazareesingh).

 We contribute to the running of seminar series, e.g. by co-convening IHR seminars (McEneany
 ‘Gender and History in the Americas’; Younger ‘Tudor and Stuart History’; Goodrich ‘The Long

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Eighteenth Century’). Goodrich is member of the IHR Seminars Advisory Group. Brunet runs a
 public lecture series at the LSE and is founder/co-convenor of the LSE-Sciences Po Seminar on
 Contemporary International History; Williams runs a research seminar series at the Home
 Office.

 We are active members of research councils, grants committees and external committees, such
 as AHRC; Women in American Studies Network; Institute of Commonwealth Studies; History UK
 Steering Committee. We chair societies, e.g. the Society for the History of Women in the
 Americas; Laurence chaired the Economic History Society until her retirement.

 We are editors, review editors and editorial board members for journals including Crime, Histoire
 et Sociétés; Cold War History, Journal of Contemporary History, Modern and Contemporary
 France, Royal Studies Journal. Crone is series editor for the monograph series ‘States, People
 and the History of Social Change’, McGill-Queen’s University Press; Goodrich is on the BBC
 History Magazines Editorial Review Board.

 We are active peer reviewers for national and international funders, including the AHRC, British
 Academy, Irish Research Council, European Research Council, Austrian Science Fund, Horizon
 2020, Israel Science Foundation, Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study. Goodrich is a judge
 of the IHR Pollard Prize; Mombauer has judged the German History Society postgraduate prize;
 Slight has been a judge for the Abdullah al-Mubarak British Kuwait Friendship Prize in Middle
 Eastern Studies. We act as peer-reviewers, including 58 different academic journals, ranging
 from the Historical Journal to Arabian Humanities, and 17 academic presses.

 Members of the Department hold Fellowships of the Royal Historical Society, the Higher
 Education Academy, Royal Asiatic Society, the Historical Association, Royal Society of Arts,
 History UK (HE) Steering Committee. We are active members of 19 national and international
 societies.

 We act as external examiners, including at the Universities of Lancaster, London (Birkbeck),
 Birmingham, Brunel, Canterbury Christ Church, Oxford, York, Swansea and Aberystwyth. We
 have examined postgraduate theses at the Universities of Victoria, Tasmania and Adelaide, at
 the Universities of Sussex, Cambridge, Sunderland and the LSE.

 We conducted programme reviews and validations, e.g., Brunel University and Agored Cymru’s
 Access to HE (Humanities and Social Science). Vincent is a British member of the European
 University Association’s Institutional Evaluation Programme.

 We have given numerous public lectures and are frequently invited to deliver keynote addresses
 in the UK and abroad. Examples include De Renzi’s keynote to PhD students of the consortium
 of the universities of Trieste and Udine (2020). Allen and Younger presented and chaired
 panels at the Tower of London in 2016. Several colleagues have been invited academic visitors
 at other institutions (e.g. McEneaney at Australian National University, Hack at Singapore
 University, Brunet at University of Ottawa, Carleton University and the LSE.)

 Our publications have won prizes, including Brunet: Michael J. Hellyer Award, British
 Association of Canadian Studies (2018), Crone: Highly Commended from British Records
 Association Janette Harley Prize, Slight: Institute of Commonwealth Studies’ triennial Trevor
 Reese Memorial Prize (2017).




                                                                                           Page 15
