Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: ROYAL HOLLOWAY UNIVERSITY OF LONDON (RHUL)

 Unit of Assessment: 14: GEOGRAPHY AND ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure

 The Department of Geography is a thriving research-led unit, located since 2019 within the new
 School of Life Sciences and the Environment. At the census date the Department had 35 Category
 A staff: 28 on permanent Teaching and Research contracts and 7 national academy / UKRI-funded
 postdoctoral fellows. A significant body of doctoral students play a vital role in our research culture;
 we supervised 95.08 FTE students to completion in the assessment period. Since 2014 we have
 benefitted from the appointment of 10 new permanent staff members and the contributions of 15
 well-integrated postdoctoral fellowships (5 British Academy, 3 Leverhulme ECF, 3 UKRI, 2 EU
 MSCA-IF, 1 Royal Society, 1 Swiss National Science Foundation). Our work has been
 underpinned by £5.8M research grant spend and targeted investment in laboratory and field
 infrastructure (£1.1M). A particular feature of our scholarly output since 2014 has been the
 publication of 23 monographs, both for research and wider readerships. Our aim has been to build
 on established strengths to provide an innovative, supportive and well-resourced environment,
 enabling the crafting of world-leading research outputs and significant societal benefits in the UK
 and globally.

 The Department is committed to focused excellence across Geography’s span of the natural
 sciences, social sciences and the arts and humanities. This commitment is driven through our
 three research groups:

    •   The Centre for Quaternary Research (11 Category A staff at census) brings together
        palaeoclimatic, palaeoenvironmental, geochronological and archaeological expertise in
        order to address past landscape and biological responses to climate change, and to apply
        this knowledge to contemporary environmental policy and management.
    •   The Geopolitics, Development, Security and Justice Research Group (13 Category A
        staff at census) researches the complex yet everyday power geometries of territory
        re/making, im/mobility, in/security and environmental change, across both majority and
        minority worlds.
    •   The Social, Cultural and Historical Geography Research Group (11 Category A staff
        at census) explores creative and experimental geographies; urban cultures and
        materialities; geographical imaginations past, present and future; and the interrelated
        circulations of objects, ideas and people. In 2016 the Group launched the interdisciplinary
        Royal Holloway Centre for the GeoHumanities.

 Central to our research management, the groups also embed permanent staff, postdocs and
 postgraduates in vibrant research communities. Regular events enrich intellectual dialogue: the
 Social, Cultural and Historical Group’s fortnightly ‘Landscape Surgery’ meetings and annual
 Cosgrove Lecture in the GeoHumanities; the Geopolitics, Development, Security and Justice
 Group’s monthly meetings on works in progress, termly ‘theme day’ workshops, and annual writing
 retreats; and the Centre for Quaternary Research’s Epoch Seminar Series and annual London
 Quaternary Lectures. Regular group management meetings ensure strong information exchange
 and collective endeavour. Research Group Directors link our broader strategic goals into group

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and personal research planning. The Department’s Research Leadership Team co-ordinates
 across and beyond the groups, headed by the Department Research Lead and comprising
 Research Group / Centre Directors, the Department Impact Lead, the Postgraduate Research
 Student Lead, the Laboratory, Infrastructure and Field Lead, an ECR staff member, and the Head
 of Department. The Department Research Lead is a member of the School Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Committee and works closely with the School Director of Research, the
 Senior Vice Principal Academic Strategy and Research, and Research & Innovation staff, ensuring
 alignment between departmental, school and college research strategies and support.

 1.2 Strategic Research Objectives 2014-20

 Our research strategy is based on five broad objectives:

    •   Energise distinctive research groups of critical mass which advance Geography’s
        contributions to the natural sciences, social sciences, and arts and humanities;
    •   Produce research that is genuinely agenda setting and of the highest quality in terms of
        both precision and imagination;
    •   Enrich the intellectual imaginations and skills of our research staff and students, thereby
        helping to shape our discipline and interdisciplinary fields;
    •   Exchange knowledge and co-produce research with organisations and people beyond the
        academy, to enhance our research and to maximise its public benefits;
    •   Deliver on our goals through a collegial, diverse and inclusive environment that supports
        researchers across all levels in pursuing their aspirations.

 Within this strategic framing, and building from the strong base recognised through our REF2014
 submission (41% assessed world leading, 45% internationally excellent), our research groups
 advanced more substantive aims.

 The Centre for Quaternary Research had four principal research ambitions. First, to
 reconstruct abrupt climatic events and their environmental impacts. A particular
 achievement has been the generation and analysis of highly resolved, precisely dated, lake
 records in both high and low latitudes, helping to demonstrate the importance of reconstructing
 past abrupt climatic events for better understanding contemporary climate change. Second, to
 investigate the complex relations between climate change and glacial systems. In particular,
 this involved a Southern Hemispheric focus on the Antarctic Peninsula and Patagonia, deploying
 modelling, remote sensing geomorphology, analysis of annually laminated sediments and high-
 precision geochronology to deepen understanding of past glacial dynamics, to quantify ice-sheet
 and ice-shelf history, and thereby to advance understanding of the implications of glacial loading
 and unloading of land masses for relative sea levels. Third, to explore biological response to
 long-term and short-term climate change. A key contribution has been research on hominin
 and faunal evolution and behaviour, where we have dated critical archaeological sites in Africa
 and Eurasia, linking them to important climatic and environmental records. This research has
 tested key concepts on the drivers, patterns and character of past human and faunal dispersals
 and advanced understanding of resilience to fluctuating climates. Our palaeoecological work
 addressed the impact of not only climate changes but also anthropogenic activities, fire and other
 disturbances on Quaternary ecosystems. Fourth, we have applied Quaternary Science to
 contemporary environmental management and policy development, including: monitoring
 peatland carbon accumulation and erosion for improved long-term management of these and

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 other wetlands; and, through research on climate change and glacial systems, contributing to
 better understanding of the importance and vulnerability of ‘mountain water towers’ globally
 (published in Nature, 2020). The Centre’s strategic objectives were matched to, and supported
 by, four postdoctoral fellowships and the appointment of four new permanent staff
 members, strengthening our profile in palaeoecology (Colombaroli [L], Milner [L, SL]), glaciology
 (Davies [L, SL]) and palaeoclimatology (Martin Puertas [Royal Society Fellow; L from 2022]).

 The Geopolitics, Development, Security and Justice Research Group, evolving from the
 Politics, Development and Sustainability group of our REF2014 submission, had four main foci.
 First, to advance critical approaches to geopolitics, through developing understanding of
 popular, media, feminist, everyday and elemental geopolitics; attending to neglected spaces of
 territorialisation such as no-man’s land, the subterranean and the subaquatic; and interrogating
 diverse sites of profound geopolitical contention, from the polar regions to Pakistan. Second, the
 Group explored the power geometries of im/mobility. In particular, staff have improved
 understanding of how displacement is lived, governed and mediated through research on
 emergency evacuations, diasporic exiles and Holocaust escapees, land dispossessions and
 evictions, journeys to escape domestic violence, and climate induced labour precarity and
 migration. Reflecting this shared focus, seven Group staff co-edited the first interdisciplinary
 Handbook of Displacement (Palgrave Macmillan, 2020). Third, we progressed research on the
 geographies of in/security, justice and rights. Theoretically informed ethnographic work
 examined embodied and gendered insecurities in the domestic sphere. Indigenous rights, and the
 intermeshing of collective social memories with forms of environmental governance,
 territorialisation and participatory research, were a particular theme. And, assisted by a strong
 country focus on Cambodia, research investigated the relations of neo-liberal economic growth,
 authoritarian geolegalities, human rights and intersecting socio-environmental vulnerabilities.
 Fourth, cross-cutting these agendas, we set out to explore the everyday politics of living with
 environmental change, achieved by interrogating a range of pressing challenges from new
 agendas for urban sustainability, to the involvement of Indigenous communities in environmental
 conservation and fire management, and the forms of citizenship enacted in the wake of
 environmental disasters. The Group’s successful pursuit of these objectives was supported by
 five postdoctoral fellowships and four permanent staff appointments, focused on Indigenous
 knowledges (Eades [L]), the intersections of politics and environment (Parsons [British Academy
 PDF; L from 2021], Siddiqi [Category B: L, SL, moved to Cambridge in 2020]) and feminist
 geopolitics (Squire [L]).

 The Social, Cultural and Historical Geography Research Group focused on contributions in
 four areas. First, it advanced and enriched the field of creative and experimental
 geographies. Central here has been the substantive development, and critical analysis, of
 creative and practice-based research methods, engaging the ‘creative turn’ in Geography with the
 ‘research turn’ in arts practice. These methodologies offered innovative understanding of issues
 ranging from atmospheric sensing to the role of socially engaged art in the contemporary city. The
 Group also delivered key work on the geographies of creativity, for instance critiquing the
 dominant ‘creative city’ paradigm and analysing a wider palette of urban creativities from the
 subcultural to the sacred. Second, staff advanced research on urban cultures and materialities,
 centring on architectural geographies, the contested politics of digitally mediated cities and ‘smart’
 urbanisms, affordances for urban subversion, and the material forms and practices of sacred
 space in an ‘infrasecular’ age. Third, our research has demonstrated the power of diverse
 geographical imaginations in shaping our worlds. Deep historical scholarship provided a window

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on the distinct perceptions of space and nature in Byzantine culture and the Orthodox Christian
 Enlightenment. Research on travel writing, print culture and visual archives elucidated the material
 forms and consequences of geographical imaginaries in the past, and we explored the potential
 of the creative arts to re-imagine environmental futures. Fourth, the Group has explored the
 interlinked circulations of objects, ideas and people. Key foci were museum and heritage
 collections, and how their movements create new forms of knowledge and knowledge exchange,
 the circulation of ideas through the ‘fluid objects’ of print culture, and the theorisation of commodity
 biographies. The Group’s achievement of its objectives was supported by two permanent staff
 appointments, focused on the geohumanities (Engelmann, L) and the geographies of creativity
 (Mould, L), and six postdoctoral fellowships. Additionally, the Group enriched its own research
 agendas, as well those of the Department and University more broadly, through establishing the
 UK’s first interdisciplinary Centre for the GeoHumanities (section 1.3).

 1.3: Strategic Approach to Interdisciplinary Research

 We are committed to Geography as an intellectual pursuit that challenges modern disciplinary
 divisions. We embrace the value of interdisciplinarity in addressing the so-called ‘wicked problems’
 that orient contemporary research challenges. Interdisciplinarity is therefore central to much of our
 research activity, developed since 2014 in three main ways.

 First, funded studentships, projects and centres are explicitly designed to create interdisciplinary
 research teams where this best meets their research objectives. Reflecting a strong and growing
 emphasis on designing interdisciplinarity into researcher development, 10% of our completed
 PGR students were supervised in interdisciplinary teams as are 28% of our current PGRs.

 Second, we led development of RHUL’s interdisciplinary research environment. Focused on
 the interdisciplinary orientation of next generation researchers, key roles included Director of the
 Leverhulme’s Magna Carta Doctoral Centre on Freedoms and Rights of the Individual in the Digital
 Age, where all studentships were cross-departmental (Dodds, 2014-17); Deputy Director of the
 AHRC technē Doctoral Training Partnership, emphasising interdisciplinary training and project
 design (Hawkins, 2017-20; Director from 2021); Management Board and Institutional Lead for the
 NERC London Doctoral Training Partnership, which provides an initial year of cross-disciplinary
 and cross-institutional training (Schreve, 2014-); and Co-PI / Management Committee for RHUL’s
 EPSRC Doctoral Training Centre in Cybersecurity and the Everyday, promoting innovative
 interdisciplinary projects across the information and social sciences (Adey, 2014-). Other notable
 roles included: Global Challenges Research Strategy Sustainable Development Cluster Lead
 (Adey, 2018-) and Steering Group (Siddiqi, 2018-19, Parsons 2020-); Core Members of the Centre
 for Research into Sustainability, which is directed from the School of Business and Management
 (Brickell & Adey, 2014-; Cole, 2018-; Kleine 2014-16); the UNESCO Chair in ICT4D (Emeritus
 Unwin, renewed in 2015 and 2019); Deputy Director of RHUL’s Humanities and Arts Research
 Institute (HARI) (Hawkins, 2015-17) and a HARI Fellowship on ‘wild geographies’ (Schreve, with
 Drama and Theatre, 2017-18); and participation in the AHRC funded StoryFutures Creative
 Cluster (Mould, lead for strand on creative economy work experience; Pinkerton, StoryFutures
 Fellowship on citizen heritage storytelling, 2020-). Looking ahead, Geography staff are leading on
 the development of RHUL’s new interdisciplinary ‘research catalyst’ on Sustainable Living (cf.
 REF5a).




                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Third, in 2016 we launched the interdisciplinary Royal Holloway Centre for the GeoHumanities,
 comprised of 90 RHUL members, from 11 departments, including 25 interdisciplinary PhD
 students. The Centre’s remit is to bring together scholars and practitioners from across the arts
 and humanities with interests in environment, landscape, place and space. Since 2016, the
 Centre’s intellectual activity has had three main foci. First, Environmental GeoHumanities, where
 key concerns are intersecting creative arts practices with research on environmental change (e.g.
 Hawkins, AHRC Creating Earth Futures Leadership Fellowship, 2016-18) and developing new
 agendas for the humanities, especially around ‘plant humanities’. Second, Spatial GeoHumanities,
 where questions of mobility, circulation and volume are to the fore, supported by new strategic
 partnerships with the University of Padua’s Mobility & Humanities Centre, the Konkuk (South
 Korea) Academy of Mobility Humanities, the University of Taipei Global Futures programme, and
 the University of Neuchatel and its Centre of Expertise on Mobility and Migration. Third, Public
 GeoHumanities, where, for example, the Centre’s innovative ‘creative commissions’ programme
 has funded two rounds of international collaborations between artists and scholars, focused on
 themes of ‘earth futures’ and ‘im/mobilities’.

 1.4: Strategic Approach to Enabling Impact

 The Department is committed to developing research that benefits communities and environments
 around the world. Leadership is provided by the Department’s Director of Impact (Mistry), who
 works with RHUL’s Vice-Principal for Impact, the School Director of External Engagement, and
 Impact Officers in the Research & Innovation Department. Together, they offer tailored advice on
 knowledge exchange and training programmes to share best practice and inspire staff and PGR
 students. RHUL’s Research Strategy Fund prioritises impact activities for its small grants (8
 projects, £40K funded in Geography); RHUL’s Global Challenges Research Strategy supports
 impact-related activities in DAC countries (8 projects, £45K); and RHUL QR funds support scoping
 work on strategic knowledge exchange partnerships (£29K for ‘Plant Humanities Initiative’).

 Since 2014, we have deepened our approach to enabling impact around seven key foci:

    •   Co-designing and co-producing research with communities, beneficiaries, and
        intermediaries. We are committed to building long-term collaborations with external
        partners, based on established relationships of trust leading to positive public benefits over
        time. Indicatively, in our three Impact Case Studies these relationships are decadal in
        length.
    •   Expert advisor roles that serve governments, policy agencies, NGOs and cultural
        institutions, and expert testimony to parliamentary committees, inquiries and legal
        proceedings.
    •   Commissioned research that delivered in-depth investigations addressed to specific
        research user needs, including those of human rights organisations, local government, and
        private companies and public bodies concerned with the management of cultural and
        natural heritage.
    •   Staff secondments that provide consolidated time for both research impact delivery and
        the development of research agendas with an understanding of stakeholder needs.
        Destinations included UK Government, Parliament and the Mistra Urban Futures Centre.
        Our research students also benefitted from secondments via Collaborative Studentships
        (21 in period), the UKRI policy internship scheme (5 in period) and other placements.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Embedding expertise from outside the academy in our research groups via Honorary
        Research Associates and Fellowships (21 at census date; for example, six bringing
        expertise from the museums and cultural heritage sector) and collaborations with external
        advisors (for instance with legal partners to progress the impact of our research related to
        human rights abuses).
    •   Engaging wide and diverse publics. We address non-academic audiences via open
        access policy briefs (including in local languages), project reports, exhibitions, popular
        books, and non-written media. Our digital communication strategy encourages active use
        of social media accounts, blogs and research project websites. We produce participatory
        films and VR experiences. Our academics contribute their expertise to national and
        international news outlets and media. We share our research in educational resources,
        and actively seek creative ways to engage people in our research via collaborations with
        the arts and cultural sector.
    •   Critical reflection on enabling beneficial impacts. For instance, we have advanced
        understanding of the nuanced politics and practice of research collaboration and
        participatory methodologies.

 Our three Impact Case Studies combine these multiple approaches to enabling impact.
 ‘Amplifying Indigenous knowledge’ (Mistry) demonstrates our approach to collaborative,
 participatory research that enables marginalised voices to be recognised, leading to better,
 community-owned policy solutions. ‘Advancing polar geopolitics’ (Dodds) was supported by roles
 as expert advisor in foreign and security policy and strengthened by a commitment to public
 engagement through educational resources. ‘Challenging human rights abuses in Cambodia’
 (Brickell and Parsons) brings together community co-design, advising policy-makers and key
 stakeholders, legal interventions, and targeted public engagement through briefs, reports and an
 exhibition.

 1.5: An Open Research Environment

 The Department has developed its ethos and practice of open scholarship. Three key initiatives
 were developed since 2014, supported by dedicated professional service staff focused on open
 access and research data management. First, staff now publish in open access format for all
 UKRI-funded research and use the institutional Pure repository to ensure that all author accepted
 manuscripts of journal articles are publicly available. Second, RHUL developed its institutional
 data repository (via Figshare for Institutions), as well as associated training on data expectations
 and deposit, ensuring data with an acknowledged long-term value is preserved and remains
 accessible and useable for future research. Third, as part of our approach to impact, additional
 training was provided in the production of open access project briefings and reports, and in wide
 research communication more generally. Across our School, deeper engagement with the UK
 Reproducibility Network is in process, with the establishment of a local network in 2017.

 1.6: Research Ethics and Integrity

 The Department is committed to upholding the highest standards of research governance, integrity
 and ethics. RHUL ensures that research is conducted in accordance with the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity, discussion of which forms part of the induction processes for all new academic
 staff. The RHUL Ethics Committee reviews all PGR and staff research, in parallel with risk
 assessment processes. Compulsory training in research ethics and integrity is embedded into our

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR training programmes and successful engagement in ethical approval processes is monitored
 by the formal annual review process. New staff receive ethics training through the Advance
 Researcher Development Programme. Other specialist training is provided bespoke (e.g. in 2019
 on due diligence and GCRF grant reporting). Department staff have worked with learned societies
 such as the British Academy and the RGS-IBG to advise on their ethical frameworks (Driver and
 Willis respectively).

 1.7 Research and Impact Strategy 2021-26

 Building on strong foundations and momentum (£3.1M contracted grant awards 2019-20), the
 Department’s strategy for the next five years combines support for our full spectrum of research
 excellence with further development through four initiatives.

 Our Environmental Futures Initiative, supported by RHUL’s strategic investment in a new
 Research Catalyst for ‘Living Sustainably’ (cf. REF5a), will weave together strands of work from
 across our research groups on three main fronts. First, set within the new Catalyst’s emphasis on
 supporting knowledge exchange, we will extend our application of Quaternary Science by
 embedding a new cross-disciplinary group on Palaeo-Evidence for Policy. Emphasising research
 co-production with relevant policy makers and stakeholders, this group will champion the value of
 understanding past climate and environmental change for future planning. For example, we will
 work in partnership with stakeholder climate scientists (e.g. Met Office), climate modellers and
 resilience teams (e.g. DEFRA, BEIS) to develop better constrained decadal scale predictions of
 NW European atmospheric dynamics, precipitation and flood events. Second, our Human
 Geography research will include a particular focus on how climate change operates in the context
 of compounding crises, demanding a grasp of cross-cutting environmental, political, development
 and socio-cultural geographies. For instance, our leading role in the Leverhulme Research Centre
 for Wildfires, Environment and Society (Mistry Associate Director, Colombaroli Research
 Supervisor, 2019-29) will analyse the relations between climate change, fire regimes, diverse
 identities and knowledges, and the politics of environmental governance in the Tropics. Elsewhere
 we will further explore the relationship of climate change with the intimate violences of everyday
 life. Indicative of our plans is our recently initiated ‘Depleted by Debt?’ project (PI Brickell, CI
 Parsons; UKRI GCRF, 2019-21; £821K) which connects environmental change in the Global
 South to the gendered dynamics of household financial precarity, credit markets and
 (mal)nutrition. Third, we will extend our research on the elemental politics of our environmental
 futures. For instance, the ‘Think Deep’ project (PI Hawkins; ERC Consolidator Grant; 2020-25;
 £1.6M) will explore the role of the subterranean in environmental sensing, imagination and
 speculation. Threading together concerns of geoscience, heritage, and urban studies, with
 partners ranging from the British Geological Survey to UNESCO Global GeoParks and urban
 planners in Singapore, this project resonates across our research groups, focusing attention on
 new ways of understanding our environmental futures.

 Second, we will extend our Creative Geographies Initiative. We plan a wider integration of
 creative practices into our research in the majority as well as minority world. Indicative activities
 include: collaborations with visual artists, especially photographers, within social research projects
 in the Global South, to open up new imaginaries of people and place (e.g. the collaborations with
 Chinar Shah and Sophal Neak in the ‘Depleted by Debt?’ project); ‘Climates of Listening’, using
 creative sonic methods to understand changing Indigenous Pacific human-environmental relations
 (Kanngieser; EU MSCA-IF; 2021-25; c. £200K); ‘Dancing in/between cities’, a recently initiated

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 performance project exploring dance’s role in intercultural encounters and circulations in Latin
 America (Narbed; British Academy; 2020-22; £294K); and an extension of Engelmann’s creative
 practice based research on sensing atmospheres to engage issues of air quality and inequality,
 including in Latin America. We will also progress our participatory research approaches through
 engagement with new forms of creative immersive storytelling, supported by the expertise of
 RHUL’s AHRC StoryFutures creative hub (£80K pilot project investment 2020-22). Across this
 work, and through the ‘Think Deep’ project, we will develop our interrogation of the role of creative
 practice-led research, contesting a narrow focus on the arts solely as a means to disseminate
 scientific research findings.

 Third, our Plant Humanities Initiative will be directed at creating an interdisciplinary space for
 innovative research collaborations and public education on plants, plant-based knowledge, and
 the vital role of plants within human health and wellbeing. Centred on key scientific collections in
 botanic gardens in the UK and internationally, it will bring together arts and humanities scholars
 and practitioners with researchers in the social sciences, plant sciences and biomedical sciences.
 Initial strategic knowledge exchange work between RHUL and Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew was
 undertaken in the assessment period, and will be extended to national and international level
 scoping via an AHRC ‘Where Next?’ Development Grant (PI Driver; £109K; 2020-21), in
 partnership with Kew Gardens, Dumbarton Oaks, Harvard University Herbaria and University of
 Padua, as a basis for initiating larger funded research collaborations.

 Fourth, the Dating Our Pasts Initiative will extend the reach and purpose of our Quaternary
 Science geochronology. The second phase of the Research Council of Norway’s SapienCE
 Centre of Excellence funding (Co-PI Armitage; 2022-27) will provide ongoing investment here,
 demonstrating the centrality of innovative geochronology to interdisciplinary understanding of
 human evolution and behaviour. Developing existing collaborations, our research on past abrupt
 climate change will be geographically extended to the best resolved archives across Eurasia, from
 the Arctic North, to the Mediterranean and from the Atlantic zone to Siberia. And we plan to
 examine a key issue of hominin and faunal dispersal, the crossing of biogeographic thresholds,
 with a particular focus on when, where and how early humans crossed the monsoonal threshold
 into South Asia, thereby also extending the purview of our expertise into South Asian Palaeolithic
 environments and archaeology.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy

 The Department aims for a collaborative, inclusive and vibrant environment for its staff. Our
 commitment to gender equality was recognised in two successful Athena SWAN applications
 (Bronze award 2014, Silver award 2018). At census date, our 35 Category A staff comprised 15
 Professors, 2 Readers, 5 Senior Lecturers, 5 Lecturers, 1 Research Officer and 7 Postdoctoral
 Fellows. They work alongside: 5 teaching focused colleagues (3 permanent SL staff; 2 fixed term
 L staff funded through external research income); 3 active emeriti; 6 FTE permanent technical
 staff; 8 fixed-term postdoctoral research assistants; and our graduate school of (currently) 72
 research students. We have submitted outputs from 2 Category B staff who left the Department in
 2020: Siddiqi (L, SL; to Cambridge) and Lawreniuk (Leverhulme ECF; to permanent post at
 Nottingham).


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We made 10 permanent Category A Lecturer appointments in the assessment period (6 women,
 4 men), matched to our research and impact objectives (see section 1.2). With 3 retirements and
 5 departures (one anticipated by the Professorial appointment of della Dora in 2013), our strategy
 was targeted growth and renewal through the development of a dynamic group of ECR staff that
 will sustain the Department over the next decade. 15 postdoctoral fellowships (1 Royal Society,
 5 British Academy, 3 Leverhulme ECF, 2 EU MSCA-IF, 2 ESRC, 1 AHRC Cultural Engagement
 Fellowship, 1 Swiss National Science Foundation) underlined this commitment to the development
 of ECR staff. Six of the eight completed fellowships led to permanent academic posts elsewhere.

 2.2 Staff Development

 The reward and recognition of staff through promotion is central to our strategy. All non-
 professorial academic staff submit their CVs annually to our Promotion Review Group for feedback
 and advice, and further guidance is provided via annual workshops on the promotions process
 and the ‘Enabling Women in the Academic Promotion Process’ programme. Since 2014 this has
 yielded 22 promotions (11 for women, 11 for men): 7 to Professor, 7 to Reader, 8 to Senior
 Lecturer. 7 staff have been promoted at least twice. RHUL’s assessment of promotion cases has
 been improved through more transparent guidance and criteria in relation to research, teaching,
 external engagement and impact, and leadership and enhancement. The University is committed
 to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and was a founding
 signatory of the Technician Commitment, which prioritises the visibility, recognition and career
 development of technical staff.

 A rich culture of mentoring is central to delivering on these commitments. Our postdocs and
 probationary academic staff have designated advisors; quarterly formal meetings focus on work
 plans, CV development and more general issues of wellbeing; and regular reports are made to
 the School’s Probationary Sub-Group. New staff undertake a full induction and training
 programme, including not only facilities and operational matters but research structures,
 opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration, and career development. For all staff, the research
 group structure plays a key role in successful mentoring, embedding them in collective cultures
 that foster role modelling, peer learning, and intellectual belief and vision. Research Group
 Directors, a nominated senior colleague or Head of Department are the trained appraisers for our
 Performance Development Review process. This sets annual objectives framed by longer-term
 career goals and identifies training needs. In parallel, we annually update publication plans and
 three-year grant income and research plans, at individual, group and departmental levels. All grant
 applications are rigorously peer reviewed by the relevant Research Group Director or an expert
 nominee, assisted by the Department Impact Lead. Colleagues can access RHUL’s cross-
 disciplinary mentoring scheme, as well as coaching support for specific career dilemmas. Career
 development training programmes include: Advance Researcher Development (enhancing skills
 in grant writing, research ethics management, project and impact management, and public
 engagement); the Aurora and Mandala leadership diversification programmes (focused on
 developing women and BAME leaders respectively); Future Leaders (for ECRs) and Strategic
 Leadership (for more established staff). All new teaching staff (and to assist their career
 development, most postdoctoral fellows) complete the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic
 Practice in Teaching and Learning, which qualifies for a HEA Fellowship. Over 50% of staff
 accessed these programmes in the assessment period; a priority of our current Athena SWAN
 Silver Award action plan is to improve on this take up.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our collectively agreed workload principles support early career staff, those managing large
 research grants, those with large PGR supervision loads, those heavily engaged in impact work,
 and staff returning from career breaks (e.g. parental leave). Workload allocations are transparent,
 discussed annually at full Department Meetings. Staff wellbeing is addressed through an
 emphasis on realistic and empowering objectives, with a range of professional support accessible
 via RHUL’s Employee Wellbeing Programme. Work-life balance is assisted through our flexible
 working and core working hours policies, email / communication etiquettes, and active
 encouragement to take entitled leave. All permanent academic staff are eligible to apply for a one
 term period of sabbatical leave for nine terms of service. Plans are carefully reviewed and
 supported by the Department’s Research Leadership team. In 2014-20 43 periods of leave were
 approved and successfully completed. Since 2018 staff returning from maternity leave or shared
 parental leave are eligible to apply for formal sabbatical leave to assist in re-initiating their research
 trajectories. Heads of Department can apply for twelve months leave at the completion of their
 term of office. Secondments are developed to deliver dedicated time for supporting research
 impacts. Examples include: Milner’s NERC Policy Placement Secondment (2014-15) and
 subsequent periodic 0.4 FTE secondments (2015-20) to the Office of DEFRA’s Chief Scientific
 Advisor; Simon’s 0.8 FTE secondment as Director of Mistra Urban Futures (2014-19); and
 Siddiqi’s 0.5 FTE placement to the AHRC (2018-19), as their national academic lead for
 engagement of AHRC-GCRF research with the UK Parliament International Development
 Committee.

 2.3 Research Students

 Doctoral students are at the heart of our research culture. Our 95.08 FTE completions marked a
 14% per annum increase from our REF2014 submission and a 90% increase from RAE2008.
 Evidencing the attraction of global talent, non-UK PGRs were 30% of our completing cohort. For
 ‘home’ students, across the assessment period competitively awarded UKRI funding supported
 104 students (41 AHRC, 34 ESRC, 19 NERC, 10 EPSRC). 21 of those awards were Collaborative
 Studentships, with partners ranging from Kew Gardens and the Science Museum to Ordnance
 Survey and Dublin City Council. A further 45 students held Leverhulme or RHUL awards. PGR
 research was published in leading journals, from Transactions of the IBG to Antipode, Cultural
 Geographies, Environment and Planning D, Earth-Science Reviews, Nature Ecology & Evolution
 and Quaternary Science Reviews. Completed students progressed to postdoctoral fellowships
 and lecturing posts in the UK and globally (e.g. Canada, China, Japan, Singapore) as well as
 research careers in government, NGOs, business and the cultural sectors.

 Our supervision and mentoring of PGR students are overseen by the Department PGR Lead
 and supported by the RHUL Doctoral School. In line with RHUL’s Code of Good Practice for
 Research Supervision, all students are assigned one or two supervisors and at least one advisor.
 Students with collaborative studentships also have supervisors from partner organisations, with
 supervisory arrangements and facility access agreed in advance. Supervisors meet fortnightly with
 students to review progress and update goals / action points. Advisors meet with them at least
 termly and monitor overall progress and relationships between supervisor and supervisee. Formal
 annual review is supplemented by a rigorous upgrading process. Staff new to PhD supervision
 are provided with training and all staff benefit from the Doctoral School’s ‘supervision master
 classes’ on issues ranging from helping with ‘writer’s block’ to supporting career planning. Our
 Research Group structure is designed to ensure the integration of PGR students with staff and
 student groups beyond their supervisory teams. PGR students receive generous access to labs


                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and technical support, dedicated workspace, ICT provision, and research libraries within RHUL,
 the University of London and national facilities (e.g. British Library). Department funds and travel
 awards support research and dissemination activities, especially for those without access to UKRI
 research budgets.

 Training and expert support are provided via the Doctoral School’s extensive Researcher
 Development Programme, our Doctoral Training Partnerships, and the Department. In 2017 we
 developed a RHUL Teaching Prize-winning workshop series focused on PGR wellbeing, since
 taken forward into the Doctoral School’s ‘From surviving to thriving’ support programme. To aid
 career development, mentored teaching opportunities are available and matched to Higher
 Education Academy accredited training in pedagogy. All PGR students maintain training logs,
 which form part of annual review submissions. Wider skills development is also addressed through
 promotion of the UKRI policy internship scheme, international placement and overseas
 institutional visit schemes, and links to our partner organisations. Indicatively, since 2014
 destinations have included CUNY, DCMS, DWP, Waste and Resources Action Programme, RBG
 Kew, British Library, Library of Congress, Ordnance Survey, the Wellcome Collection, and the
 Weltmuseum Vienna, where a student co-curated an exhibition on colonial objects.

 2.4 Equality and Diversity

 Since 2014 our Athena SWAN Bronze and Silver Award action plans have focused on improving
 gender equality and inclusivity. Key priorities included: the promotion of women as leaders and
 role models (at the census date all our research groups and centres were directed by women);
 targeted encouragement and supportive clarity around promotion and leadership ambitions
 (including through accessing the ‘Women’s Enhancement’ and Aurora programmes); unconscious
 bias training for all on selection and promotion panels; and establishing working practices that
 promote work-life balance and support diverse identities within and beyond working life. That work
 is ongoing, but progress has been made. In our REF2014 submission 25% of our Professors were
 women and 30% of our academic staff; in 2020 women comprise 40% of our Professoriate, 46%
 of our Category A staff, 57% of our Technical staff and 60% of our PGR completions. Since 2014,
 women gained 50% of academic staff promotions. Women are the allocated author for 46% of our
 submitted outputs, matching our Category A staff balance.

 Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Team (led by Desai) includes staff and student
 representatives and reports to School and College committees. Supported by RHUL’s
 membership of the Stonewall Diversity Champion programme, the Department has engaged with
 the LGBT+ Staff Network, ‘safe zone’ training in LGBTQ+ identities and allyship, and training in
 Trans awareness, allyship and RHUL’s Transgender Equality and Transitioning at Work Guidance.
 Active Bystander training is addressing responses to discriminatory behaviour. We developed a
 suite of ‘key tips’ for leadership roles in the Department to contest forms of unconscious bias, an
 approach mirrored in the RHUL Equality & Diversity Top Tip Guides for staff. Desai played a key
 role in RHUL’s successful 2019 Race Equality Charter submission and has contributed to the
 wider debate on UK Geography’s institutional whiteness (Area, 2017). Only 2 of our Category A
 staff at census self-identify in BAME categorisations. Moreover, whilst RHUL data records c.18%
 of Geography PGR students 2013-19 as other ethnicities than ‘White’, just 4% of students self-
 identified as ‘Black’ and another 4% as ‘Mixed’. In that context, the Department plans to institute
 a programme of dedicated College PGR studentships for British BAME applicants to run from



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2022; and a positive action statement for BAME applications to be applied to all job
 advertisements.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 3.1 Investment through Research Income

 Since 2014 we have deployed a diverse ecology of grant income to support our research
 objectives. We have focused on enabling excellence in six ways.

 First, leadership within major interdisciplinary research centres. Exemplary are the Leverhulme
 Centre for Wildfires, Environment and Society (Mistry Associate Director; with Imperial College
 London, King’s College London and Reading; 2019-29; total award £10M), which explores the
 intersection of physical, ecological and social processes in wildfire past, present and future; and
 the RCN-funded SapienCE Centre of Excellence, which brings together expertise in archaeology,
 Quaternary Science and cognitive science to examine the drivers and character of change in early
 human behaviour (Armitage Co-PI and Geochronology Lead; with Bergen, Bordeaux, Norce,
 Tübingen, Witwatersrand; 2017-27; total award c. £12M).

 Second, ‘challenge-led’ research projects. For example, Blood Bricks, winner of THE’s 2020
 Research Project of the Year (Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences) for its innovation and far-
 reaching impact, delivered interventionist research on the relations between climate change and
 modern slavery in the Cambodian construction industry (PI Brickell, CI Parsons; ESRC-DFID;
 2017-19; £247K). The Next Frontier of Climate Policy extends this research into the international
 brick trade (PI Parsons, CI Brickell; ESRC-FCDO; 2020-21; £123K). Living in the Mobility
 Transition (Adey Co-PI; with Northeastern; SNCF Forum Vies Mobile; 2015-18; £300K to RHUL)
 worked globally on the policies and politics of transitions to decarbonized mobilities, developing a
 framework for ‘commoning’ mobility futures. After Disaster Strikes interrogated the confluence of
 climatic disasters and conflict situations through a participatory story-telling methodology focused
 on Mindanao, Philippines (PI Siddiqi; AHRC-GCRF-PaCCS, Newton Fund; 2017-19; £159K). We
 lead social science contributions to two interdisciplinary projects on Meat Production and Anti-
 Microbial Resistance in India (CI Cole; with Cambridge and Liverpool; ESRC; 2018-21; £428K to
 RHUL). And Depleted by Debt? has brought together geographers, micro-finance economists and
 nutritionists to provide a gendered lens on the household use of credit to enable climate change
 resilience (PI Brickell, CI Parsons; ESRC-GCRF Equitable Resilience; 2019-21; £821K).

 Third, ‘investigator-led’ research projects. Exemplary is The Mobile Museum which, in
 collaboration with Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, advanced understanding of the geographies of
 scientific collections by mapping, for the first time, the circulation of biocultural specimens and
 objects in and out of Kew’s globally important Economic Botany Collection (PI Driver; AHRC; 2017-
 19; £812K). We progressed the mapping and dating of early humans’ global dispersal through
 Leverhulme Trust projects on Unravelling the Patterns, Impacts and Drivers of Early Modern
 Human Dispersals from Africa (PI Blockley, CI Armitage; with Max Planck Institute for the Science
 of Human History and Natural History Museum; 2017-20; £467K) and Pleistocene Archaeology,
 Geochronology and Environment of the Southern Caucasus (PAGES) (with Winchester and
 Connecticut; 2016-19; £107K to RHUL). Making Suburban Faith explored faith communities’
 creative re-fashioning of suburban space (CI Gilbert; with UCL; AHRC; 2015-18; £103K to RHUL).
 Music, Migration and Mobility is examining the legacy of migrant musicians from Nazi-Europe in

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Britain from a spatial humanities perspective (CI Adey; with Royal College of Music and University
 of Salzburg; AHRC; 2019-23; £251K to RHUL). Looking ahead, Think Deep (PI Hawkins; ERC;
 2020-25; £1.6M) is a major investigator-led initiative creating a new research collective of scholars
 and artists to explore subterranean environmental futures.

 Fourth, individual research fellowships and prizes provide the consolidated time for major
 developments in research trajectories, impact work and scholarly outputs. Notably, 15
 postdoctoral fellowships (c. £2.5M awarded) across all our research groups have allowed ECRs
 to pursue innovative research agendas, supported by their strong match to our strategic
 objectives. Two staff were awarded Philip Leverhulme Prizes (Brickell, Hawkins; £200K). A
 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (Dodds; 2016-20; £182K) focused on the global
 geopolitics of the Arctic and their policy implications. An AHRC Leadership Fellowship (Hawkins;
 2016-18; £200K) explored geohumanities approaches to global environment change. A British
 Academy / Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship (della Dora; 2017-18; £54K) allowed
 completion of a major new monograph on mantle as metaphor for imagining the Earth (to be
 published 2021).

 Fifth, other research income is directly targeted at supporting our impact and public
 engagement work. Exemplary is Mistry’s FCDO funding for the inclusive development and
 delivery of a national climate change plan in Venezuela (2016-18; £32K), and from DEFRA-Darwin
 Initiative for Integrating Traditional Knowledge into Guyana’s Policy Making and Practice (2017-
 21; £88K). Sachs Olsen’s British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award (2018-19; £15K)
 focused on listening and public engagement in urban futures. An RGS-IBG award (Pinkerton, with
 Durham; £4K), associated in-kind support from Jaguar Land Rover and Google Arts and Culture
 (c.£50K), and RHUL Impact Acceleration Award (£10K) focused on enhancing public
 understanding of the geopolitics of no man’s land. External investment from the British Society for
 Geomorphology, Geologists’ Association and International Association of Sedimentologists has
 supported the on-going development of the publicly focused website AntarcticGlaciers.org
 (Davies; 2018-22; £16K).

 Finally, we use focused smaller awards to initiate and experiment, and to support research on
 key field sites. Internally, RHUL’s Research Strategy Fund invested £55K in twelve pilot and
 impact projects. External awards included: an Akademie Schloss Solitude Fellowship, a
 prestigious art-science award delivering studio space and support for Engelmann’s arts-practice
 led research on environmental sensing (2020-21; £10K plus residence); the high-resolution
 analysis of annual lake records from Diss Mere (Martin Puertas; Royal Society; 2017-21; £87K);
 the investigation of Lateglacial and early Holocene sediments at Wykeham Quarry (PI Matthews;
 Hanson Quarry Products; 2013-16; £95K); palaeoecological research in Mendips caves (Schreve;
 2014-; £63K in grants and private donations); and work on Indigenous fire-burning and its
 integration into a participatory and sustainable fire management policy (Mistry; Aliança da Terra
 & Corpo do Bombeiros, and British Academy; 2014-16 and 2016-17; £25K and £30K). The last of
 these illustrates how our mixed funding ecology knits together different forms and levels of
 research income, having initiated research that is now being extended over the next decade
 through the £10M investment in the Leverhulme Research Centre on Wildfires, Environment and
 Society.

 3.2 Investment in Infrastructure and Facilities



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2014 we have invested £1.1M to enhance our laboratories and field equipment. The
 Department manages a suite of Quaternary Science facilities. Specialist micromorphology,
 luminescence, tephrochronology, palaeoecology and environmental chemistry laboratories enable
 geochronological and palaeoenvironmental research of the highest quality, supplemented by
 access to the isotope labs of the Earth Sciences Department and relevant national facilities (e.g.
 NERC National Environmental Isotope and Radiocarbon Facilities; £50K in kind). Investment has
 focused on a deep lake coring platform, upgrading our thin section suite, developing a new imaging
 suite including optical 3-D geometric morphometrics for our mammalian work, and our OSL
 Readers. We opened a new GeoVisual Methods Lab (£109K investment) providing both improved
 GIS facilities and the audio-visual hardware and software for our participatory and creative
 research in Human Geography. Our scholarly infrastructure has significantly benefitted from
 RHUL’s investment (£57m) in a new state-of-the-art library and exhibition space, with 24/7 access,
 dedicated research facilities and special collections. The refurbishment of RHUL’s Bloomsbury
 estate has further enhanced spaces for research group and public events in central London. The
 strategic planning of our research infrastructure is undertaken by our Laboratory, Infrastructure
 and Field Leadership Team, whose Lead is a member of our Research Leadership Team. Our
 Technical Staff team is led by the Technical Operations Manager, who is also the Department’s
 Health and Safety Lead, overseeing robust risk assessment processes and health and safety
 auditing.

 3.3 The COVID-19 Pandemic and Research Recovery

 We have sought to mitigate the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our research environment,
 including via controlled access to laboratories and equipment loans that have facilitated analytical
 work from home. A supportive process ensured staff clinical vulnerabilities were appropriately
 addressed to enable safe working in diverse circumstances. We actively supported PGR students
 with UKRI extensions where possible, and RHUL matched these for College-funded students.
 Extensions for our research grants and fellowships were gained as appropriate. Field research,
 though significantly impacted, is being supported by a clear institutional policy facilitating case by
 case risk assessment and planning. Staff sabbatical leave eligibility was postponed by a year to
 support the introduction of our flexible-education delivery in 2020-21 but re-starts from 2021-22.
 Staff and PGR wellbeing have been supported through the RHUL Wellbeing Hub, investment in
 home working infrastructure where needed, and the collective culture of the Department and its
 research groups, as adapted to online working.

 Looking ahead, we are committed to research that enhances post-COVID futures. For example,
 three UKRI rapid response projects have been initiated: the effectiveness of mutual-aid groups
 and their lessons for post-crisis community care (PI Mould, CI Cole; AHRC; 2020-22; £263K);
 ‘building back better’ in the Cambodian global garment industry (PI Brickell; GCRF-Newton Fund;
 2020-22; £249K); and Covid-19 impacts on Indigenous food sovereignty, livelihoods and
 biodiversity, Guyana (PI Mistry; DEFRA-Darwin Initiative; 2021; £31K).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations

 Within the academy our research projects have involved collaborations with over 50 HEIs, 60%
 located outside the UK. We further promote academic mobility and knowledge exchange through

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded schemes including EU MSCA-IF (2 fellowships in period; 1 to run 2021-25), British
 Academy IPM (Dodds with NUS on Asian states and the Arctic Council; 2016-17; £30K) and UKRI
 seminar series (Willis; unaccompanied children seeking asylum; ESRC; 2013-16; £30K). We have
 international collaboration agreements (e.g. GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences,
 Niels Bohr Centre for Ice and Climate, Lanzhou, Konkuk, Neuchatel and Padua); we run shared
 collaborative programmes (e.g. research training masterclasses with SYSU, Guangzhou, 2017-
 19); and staff have had visiting fellowships, professional placements and residencies in the UK,
 Australia, Canada, Germany, Greece, Italy, Sweden, Taiwan and USA. We play key roles in cross-
 institutional subdisciplinary groups (e.g. the renowned London Group of Historical Geographers)
 and international networks (e.g. Blockley, Steering Group, INTIMATE; Driver, Chair, International
 Conference of Historical Geographers).

 Collaboration beyond the academy enhances both our research and its societal benefits. The
 Department is one of the UK’s leading centres for UKRI collaborative research training in
 Geography, with 41 Collaborative Studentships since 2001 and 21 active during the assessment
 period (13 AHRC, 7 ESRC, 1 EPSRC). Across our entire research portfolio, the main types of
 collaborating organisations included:

    •   Government departments, national authorities and independent offices with
        responsibilities in our key research areas (e.g. British Antarctic Survey, DEFRA,
        DFID/FCO/FCDO, the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory [Dstl], the Met Office,
        Natural England, the Office of the Independent Anti-Slavery Commissioner, Ordnance
        Survey and RBG Kew);
    •   Not for profit organisations, charities, NGOs and international bodies focused on social and
        environmental benefits globally and locally (e.g. IIC Guyana, the International Labour
        Organisation, Solidarity Center, UN-Habitat, UN-Women, WaterAid);
    •   Civil society organisations enabling collaboration and research co-production with
        communities and their representatives (e.g. North Rupununi District Development Board,
        Guyana);
    •   Independent ‘think tanks’ focused on global affairs and development (e.g. ODI, RUSI);
    •   Businesses and trade associations engaged with the politics of global trade (e.g. The Brick
        Development Association, The Body Shop, H&M) or the management of environmental
        heritage (e.g. Hanson Quarry Products);
    •   Museums and archives, both national (e.g. British Library, Natural History Museum, RGS-
        IBG, Royal Museums Greenwich, Science Museum) and local (e.g. Museum of London);
    •   Arts organisations interested in environment and place (e.g. The Arts Catalyst, Furtherfield,
        Peckham Platform, Studio Saraceno).

 As part of our development of ‘creative and experimental geographies’ we also have a track record
 of artistic collaborations. We directly fund the Centre for the GeoHumanities’ ‘creative
 commissions’ for researcher-artist collaborations. We embed researchers within arts projects (e.g.
 Engelmann in Studio Saraceno); and we embed artists as researchers in multiple ways (from the
 sensory conceptualisation prioritised in Hawkins’ ‘Think Deep’ project to the ‘critical realism’ of
 Thomas Cristofoletti’s documentary photography in the ‘Blood Bricks’ project). We engage artist-
 in-residence schemes (Parrott, Leverhulme Artist in Residence 2016) and creative sector
 collaboration funding (e.g. AHRC Creativeworks awards to Hawkins; AHRC Clore Fellowship for
 Fiona Wotton with Mould, 2019). We collaborate with artists in public engagement projects (e.g.
 Schreve’s collaboration with Sean Harris and his site-specific animations of her Mendip cave

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research). And we develop artist-geographers through our creative practice-led doctoral pathway,
 which since 2014 has supported PhD completions for professionally prize-winning creative
 practitioners in photography, ‘experience design’, live art and poetry.

 4.2 Contributions to Society and Environment

 Our research and collaborations have contributed to wider societal benefit in six main ways.

 First, we advanced community participation in processes of environmental and spatial
 management. Our Impact Case Study on ‘Amplifying Indigenous knowledge within environmental
 management and governance in South America’ (Mistry) exemplifies a wider range of participatory
 research practice and community ‘capacity building’. For example, Siddiqi’s research on ‘disaster
 risk reduction’ in conflict zones, and its associated ODI research report (2019), emphasised a
 more community-based vision to strengthen underlying social contracts and build trust. In the
 Global North, Sachs Olsen’s critical advocacy of participatory art in urban planning has shaped
 wider discourse on urban spatial democracy and sustainable architecture, including through co-
 curation of the 2019 Oslo Architecture Triennale, with its 174 events and associated publications,
 and her judging of the 2020 RIBA MacEwen Award. The ‘Making Suburban Faith’ project (Gilbert,
 with UCL) used collaborative research with sixth-formers of different faiths and an international
 architecture company to design a new multi-faith space for Ealing, West London, engaging young
 people and faith communities with local planners. And Mould successfully worked with the Long
 Live Southbank campaign in London to re-shape the planned Undercroft development in
 recognition of the area’s value to the skateboarding community.

 Second, we sought to advance the delivery of human rights. Our Impact Case Study on
 ‘Challenging human rights abuses in Cambodia’ presents key contributions, but sits within a
 broader suite of work. Bowstead’s research on women’s and children’s journeys to escape
 domestic violence in the UK has delivered briefing papers to improve relevant support agencies’
 understanding of relocations and associated needs, supported by a UK Data Service Data Impact
 Fellowship. Brickell’s commissioned research for Dublin City Council produced recommendations
 on rapid build housing as a solution to housing precarity (2017-18; £10K). And Willis’ ESRC
 seminar series and co-edited collection on unaccompanied young migrants to the UK (2019) was
 given added impact through a parliamentary launch hosted by Lord Dubs and a Policy Press
 Briefing setting out a dozen policy and immigration law recommendations.

 Third, our research informed foreign and security policy and understanding. As well as
 Dodds’ contributions on the polar regions and to strategic insight in NATO and the MoD (e.g.
 NATO Strategic Foresight Analysis [2017], MoD Strategic Trends Review [2016]), Pinkerton
 provided expert advice to the UK’s overseas territories (e.g. a commissioned report for Gibraltar’s
 government on the International Island Games, 2019); Davies has provided expert advice to
 FCDO and the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR), and is a member of the
 Antarctic Placenames Committee; Squire provided input to the Government Office for Science’s
 Foresight report ‘Future of the Sea’ (2018); and ESRC/Dstil-funded research (2013-15, £327K)
 delivered policy recommendations to the MoD on military personnel and families’ social media use
 (Adey and Pinkerton, 2015).

 Fourth, our research enhanced professional heritage practice. In the museum and archives
 sector our research project collaborations contribute significantly to the curation and exhibition of

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national and local scientific and cultural collections. The Mobile Museum project with RBG Kew
 (Driver, Cornish) was a particular focus, involving the co-production of Kew learning resources for
 schools (including a handbook for creating school museums), an Open House London event,
 project exhibition and outreach activities. Staff also held numerous advisory roles to institutions:
 Museum of London Academic Advisory Panel (Gilbert); Natural History Museum, Centre for Arts
 and Humanities Research Advisory Board (Driver); RGS-IBG Collections Advisory Group
 Founding Chair (Driver); Royal Museums Greenwich, Trustees Collections & Research Committee
 (Driver). We also provided expert input for specific projects and exhibitions: British Library, Lines
 in the Ice, 2014-15 (Dodds); Leeds and Wells Museums, specialist advice on mammal collections,
 2015-16 (Schreve); Natural History Museum, One Million Years of the Human Story, 2014
 (Schreve); RBG Kew, advisor on Decolonising Kew project led by Kew’s Director of Science, 2019-
 (Cornish). Additionally, we provided expert advice to Natural England on two Geological
 Conservation Reviews of the Palaeolithic and Quaternary vertebrate sites in Britain (Candy,
 Schreve), to Highways England as Palaeolithic and Pleistocene expert for Stonehenge/A303
 project work (Schreve), and on site-specific heritage management (e.g. Matthews, Hanson Quarry
 Products, Wykeham Quarry).

 Fifth, our research promoted more sustainable environmental futures. Mistry’s work has
 improved conservation and fire management in the globally significant Guiana Shield region,
 through participatory integration of local communities in the design, application and control of
 climate change strategies. With a similar ethos of capacity building for knowledge exchange,
 Milner’s secondment with DEFRA improved the environmental science / policy interface in the UK
 by developing practice in scientific evidence synthesis across DEFRA, BEIS and the Government
 Office for Science. Milner developed an ‘evidence statement’ methodology, now adopted by
 DEFRA’s Office of the Chief Scientific Advisor. She also supervised UKRI PGR placement
 research delivering evidence statements on issues ranging from the impact of nitrogen deposition
 on semi-natural ecosystems to the socio-ecological impacts of uplands farming, the benefits of
 pasture-based farming systems, and anti-microbial resistance in the environment (informing the
 UK Government’s five-year strategy on AMR, 2019-24). Building on his work on the Scientific
 Steering Committee of the International Human Dimensions Programme’s Urbanization and
 Global Environmental Change project, Simon was seconded as Director of Mistra Urban Futures.
 Specific contributions included a cross-national data set on cities’ responses to the Sustainable
 Development Goals, informing UN statistical monitoring; co-authorship of UN-Habitat’s World
 Cities Report 2020; and a suite of open access policy briefs, reports and research collections
 directed at policy audiences, available through the Mistra Urban Futures website and publishers
 like Policy Press.

 Sixth, our research enhanced public understanding of geography. We published work reaching
 beyond academic audiences, through primers (e.g. Dodds’ co-authored The Arctic: what everyone
 needs to know [OUP, 2019]), polemics (e.g. Mould’s widely reviewed and discussed Against
 Creativity [Verso, 2018]), or imaginative engagements with a geographical topic (e.g. Reaktion
 Earth Series volumes on Air [2014], Ice [2018] and Mountain [2016] by Adey, Dodds and della
 Dora respectively; Reaktion volume on Levitation [2017] by Adey; Reaktion and Science Museum
 volume on Radio [2019] by Pinkerton). Research outputs for public audiences extend to a variety
 of non-written media, including participatory film (e.g. Mistry’s work in Guyana; Kleine’s ESRC-
 CONFAP-Newton funded project [2015-16, £90K] on young people’s views on sustainable food
 futures in Rio de Janeiro and London) and VR digital media (e.g. Pinkerton, with Durham, Portraits
 of No Man’s Land, the first academic project developed on Google’s Arts and Culture platform).

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We curate project specific exhibitions to publicise research findings, the Blood Bricks exhibition at
 the Building Centre in London (2018) being exemplary. And publics are engaged through high-
 profile arts and activist projects, including Engelmann’s curation for Aerocene of workshops at
 Palais de Tokyo (2018) and editing of their Exhibition Road Commission reader (2016).

 In addition to our own social media accounts (5.7k Department Twitter followers, c. 50k for ‘top
 10’ staff accounts), blogs and websites, commonly used media platforms for public engagement
 include The Guardian: Cities, Nature, Geographical Magazine (where Dodds’ monthly column on
 geopolitics had over 50,000 monthly readers) and The Conversation (where our writing attracted
 more than 750,000 readers since 2014). Our educational resources for the teaching community
 have been recognised by the Geographical Association (highly commended for resources on
 globalization and governance, 2018; and a teaching award for excellence in leading Geography
 for Willis, 2014) and are being enhanced into a new digital TeacherHub from 2021. Davies’
 AntarcticGlaciers.org, with 1.2M unique visitors, was awarded the 2020 Curry Fund Certificate of
 Excellence for Geological Education. Other public engagement forums include RHUL’s Associate
 status with Tate Exchange, offering dedicated gallery space for an annual week of public
 engagement activities (including Centre for GeoHumanities programming 2017-19 on
 environmental encounters, transcultural dance and the making of sacred space).

 4.3 Contributions to the Research Base

 We are committed to leadership that makes a positive contribution to our discipline and the wider
 research base, notably through our work for professional associations. For the RGS-IBG this
 included Council membership (Dodds and Willis [Vice President Expeditions and Fieldwork]), the
 Collections Advisory Group (Driver, Founding Chair), Committee Member of the National Review
 of Physical Geography (Schreve), and leading roles in the Research Groups for Climate Change
 (Parsons), Gender and Feminist Geographies (Brickell, Hawkins), Historical Geography (Hawkins,
 Keighren), Participatory Geographies (Bowstead), Political Geography (Pinkerton, Squire), Race,
 Culture and Equality (Desai), Social and Cultural Geography (Adey, Hawkins, Narbed), Urban
 Geography (Mould), and the Postgraduate Forum (e.g. Willment, Chair) and other PGR
 representation (e.g. Badger, Lowe, Digital Geographies). Beyond the RGS-IBG leading roles
 included: British Academy (Chair of Geography & Anthropology Section: Driver), British Science
 Association (Geography Section Recorder: Cole), British Society for Geomorphology (Working
 Groups on the Anthropocene and Visualising Geomorphology: Thorndycraft), INQUA (Chair of
 International Focus Group CELL-50k: Blockley), INTIMATE Steering Group (Blockley), PAGES
 Working Groups (Global Palaeofire: Colombaroli; Varves: Martin Puertas, Palmer), Planetary
 Health Alliance (Leader of North European Hub: Cole), and the Quaternary Research Association
 (Vice-President: Schreve; Executive Committee: Candy; co-founder of Peatland Ecosystems and
 Time Research Group: Milner).

 We contribute to UKRI Panel and Peer Review Colleges for the AHRC (Cornish, della Dora,
 Hawkins [strategic reviewer and panel chair]), ESRC (Brickell, Pinkerton), NERC (Armitage,
 Blockley, Davies [Cosmogenic Isotope Analysis Facility Steering Committee]) and the UKRI FLF
 Core Panel (Hawkins). As outlined in section 1.3, we have led Doctoral Training Partnerships
 for AHRC, EPSRC, NERC and the Leverhulme Trust at Director or Board level. We shape our
 fields through editorial roles. Staff edited 12 journals in the period: Cultural Geographies
 (Hawkins); Earth-Science Reviews (Candy); Gender, Place and Culture (Brickell); Geographical
 Journal (Dodds); Geography (Willis); GeoHumanities (Hawkins); History Workshop Journal

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Driver); Journal of Historical Geography (Driver); Mobilities (Adey); Proceedings of the
 Geologists’ Association (Rose); Quaternary Science Reviews (Schreve); Territory, Politics and
 Governance (Dodds); The Cartographic Journal (Eades). In addition, we held 48 editorial board
 memberships and have edited Handbooks in key areas of research concern (Mobilities: Adey;
 Contemporary Cambodia; Brickell; Displacement: Geopolitics, Development, Security and Justice
 Group staff collectively).

 Recognition of our contribution includes election to Fellowships of scholarly societies: British
 Academy (della Dora, Driver); Academy of the Social Sciences (Crang, Dodds, Driver and Simon);
 Royal Canadian Geographical Society College of Fellows (Dodds, Simon); Royal Historical
 Society (Driver, Keighren); Society of Antiquaries (Schreve). Honorary Fellowships and Research
 Associates include British Antarctic Survey (Dodds) and Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew (Cornish,
 Driver). Medals, prizes and awards were received from the RGS-IBG (Busk Medal: Mistry, 2015;
 Gill Memorial Award: Brickell and Hawkins, 2014 and 2016), the Geologists’ Association (Halstead
 Prize: Davies, 2016), the Geographical Association (Excellence in Leading: Willis, 2014), the
 Leverhulme Trust (Philip Leverhulme Prizes: Brickell and Hawkins, 2016), the Quaternary
 Research Association (Lewis Penny Medal: Davies, 2014), Times Higher Education (Research
 Project of the Year, AHSS: Brickell and Parsons, 2020) and the UK Data Service (Data Impact
 Fellowship: Bowstead, 2019).




                                                                                         Page 19
