Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. Institution: University for the Creative Arts

 Unit of Assessment: 32—Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since REF 2014 UCA has expanded and strengthened its research, building on existing areas of
 excellence in crafts, fine art and photography and investing in new areas for future development
 including business for the creative industries. The University’s research community has grown
 and there have been significant developments in research degrees with a long-planned
 application for RDAP that signals UCA’s mature track record in developing new generations of
 creative-practice researchers. The University works with a wide range of external stakeholders
 and partners and since 2014 has developed significant global partnerships indicating our mature
 contribution to the creative industries worldwide. 250 research outputs were shortlisted for this
 REF submission and of the 115 selected, 63 are practice-based projects that were exhibited in
 89 different galleries, museums and venues across 26 different countries, demonstrating UCA’s
 international influence on research in culture and creativity, resulting in economic, social and
 cultural impact, and stemming from a dynamic research environment.

 1.1 Context and Structure

 (1.1.1) UCA is a subject-specialist university submitting to a single unit of assessment (UoA) in
 REF 2021. The submission to this unit captures the research effort of the whole University,
 which has 250 academic staff (173 FTE) teaching approximately 8,000 students across four UK
 campuses in the adjacent counties of Kent and Surrey (Canterbury, Rochester, Epsom and
 Farnham) and at Maidstone Studios (film and television courses) and Hampton Court Palace
 (embroidery courses). This unit-level statement therefore presents the University’s research
 environment in its entirety, as unit-level environment maps directly to institutional-level
 environment. A short institutional statement has also been submitted, focused on the University
 context and mission and how this shapes research at UCA, and future developments in
 University strategy and research strategy.

 (1.1.2) Researchers at UCA are located in one of six discipline-based Schools, all working in
 areas that fit within UoA 32’s broad remit:
     • Architecture (Arch)
     • Business for the Creative Industries (BSCI)
     • Crafts and Design (C&D)
     • Fashion (Fash)
     • Film, Media and Performing Arts (FMPA)
     • Fine Art, Photography and Visual Communication (FAPVC)

 (1.1.3) The Schools are the primary academic units of the University, and each has its own
 research culture, community and research strategy. Heads of School work with the Professors
 and Readers in their School to support and develop this School strategy and research
 development. The University has five research centres, located within the Schools:
     • Centre for Sustainable Design (CfSD): Business School
     • Animation Research Centre (ARC): School of Film Media and Performing Arts
     • Crafts Study Centre (CSC): School of Crafts and Design
     • International Textiles Research Centre (ITRC): School of Crafts and Design
     • Fine Art and Photography Research Centre (FAPRC): School of Fine Art, Photography
         and Visual Communication

 (1.1.4) The Research Office provides central University-level strategic direction for research and
 research degrees, led by the Director of Research (Kelley) who reports to the Deputy Vice-
 Chancellor (Harper). The Research Office provides operational support for research and
 research degrees, and is responsible for monitoring, reporting and research assessment,

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internal and external funding processes, researcher development and research ethics. Research
 students are supervised within Schools, with the Research Office delivering monitoring and
 quality processes, progression, examination, training and development for both supervisors and
 students.


 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy

 (1.2.1) In the REF 2014 submission we stated that research should:
     • be integrated with the wider institutional project
     • enhance staff and student experience, and
     • have an impact on society and the economy.

 (1.2.2) Since 2014 we have fulfilled these goals in the following ways:
     • By successfully embedding research into the School structure and levelling up the
         research culture across all Schools so that research supports strategic development in all
         disciplines. All six Schools now have multiple Professors and Readers in post and
         research key contacts to co-ordinate the development of staff research and research
         degree recruitment. In 2014 a single School housed all three of the University’s research
         centres; now five centres are spread across four Schools, with plans in place for
         development in those Schools without a centre (see REF5a). Research is a regular focus
         for staff development events, and each School contributes to the programme of research
         events and exhibitions in the University and beyond.
     • Through implementing the Academic Career Fields scheme to determine enhancement
         specialisms for all academic staff. As an evolution of the former Research Institute, this
         gives a clear framework for staff with significant responsibility for research to plan their
         research development. Academic Career Fields is the context for all academic staff to
         develop enhancement and career planning, and to consider how their research
         underpins and informs their teaching.
     • In developing research projects that address important social and economic imperatives.
         For instance, the Fast Forward: Women in Photography project (REF 2 Fox, Knorr and
         Wainwright and REF3) has contributed to the adoption of gender-equal curating and
         collecting policies by Tate, the National Portrait Gallery and the Hyman Collection,
         confronting gender inequalities in cultural production. Work by the Centre for Sustainable
         Design (REF2 Charter and REF3, Repair Cafés) has resulted in new British and
         International standards for eco-design, addressing the devastating ecological and
         economic effects of climate change.

 (1.2.3) Key indicators demonstrate the success of UCA’s research strategy, as follows—

    Research Degree indicators show expansion of PGR provision:
    • a total of 37 PhDs have been awarded in the census period, up from 14 in REF 2014
    • the research degree population has risen from an average of 33 p.a. pre-REF 2014 to an
       average of 53 p.a. in the last three years of the current REF period.

    Research Staff indicators show development in research activity and culture:
    • 72 staff (46.7 FTE) submitted to REF 2021, more than doubling from 33 (20.75 FTE) in
       REF 2014
    • the staff body contains a greater proportion of Professors and Readers: at REF 2014
       UCA employed 17 Professors and 2 Readers; the equivalent figure for REF 2021 is 30
       Professors and 10 Readers
    • this includes 7 Professorial Fellows appointed in 2019 in order to develop research and
       foster disciplinary development and interdisciplinary collaborations in certain key areas
    • Professors and Readers are now more broadly distributed across the University’s
       Schools and discipline areas, with the first appointments in the area of Communication



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Design (2 Readers) made since REF 2014, and new Professors appointed in the
        Business School. New PhD students have followed in both these subject areas.

    Funding indicators:
    • UCA’s researchers have applied for and been awarded £832,000 in research grant
       funding reported to HESA in this REF census period. This includes funding from Arts
       Council England, AHRC and the Leverhulme Trust.
    • Further substantial external funding (more than £2.5 million) is not included in HESA
       returns but is returned to HEBCI, including large European-funded projects that support
       research.
    • Further substantial income (around £400,000) has come directly to projects or
       researchers.
    • Annual QR funding has been invested back into research with an internal Research Fund
       distributed competitively to staff. The University has increasingly used this funding to
       leverage external funds and in REF 2021 £146,798 of Internal Research Fund awards
       have leveraged £537,623 of external funding for outputs and impact included in the
       University’s submission.

 (1.2.4) In 2018 UCA developed a new Research Strategy as part of the University Strategic
 Plan. This strategy is largely focused on work in UoA 32, but it also contains ambitions beyond
 the unit (these broader goals and the future strategy are dealt with in detail in the Institutional-
 level Environment Statement, REF5a).

 (1.2.5) UCA’s Research Strategy 2018–28 identifies 5 areas of development:
     • UCA will support staff to produce research that is externally recognised as excellent, in
         terms of both outputs and impact, and research will become more global, with extended
         international connections and reputation.
     • UCA will maintain and improve its excellent research in established disciplinary areas,
         and develop new capacity in the related areas of business and technology for the
         creative industries (including architectural technology). This will lead to submission to
         additional unit/s of assessment in future REF exercises.
     • The University will further develop its postgraduate research community, achieving
         RDAP and initially doubling the number of research degree students from 50 to 100.
         Provision will be expanded in business for the creative industries, and we aim to achieve
         block grant or other external funding for research degrees.
     • Research will be positioned as one strand in a culture of enhancement that supports all
         staff to develop their careers in ways that impact on the University’s profile and the
         student experience. Research staff (those with ‘significant responsibility’ in REF) will be
         in dialogue with specialists in Creative Education and Professional Practice, with low and
         permeable boundaries between these fields.
     • There will be increased external research income, achieved by supporting and training
         staff researchers to produce successful bids and by increasing the profile of the
         University as a leader in its field through networking and events such as major
         international conferences.

 (1.2.6) Progress has been achieved in all these areas. In 2020 UCA opened the Institute for
 Creative Innovation in partnership with Xiamen University, one of China’s leading universities.
 The Business School for the Creative Industries (BSCI) was established in 2018, and the Centre
 for Sustainable Design (which carries out much business and industry-focused research) has
 been transferred into this new School. The BSCI has embarked on a programme of staff
 recruitment and development in research, with 8 new research-focused staff, including a
 Professor and a Reader, recruited for autumn 2020 and three staff funded to commence PhD
 study at the same time. Application for RDAP was made on 1st April 2020 and is currently under
 scrutiny by QAA. The Academic Career Fields scheme has been implemented with new PDR
 requirements and five-year research planning for all Research Field staff. In 2019 a restructuring



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of resources in the Research Office allowed the appointment of a new 1.00 FTE External
 Funding Developer to support staff in applying for and managing research funds.

 (1.2.7) UCA’s strategy for impact has been developed through continued support for the
 University’s longstanding research centres (the Animation Research Centre, Crafts Study
 Centre, Centre for Sustainable Design and International Textiles Research Centre) and the
 creation of the new Fine Art and Photography Research Centre. A number of impact case
 studies were developed and considered for submission: the four selected all represent work from
 one of UCA’s research centres, including the Fast Forward project (REF3, Fast Forward:
 Changing Attitudes and Experiences for Women in Photography) which is housed within the
 Fine Art and Photography Research Centre. Plans are in place for impact in the next REF
 period, with a strategy under development to seed impact cases studies both for UoA 32 and for
 possible submission to other units of assessment, which may include UoA 17, Business and
 Management, and UoA 13, Architecture. Here an impact case in development in the latter
 stages of the REF 2021 period, based on the research of McElhinney (REF2), will be developed
 to maturity in the next REF period.


 1.3. Open Access and Research Integrity

 (1.3.1) The University complies with the REF 2021 open access requirements for journal articles
 and is working towards compliance with the Concordat for Open Research Data, with open
 access activities governed by our Research Data Management Policy. UCA staff (including
 Director of Research Kelley and the Digital Curation Manager) have contributed to the debates
 around developments in open access policy through GuildHE. UCA plays a leading role in open
 research, dating back to the innovative work of the Visual Arts Data Service (VADS), founded at
 the University in 1997, and developing standards in digital archiving in the visual arts. VADS
 provides open access to over 140,000 images from art and design collections across the UK,
 which are made freely available for non-commercial use in education. The images cover a broad
 range within the visual arts including applied arts, architecture, design, fashion, fine art and
 media, with digitised collections contributed by libraries, museums, and archives. The images
 include work by thousands of artists and designers, held in both public and private hands,
 ranging from the collections of major cultural organisations (such as the Imperial War Museum)
 through to small and specialist institutions (such as UCA’s Crafts Study Centre).

 (1.3.2) By 2020 VADS had grown to include images from more than 300 collections, with a
 significant proportion coming from large-scale digitisation projects funded by a number of
 different organisations including the Arts and Humanities Research Council, Jisc, British
 Academy, Heritage Lottery Fund, Arts Council, National Lottery New Opportunities Fund, the
 Getty Foundation and the Kress Foundation. The collection includes works from at least four
 large-scale AHRC and Jisc-funded projects that, as of late 2020, are no longer available on their
 own dedicated websites, but whose content is still available via VADS. VADS cuts the costs of
 research, and allows research across borders and beyond academia. It also provides best-
 practice advice to a range of organisations, for instance St Cuthbert’s Church, Wells (2017, for a
 Heritage Lottery Fund project), the Manolo Blahnik Archive (2018), and University of the Arts
 London (2020). In academic year 2019/20 access to VADS included 182,914 sessions, 799,028
 page views and 152,896 total users from 192 different countries.

 (1.3.3) Research integrity processes at UCA are managed by the Research Office. Researchers
 are guided by the UCA Research Ethics Code of Practice and any misconduct is governed by
 the Code of Practice for the Investigation of Research Misconduct. In summer 2019 research
 integrity was the subject of a scheduled review by the University’s external auditor, resulting in a
 detailed report and one formal recommendation. In the autumn of 2019 the Research Manager
 further audited against the newly-revised UKRI Concordat to Support Research Integrity. As a
 result of both these processes, University policies and procedures were updated where
 necessary. Research integrity is regularly covered in training for PhD students and their
 supervisors and for research staff, most recently in a webinar of summer term 2020 which

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outlined updates resulting from the institutional audit and the new Concordat. Research ethics
 applications are logged via the University’s VLE and reported as a standing item to the Research
 Committee, which is responsible for research integrity, reporting to Academic Board. UCA is
 compliant with the 2019 Concordat, and in autumn 2020 published a statement to that effect,
 approved by Research Committee and Academic Board and signed off by the Audit and Risk
 Committee on behalf of the Board of Governors.

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 (2.1.1) UCA’s strategy for research staffing is based on recruiting, developing and supporting
 academic researchers to produce excellent research with impact, in the context of an overall
 commitment to research that is integrated as an essential part of a wider academic and
 pedagogic strategy.

 (2.1.2) In REF 2014 UCA’s submission was relatively small: the University operated a Research
 Institute, membership of which allowed access to research support and funding. To qualify for
 full membership academic staff were required to have a track record in producing world-leading
 or internationally-excellent research outputs, normally at the rate of an average of one output per
 year. The Research Institute provided valuable support and focus for such researchers, and
 created an environment that recognised the contributions of its members. In response to the
 Stern Review UCA has taken the opportunity to substantially evolve the Research Institute into
 the Academic Career Fields scheme. This provides support for a greater number of staff with
 ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR) in the Research Career Field, but is also designed
 to provide a clear context for career development and planning for other staff in the Professional
 Practice and Creative Education fields. There are annual opportunities to move between Fields,
 and while support for research activity is primarily focused on staff in the Research Field,
 resources are also open to those firmly planning a move into research. All academic staff,
 regardless of Field, have the opportunity to apply for Career Field time of up to 25 days per year
 to carry out specific, planned projects that lead to a defined output. For Readers, 55 days are
 available, and for Professors, 85 days. Staff on part-time contracts have the same allocation of
 time in proportion to their fraction. Staff plan their research through the cycle of Performance
 Development Reviews, and through the research planning template which requires a five-year
 plan to be discussed with the line manager or mentor. The internal Staff Research Fund enables
 research; staff can apply for funding to support, for instance, image costs for publication,
 material costs for exhibited work, research-related travel costs, and attendance at conferences.
 The fund also awards sabbatical cover, additional to Career Fields time, for particularly large-
 scale projects, with the requirement that external funding is also sought. In this REF period,
 sabbaticals have enabled the completion of a number of significant outputs and projects, for
 instance Fox (REF2, REF3, Fast Forward), Kelley (REF2 Cheap Street) and Trafford (REF2
 The Empire’s New Clothes).

 (2.1.3) UCA’s Research Office runs a programme of research events for staff; these include
 researcher-development webinars on subjects such as research planning, impact planning,
 funding opportunities, ethics and publication strategy. The Research Office also runs research
 seminars in which UCA researchers present their latest research to internal and external
 audiences.

 (2.1.4) The primary academic unit at UCA is the School, and researchers are managed and
 supported within their School. Each School has a different culture and priorities, reflecting
 disciplinary difference within the broader field of art and design. Work to equalise the research
 culture and intensity across Schools has focused on the employment and promotion of
 Professors and Readers, with these staff leading research and supporting less experienced
 researchers, including ECRs. In each School this takes a slightly different form, for instance in
 the School of Crafts and Design, each member of staff has been allocated to one of the School’s
 Professors (Olding and Millar) for regular mentoring meetings, and in 2019 this resulted in a

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 whole-school research publication, Encompassing Research. Also in this School, new PhD
 supervisors have been developed from the pipeline of successful PhD completions, with two ex-
 students in the International Textile Research Centre employed to supervise and supported in
 their development as exhibiting practice-based researchers. In the area of Communication
 Design (until 2019/20 a separate School, now structured across the Schools of Fine Art,
 Photography and Visual Communication, and Film, Media and Performing Arts), the appointment
 of the first Readers (Trafford and Baker, the latter since promoted to Professor) enabled a
 programme of mentoring. In Film, Media and Performing Arts research culture has been boosted
 by the appointment of a Reader (Hosea, since promoted to Professor) who is also Director of
 the Animation Research Centre and who has mentored a number of ECRs and led in delivering
 conferences, symposia and exhibitions. In 2019 the University initiated the Professorial Fellows
 scheme to bring in staff with specific research expertise to develop leadership capacity
 appropriate for each School. Professorial Fellows are appointed on a rolling programme of 2-
 year contracts in order that their input can be periodically updated and new areas of
 enhancement developed. Schools initiate a programme of discipline-specific research events
 (symposia, conferences and exhibitions) and since 2014 these have included the annual
 Sustainable Innovation Conference run by the Centre for Sustainable Design (in its 23rd year in
 2021), a series of craft conferences organised jointly by the Crafts Study Centre and the
 International Textiles Research Centre (Craft History, 2017; Craft and Text, 2018; Crafting the
 Body, 2019), Digital/Material: the Future of Printed Textiles, a conference run jointly by the
 Schools of Fashion and Crafts and Design in 2017; the European Sculpture Network
 conference, hosted by the School of Fine Art and Photography in 2019, and two conferences
 organised by the Animation Research Centre, Experimental and Expanded Animation, 2019 and
 Cartoon Animation: Satire and Subversion, 2020.

 (2.1.5) While the primary context for research at UCA is the School, UCA’s research centres,
 each located in a School, form focal points, and a number of formally-established research
 clusters also operate, within and across Schools. UCA’s REF submission identifies the groups
 that staff researchers belong to; these are either research centre based groups, research cluster
 based groups, or more fluid groupings, not formally constituted but nonetheless important in
 identifying staff with intersecting research interests who frequently or occasionally collaborate.
 Some researchers belong to more than one group. The groups are:

  Crafts and Textiles   C&TR     Encompasses the Crafts Study Centre and International
  Research                       Textiles Research Centre, both located in the School of Crafts
                                 and Design and both operating within the field of crafts. They
                                 frequently collaborate on joint projects, and several staff are
                                 jointly oriented to both centres. Some staff from other Schools
                                 (notably, textile practitioners within Fashion) also orientate
                                 towards this area.

  Fine Art and          FAP      The largest grouping of researchers in the University, including
  Photography                    under its umbrella the Fast Forward: Women in Photography
  Research Centre                project and the bookRoom experimental post-digital publishing
                                 platform.

  Film, Media and       FMEA     A group of researchers largely located in the School of Film,
  Expanded                       Media and Performing Arts, centred on but extending beyond
  Animation,                     the Animation Research Centre.

  Audio Research        ARC      Experimental performance and music, spanning the Schools of
  Cluster                        Fine Art, Photography and Visual Communication and Film,
                                 Media and Performing Art.

  Space and Place       SP       A group located within and beyond the School of Architecture,
                                 and including both practice-based researchers and a


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                 collaborative group of historians and theorists researching
                                 aspects of space and place.

  Sustainability        SR       Researchers working on sustainability, including in the Centre
  Research                       for Sustainable Design.

  Fashion               F        Researchers within the discipline of fashion.


 2.2. Research Students

 (2.2.1) The number of research degrees awarded has increased substantially, up from 14 in
 REF 2014 to 37 in REF 2021. At REF 2014 the research degree student population was 31; at
 REF 2021 it is 55. Data gathered for UCA’s RDAP application, covering the period between
 UCA’s first award of a research degree (2001) and the end of December 2019, showed that
 completion times have fallen from 6.8 years (for students registered up to 2013) to 4.4 years (for
 students registered 2014 and after). The proportion of students passing with no or minor
 amendments has risen to 82 per cent, up from from 64 per cent five years ago.

 (2.2.2) Research degrees have been awarded in validating partnership with the University of
 Brighton. This longstanding partnership was brought to a managed and cordial end between
 2017 and 2019 as a result of Brighton’s review of all their external partnerships. UCA has a
 mature research-degree programme (the first MPhil award was made in 2001 and the first PhD
 in 2003) and has more than double the number of doctoral completions necessary for RDAP
 application (61 in total). Planned application for RDAP was delayed by regulatory changes in
 2017 to 2019 (HERA and the creation of OfS). In 2017 a new validating partnership was secured
 with University of the Arts London with the aim of bridging to RDAP application in 2019/20 and
 securing RDAP within the 5 year life of the agreement, by 2022.

 (2.2.3) The previous partnership with Brighton was successful and productive, with the Director
 of Brighton’s Doctoral College commenting that it ‘has led to the development of a high-quality
 research degree programme at the University for the Creative Arts’ and that ‘we are confident
 that UCA provides a rich environment for postgraduate research students and administers the
 degrees with the utmost efficiency’ (letter from Prof. Andrew Church, Director, UoB Doctoral
 College, December 2019). The partnership with UAL works smoothly and effectively and
 successfully passed the mid-term review point in 2019-20.

 (2.2.4) UCA’s application for RDAP was made to the Office for Students on April 1st 2020 and,
 after an OfS ‘pause’ due to COVID-19, the full submission was made in January 2021. QAA
 scrutiny is in progress. Work undertaken for the application shows that UCA staff meet or
 substantially exceed RDAP metric requirements, with 50.5 per cent of total academic staff
 demonstrating active and productive affiliations to external research organisations/communities,
 48.6 per cent having direct experience of research degrees or research collaborations in other
 HEIs or research organisations, and 73.9 per cent having at least one research or scholarly
 output or achievement. These figures are based on all academic staff (cat. A eligible), showing
 that UCA’s enhancement culture extends beyond those staff with ‘significant responsibility for
 research’, although research is most concentrated in the Research Career Field, i.e. staff with
 significant responsibility. The comparable figures for staff on the University’s register of PhD
 supervisors are 75 per cent, 70 per cent and 85 per cent (this data from RDAP submission
 captures the staff population shortly after the REF census date, in autumn 2020). Between REF
 2014 and the REF 2021 census date the number of supervisors rose from 31 to 46, and the
 proportion of UCA’s supervisors who are themselves doctorally-qualified rose from 42 to 65 per
 cent. In autumn term 2020, these numbers increased further to 61 supervisors, 72 per cent with
 doctorates. UCA supervisors have undertaken at least 38 external examinations in other HEIs
 since 2014, including the Royal College of Art, University of the Arts London, Central School of
 Speech and Drama, University of Surrey, Southampton University, University College London,
 Royal Holloway University of London, Nanyang Technical University Singapore, Silpakorn

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University, Thailand, University of Technology, Sydney, University of Helsinki, University of
 South Australia.

 (2.2.5) Research degree students are located within one of the six disciplinary Schools of the
 University, aligned according to the School of their lead supervisor. Each School is responsible
 for its research degree students, through supervisors and a member of staff identified as the key
 contact for research degree processes, a Professor or Reader from within the School who is an
 active and experienced supervisor. The Research Office provides central support and direction
 for research degree processes and strategy. In 2018/19 a restructuring of Research-Office roles
 re-emphasised academic leadership of research degrees under the Research Degrees Leader
 (Kelly), and integrated student records, admissions and quality processes into the academic
 service provision of the University as a whole.

 (2.2.6) Research students are registered with UAL, and have access to Research Network UAL
 (RNUAL), a large community of researchers from UAL and its validated partners, which runs
 events and training, some of it compulsory, some optional. To complement this diverse network,
 UCA provides specialised and focused training and events that aim to build a community of UCA
 research degree students. Termly blocks of Advanced Research Methods sessions (led by the
 Research Degrees Leader) are tailored to the specific subjects that students are researching,
 and the Graduate Forum is held two/three times a term to provide a supportive community hub.
 This is facilitated by two experienced supervisors (Hosea and Baker) and content is student led.
 The University holds an annual research student event, with the format varying from year to
 year, from formal conference with accompanying exhibition, to seminar style workshop, to
 informal crit. Formal research student events are open to students of GuildHE Research as well
 as UCA, and UCA students regularly participate in GuildHE’s research degrees summer school.
 When RDAP is secured, the RNUAL network will be replaced by increased UCA research
 degree networking provision. This will be delivered in the context of a newly formed Doctoral
 College planned for autumn 2021, scaling up central support and structures for research degree
 student processes as student numbers increase. In 2019/20 the research degree student survey
 revealed an overall satisfaction level of 97.5 per cent, substantially above sector benchmarks
 (UCA survey 20/4/20 – 5/6/20, response rate 73 per cent).

 (2.2.7) The full amount of the QR Research Degree Programme supervision funding received by
 the University is used to support fee waivers, and in the current REF census period 11 students
 have been supported to completion in this way, with 25 still studying. This has enabled many
 students to access the research degree programme who would not otherwise have been able to
 do so. From 2015 to 2019 a research-council equivalent studentship (fees and maintenance)
 was funded by the University to support a student in the strategically-important area of
 sustainable design, attached to the Centre for Sustainable Design. Alongside doctoral research,
 this student contributed to several of CfSD’s funded research projects, and authored or co-
 authored reports in the Circular Ocean project (see REF3, Repair Cafés).


 2.3. Library and Archive Resources for Researchers and Research Degree Students

 (2.3.1) Each campus has its own specialist library, which provides researchers and research
 students with access to over 350,000 print and electronic books and journals and 90 online
 databases, focused on the creative arts. Research is a core driver of the Collection Development
 Policy and research degree students can make recommendations for purchase to the Library.
 They have additional borrowing rights, as well as access to the cross campus loans service,
 making all material available regardless of location. This is supplemented by the Document
 Supply Service and the SCONUL access scheme which offer access to other specialist
 collections across the UK.

 (2.3.2) Students have access to a range of learning and support tools via the University’s virtual
 learning environment, myUCA, and the online library, myLibrary, which brings together
 information about all the library’s specialist resources and services, including a Research Guide.

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Information Literacy Framework scaffolds the information and research skills needed to
 support research degree students and researchers. Liaison Librarians and Learning
 Development Tutors offer workshops and tutorials around information literacy, including
 referencing, academic writing, research, research data management and publication.

 (2.3.3) The University’s Archives and Special Collections have 0.5 km of materials, specialising
 in arts activism, animation, photography and graphic design. The library also hosts VADS, the
 national image repository service, and UCARO, the University’s research repository. It offers a
 Digitisation Studio with specialist copying and photographic equipment and staff to help digitise
 creative practice. (Further significant archives are held in the School of Crafts and Design in the
 Crafts Study Centre and International Textiles Research Centre, see 3.3.4 and 3.3.5.)

 (2.3.4) Library services are monitored and reviewed via feedback from Research Committee,
 Research Degrees Committee and School Boards, and via the Annual Library Survey and the
 Postgraduate Research Student Survey, ensuring that research needs inform service and
 resource planning.



 2.4. Equality and Diversity

 (2.4.1) In comparison to REF 2014, UCA’s submission to REF 2021 is notably more inclusive in
 the proportion of academic staff participating, which has increased from just under 13 per cent to
 almost 29 per cent (headcount) of the total staff population, or 27 per cent by FTE. Staff with
 significant responsibility for research for REF are identified through the Academic Career Fields
 scheme, introduced in 2018. Equality Impact Assessments were carried out at the completion of
 the initial Academic Career Fields alignment process and at the staff census date and they
 demonstrate that there are no significant equality gaps in those staff submitted to REF when
 compared to the total academic population of UCA. The census-date EIA shows that the
 submission is gender equal in a total academic population that is 47 per cent male and 53 per
 cent female. This parity extends to UCA’s gender pay gap performance: measured in March
 2019, the University’s median pay gap was low, at 5.72 per cent (mean = 13.46 per cent), and in
 our upper two pay quartiles the balance is now slightly in favour of female staff. The gender pay
 gap has been reducing year on year since 2017, and the University’s aim for the next 5 years is
 to achieve and maintain a gender pay gap of less than 5 per cent before eliminating it entirely.

 (2.4.2) The census-date EIA reported slightly lower rates of participation in REF from staff who
 identify as belonging to certain equalities groups compared to the overall academic staff
 population. In the area of sexual orientation participation was 1.1 per cent lower, disabled staff
 participation was 2 per cent lower and in the area of religion and belief participation was 5.5 per
 cent lower. These gaps may be related to the University’s high levels of non-disclosure in these
 areas; non-disclosure in equalities monitoring is an organisational challenge that is recognised
 and addressed in the University’s Single Equality Action Plan.

 (2.4.3) Analysis by working pattern shows that part-time staff are very well represented in REF
 (76 per cent of staff with SRR are on fractional contracts, compared to 67 per cent in the total
 academic staff population). This reflects the nature of creative practice in art and design where
 many successful practitioners incorporate a part-time academic role into their art or design
 practice, and demonstrates positively the extent to which part-time working is integrated into
 UCA’s working culture. 90 per cent of staff submitted are on permanent contracts; the 10 per
 cent on fixed-term contracts are UCA’s Professorial Fellows who are employed on two-year
 contracts so that the expertise they bring to the University can be periodically refreshed.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                   REF 2014        REF 2021
                    Headcount                      33              72
                    FTE                            20.75           46.7
                    As % of total academic staff   12.84%          28.8%
                    (headcount)
                    As % of total academic staff   [no data]       27%
                    (FTE)
                    female                         48%             50%
                    male                           52%             50%
                    BAME                           6%              7%
                    disability                     [no data]       6%
                    Full time                      21%             24%
                    Part time                      79%             76%
                    Permanent contracts            [no data]       90%
                    Fixed-term contracts           [no data]       10%
                    ECRs                           3               7

 (2.4.4) UCA’s REF 2021 Code of Practice sets out a rigorous approach to EDI. Processes to
 determine significant responsibility through the Academic Career Fields scheme are designed to
 foreground EDI good practice, with the University EDI Manager an ex officio member of the
 panel which considers applications. Selection of outputs has also been carried out with due
 regard to inclusivity, as set out in the University’s REF Code of Practice. There has been a
 detailed process of internal peer reviewing (calibrated against external review) and all staff
 reviewing outputs were given training and guidance in criteria-based processes, including
 unconscious bias training. The CoP sets out as a principle that output selection should ‘include
 excellence wherever it is found within the University’s body of academic staff with significant
 responsibility for research’, stating that, ‘where excellence is judged to be equal, efforts will be
 made to ensure that as many staff as possible are represented by the average number of
 outputs’. UCA has submitted 72 staff, or 46.7 FTE, requiring 115 outputs after ECR reductions,
 an average of 1.6 outputs per researcher. 2 ECRs are submitted with 0 outputs; 43 members of
 staff are submitted with a single output; 16 are submitted with 2 outputs; 9 with 3 outputs and 2
 with 4 outputs; no member of staff is submitted with 5 outputs. Five outputs are double-weighted
 (with a reserve output for each). This demonstrates that the principles of the CoP for the
 equitable selection of outputs have been successfully implemented, with 82 per cent of staff
 submitted with the average of 1 or 2 outputs. No attempt has been made to scale the number of
 outputs submitted to the FTE of the staff member, as we believe that all staff, full-time and part-
 time, should have their contributions recognised equally.

 (2.4.5) EDI in research students: at the REF 2021 census date, 20 per cent of UCA’s population
 of PGR students were from minority ethnic backgrounds, and the average (mean) over the
 whole census period was 18 per cent. These figures are comparable with the total UK population
 of PGR students, where the latest available figure from OfS (2018/19) was 19.4 per cent
 minority-ethnic, and the mean for the REF period (minus the final year, for which no data is yet
 published) was 18.4 per cent. When compared at subject level (OfS category Design and
 Creative and Performing Arts) where the 2018/19 figure was 12.1 per cent minority-ethnic and
 the mean for the REF period (minus final year) was 10.4 per cent, UCA’s PGR population is
 notably more diverse than this benchmark.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                           UCA     UK PGR (OfS             UK PGR (OfS
                                                   Entire Sector, ie all   Design & Creative &
                                                   subjects)               Performing Arts)

     Latest (UCA 19/20; OfS 18/19)         20%           19.4%                   12.1%
     Mean (UCA whole census period;        18%           18.4%                   10.4%
     OfS census period minus final year)


 (2.4.6) The ethnic diversity of UCA’s research degree students reflects the global outlook of
 many of the University’s research centres and specialisms, with, for instance, the International
 Textiles Research Centre attracting researchers working on textiles across cultures, and the
 Fast Forward: Women and Photography project working with partners in North and South
 America, Africa, India and China. Fast Forward’s latest funding success is an AHRC Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusivity Engagement Fellowship (awarded December 2020), recognising the
 innovative intersectional work of the project and allowing it to reach further audiences, including
 potential postgraduate researchers, worldwide.

 (2.4.7) PGR students at UCA are also diverse in other ways. At the census date:
      • 72.3 per cent are female (UK all subjects 48.8 per cent; UK design and creative and
           performing arts 57.2 per cent)
      • 87.3 per cent are aged 25 and over (UK all subjects 57.4 per cent; UK design and
           creative and performing arts 62.7 per cent)
      • 43.6 per cent have a disability (UK all subjects 10.2 per cent; UK design and creative and
           performing arts 17.6 per cent).
 The high rate of disability is in part related to high levels of dyslexia and other specific learning
 difficulties amongst art and design students. Students with disabilities can access support
 through UCA’s Disability & SpLD Service, a team of support staff who promote independent
 learning and work to minimise barriers related to disability, and who provide information,
 resources and advice about disabilities and specific learning difficulties to academic staff.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 External Research Income

 (3.1.1) Over the REF census period UCA has reported £832,000 of research funding through
 HESA.

 (3.1.2) This comprises funding from research councils and other major funders, including the
 EU. The funded projects are:
     • 2 AHRC funded projects, both in partnership with other HEIs (Weather Datum and the
         AHRC Creative Clusters project StoryFutures, with Hosea as UCA Co-I)
     • 3 Arts Council England funded exhibitions at UCA’s public galleries in Farnham and
         Canterbury (From the Kitchen Table, Eugene Palmer and Kawaii (see Millar REF2 and
         REF3, Innovative Textiles Curation)
     • the Leverhulme Trust funded research network project Fast Forward (see REF3, Fast
         Forward)
     • 2 collaborative research projects funded by EU Horizon 2020 (Baker’s WEAR and
         STARTS Ecosystems)
     • funding from JISC for the research data management project Data Spring
     • a British Council Crafting Futures award to Millar and Olding to support conference
         collaboration between the International Textiles Research Centre, Crafts Study Centre
         and partners in Georgia.

 (3.1.3) In 2019/20 the University was successful in winning a number of new awards which will
 provide funding in 2020/21 and beyond. The most significant of these is an EU Horizon 2020
 award to Charter and the Centre for Sustainable Design which will bring €201,629 (£180,025) to
 the University in a €1.8 million project linking a number of partners. Other new awards include
                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grants from Creative Europe and the Norwegian Research Council to researchers in the
 Business School, and a Paul Mellon Foundation conference grant to researchers in the Schools
 of Architecture and Fine Art, Photography and Visual Communication.

 (3.1.4) In addition to the funding reported through HESA, the University has received £441,623
 direct-to-researcher or direct-to-project funding not captured by HESA returns, giving a total of
 £1,273,623 external research income from these two categories over the census period. This
 direct-to-project funding is from a variety of funders and reflects the small-scale, entrepreneurial
 nature of arts funding which is not always, or often, about large research council projects.
 Awards include grants from the British Council and Arts Council England for practice-based
 projects, funding from local authorities, from trusts and foundations, and from galleries and
 publishers. Over 50 projects, involving 30 academics, have been supported in this way, with an
 average of just under £8,000 per project. Many of these direct-to-researcher projects have
 received initial support from the University’s internal QR-derived Research Funding (see below).

 (3.1.5) In addition to the HESA-recorded funding and direct to researcher/project funding
 described above, we have received significant further funding captured in HEBCI returns. HEBCI
 Table 2 records £369,000 of income that includes consultancy and income from facilities. A large
 proportion of this figure is made up of funded projects in the Centre for Sustainable Design,
 where consultancy is part of a broader set of research activities that has led to the research and
 impact described in REF3, Repair Cafés.

 (3.1.6) In addition, HEBCI Table 3 records £2,216,000 of funding and this includes large EU
 ERDF-funded projects and other development projects. Like Table 2, this table includes activity
 undertaken by the Centre for Sustainable Design, where development funding underpins
 research activities that have led to outputs and impact. Table 3 also includes projects such as
 the Creative Europe funded ONE project, with UCA receiving £207,991 to research in
 collaboration with a network of European orchestras producing animated films that visualise the
 sound of classical music, and funding from the West Africa Arts Festival and British Academy to
 support mentorship as part of Fast Forward (REF3).


 3.2 Quality Related Funding and the UCA Internal Research Fund

 (3.2.1) UCA’s annual QR funding supports the research infrastructure of the University and
 provides an internal Research Fund to which academic staff can apply for support of their
 research. In total, £845,452 of funding has been awarded through the Internal Research Fund
 over the REF period. Apart from research sabbaticals, awards are capped at £5,000, with an
 average award value of £2,047 over the period.

 (3.2.2) £146,798 of internal Research Fund awards have had a direct impact in supporting
 outputs and impact that are submitted by the University to REF 2021, leveraging £537,623 of
 additional external funding, including awards reported to HESA and direct-to-project awards from
 funders including Arts Council England, Daiwa Foundation, Hertfordshire County Council, Henry
 Moore Foundation, and Ruthin Arts. The outputs and impact that resulted include:
     • 6 books
     • 4 journal articles
     • 4 chapters in books
     • 16 exhibitions
     • 4 films
     • 1 software output
     • elements of all of the REF3 impact case studies submitted.

 (3.2.3) Over the REF period, the Research Fund has supported a total of 286 research projects.
 It has also allowed 127 researchers to attend a conference to disseminate their research, or to
 organise a conference. These figures and those for direct-to-researcher funding, above,


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 demonstrate the value for money of arts funding, where researchers achieve significant scale
 and quality of outputs and impacts with small amounts of funding.


 3.3. Research Infrastructures and Facilities

 (3.3.1) UCA’s technical facilities and infrastructures are summarised in REF5a. UCA’s primary
 research infrastructure is its people—the researchers, Professors and Readers, research degree
 students, research leaders and research support staff who make up the research community
 across the Schools and centrally in the Research Office. Researchers, Professors, Readers and
 students have been discussed under ‘People’; the central Research establishment in the
 Research Office is as follows:

                         Director of Research and Education           1.0 FTE
                         Research Manager                             1.0 FTE
                         External Funding Developer                   1.0 FTE
                         Senior Research Officer (Staff Research)     0.4 FTE
                         Research Officer                             0.6 FTE
                         REF Officer                                  0.5 FTE
                         Gallery Curator (Kent)                       0.5 FTE
                         Gallery Curator (Surrey)                     0.5 FTE
                         Research Degrees Leader                      0.5 FTE
                         Postgraduate Research Professor              0.5 FTE
                         Senior Research Officer (PGR)                0.6 FTE
                         Research Degrees Officer                     0.4 FTE
                         Total                                        7.5 FTE

 (3.3.2) The Research Office team includes the University’s two Gallery Curators, who
 programme and manage the University galleries. All four campuses have multiple curated and
 gallery spaces, and the University also has public galleries—the Herbert Read Gallery in
 Canterbury and the James Hockey and Foyer galleries in Farnham. All the University galleries
 host programmes of staff and student work, and the public galleries also show external
 exhibitions, curated by the Gallery Curators, by University staff as part of their research practice
 or by external curators. During the REF 2021 census period notable exhibitions in Farnham have
 included Kawaii curated by Millar and the International Textiles Research Centre (REF2, REF3
 Innovative Textiles Curation); the Arts Council England funded Didn’t it Rain, a solo show of new
 work by Jamaican-born British artist Eugene Palmer; and Magdalene Odundo’s huge glass
 installation, Transition II, developed initially as part of an artist’s residency at the National Glass
 Centre in Sunderland. In Canterbury, exhibitions have included From the Kitchen Table, curated
 by CGP Gallery’s director Judith Carlton, and celebrating the work of Australian-born, Kent-
 based pioneer curator Sandra Drew. The Canterbury exhibition was paralleled with an exhibition
 at CGP in London, with the project and accompanying book funded by Arts Council England.

 (3.3.3) As well as its on-site galleries, UCA also runs an off-site gallery and project space, the
 Brewery Tap in Folkestone’s Creative Quarter. This runs a varied programme of exhibitions and
 events created by staff, students, artists and community groups, and is a venue in the
 Folkestone Triennial.

 (3.3.4) Located on the Farnham Campus and situated within the School of Crafts and Design is
 the Crafts Study Centre, a charitable trust with Arts Council England museum accreditation,
 funded as a University Museum by a recurring grant from Research England. The CSC has an
 internationally-important collection of craft, with ceramics, textiles, calligraphy, wood and
 furniture, representing the work of many of the most notable figures in modern craft. Its archive
 collections are of great significance in understanding the work of makers including Bernard
 Leach, Ethel Mairet, Katherine Pleydell-Bouverie and Henry Hammond. In 2020 the CSC was
 able to purchase significant new archive material relating to Bernard Leach—see REF3, The

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Role of Studio Pottery in Developing the Local Economy and Changing Museum Exhibition
 Practices and REF2 Olding, Bernard Leach: Discovered Archives.

 (3.3.5) Also located within the School of Crafts and Design, the International Textiles Research
 Centre has significant and important holdings of textiles practice.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations, Partnerships and Measures of Their Success

 (4.1.1) UCA’s research collaborations in the census period include large and small-scale
 projects with local, national and international partners. Examples include ONE is More (2015-
 19), funded by EU Creative Europe, a project that brought together orchestras in France,
 Germany, Slovakia, Slovenia, Poland, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria to communicate
 classical music to young audiences in innovative ways. UCA was the only non-orchestra partner,
 working to investigate how digital technologies and visual culture approaches can question the
 concert format, engage new audiences and promote new artists. UCA produced a range of
 outputs, most notably Red and the Kingdom of Sound, an award-winning animated film that
 visualised Britten’s Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra. Baker’s EU Horizon 2020-funded
 WEAR Sustain project (2017-19), built on her research in wearable tech to create a network of
 over 1,500 designers, technologists, business leaders, companies and other experts, supporting
 46 ethical and sustainable e-textiles innovation teams. WEAR Sustain led directly to a further
 EU-funded project for Baker, STARTS Ecosystems. Since 2018 UCA has been a partner in the
 AHRC Creative Clusters StoryFutures project led by Royal Holloway which investigates
 innovative storytelling in immersive technologies. StoryFutures funds a fraction of Hosea’s
 contract, and both Hosea and Baker have bid successfully to the StoryFutures’ responsive-
 mode ‘R&D on demand’ strand; Harper serves on the StoryFutures board. Wainwright has
 curated exhibitions and events that have brought together UCA’s staff and students with other
 internationally-significant artists, at the Venice Biennale (Rights of Passage, 2015), Documenta
 14 Athens (the British Council-funded Gestures of Resistance, 2017) and at Chatham Historic
 Dockyard (Powerful Tides, 2018, REF 2). Smaller-scale collaborations include Whalley’s
 Memory Tracks, in which he partnered with Wrexham Glyndwr and Manchester Metropolitan
 Universities and Pendine Park Care Home to investigate the positive role of music for people
 living with dementia.

 (4.1.2) UCA’s Research Office provides support in applying for and managing funding awards
 such as those in many of the projects above. Applications for large external awards are routinely
 seeded with small amounts of internal (QR-derived) research funding or research sabbaticals,
 both of which are awarded competitively through the Staff Research Fund. Whalley’s Memory
 Tracks started with UCA’s support of a GuildHE sandpit event at which the collaborative
 partnership was established and the Memory Tracks concept won seed funding. For larger
 projects the University supports the recruitment and employment of administrative staff (e.g. for
 ONE is More, a Project Co-ordinator and Administrator; for Baker’s STARTS Ecosystems, a
 Project Officer). Research Office staff work with researchers to disseminate and document their
 research, and to collate evidence of impact. For instance, McElhinney’s Isovist spatial analysis
 software has been supported to collect evidence of user engagements via guest blogposts on its
 website.

 (4.1.3) Indicators of success for projects such as those outlined above are numerous: the ONE
 is More animated film, Red and the Kingdom of Sound, was screened with synchronised
 orchestral performances to audiences totalling 4,500 children across Europe, and has been
 screened at 40 film festivals where it has won numerous awards including first prizes at the
 Animation Marathon, Athens (2018), the Redline International Film Festival, Canada (2018), the
 NCCC Film and Animation Festival, New York (2019), and Athens Animfest (2019). It is currently
 being licensed to online music education platform Charanga for distribution to schools in the UK
 and Europe. WEAR Sustain won the EU Horizon 2020 ‘Innovation Action’ award, and has
 created, amongst other outcomes, a Sustainability Toolkit. StoryFutures latest responsive-mode

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project has seen Baker and Hosea working with Valkyrie Industries to use the firm’s haptic VR
 gloves to develop a virtual sculpting tool for 3-D modelling and 3-D animation. Wainwright’s
 Powerful Tides was reviewed in the Guardian, Spectator, Times, Sunday Times and was the
 Financial Times ‘critic’s choice’ exhibition for three weeks running. Memory Tracks has led to an
 app available on the Apple App Store and Google Play, and Isovist is now being used by 2,023
 users in education and architectural practices in 54 countries.


 4.2 Audiences, Communities and Publics

 (4.2.1) UCA’s researchers interact with large and diverse audiences. The four impact case
 studies submitted are indicative of this, with, for instance, the exhibitions and events detailed in
 Millar’s Innovative Textiles Curation reaching audiences of 337,000 people in venues including
 Salts Mill in Bradford, the William Morris Gallery in London, the Holburne Museum in Bath, MAC
 in Birmingham, the National Centre for Craft and Design in Sleaford and Compton Verney art
 gallery in Warwickshire. The Crafts Study Centre not only welcomes visitors to its galleries and
 archives but regularly loans objects from its collections to exhibitions in numerous venues; as a
 result, the Centre’s collections have been seen by over 500,000 visitors since 2014. Kotting’s
 films have widespread distribution; the latest, The Whalebone Box (2020, REF 2) had its cinema
 release disrupted by COVID-19, but was released online on BFI, Amazon Prime, Curzon and
 MUBI, where it was streamed 1,400 times in just the first week of release. Gupta’s photography
 (REF2 Christopher Street and Dissent and Desire) has been exhibited in solo shows at Yale
 University, the Contemporary Arts Museum Houston, the Hales Gallery New York, the Ryerson
 Image Centre Toronto and in group exhibitions including Masculinities at the Barbican Centre in
 London and Moving Still: Performative Photography from India at Vancouver Art Gallery. Most
 recently, it has been displayed in a major solo exhibition at the Photographers’ Gallery in London
 (2020). Whalley’s compositions have been performed on BBC Radio 3 as well as in numerous
 concert venues, and the film Bonington – Mountaineer (2017), for which he wrote the score (see
 REF2 Music, Mountains and Geological Time), has been screened at film festivals worldwide.

 (4.2.2) The large-scale and wide-reaching audiences above intersect in much of UCA’s research
 with local and community-based interactions. Charter’s research into repair cafés (REF3, Repair
 Cafés: Implementing Circular Economy Innovation), which has lessons for the circular economy
 globally, is based on and feeds back into the local community in Farnham through the Farnham
 Repair Café which Charter co-founded in 2015. The Crafts Study Centre is part of a network of
 crafts organisations which a recent report has found has a positive economic impact amounting
 to £50 million in the Surrey Hills regional economy, as well as contributing significant social and
 cultural benefits. This impact has been recognised in 2020 with Farnham formally designated a
 World Craft City. The CSC is the foundation for Olding’s wider curatorial practice that reaches
 globally, with Things of Beauty Growing taking a major exhibition of British studio ceramics to the
 USA for the first time. Hosea’s work in expanded animation and performance drawing has
 encompassed both international exhibitions, including Erasure, a solo show at the Hanmi
 Gallery, Seoul (REF2), and engagement with local audiences in dotdot dash (REF2) a live
 participatory artwork for the Night Walking North Kent Festival. Hosea, Walker and the
 Animation Research Centre delivered the Cartoon Animation: Satire and Subversion conference
 and the Bob Godfrey: A Collaborative Act exhibition at UCA Farnham in 2019, working in
 collaboration with UCA archives and galleries to promote the University’s collections to the local
 audience in Farnham and the wider animation community. Wainwright’s exhibition Powerful
 Tides (REF2) presented works of national and international importance (by Turner, Constable,
 Yinka Shonibare and Tracey Emin, amongst others) to audiences local to UCA’s Rochester
 campus in the Historic Dockyard, Chatham and was accompanied by an exhibition of works by
 the University’s MA and PhD students.

 (4.2.3) The audiences reached by UCA’s researchers are diverse. Millar, in Innovative Textiles
 Curation (REF3), attracted audiences that included first-time gallery visitors and participants
 from the elder community. Olding, in Studio Pottery (REF3), enabled partner the Fitzwilliam
 Museum to present its collections in new ways to new audiences. Klenz, in her photographic

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project Tensed Muscles, worked with Camden Archives and the Camden People’s Museum to
 create speculative, experimental photographic images of the Maiden Lane Estate in north
 London. Although the work led to exhibitions within formal gallery spaces (Camden Arts Centre
 and the British Museum), one of its primary aims was to allow audiences to experience the
 artworks beyond gallery walls. In the second phase of the project (delayed by COVID-19)
 viewers will be reached through an app (web-based augmented reality, designed by Arcade)
 which animates the artworks and allows them to be encountered anywhere. An album of music
 presents Klenz’s artworks alongside newly-created songs by the Hip Hop artists Boss B and
 Brownsilla. Gupta’s Dissent and Desire (with Charan Singh, REF2) looks at the lives and
 experiences of LGBTQ+ communities in countries where they encounter prejudice and legal
 discrimination; as well as being exhibited in high profile venues (eg the Contemporary Art
 Museum, Houston) the work has also been taken to Brixton Library, London, for LGBTQ+ history
 month 2020. UCA’s galleries frequently provide a space and a platform for local and community-
 based organisations to present their works publicly.


 4.3 Contributions to National and International Priorities and Interdisciplinary Research

 (4.3.1) UCA research responds to the challenges and priority areas identified by UK, European
 and international policymakers. The StoryFutures project is an ISCF-defined Creative Industries
 Cluster, addressing the Audience of the Future research priority. Charter’s research does not
 just respond to, but helps to define, sustainability research priorities, with his work on the
 Circular Economy cited by policymakers in the UK (Parliamentary Office of Science and
 Technology), EU (Directorate-General for Research and Innovation) and globally (UN and G21).
 Baker, Hosea, Rogers, Connolly and Thon all work on aspects of the Digital Economy, and
 Millar and Whalley have addressed the ISCF Healthy Ageing theme. Trogal’s research into
 caring and commons in urban design supports the aims of the Strategic Priorities Fund’s Urban
 Living Partnership. In 2019-20 UCA used an additional, unthemed, allocation of SPF funding to
 take its research and impact in the areas of gender equality in the creative industries, craft in the
 economy and society, and circular economy innovation, and disseminate its insights with
 policymakers, locally, nationally and internationally.

 (4.3.2) Much of the work of UCA’s researchers is interdisciplinary, reflecting the nature of
 enquiry in art and design practice, history and theory, which often seeks to cross boundaries and
 explore the fertile meeting points between different disciplines. For instance, Rutter and
 Bennett’s Light Dial (REF2) is an artwork in which artists (Rutter and Bennett, who created
 costumes and interactive sets) came together with musicians, a choreographer and dancers to
 produce a work which was presented in both performance and exhibition format. Whalley’s
 Memory Tracks brings his experimental music practice together with social science and social
 care research. Kelly’s output ‘Practice, Discourse and Experience’ (REF 2, journal paper and
 special issue) spans both design history and architectural history, examining what each can
 contribute to the other, and Kelley has opened up new ways of looking at urban history by
 engaging with concepts of informality originating in economics and the anthropology of emerging
 economies.


 4.4. Wider Influence and Contributions to the Research Base

 (4.4.1) UCA’s submission to UoA 32 in REF 2021 is split across written and practice outputs. 23
 of the 72 staff submitted are writers/historians/theorists, 35 are practitioners, and 14 have a
 hybrid practice that combines both practice-based and written outputs. Of those whose research
 includes written outputs, 22 have contributed to the infrastructure of their research discipline
 through peer-reviewed journals, serving as editors, co-editors, members of editorial and advisory
 boards, special issue editors or peer reviewers. Examples include: Adamson, founding editor of
 the Journal of Modern Craft (Taylor & Francis) (where Olding is a member of the advisory
 board); Harper, editor of Textile: Cloth and Culture (Taylor & Francis) (where Millar is a member
 of the advisory board), and Kelly, co-editor of Architecture and Culture (Taylor & Francis). In

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 total UCA staff have contributed to 25 different journals, and been responsible for 11 special
 issues, often working in collaboration with colleagues at other universities. For instance: Kelley
 has worked with the Modern Interiors Research Centre at the University of Kingston on a special
 issue of the London Journal (Taylor & Francis); Kelly has co-edited a special issue of the
 Journal of Design History (Oxford) with a colleague at the University of Hertfordshire; and Fox
 has co-edited a ground-breaking ‘women’ special issue of the Journal of Photography and
 Culture (Taylor & Francis), working with UAL’s Photography and the Archive Research Centre
 (PARC). In addition to these peer-review and editorial contributions to academic journals UCA
 staff have acted as peer reviewers for publishers including Bloomsbury, Chicago, Elsevier,
 Harvard, Manchester University Press, MIT Press, OUP, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, the
 Smithsonian Institute and Springer. For many of UCA’s practice-based researchers peer review
 activity takes place not primarily in academic journals or with publishers, but in relation to
 creative practice. 11 submitted staff have served as jurors or judges for prizes, awards or
 biennial/triennial events. For instance, Gupta has judged the Deutsche-Borse Photography
 Prize, Millar has judged the V&A/Crafts Council Woman’s Hour Craft Prize and chaired the jury
 at the Riga International Textile Triennial, Voorsanger has judged the V&A’s Illustration of the
 year Award and Fox was a judge for the inaugural Marilyn Stafford Fotoreportage Award.

 (4.4.2) Work by UCA researchers has been acquired by numerous national and international
 collections during the census period. For instance, in 2020 Barber’s complete film oeuvre (40
 works), was acquired by the British Film Institute, and at the end of the census period his archive
 was under consideration for acquisition by Tate (confirmed 3rd August 2020). Fox’s photographic
 work has been acquired by, amongst others, the National Portrait Gallery, the Yale Center for
 British Art, the National Gallery of Art in Washington, Shanghai Centre for Photography, and the
 Martin Parr Foundation. Knorr’s work has been collected by Bangalore Museum of Art and
 Photography, the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC and the Shanghai Centre for
 Photography. Voorsanger’s ‘Partridge Wear Collection’ has been acquired by the State
 University of New York (SUNY) Binghamton University Art Museum, and Hosea’s 'Traion I
 (Ferme)' (collaborative work with Maryclare Foá) has been collected by the Centre d’Art
 Contemporain, La Ferme du Buisson, Paris.

 (4.4.3) UCA researchers have delivered keynote lectures and high-profile research
 presentations in a variety of contexts throughout the census period. Brief, indicative examples
 include: Trogal’s keynote at Public Life: Towards a Politics of Care symposium, TU Wien,
 (Technology University Vienna), 2015; Panse’s keynote for the Cinema Studies Research
 Seminar at Stockholm University, 2016; Harper’s opening presentation for the Matter of Material
 conference at the Turner Contemporary, Margate in 2017 (a collaboration between Turner and
 UCA’s International Textiles Research Centre); Hosea’s keynote at the Crafty Animator
 conference, Brunel University in 2017; Clayton’s keynote at the DePaul University Chicago’s
 Pop Culture Conference in 2018; Charter’s invitation to present at the EC-China Circular
 Economy Forum, 2019; Gupta’s keynote discussion at the Cruising the Seventies: Imagining
 Queer Europe conference, Edinburgh University, 2019; Kotting’s masterclasses, workshops
 and presentations at (amongst many other venues) Lancaster and Falmouth Universities, Wolf
 Kino in Berlin, Close-Up Cinema in London, Liverpool Biennial and Sydney Film Festival (2014-
 2020).

 (4.4.4) UCA researchers have been awarded prizes, honours and awards that reflect their
 research contributions: Millar’s Transition and Influence project was shortlisted for a THE
 Leadership and Management Award in 2015 (REF3, Innovative Textiles Curation); Adamson
 was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by California College of the Arts in 2018; also in 2018
 Connolly won the Moving Image Portfolio category in the British Association of Film, Television
 and Screen Studies (BAFTSS) awards, for Machine Space (REF2); Knorr and Fox were both
 made Honorary Fellows of the Royal Photographic Society (2018 and 2019) and Fox was
 shortlisted for the Mme Figaro Prix de la Photo at the Rencontres d’Arles photo festival in 2019;
 Olding’s book Things of Beauty Growing (REF2; REF3, Studio Pottery) was awarded both the
 American Ceramic Circle Award in 2018 and the Historians of British Art Award in 2019;
 Hamlyn’s book Experimental and Expanded Animation (REF2) received the Society of

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Animation Studies Norman McLaren/Evelyn Lambart Award for Best Scholarly Book
 in Animation in 2019; Baker has been nominated for Computer Weekly’s Influential Women in
 Technology title in two consecutive years (2019 and 2020); Makhoul received a British
 Education Award in 2020; Bottle was shortlisted for the Vlieseline Fine Art Textiles Award in
 2019 for All That Remains (REF2); Goldsmith won this award in 2020 for Locus of the Dress
 (REF2). Finally, in March 2021 Barber was nominated for the Film London 2021 Jarman Award
 for a body of experimental film outputs achieved during the REF 2021 census period, recognition
 that is indicative of the contribution we believe UCA’s researchers make to new knowledge and
 creative endeavour at the forefront of Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory.




                                                                                         Page 18
