Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: D-30 Philosophy


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview

The Department of Philosophy at the University of Sheffield produces philosophical research of the
highest quality. Our vibrant research clusters are diverse. We cover traditionally central areas:
ethics; epistemology; history of philosophy; logic and language; metaphysics; mind; philosophy of
religion; political philosophy. We also cover less well-represented fields: cognitive science;
environmental philosophy; feminism; the philosophies of education, law, and race. This pluralism
continues our successful approach from REF2014, which we have taken further through our new
strategy of fostering engaged philosophy, understood as using philosophy to tackle key social and
political issues: e.g. by critically attending to the social realities of language and knowledge; to
structures of inequality and discrimination; to the social responsibilities of philosophy; and more
generally to the many ways that philosophy can address issues of important practical concern. This
focus cuts across and enhances our clusters, and our ethos of excellence and engagement feeds
into our PGR, PGT and UG communities, e.g. in the student-led outreach initiative Philosophy in
the City.

The following highlights represent our achievements, which are discussed more fully below. We
have published: 5 books with leading presses, including CUP, OUP, and Routledge; 149 journal
articles in leading journals such as the Australasian Journal of Philosophy, Mind, Noûs,
Philosophical Studies, Philosophy and Phenomenological Research; 93 chapters in edited
collections; and 11 edited collections. We have given >750 professional talks at conferences and
workshops in 31 countries, and there have been international workshops on our work, e.g. on
Olson at the Collège de France (2018) and the University of Rijeka, Croatia (2014). Staff have
been awarded prestigious fellowships and played leading roles within the profession: e.g. Saul was
the 2019 President of the Mind Association, while Stern was elected a Fellow of the British
Academy in 2019 and is Chair of the REF2021 Philosophy sub-panel. The Department has
deepened connections with the non-academic community through knowledge exchange (KE)
activities: e.g. Hobbs, the UK’s only Professor of the Public Understanding of Philosophy,
maintains a high-profile national and international media presence, e.g. addressing the 2016
Davos World Economic Forum; Saul’s work on misleadingness with the UK Statistics Authority has
yielded an invitation to address the UN Statistical Commission.

Our research clusters are internationally recognised. For example, our staff have re-conceived
the relationships between cognitive and noncognitive mental capacities (Barlassina, Gregory,
Holroyd, Laurence, Viera); developed Humean approaches to meta-ethics and practical reasoning
(Hayward, Holroyd, Lenman, Shemmer); and re-interpreted key ‘continental’ and pragmatist
thinkers (Forstenzer, Romdenh-Romluc, Stern). Our focus on engaged philosophy means that we
have made major contributions to various socially important areas, including aspects of social
epistemology (Faulkner, Fricker, Holroyd, Saul); feminism and political speech (Holroyd, Saul);
philosophy of law and punishment (Bennett); the relation between religion and ethics (Stern,
Byerly); justice and environmental philosophy (Blomfield); philosophy of education (Forstenzer,
Hobbs, Byerly); and philosophy of race (Romdenh-Romluc, Forstenzer). Much of our work is
interdisciplinary: e.g. with anthropologists and biologists (Laurence), criminologists (Bennett),

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
educationists (Forstenzer), political scientists (Blomfield, Forstenzer), psychologists (Barlassina,
Byerly, Holroyd, Laurence), and theologians (Stern, Byerly).

Our research environment is enhanced by three research centres: the Hang Seng Centre for
Cognitive Studies (HSC); the Centre for Engaged Philosophy (CEP); and the Centre for the History
of Philosophy (CHiPHi). These generate collaborations and interdisciplinary work within and
outside Sheffield. For example, the success of CEP has led our Faculty to adopt ‘engaged
humanities’ as a research priority, while CHiPhi brings together scholars from York, Leeds and
Durham; the HSC’s work has always been richly interdisciplinary and international, e.g. yielding a
high-profile 2016 PNAS paper with authors across five countries and six disciplines.

The UK philosophical community is facing unprecedented challenges. Our structures and
strategies enable us to respond by generating world-leading research that shows the excitement of
philosophy and its societal relevance, and leaves us ideally placed to flourish and evolve.

1.2 Unit structure

The Department’s research structure contributes decisively to its success. Individual work is fully
supported, while the Department’s collegial environment promotes collaborative projects, with staff
encouraged to work across research clusters. There is a thriving graduate programme, and early
career researchers (ECRs) are enabled to develop and progress. Philosophy is located within the
Faculty of Arts & Humanities, and has 16 permanent staff on full-time contracts: 8 professors, 4
senior lecturers, and 4 lecturers. We also have one professor on a part-time contract, a lecturer on
a full-time temporary contract, and four support staff.

1.3 Progress towards REF2014 objectives

Our plans from REF2014 have been largely accomplished and often exceeded. Five staff moved
and four retired, meaning that not all staff contributed as envisaged; but new appointments have
fulfilled our ambition to strengthen existing research clusters (e.g. Barlassina and Viera in
philosophy of mind, Romdenh-Romluc in continental philosophy). We have developed our
expertise in practically-relevant philosophy, refined into our current focus on engaged philosophy,
by expanding into or strengthening capacity in areas such as philosophy of education (Forstenzer),
philosophy of race (Holroyd, Forstenzer), climate change and environmental philosophy
(Blomfield), religion and ethics (Byerly), and feminism (Holroyd; Romdenh-Romluc). Holroyd and
Forstenzer were appointed as prestigious Vice-Chancellor’s Fellows, furthering our aim of
enhancing the discipline by fostering ECR talent.

1.4 Research, KE and PGR strategies

In the current assessment period, the Department’s key research aims have been to produce
research of the highest quality in a broad yet distinctive array of areas discussed above; lead the
development of the discipline; and foster a strong KE ethos.

To achieve the first, we encourage both individual research and collaborative work, through our
system of research clusters and centres. We develop and enhance departmental research
strengths through new appointments, funding bids, exemplary staff support, and a vibrant research
culture including our PGRs (§§2-3). To address our second aim, we place ambitious books and
papers with leading publishers and journals, participate in the full array of professional academic
forums, develop academic partnerships, and play major roles in academic organisations (§4). Our
appointment strategies and comprehensive departmental mentoring systems for new staff nurture


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ECR talent, and we have strong PGR recruitment (§3). To achieve our third aim, we support staff
to cultivate a broad range of KE opportunities and interactions with KE partners (§1.3, §4).

The strategy for KE is central to our engaged philosophy approach. It has focused on three main
areas: bringing philosophy to bear on public policy; philosophical input to professional practices,
e.g. via training programmes; and public and community engagement. The first two are exemplified
by the impact case studies on ‘Implicit Bias’ and ‘Education Policy/Practice’; Bennett’s work with
the Howard League for Penal Reform is also important to the first. The last is exemplified by
Hobbs’s work in presenting philosophical ideas in diverse and often high-profile public contexts
(§4).

We have built a unified departmental foundation for our KE activities. KE activity is distributed
throughout the Department – all staff have given public-facing talks during the assessment period –
and the CEP also provides a natural focus for KE events. Our approach has enabled us to take
advantage of sources of funding and to diversify our funding partners: e.g. the ‘Education
Policy/Practice’ case study was supported by internal University grants and by external awards,
while the ‘Implicit Bias’ case study received external funding from new sources (see §3.2). We
have developed a KE policy, designed by the Department’s Research and Impact (R&I) Director,
the Head of Department, with broader staff input; and we have facilitated KE activities by reducing
other staff commitments.

The Department’s PGR strategy is to ensure the PGR community forms an integral part of its
research environment and plays a central role in ensuring the vitality of our research areas: §2.5
surveys PGR support and outcomes. Our success in PGR recruitment and attainment comes from:
a distinctive portfolio of research areas led by highly-qualified staff; success with PGR funding
programmes; and tailoring our MA provision to recruit and inspire students by providing three MA
programmes (Philosophy, Cognitive Studies, and Political Theory). These programmes have
increased from a total of 38 students per year in 2014 to 64 students in 2019/20, and have highly
international cohorts.

1.5 Strategy for 2021-26

Our forward-looking strategies are designed to further our three primary research aims. We plan
to maintain our current research strengths, while further developing key areas such as engaged
philosophy, philosophy of psychology, and history of philosophy, as funded through growth in
research-led UG recruitment, PG recruitment, and enhanced external funding. Our appointments
strategy is also guided by our desire to support ECRs. The appointment of Udit Bhatia from
September 2021 exemplifies these goals: he is an ECR in political philosophy whose work on
‘epistocracy’ chimes with our engaged agenda, and he will contribute to our vibrant Political Theory
MA. Our keenness to encourage talented ECRs means that we will also seek to attract postdocs,
by inviting applications to funding calls and providing extensive feedback to applicants on their
submissions.

New collaborations are underpinned by research centres, which provide focal points for activities
such as workshops and conferences: e.g. Barlassina and Viera have recently submitted significant
funding bids for projects that are linked to the HSC; Faulkner is developing a large-scale
interdisciplinary project on conversion whose activities would involve all three research centres.
Our collaborative activities are enhanced by our popularity with visiting researchers (§4.1), who are
fully integrated into research events, given workspace in the Department, and unrestricted library
access. The research centres also add to our resilience by having a critical mass, thus avoiding



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reliance on individual staff; and they provide a visible focus for PGR activity, boosting PGR
recruitment.

Our KE plans are bolstered by the integration of external engagement matters within our
departmental structure for research support (§2): we will consolidate our existing KE connections,
while building new ones, with a particular emphasis upon developing our training contacts and our
lines of influence on public policy. For example, Hobbs will develop her associations with the World
Economic Forum, Aspen U.K. and the UN, exploring the ethical challenges and opportunities
currently facing business and policy leaders; she will work with Human Rights Watch and Refugee
Tales, seeking to shape policy with regards to the treatment of asylum seekers. Holroyd will further
develop her programme of implicit bias training.

Staff will continue to seek research funding, as they have done even during the recent global
pandemic: e.g. ECRs Blomfield and Hayward submitted bids for >£200K during mid-2020;
Barlassina and Shemmer will enter funding bids in Spring 2021 whose potential value is >£1M.
Other staff are developing major applications to the AHRC, Leverhulme, the Newton Trust, and the
Wellcome Trust. We have strongly positioned ourselves to obtain future research funding by
building our research clusters and centres, thus aligning ourselves with interdisciplinary and/or
collaborative funding calls, and by embedding our engaged philosophical approach within our
research culture, enabling us to access KE funding, including commercialisation funding streams.
The integration of research funding support (§3.3) within our strong culture of individual scholarship
will also encourage the submission of individual funding proposals.

1.6 Open access and research integrity

Our open research environment is founded upon transparency, collaboration and efficiency, in
harmony with the Concordat on Open Research Data and the FAIR principles. To ensure
maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all short-form outputs in White Rose
Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The 291 outputs
deposited over this assessment period were downloaded over 38,000 times. This is our preferred
route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish
outputs in fully OA journals, or hybrid where required for funder compliance. We support this
through the provision of training and infrastructure.

Many of our KE activities are open to the wider public, through freely available media outlets and
online sources (see §4). We will continue working with our dedicated librarian to maximise the
open availability of our research, and to promote examples of best practice in research
dissemination through the development of digitised, online resources. Annual individual staff
research meetings (see §2) include consideration of OA issues. Departmental meetings also
include regular assessment of our progress in furthering OA ideals.

Individual staff have contributed to the success of open access initiatives: Barlassina is on the
editorial board of the leading interdisciplinary OA journal Frontiers in Psychology; Forstenzer is one
of the official supporters of the OA journal on_education; and Hayward, as the editor of Analysis
Reviews, was instrumental in persuading OUP to make all issues fully OA for three months after
first publication.

We have a strong culture of research integrity founded on institutional policies and best practice.
For ECRs, we have a mentoring system whereby more senior staff provide professional guidance
e.g. on peer review practices. New staff are paired with department advisors and provided with
comprehensive tailored induction materials. The Department has a team of trained ethics
reviewers who advise on all research applications, and all PGRs take a compulsory module in

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research ethics and integrity. While these aspects of our provision are particularly important in
relation to those staff whose research has an empirical dimension, we also ensure that all staff are
fully aware of potential issues of research integrity: e.g. annual research meetings include
identification and discussion of potential ethical issues raised by individual research plans.


 2. People


2.1 Staffing recruitment strategy

The aims of our recruitment strategy are to preserve the Department’s broad research and
teaching base; enhance strategic research areas; and help to sustain the discipline by fostering
ECR talent.

We have a rigorous and inclusive process for deciding where to make key appointments and at
what level, developed by the Head of Department and the Department Executive Board, with
particular input from the R&I Director and the Learning and Teaching (L&T) Director, in dialogue
with the whole department; appointments are also given Faculty approval. We use stringent and
transparent selection procedures, which include job talks, interviews, and extensive reading of
work.

Our recruitment strategy and its implementation are strongly guided by a concern with equality,
diversity and inclusion (EDI). We employ wholly anonymised staffing application procedures until
the shortlisting stage, to avoid implicit bias. Our job adverts encourage applications from women
and BAME applicants, and commit us to exploring flexible working options. The Department’s
prominence in research areas in which underrepresented groups are statistically more present
(e.g. feminism, philosophy of race) has encouraged applications from members of those groups;
and the Department has fully adopted the BPA/SWIP Good Practice scheme (which Saul co-
authored). We have six female academic staff, including three of the seven permanent
appointments which were made during the assessment period, while Figure 1 illustrates how our
proportion of BAME staff has trended steadily upwards:

Figure 1: Departmental BAME Staff Data




We foster promising research talent by prioritising the appointment of ECRs, e.g. by appointing
multiple junior staff rather than a single senior hire. Two of our current permanent staff – Holroyd
and Forstenzer – were recruited as Vice-Chancellor’s Fellows: these prestigious appointments for
ECRs provide three years of research leave before the Fellows become full-time departmental
staff. Applications from potential postdoctoral researchers have also greatly increased; we have
hosted five during the assessment period, each of whom has either continued to a further research
position or been appointed to a permanent post.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2 Staff support and development

Our structures for staff research support and development provide individual research
guidance. Information arising from support meetings allows the Department to shape its strategic
research decisions, e.g. by identifying priority research areas and opportunities for collaboration.

All staff whose contracts include research have annual individual research meetings with the Head
of Department and the R&I Director to support future publications and plans for research topics;
potentials for KE; research funding plans; and individual research plans in relation to departmental
research strategies. Annual Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS) meetings are also
held with the Head or a member of the Department’s SRDS board, to discuss individual research
plans within the broader context of other duties.

All staff are asked to submit their CVs to the Department’s annual promotions panel, to help
identify potential promotion cases, and these are considered by the panel in tandem with SRDS
reports. Staff who are put forward receive detailed advice on CVs and other materials from at least
two colleagues, and they can provide feedback on the Head’s accompanying statement of support.
These procedures have resulted in a strong record of 10 promotions during the assessment period:
4 to senior lecturer, 3 to reader, 3 to professor.

Opportunities for collaborative research and funding are identified in SRDS meetings, within
departmental meetings, and in the course of departmental away days. Collective research is
further enabled through high levels of participation in collegiate and group research-based
activities, such as the departmental seminar series (at least 16 per year, 2-4 given by departmental
staff and the rest by visiting speakers from across the world); a diverse range of reading groups
(e.g. an average of nine per semester from 2018-20); additional lectures by outside speakers (e.g.
a 2018-19 special series on topics in cognitive studies); and a wide range conferences and
workshops (see §4), including those organised in association with our research centres.

KE activity is considered within all our individual support and development processes (e.g. SRDS
meetings) and within departmental processes that consider collective research (e.g. research-
focused away days). These procedures allowed us to identify e.g. the research relationships
underpinning the ‘Education Policy/Practice’ impact case study and the various thematically
organised public-facing lecture series described in §4 below.

Staff may apply for one semester of research leave per six semesters not on leave. New staff on
research contracts are initially given reduced teaching and administrative loads to foster research
activity, e.g. this policy aided Blomfield’s completion of her recent monograph. Female staff have
received three Women Academic Returners Programme (WARP) awards, which provides financial
support to mitigate the impact of parental leave on research activities.

Further measures and structures are in place for staff within specific categories. There is a three-
year system of probation for new full-time and temporary staff, involving a clearly-defined series of
agreed milestones and including the appointment of departmental mentors to discuss teaching,
research, and administration. Mentors read research by their mentees and advise on research
matters such as potential publications: all of our new appointments during the assessment period
have successfully published work that has received feedback in this manner.

Departmental policy is to ensure that temporary teaching-specialist academic staff have some time
for research in addition to their teaching and other responsibilities. They are allocated a mentor,
and may choose to receive individual research support meetings. ECRs and PGRs also have
access to the University’s award-winning Think Ahead researcher development programme, which


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
offers resources tailored for ECRs, including mentoring and one-to-one career consultations, along
with a comprehensive well-being programme.

2.3 EDI strategy

The Department has a highly inclusive research culture, and it has long been concerned to
address the underrepresentation of protected groups within philosophy. Staff include figures
prominent in attempts to diversify the discipline: e.g. Holroyd and Saul have done consultancy work
on implicit bias within the workplace (see the ‘Implicit Bias’ case study), raising awareness of best
practice and shaping the responses of the Department and Faculty to equality and diversity in
recruitment, staff retention, and working conditions; Saul co-authored the BPA/SWIP guidelines on
Women in Philosophy, which we have fully adopted. The University has commissioned Holroyd to
provide implicit bias training across the institution, and she is working with a colleague from
Physics in preparing a report on best practices in relation to parental leave; she is also leading
institutional investigations into the EDI impact of COIVD-19 on staff.

Departmental EDI strategies are guided by our EDI committee which is attended by the Head,
and by the Department’s EDI officer and the L&T Director. We have formulated and adopted a
gender identity policy, aimed at making the Department trans-inclusive, a model then taken up at
Faculty level. The Department is committed to the equitable treatment of all staff; e.g. the EDI
implications of relevant departmental policy decisions are reviewed by the EDI officer and the EDI
Committee. As noted (§2.2) female staff have received three WARP awards. We are supportive of
flexible and part-time working: staff can work at home when appropriate, and our departmental-
level timetabling process recognises commuting and caring responsibilities. We also have two
ground-breaking annual lecture series on Minorities and Philosophy (since 2015) and Women in
the History of Philosophy (since 2009).

The Department’s REF2021 submission was shaped by its commitment to inclusiveness. The
process for supportive internal peer review of outputs and planning for impact case studies
involved all academic colleagues (ECRs as well as senior staff), drawing on broad expertise and
reaching a collective understanding of excellent research. Anonymity for review teams has
empowered staff (including probationers) to feel comfortable rating colleagues’ research. Research
authors could not remain anonymous, but Department and Faculty REF leads together scrutinised
the output selection and case study plans from EDI perspectives; they considered the proportion of
submissions by gender and anticipated star ratings, and undertook extensive equality impact
assessments.

2.4 PGR overview, support, and outcomes

The Department supports a large, diverse and successful body of PGR students. We have on
average had 32 enrolled at any one time during the assessment period (81% studying full-time); an
average of 4% of our PGRs have been BAME (self-declared), 13% disabled, 26% female (reliable
data for non-binary students is unavailable), with 34% aged over 30. Our PGR cohort is highly
international, with an average of 33% of our PGRs students non-EU, and 17% EU. According to
the three Postgraduate Research Experience Surveys during this assessment period, 95% of our
students agreed they were satisfied with their research degree programme. We awarded 65 PhDs
and we have an excellent completion rate: 93% of our PhD students have submitted their theses
on time.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.4.1 PGR research environment

The Department’s vibrant research environment brings together PGRs and staff. A staff member
chairs the weekly Senior Postgraduate Seminar. All PhD students are expected to attend; a PhD
student presents a paper followed by extensive discussion. PGRs join in a variety of reading
groups; the weekly departmental seminar (which includes initiatives to encourage PG participation
– e.g. a PG student is always given the chance to ask the opening question); and the annual
residential reading weekend, as well as research centre activities.

Our undergraduates are also involved in the research life of the Department. For example, second-
year students can apply to the Sheffield Undergraduate Research Experience (SURE) scheme.
Successful applicants undertake a supervised piece of funded research in the summer. The
Department has supported 13 SURE students since 2014: two eventually joined our PG
programme. Undergraduates have established their own Undergraduate Philosophy Conference
and an undergraduate journal (PhilonoUS), with worldwide submissions, and one of our
undergraduates was overall winner in the Philosophy category of the Global
Undergraduate Awards in 2020, then progressing onto an MA in the Department.

2.4.2 Support and training

The Graduate Studies Director oversees PGR matters and runs the PG Affairs Committee,
attended by PGR representatives. This forum provides feedback from PGRs and allows
consultation with them on departmental policy.

PhD students have a primary supervisor, whom they meet at least monthly, and a secondary
supervisor whom they meet at least semesterly. Registration is confirmed within a 12-month
period, after a successful confirmation review with both supervisors plus at least one other reader
of their work. PGRs must submit a detailed PhD proposal, a thesis chapter, a data management
plan, and a report on research training based on their ongoing training needs analysis; they are
also required to present a paper at the Senior Postgraduate Seminar. Progress is reviewed at
semesterly meetings attended by both supervisors, with reports forwarded to the Graduate Studies
Director. Completing PGRs are offered practice vivas.

Our PGRs have access to a suite of PGR support sessions, as part of the University’s Doctoral
Development Programme, providing training and advice in research ethics and methods, KE, and
career opportunities. The Department provides training sessions on research matters, including
strategies for publication, the development of research presentations, and CV advice. Our PGRs
may also apply to design and teach a third-year module based around their research; this scheme
provides successful applicants with valuable teaching experience.

In addition to the University’s PGR careers provision, the Department provides regular targeted
research-training sessions for students entering the academic and non-academic job markets.
We provide further support for PGRs seeking employment, including sharing of sample application
materials and general preliminary advice. Draft CVs and other components of applications are
checked, and there are opportunities for practice interviews and job talks.

Since 2015, we have appointed 31 former PhD students either to 6-month affiliate researcher
status or to honorary fellowships (up to 3 years). The former provides access to IT and library
services, and the latter also provides more substantial career support, giving access to research
resources, mentoring and institutional support via the University’s Professional Development
Programme and Think Ahead framework. The resultant publication and dissemination of research,
participation in alumni activities, collaborative research projects etc. provide significant mutual
research benefits to the department, e.g. Barlassina, Saul, Shemmer, and Stern have all recently

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
published research co-authored with former PGR students. It also helps students bridge the gap to
academic employment (see §2.4.4).

We have a diversely international profile of PGR students, and our International Students’
Society is very active. It provides student mentors, organises sessions in English for academic
purposes, and hosts regular social events.

2.4.3 EDI

The Department is very attentive to EDI matters in relation to its PGRs. Our EDI Committee is
chaired by a PGR student, ensuring PGR input into departmental EDI policies. The Committee
considers any issues that are relevant to students with protected characteristics, and recommends
suitable action, e.g. extensive building work has recently improved access for people with limited
mobility. We have a chapter of Minorities and Philosophy within the Department, and our students
are participants in Women in Philosophy societies within the UK and elsewhere. The Department
has instituted a series of guidelines in relation to LGBTQ+ students at all levels. In accordance with
the Department’s EDI commitments, we support students who are unable to live in Sheffield or
cannot commit to full-time research: we currently have six part-time PhD students.

2.4.4 Outcomes

Our PGRs have been strikingly successful in winning funding: Twenty-seven of our PGRs
during the assessment period have been funded by the AHRC, with an average of three new
awards per year over that time. Our PGRs have also been awarded other external funding,
including for interdisciplinary projects. For example, a current PGR is fully-funded by the
Leverhulme Centre for Climate Change Mitigation, and another by the Grantham Centre for
Sustainable Futures; recent students have received funding from the Austrian, Canadian,
Icelandic, Mexican, and Libyan governments; a current student is on a Commonwealth
scholarship. Other students have won internal funding from additional University sources, e.g. five
of our PGRs have won the highly competitive University Prize Scholarships; another current PGR
receives a China Scholarship Council/University scholarship.

The strength of the Department’s PGR research support is illustrated by its impressive PGR
publication record: they have published over 110 research outputs during the assessment period,
and their work has appeared in many prestigious journals, including Analysis, Australasian Journal
of Philosophy, British Journal of Aesthetics, British Journal of the History of Philosophy, Cognition,
Episteme, European Journal of Philosophy, Hypatia, Inquiry, Journal of Aesthetics and Art
Criticism, Journal of Applied Philosophy, Philosopher’s Imprint, Philosophy Compass, and
Philosophia.

Our PGRs are prolific in presenting at conferences and workshops, and play leading roles in
organising successful research events, e.g. running the annual series of conferences (founded
2011) on Understanding Value; founding the iCog network for PG students and ECRs working on
philosophical issues relating to the mind; instituting the Northern Imagination Forum. They have
also organized one-off events, e.g. a major Royal Institute of Philosophy conference in 2017, on
Harms and Wrongs in Epistemic Practice. And they have played leading roles in relation to
philosophical journals: e.g. one of our PGRs co-edited the British Society of Aesthetics’s
Postgraduate Journal of Aesthetics.

We have a consistently strong PGR placement record, with academic appointments across 12
countries in Europe, North America and South America, including 9 postdocs outside the UK. Of
the 58 PGRs who graduated since 2014, 18 (31%) secured permanent academic posts and a


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
further 22 (38%) have had temporary academic posts. Of the remaining 31%, many have taken up
non-academic or academic-related jobs including the civil service, journalism, research
administration and school teaching.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Funding strategy

We see research funding as a vital tool for enabling staff to develop their research projects and
for maximising the exposure of their work. It also enables staff to build strong relationships with
academic and non-academic partners, and strengthens the discipline by means of the provision of
associated opportunities for ECRs and PGRs. Funding awards have produced significant research
events and publications: e.g. Stern published the first English-language study of Løgstrup,
disseminating his research in Australia and the US; Forstenzer organised events in Italy and
Thailand on education and philosophy; Byerly, Fricker, and others have published papers in
leading international journals. In addition, a Templeton-funded Academic Cross-training Fellowship
enabled Byerly to undertake a distinctively interdisciplinary research project by acquiring training in
psychology.

We have sought to diversify our potential funders, by identifying and building capacity in promising
areas of research strength, such as engaged philosophy and the philosophy of religion, which have
opened new funding sources (§3.2): e.g. engaged philosophy connects us to challenge-led and KE
funding streams, and the philosophy of religion has linked our work to the Templeton Foundation.
We have also continued to apply to more traditional funding partners, such as the AHRC and
Leverhulme Trust. Internal funding sources have been used in initiating new projects, leading to
external funding applications (§3.2).

Our strategies in relation to PGR funding have been broadly similar: to enhance our existing
successes with traditional funding partners, while developing new funding opportunities to the
fullest extent. Our PGRs have been funded by funding bodies across four continents in addition to
the AHRC and other UK sources (§2.4.4). Where possible, we also integrate PGR funding
opportunities within larger funding bids in order to maximise their PGR research benefits.

3.2 Funding overview

The Department’s total externally-sourced research income during the assessment period was
£789k from a total of 71 applications. The wide range of topics funded include ‘Land Rights in a
Changing Climate’ (Blomfield), ‘Sacrificing the Self for Others’ (Byerly), ‘Philosophical Enquiry as a
Pedagogy for Teaching Critical Thinking and Democratic Citizenship’ (Forstenzer), ‘Blame and
Forgiveness’ (Fricker), ‘Bias and Blame’ (Holroyd), and ‘The Radical Demand in Løgstrup’s Ethics’
(Stern). Our strategic focus on engaged philosophy has paid dividends, as many of these grants
focus on engaged philosophical themes.

UK sources of funding included the AHRC, the Leverhulme Trust, the British Academy, WRoCAH,
and the Cabinet Office; international sources included the European Commission, the Templeton
Foundation, and the University of Notre Dame. (The last four had not previously provided
departmental funding.) Awards have included an AHRC Fellowship (Stern), a British Academy
Newton Advanced Fellowship (Forstenzer), a De Velling Willis fellowship (Gheaus), Leverhulme
Early Career Fellowship (Dunham), a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (Fricker), and
multiple awards from the Templeton Foundation (Byerly). ECRs are strongly supported in

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
developing their projects: e.g. in addition to his Academic Cross-training Fellowship from the
Templeton Foundation, Byerly secured a further Templeton award with a psychologist as co-
investigator, and a fellowship award from VU Amsterdam.

Our strategy for increasing research income in the future will involve building on the interaction
between research funding and our streams of KE activity, which has great potential for further
diversifying our research income, as does our interdisciplinary work. For example, some staff
research overlaps with theology, which has generated striking funding successes – e.g. Stern’s
work on the ethical implications of Løgstrup’s and Luther’s ideas, and Byerly’s research on virtue
ethics in relation to Christianity. The Department also contains a growing number of staff and
PGRs working on the philosophy of psychology and the philosophy of mind. This cluster, along
with the HSC, has created an active research culture, producing numerous research funding
applications (e.g. 9 during 2018-20). It has also attracted strong PGRs, many of whom have been
awarded internal and external funding for their studies.

We have made full use of internal research funding opportunities. For example, since 2016-17
eight staff have received internal funding from the Faculty Research Application Fellowship (FRAF)
scheme, which provides money to enable the development of funding bids e.g. by providing
teaching relief. External funding bids resulted from each of the FRAF awards, and Byerly’s award
facilitated two of his successful applications to the Templeton Foundation. At the departmental
level, staff and PGRs frequently apply to the Learned Societies Fund, for up to £350 to attend UK
conferences, and up to £700 for international meetings.

3.3 Administrative research infrastructure

Our research and funding strategy is overseen by the R&I Director, in close co-operation with the
Head, and in consultation with the Executive. Strategic plans are developed in consultation with the
Department more widely, through regular departmental meetings and away days. The R&I
Director’s participation in Faculty-level panels, such as the Faculty’s Research Strategy Group and
the Faculty’s Research and Innovation Committee, enables us to shape Faculty support and
strategy. For example, this enabled the adoption of engaged humanities at faculty-level. Aspects of
research strategy that are of particular relevance to PGRs are discussed with PGR representatives
in the PG Affairs Committee.

Faculty research support received substantial investment from 2019 when the Faculty Research
Services team (1.8 FTE) was expanded to a Faculty Research Hub (2.9 FTE; 3.4 FTE from 2020),
and Faculty Research Growth Team (1.8 FTE). Academic and Faculty support for KE, impact, and
public engagement was also expanded from 1 FTE to 6 FTE. The teams work closely together to
provide a co-ordinated service. The Faculty provides regular workshops on national and
international funding priorities, and on themes proposed at departmental level; it also provides
follow-up on support or training needs flagged by staff at individual research meetings. All of our
successful funding applications have benefited from extensive internal Faculty review processes,
which incorporates peer feedback provision from staff in other departments. Beyond the Faculty,
the University has dedicated research support officers who advise on e.g. budgetary matters,
cross-Faculty research initiatives, inter-University research opportunities, and the detailed
preparation of funding bids.

The growth in the Department’s KE and impact activities has been aided by the Faculty’s
enhanced provision of research support: its KE team shares knowledge of funding opportunities
and schemes; helps to nurture academic collaborations; identifies and develops potential networks



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of external partners; and provides advisory workshops, training, and facilities, for staff and
students.

Our structures for staff research support were described in §2.2, and funding applications –
amounts received, plans in progress etc. – form a standing item for discussion at departmental
meetings. Potential alignments in research interests that may lead to joint funding are identified at
departmental meetings and away days, at which we also receive input from University and Faculty
research support staff, who advise on opportunities and trends.

3.4 Material research infrastructure

The Department’s cohesiveness is aided by its physical situation within a dedicated building in the
central campus area, near the main University library and additional University PGR study facilities.
We have 25 offices, along with a large open-plan administrative office, two meeting/seminar
rooms, and a reception area. There is a postgraduate kitchen and social space, along with four
postgraduate computer rooms with study spaces. The building’s self-contained nature and its
shared spaces increase interactions among staff and PGRs. Disability access to the building was
substantially improved in 2019.

Departmentally-organised research events often use the Humanities Research Institute, for
example the 2017 meeting of the British Society for the History of Philosophy and the 2018
meeting of the British Society for Ethical Theory. The HumLab is a specialist £212K facility founded
in 2017, comprising computer laboratory, sound booth and eye-tracking room, for University
members whose research interests involve cognitive science. This has benefited philosophy staff
who engage in empirical research, such as Cochrane’s work on music and the emotions;
Barlassina is among its staff.

The University library structure includes dedicated departmental and Faculty contacts. The library
has extensive holdings in philosophy. It subscribes to online philosophical resources including Past
Masters (recently expanded to include the complete works of Luther and Schelling, in support of a
departmental research grant), Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy Online, the Cambridge
Companions to Philosophy, Religion and Culture, and the Philosopher’s Index; it subscribes to 252
philosophy-related academic journals; and it holds c.28,000 philosophy books.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Collaborative research: ethos and infrastructure

As outlined above (§§1.4, 1.5, 2.2), collaborative work is central to our research strategy and
receives extensive support. Our collaborative research activities have occurred at international,
national, and local levels. Together they maximise exposure of our research and help us
strengthen the discipline by creating research links within the profession and to groups within
larger society. They have also yielded high-quality research outputs and formed the basis for
research funding bids.

We have cultivated research collaborations with partners beyond the UK, due to the
international reach of our research and our leadership of relevant fields:

   •   Research collaborations with partners from Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany,
       Hungary, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, and the USA. Funding sources
       included: the BA/Leverhulme Trust (Blomfield), the Templeton Foundation (Byerly), the

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       University of Konstanz (Gregory and Lenman), the Spanish government (Keefe), the
       Thailand Research Fund (Forstenzer); the University of Oslo (Saul). Barlassina, Byerly,
       Hayward, Holroyd, Laurence, Olson, Saul, Stern produced related research publications
       from these international collaborations.

   •   We have hosted 41 visiting scholars since 2014, from Canada, China, Denmark, France,
       Germany, Iran, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, and the USA. These
       have included Fulbright Scholars and researchers with Chinese government funding.
       Outcomes include co-authored published work (e.g. Olson with Karsten Witt, Stern with
       Bjørn Rabjerg).

Interdisciplinary or philosophical research collaborations within the UK have increased the
influence of staff nationally:

   •   Bennett, Holroyd, Saul, Shemmer, and Stern: 12 co-authored published papers and 1 co-
       edited published collection, working alongside academics in our own Department (Holroyd,
       Saul, Shemmer, Stern) and also in criminology (Bennett), law (Bennett, also Holroyd),
       psychology (Holroyd), and with the Cabinet Office’s Principal Research Officer (Saul).

   •   Staff organised numerous research events, including conferences and workshops,
       alongside colleagues working nationally in other disciplines, e.g. Education (Forstenzer,
       Hobbs), Politics (Blomfield), and Theology (Byerly, Stern). Funding came from e.g. Oxford’s
       Ian Ramsey Centre (Byerly), the Royal Institute of Philosophy (Forstenzer), the Society of
       Applied Philosophy (Blomfield), and the WRUC (Byerly).

Our interdisciplinary work with other University departments has created productive
partnerships and strengthened our profile within the institution:

   •   Blomfield: member of the management committee of Sheffield’s Leverhulme Centre for
       Climate Change Mitigation.

   •   Byerly with Meredith Warren (English): organised a workshop on ‘Religious Experience’
       (2017). Funded by Templeton.

   •   Forstenzer with Ansgar Allen (Education): organised a seminar series on ‘Philosophy of
       Education’ (2018-20). Funded by the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain.

   •   Holroyd with Tom Stafford and Robin Scaife (both Psychology): organised a conference
       and workshop on ‘Bias in Context’ (2017). Funded by Leverhulme.

   •   Stern with colleagues from English, History, and Philosophy: organised two workshops and
       a conference on ‘Luther as Philosopher’ (2018). Funded by the White Rose University
       Consortium.

Our work also aligns with broader national and international societal strategic aims including
the realisation of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals, including ‘quality education’, ‘gender
equality’, ‘climate action’, ‘life on land’, and ‘peace, justice and strong institutions’. These
contributions also align with the aims of the UK’s Global Challenges Research Fund. Work that is
relevant here includes e.g. Bennett on penal reform; Blomfield on climate change and land rights;
Forstenzer and Hobbs on education; and Holroyd, Romdenh-Romluc and Saul on gender.

Our collaborative research ethos also influences our PGR programme, e.g. via special PGR
supervisory arrangements, and it shapes the collaborative research activities undertaken by our
PGRs themselves:

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Four recent PGRs were co-supervised with colleagues from Leeds.

   •   Two recent PGRs were co-supervised with international partners from Antwerp and
       Virginia.

   •   Recent WRoCAH-funded PGRs did their ‘Research Employability Projects’ at LSE, MIT,
       Munich, UConn, and Virginia.

   •   Recent PGRs have done experimental work with an anthropologist from Belfast; a
       psychologist in Cambridge; a psychologist at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.

   •   Our PGRs have organised many research events (see §2.5).

4.2 KE activities

Our strategy of engaged philosophy has resulted in staff undertaking activities with potential for
influence in society, e.g. by feeding into public policy. Some key examples are:

   •   Bennett: review of a Howard League of Penal Reform report on electronic monitoring of
       offenders.

   •   Fricker: Moral Philosopher on the government’s Spoliation Advisory Panel.

   •   Forstenzer: secondment as ‘Philosopher-in-Residence’ in Brussels for Magid Magid MEP,
       advising during 2019 on legislative matters and on the philosophical underpinnings of
       European integration projects.

   •   Hobbs: met Grosvenor of London PLC to discuss social housing; met [text redacted for
       publication] to discuss philosophy in schools, which she also discussed with the UK
       Department of Education.

   •   Hobbs: advised the All-Party Humanist Group and the Home Office on protecting rights to
       asylum.

   •   Hobbs: ongoing work with the World Economic Forum and the 2018-19 WEF Global Future
       Council for Values, Ethics and Innovation has provided input to professional practices,
       particularly in terms of ethical issues arising from new technology see e.g. the 2020 ethical
       starter-kit for CEOs of tech SMEs which Hobbs co-authored.

   •   Romdenh-Romluc: collaborated with the Sheffield Teaching and Derbyshire Healthcare
       NHS Foundation Trusts in a project on habits.

   •   Saul: worked with the UK Statistics Authority in producing the free public-facing pamphlet
       Misleadingness: A Short Thinkpiece, yielding an invitation to address the UN Statistical
       Authority.

Public engagement is crucial to the realisation of our KE objectives, as a vehicle for promoting the
importance of philosophy, and creating future societal effects. Some examples:

Talks, lectures, and exhibitions:

   •   Staff gave over 160 public lectures during the assessment period. Events have been local,
       national and international: e.g. Hobbs spoke at Sheffield’s Off the Shelf festival; the Liberal
       Democrat Party Conference; the Hay-on-Wye literary festival and the Hay-on-Wye How the



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Light Gets In Philosophy festival; at the Athens Democracy Forum; at the Davos World
       Economic Forum; Stern spoke on Luther in St Margaret’s Church, Westminster.

   •   Romdenh-Romluc collaborated with Kelham Island Museum and the artist Laura Page, and
       also with Page and the National Railway Museum, in a Faculty-funded project, yielding
       publications, talks, and an exhibition; also collaborated with Page in an Arts Council-funded
       project on ‘small acts of rebellion’, speaking at the premiere of a film by Page.

   •   Lenman, Olson, Bennett, Saul, Holroyd: gave talks on films in a long-running series
       Philosophy at the Showroom, partnering with Sheffield’s Showroom cinema.

   •   Stern, Shemmer, Lenman, Byerly spoke in the lecture series (organised by Byerly and
       Stern) God and the Good (funded by the University’s Prokhorov Centre) in partnership with
       Sheffield Cathedral. Stern and Byerly also gave talks during their six months as
       ‘Philosopher’s in Residence’ at the Cathedral.

Local, national, and international media appearances:

   •   Staff made at least 145 appearances during the assessment period.

   •   Hobbs alone has appeared on very many leading national and international radio and
       television programmes which have reached some 254 million people around the world,
       including In Our Time, the Moral Maze, Newsnight, PM, Desert Island Discs, the Today
       programme, The Verb, The Forum (World Service), Genius of the Western World: Socrates
       and Marx (Channel 4), The Legend of Atlantis (Smithsonian and Channel 5).

   •   They have produced many research-led and public-facing articles for online and print
       publications: e.g. Bennett co-authored a pamphlet on public attitudes to justice, published in
       2016 by the Howard League for Penal Reform; Forstenzer and Stern have written on the
       Covid crisis for Guoming Daily; Hayward wrote for the New Statesman, in praise of
       idleness, and for politics.co.uk, on Cummings and public trust in politicians; Holroyd and
       Saul have written on implicit bias for the Guardian and the Huffington Post.

   •   They have been interviewed on prominent media outlets: e.g. Forstenzer and Saul have
       done numerous interviews about their research in relation to current events on BBC Radio
       Sheffield; Holroyd has been interviewed on implicit bias on the Radio 4 programmes
       Analysis and Start the Week; Stern was interviewed on Australian radio station ABC about
       his work on Løgstrup.

4.3 Research influence, and contributions to the research base

The influence of the Department on philosophy nationally and internationally is founded on
wide recognition of our research excellence and the value we place upon undertaking the service
which strengthen the discipline as a whole. As well as e.g. external examining work
(undergraduate philosophy courses at 10 UK universities; PGRs at 21 universities in e.g. Africa,
Australia, Europe, and Scandinavia), our activities have included leading roles within major
professional bodies:

   •   Analysis: Saul, Chair; Saul, Keefe Analysis Trust trustees and Committee members;
       Holroyd, Committee member.

   •   Aristotelian Society: Saul, Chair; Romdenh-Romluc, Committee member; Stern, President-
       Elect for 2021.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   British Academy: Stern, Fellow (2019 onwards).

   •   British Philosophy Association: Hobbs, Executive Committee member; Stern, President
       (2012-18).

   •   Mind Association: Saul, Vice-President (2018) and President (2019).

   •   REF2021: Stern, Chair of the Philosophy subpanel.

Staff are active in editorial work:

   •   Bennett: Editor of the Journal of Applied Philosophy (2013-2018).

   •   Byerly: Reviews Editor of the European Journal of the Philosophy of Religion.

   •   Fricker: Associate Editor of the Journal of the American Philosophical Association.

   •   Hayward: Editor of Analysis Reviews, Associate Editor Journal of Moral Philosophy.

   •   Holroyd: Co-editor of a special issue of the Journal of Applied Philosophy; associate editor
       for the International Encyclopedia of Ethics.

   •   Romdenh-Romluc: Editor of the book series Routledge Research in Phenomenology.

   •   Stern: Series Co-Editor for selected works of Løgstrup, OUP.

   •   Staff have served on the editorial boards of some 26 journals, including: Analysis,
       European Journal of Analytic Philosophy, European Journal of Philosophy, Hypatia,
       International Journal of Philosophical Studies, Journal of Applied Philosophy, Philosophy
       Compass, Religious Studies, Res Publica, Thought, Utilitas.

They have assessed grants and fellowships:

   •   Assessing grants and research fellowships for Oxbridge colleges, for 10 national Research
       Councils, and for private funding bodies such as the Leverhulme Trust.

   •   Hiring and promoting staff in 37 universities around the world, including Cambridge,
       Cornell, Hong Kong, Johns Hopkins, Oxford, UConn.

   •   Undertaking institutional reviews: e.g. Keefe: the University of Cambridge’s Faculty of
       Philosophy; Stern: the Institute of Philosophy at the University of London.

They have been awarded fellowships:

   •   Blomfield: appointed as visiting scholar at the Universities of Toronto (but unable to take up,
       due to global pandemic) and California San Diego.

   •   Forstenzer: Democracy Visiting Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School (2017-18); Visiting
       Fellow at Tufts University (2016).

   •   Gregory, Lenman: visiting ‘mentors’ to postdoctoral researchers in Konstanz.

   •   Hayward: Visiting Fellowships at the Institute of Philosophy in London, and the Vienna
       Circle Institute.

   •   Saul: St Louis University as the Collins Visiting Professor; University of Waterloo 2016
       Rudrick Visiting Scholar.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Stern: Fellow of the British Academy, visiting positions at Aarhus, Sydney, and Tsinghua.

They have contributed as referees:

   •   For journals including Analysis, the Australasian Journal of Philosophy, Erkenntnis, Ethics,
       the Journal of Philosophy, Mind, Noûs, Philosophers Imprint, Philosophical Quarterly,
       Philosophical Studies, Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, the Philosophical
       Review, Synthese, Thought.

   •   For publishers including Bloomsbury; Cambridge University Press; Oxford University Press;
       Routledge; Yale University Press.

They also maintain a high-profile international presence at conferences, workshops and
seminars, having given >750 academic talks during the assessment period, including prestigious
international lectures and workshops:

   •   Fricker: workshops at Tilburg, Germany (2014) and the University of Massachusetts (2015);
       the Frederick Henry Sykes Memorial Lecture at Connecticut College (2016).

   •   Hobbs: Royal Irish Academy Public Lecture in Dublin (2015); Annual Lecture at the Hellenic
       Research Foundation in Athens (2018).

   •   Olson: workshops on his work at the University of Rijeka, Croatia (2014) and the Collège de
       France (2018).

   •   Saul: President of the Mind Association Address (2019); Mesthene Lecture at Rutgers
       University USA (2020).

   •   Stern: Max Charlesworth Lecture at Deakin University, Australia (2019); Løgstrup Lecture
       at the University of Aarhus, Denmark (2019 ).




                                                                                           Page 17
