Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University of Central Lancashire

  Unit of Assessment: UoA11 Computer Science and Informatics

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context
The Computer Science and Informatics Unit of Assessment at the University of Central Lancashire
(UCLan) is comprised solely of staff working in the Computing Division of the School of Physical
Sciences and Computing within the Faculty of Science and Technology. Fourteen current staff
(and one who left) are being submitted and these comprise: one professor, two readers, four senior
lecturers (SL) and seven lecturers (L) of whom three are ECRs. Within this UoA, work is currently
focused in three broad areas: Human Computer Interaction (HCI), Agile Software Development
and Security and Forensics. There is one highly specialist group which is in Child Computer
Interaction (CCI); this is within HCI. This is the first REF submission for UoA11 at the UCLan
research in Image Processing, which is situated within Engineering, is separately submitted to
UoA12.
The three areas within UoA11 are at different stages of maturity. The most mature field is that of
HCI where the Child Computer Interaction (ChiCI) group (www.chici.org), formed in 2003, is
currently the largest such group in Europe. This is the home to one Professor (Read), two
Readers (Fitton and Sim), two of the three Senior Lecturers (SL; Cassidy and Guo) and four of the
Lecturers (L; Horton, McKnight, Doumanis, and Lochrie). The Agile Software Development (ASD)
group, formed in 2012, consists of one SL (Gregory) and one L (Campbell). Bowes was an SL in
this group until he left the University. The Security and Forensics Research (SaFeR) group,
formed in 2016, is currently home to one SL (Ta) and two Ls (Eiza and Abubahia).
The research carried out by the submitted staff is diverse and includes theoretical and empirical
studies, investigations and case studies, and design-based research.

Structure
The UoA11 researchers, while having different specialisms, identify as a team of researchers in
Computing. All are members of the University Research Centre for Digital Life (URCDL) which
was founded in 2019 as part of the University’s research strategy. This cross disciplinary Research
Centre is managed by Read and the Computing researchers are the largest single disciplinary
team within it. The Centre includes researchers from digital humanities, digital design, health
informatics, and psychology, and acts as a mechanism to encourage and support multi-disciplinary
collaborations between researchers across the University, The Research Groups within
Computing provide subject-specific foci. Figure 1 shows how the University Research Themes (on
the left) are represented within the URCDL and how the Computing Research Groups are then
situated within the URCDL.

Research and Impact Strategy
2014 - 2020
A strategic decision was made by UCLan management, based on the small size and limited
breadth of Computing Research at that time, to not submit UoA11 to REF2014. In the light of this,
the strategy for the Computing team between 2014 and 2020 was focussed on submission to this
REF period. We had three main objectives:
   •   to encourage staff to submit higher quality research.
   •   to broaden the scope of our outputs and develop new areas of research.
   •   to increase the impact of our research by doing more interdisciplinary research and
       engaging with communities and businesses.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 1. Structure of research in UoA11 and its relationship to the University’s overarching research themes. In-post submitting staff are shown
aligned to the Computing Research Groups.


                                                                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
These objectives have been successfully achieved. We have delivered over 40% more papers of
international quality (published in high-ranking venues) than in the previous period. We have
developed the new Security and Forensics Research (SaFeR) group and expanded our
software development, HCI and CCI research into new areas including ontologies, VR and
inclusive technologies. We have worked with schools, organisations and companies, including the
BBC and Kano Computing, to empower children, improve profitability, innovate in healthcare and
engineering solutions, influence accessible design, and facilitate improved UX in companies
specialising in design for children. These successes are further described in the later sections of
this document and in our Impact Case Studies.
2020 - onwards
Going forward we imagine a vibrant research team built on our strength in HCI that embeds a
people centred approach towards solutions and insights for a diverse range of interdisciplinary
societal problems, a set of organisational IT challenges and an increased reliance on technology in
all walks of life in a post pandemic landscape. Reflecting on our journey towards this current REF
submission we have consulted with our own staff, have met with senior management and have
explored the research landscape to develop three main objectives, of specialisation, growth
and impact, for this coming period:
   1. to specialise and excel by developing new HCI research around AI, XR, Robot Interaction
      and Data Science and to continue being world leading in Child Computer Interaction.
   2. to grow our portfolio and reach by increasing the number of submitted staff, increasing
      the range of computing subjects represented, and raising the percentage of highly rated
      outputs
   3. to have a greater impact by focussing on grand challenges and putting impact at the
      forefront of our thinking.


Meeting Objective 1 – Specialise and Excel
We will continue investment in HCI whilst ensuring that our CCI work remains at the forefront of HCI
research globally. This will be enacted in three main actions:
   •   We will strengthen ChiCI by developing distinctive themes designed to give extra
       focus. Already, through our keynotes and workshops, we have been developing research
       around Child-Like Computing. Taking inspiration from the EPSRC Human-Like
       Computing initiative with its emphasis on machine learning, perceptual and reasoning
       abilities, Child-Like Computing is the intersection of CCI, AI and Data Science focusing on
       innovating in child sensitive ways. We will develop this work with UKRI projects and a
       continued workshop series. We will exploit the recent appointment of a Professor of Data
       Science (Ellison), and the soon to be established UCLan Data Innovation Centre to
       additionally support this work. Other development in Child Computer Interaction will include
       interaction with robots, business centric evaluation methods and the design of assistive
       technologies. These foci have recently seen investment from the University through the
       purchasing of two robots and over £50K worth of eye-tracking hardware and software.
   •   Much of our research, and one of the REF2021 Impact Case Studies, concerns methods
       for evaluation and design in Child Computer Interaction where we aim to strengthen our
       world leading position. We want to enhance our methods to better fit business needs. Part
       of this enhancement is the further development of the multimedia CCI UX Playbook which
       is a recently launched tool for industry. In the next REF period this will be developed into a
       set of interactive tools and will be evaluated in large scale research trials across several
       countries and continents.
   •   A core theme for all our HCI research is on inclusion. In particular, we aim to increase our
       research in places where technology is scarce, building on our strong links with developing
       countries. We will use our experience of working closely and sensitively with children to
       expand to include older adults, people with disabilities and very young children including
       infants and babies. With existing, and new, responsive, partnerships we will address

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       societal and technical challenges for health interventions, future transport, local economic
       and climate related challenges, and social integration. One example is to continue our work
       with IIT Guwahati in India, continuing our joint work in areas of cross-cultural design in a
       range of contexts including speech therapy and communication technology; another is with
       a Turkish school for the visually impaired; and a third is with a care home for the older
       adults aged 85+ in Yogyakarta, Indonesia.


Meeting Objective 2 - Growth
We have three actions to deliver on this objective:
   •   The first is to develop additional interdisciplinary research by expanding our UoA11
       portfolio by building on the strength of other research groups from across UCLan. For
       example, Human/Autonomous System Interaction in future aircraft systems is an enduring
       research theme within Aerospace Engineering at UCLan and creates opportunities for the
       Computing ASD group. Human factors in aerospace engineering are an essential
       consideration and increasing autonomy brings many challenges of trust and effective
       human engagement with the systems opening more opportunities for our SaFeR staff.
       Engineering studies looking at Urban Traffic Management systems create opportunities for
       UX design, usability and information systems studies. This growth will be achieved through
       the recruitment of several interdisciplinary PhD students and through URCDL grants for
       interdisciplinary work.
   •   Growing research in Cyber Security with a focus on People Centred Security. The
       University is committed to teaching cyber and internet security at all levels and is
       supporting the growth of research in this area to underpin its taught provision. Two of the
       recent Computing posts have been appointed in the area of computer security and there is
       a plan to recruit a Professor of Cyber Security in the coming academic year to head up
       the anticipated Cyber Security Solutions Centre. UoA11 staff are active members of this
       initiative and will actively seek to recruit staff with Cyber Security research interests.
   •   Research Quality will be improved via transparency and internal peer review through
       the establishment of an internal peer review panel. Our joint authoring with external
       academics will drive improved research quality building on our previous high-quality
       collaborations with KU Leuven, Imperial College, Lancaster University and the Open
       University. We will aim for at least 25% of our next REF submission to be papers with
       authors from outside the institution and staff will be actively supported to network with other
       institutions through grants from the URCDL. Through the appraisal system, senior staff will
       be encouraged to collaborate on research with other international universities; this has
       been shown to be beneficial in recent years, with publications arising from joint supervision
       of MSc students with IIT Guwahati, PhD students with University of Athens, and EU
       research funding with South Ural State University.

Meeting Objective 3 - Greater Impact
Our approach to impact is that it can be much better realised by bringing together a clear plan and
the right connections. To that end we have three actions:
   •   Action 1: Focus strategically on the two main impact areas which resonate with the
       team and align to our research strengths. The first of these is Children’s Health and
       Wellbeing in a post pandemic world. This is an area where technology can have a role
       and where HCI and AI, as well as research in trust and privacy, can come together to
       create better solutions for the benefits of children across the world. Our recent work on
       developing an app for outdoor same place – different time play is an example of how this
       can be realised. Our second focus area will be on the Climate Emergency, building on our
       EPSRC work around energy saving and on work that the URCDL already invests in,
       including data explorations around air quality. The climate emergency is a strategic focus
       for our University and our work on sensing technologies, traffic planning, business solutions
       and trust and security of IT systems will all feed into this agenda. We will run quarterly

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        seminars on these two topics throughout the next REF period and funding from the URCDL
        will seed projects on these themes.
    •   Action 2: Further develop existing partnerships and grow new industry relationships
        Our existing partnerships with Kano and the BBC will be strengthened whilst we also
        develop new partnerships with a mainstream UX company and a major international
        software provider. Work placements and co-authoring as well as visiting academic
        activities will all support this aim. Staff will be particularly encouraged to develop
        Knowledge Transfer Partnerships with local companies to develop research capabilities,
        benefit local organisations and solve real world problems. Partnerships will focus on areas
        that align to the overall objective of benefitting people and society using technology.
    •   Action 3: Early engagement with stakeholders. With a strong history of co-design and
        stakeholder engagement in both the HCI work and the ASD work, we recognise the
        benefits of engaging with end users early on in research and / or development. Building
        on the strengths of the REF2021 Impact Case Studies, we already have an informal but
        active panel of teachers and school personnel who value our outreach activities. Going
        forward we will convene, via the HCI and ASD groups, twice yearly ‘research user’ panels
        of schools and businesses which will meet termly to inform research directions. This will
        enable us, as a group, to react to business and local needs. As an example, in 2019 we
        submitted a research grant application to answer a research question that was posed to us
        by a school headteacher (did online exam completion disadvantage students?); this is
        something we aim to encourage. We want our work to improve the lives of people. This
        cannot be done in a vacuum so we will create reciprocal networks of influence with
        businesses and industry to make a difference.
Facilitating Impact
Our UoA11 team are committed to the application of technology, and the development of
methodologies, to improve and benefit society - the Impact Case Studies submitted in this REF
exercise reflect our ethos and describe how our methods have been adopted by industry and how
we have worked with children across the world on design projects. A strategic approach to the
attainment of impact was taken with Read leading on impact delivery while mentoring the Readers
within the unit of assessment. This mentoring process ensures that UoA11 can continue to focus
on the delivery of high-quality impact in the future.
Since 2014, the team has obtained more than £15K internal financial support for impact activities,
including funding for the design and development of the ChiCI UX Playbook and for work overseas
with children. Impact is tracked through the use of Trello boards and websites including
www.chici.org where members of the group list schools and events. Whilst impact in this REF is
primarily reported from the HCI / CCI work, the other groups are developing impact for future
submissions. The ASD group maintain a database of companies they have collaborated with and
they share findings at industry events where they influence organizations such as the Agile
Business Consortium who promote and finance their work. The SaFeR group have plans in place
to deliver impact in the next REF cycle.
Outreach
Members of the UoA have a long tradition (since 2003) of doing outreach activities, and often this
is where the members of the different groups work together – we work as a team. The team
continually works with local schools and colleges to promote STEM, and in particular Computer
Science. As an example, over a three-year period, a team from UCLan has delivered three
different ten-week enrichment activities at Ribblesdale High School in Clitheroe on Wednesday
afternoons with over 60 pupils. The team have also staffed events at five of the Lancashire
Science Festivals and have even facilitated a remote STEM activity for children in Iceland. For the
ChiCI group in particular, STEM activities help maintain strong connections with schools which
facilitates research projects and helps drive the impact agenda. Each year we work with different
schools to ensure we are impacting the lives of children from different communities. Recent
schools we have worked with can be seen at http://chici.org/schools/ where we show that over
30% of our work with schools has been outside the UK with some being in developing countries.


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Interdisciplinary Research
Staff within UoA11 have a long history of collaborations with researchers from different disciplines,
reflected in the outputs that include work with health (Guo), design (Sim) and educational
technologists (Read). Having the University Research Centre for Digital Life managed within the
unit facilitates interdisciplinary research as it brings together a diverse range of subject disciplines
to tackle both local and international challenges. With over 50 members, the URCDL includes
researchers from Health, Psychology, Journalism, Education and Computing. Its formation has
facilitated the writing of research grants with Health, Tourism and Social Science.
Open Research Environment
The researchers within this UoA are committed to open science in all its forms – with the sharing of
data as well as publications being important to the team. Where publication venues make sharing
of articles difficult, the team strive to find solutions. As an example, Cassidy obtained funding from
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to make one publication gold open access. Beyond their
actions as authors, team members also influence publishing venues; Sim has been working with
the British Computer Society to make publications for the British HCI conference open access via
https://www.scienceopen.com/ . One feature of open access which will perhaps be unique to this
REF submission is that UoA11 ChiCI researchers also work exceptionally hard to share their
papers and their research with children – an action which has been applauded by headteachers.
The team actively seek to report back to children and to explain research findings to those who
have contributed.
Ethics and Research Integrity
UCLan strives to promote the attainment of high ethical standards as per the Global Code of
Conduct for Research in Resource-Poor Settings (https://www.globalcodeofconduct.org/). This
Global Code influenced work by Sim who has published jointly with IIT Guwahati in India and in
work by one of Read’s PhD students who was working with children in Nepal – both these projects
took careful account of their resource-poor situations.
All research projects must gain formal ethical approval prior to research being conducted, with
ethics submissions directed to the University’s Science Ethics Review Panel. This panel, on which
Sim currently acts as Vice Chair, has delegated responsibility for ethical review and approval from
the University’s Ethics and Integrity Committee.
The Computing team apply the Vancouver protocol as a basis for determining how research is
attributed. The practical implementation when a paper is proposed with joint UCLan authors, is
that authorship is determined ahead of work being created but also reviewed after the work is
completed. When student work is published the principle is that the student should be first author.

  2. People

Staffing Strategy and Development

Staffing Strategy
Recruitment has been influenced and shaped by both the University’s strategic plan and the
Computing research strategy (2014 – 2020). We have increased research activity by bringing
more staff into UoA11, in 2014 there were only five staff who were returnable, now we have 13.
Appointments have balanced the need for teaching staff alongside the need to strengthen and
develop research areas. All staff being recruited as lecturers are required to be doing research
that can align with the broad themes outlined above. In the REF period, Ta, Eiza and Abubahia
have been recruited to develop our security related capacity and have come together to create the
SaFeR group, meanwhile Lochrie and Doumanis have brought diversity into the HCI and ChiCI
group bringing expertise in design, software engineering and AI. Since 2014 we have primarily
recruited Early Career Researchers who have CVs that show research enthusiasm, fresh ideas
and dynamism. The ASD group has benefited from the recruitment of two research assistants
during the REF period.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Development
Development of Staff and Promotions
Within UoA11 we want staff to have as optimal an experience as is possible. We want them to
build rewarding and fulfilling careers and build broad and useful CVs whilst also maintaining a
healthy work-life balance. Within the workplace we want staff to be free to think creatively and
support one another, to feel both supported and enthused in productive teams.
We work hard to build an identity for the group within a large multi-disciplinary school. New staff
joining the team are allocated mentors, placed in shared offices with supportive more senior staff,
and are actively integrated into the subject and research teams. As an example, Doumanis joined
the staff in September 2018 and was given a desk with Sim who was allocated as his mentor.
Read met with Doumanis to talk about his research and help set research objectives and she saw
an opportunity to bring him onto a newly funded Erasmus project thus giving him an easy
integration into the research team. Sim worked with Doumanis to complete a paper from research
he had undertaken as a postdoc. These actions gave Doumanis a sense of accomplishment, a
feeling of belonging and, through the project, a new set of academics with whom to network.
All staff have research as an appraisal target and are typically expected to deliver at least three
significant research outputs every two years. The Readers and SLs within the team are appraised
by the Computing Professor (Read), with all other team members being appraised by the two
Readers (Fitton, Sim). This process is an opportunity to discuss plans and refine focus, but it is
also the moment where development needs are identified, and requests made for funding to attend
workshops and events. In the REF period, UoA11 staff have attended more than 70 academic
conferences and over 40 workshops.
All staff are actively developed within the Computing team using an apprenticeship model. As a
small team, the Computing researchers support one another in non-hierarchical ways, organising
themselves into teams that reconfigure according to the research specialisms required.
Researchers ‘check in’ and ‘check out’ with one another in informal conversations facilitated by the
senior researchers who help in connection making.
The University supports staff with funding from the Faculty being used to prioritise research time.
Senior staff have regular research time ringfenced whilst time can also be found for ad hoc
instances. One example is that of Cassidy who was given a reduced teaching load in 2014 to write
his first EPSRC grant application. Supported in this by Read and using her connections with Lego,
Cassidy wrote an exemplary proposal, with particular focus on his research plan and was rewarded
with funding of £90K (EP/L027658/1). Since then, Cassidy has had a promotion to SL, has
extended his work into VR and XR with the UCLan archaeology team and has developed
collaborative research with MacKenzie at York University in Canada. This latter collaboration was
seeded from a connection made some seven years earlier when Read introduced Cassidy to
MacKenzie at an eye tracking conference. This demonstrates the power of distributed thinking and
openness of sharing networks and ideas across a broad research team. Currently Cassidy is
mentoring two of the recent ECRs.
Within UoA11, Senior Lecturers are actively appraised towards Reader appointments. They are
advised to build a portfolio of papers that demonstrates specialism whilst also ensuring they
engage with the research base, apply for grants and carry out supervision of students. Engaging
with the research base is particularly encouraged especially in regards of arranging academic
events and workshops and editing volumes. An example is Fitton who was promoted to Reader
during this REF period having been supported to focus on Teen Computer Interaction. He ran a
series of workshops on that topic and edited a Springer volume. Fitton, as Doumanis, was first
initiated into the research team by being brought onto an EPSRC grant as soon as he arrived and
his promotion from L through SL to Reader is testament to the active leadership of staff, a core
feature of this team. The research leadership now comes from Read, Fitton and Sim; Fitton has
taken on the responsibility for Graduate Teaching Assistants and Sim has taken on much of the
REF work. In this way, there is a progressive process towards developing the next generation of
leaders.



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Leadership and Collegiality
This collegiate approach to leadership is very important in a University System where managers
may not be subject specialists. Senior staff within UoA11 actively monitor staff’s aspirations
to ensure they are meeting the criteria for future promotions. This holistic understanding is
important due to there being a distributed appraisal system without a Head of Computing.
Collegiality ensures opportunities to develop CVs, including PhD examinations and academic
roles such as course leaderships, are fairly distributed amongst staff. Within this system staff can
informally discuss progress towards promotions enabling them to identify barriers that may prevent
them from meeting their existing targets.
Staff are encouraged to pursue their own research interests within the broad themes that are
supported. A physical noticeboard in the Computing and Technology building showcases new
papers and internal awards (rosettes) are given within the UoA for grant capture and completion
of projects. No research idea is ever dismissed but there is a narrative with staff to explore the
value of the research that is being proposed. Often a staff member will talk with several others
during their development of an idea. One example is Eiza who had conversations with Ta, Read
and Sim while writing a Leverhulme application. Having many views was beneficial as they each
saw different things that could be changed and/or expanded.
Supporting ECRs
Two different seminar series are run each academic year. The first is the Naked Researcher
event which encourages staff to present early work to be critiqued by their peers. The intention in
this event is not to present published or finished work and it is deliberately designed to include two
or three inputs to each event to ensure it is wide ranging and interesting. The second seminar
series runs in a more traditional way where researchers from within and from outside the University
come to present work that has typically been completed. Newly appointed staff are expected to
present their work at a seminar as part of their probation criteria. This is to ensure integration into
the groups and to begin an early discussion of their future work and to encourage collaboration
with peers. This prevents early career researchers from feeling isolated, ensuring they
maintain research activity within what may be their first teaching post.
All staff within UoA11 are encouraged to make use of research development opportunities
including the Academic Research Induction programme supplied by the University. Other training
provided centrally includes the supervision of PhDs, grant capture and impact management. The
University has held the HR Excellence in Research Award for 8 years. Where there is a need to
develop staff skills from outside the University, funding has been made available for staff
development to bring in external people. For example, in 2019 Prof. Brewster from University of
Glasgow, where he was Chair of CHI, came to UCLan to facilitate a one-day workshop on
writing CHI papers.

Students
At undergraduate level, students are exposed to our research through research informed
teaching across a range of modules. For example, in the 2nd year HCI module, Doumanis teaches
the module based on the experience he gained in Horizon 2020 projects. Students are also given
the opportunity of working with researchers for their final year projects and have successfully
published work at the British HCI Conference and the International Journal for Infonomics.
Students studying with us on MSc courses are also encouraged to conduct research for their final
thesis and publish this with staff. Students have published work at CHI, British HCI, ISD and the
IDC conference. Each year students can select from a number of projects put forward by staff with
a view to developing their research skills. This also helps new staff develop by gaining experience
of supervising students at both undergraduate and postgraduate level and then further helping to
develop their supervision of PhD students.

PGRs
Our PhD students are typically self-funded with some taking advantage of UCLan schemes that
provide part bursaries. One such scheme provided part bursaries to three Nigerian students who

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
worked with the ChiCI group. A more recent scheme is planned that will encourage top UCLan
undergraduates into PhD study with bursaries from the Faculty. The University supports
students with infrastructure and equipment and provides additional funding for conferences and
specialist equipment.
Supervision of students working in UoA11 is always by a specialist in the area with assistance,
where needed, from a senior academic. Several staff from UoA11 were involved, during this REF
period, in the PWs@PhD ERASMUS project concerned with instructing PhD students. This was
a large international project with PhD students from Jordan, Russia, Portugal, Denmark, Finland,
Germany and Greece. Two or three UCLan students were able to visit each of these countries for
two weeks to have specialist training. At UCLan we delivered a two-week course on HCI to around
15 PhD students from the scheme.
During the REF period two of our female PhD students have taken up post doc research posts in
academia in Ireland and in Finland, two others have gone on to work in industry and two (also both
females) have continued in their work with the Dubai police and are now in promoted roles. One of
our recent PhD students, Ilyena Hirskyj-Douglas worked with Read and Cassidy at the forefront of
the emerging research field of Dog-Computer interaction. She developed an ethical framework
for his unique field, as well as a novel installation. Hirskyj-Douglas rote articles for the
Conversation, had conversations with Doggy TV and dog toy manufacturers, and took on leading
roles in the annual Animal Computer Interaction Conference.

Equality and Diversity
Equality and Diversity runs through all our work from recruitment and treatment of staff, through
design of research, and through the exposure of our research. In recruitment we are specifically
trying to raise the number of female staff we have (currently Computing has over 20% female staff,
but we are still seeking to raise this proportion) and so we include in all our adverts a specific
reference to encourage applicants from women and from BAME groups. We work hard to ensure
adverts are gender friendly and we always aim to have more than one female, and at least one
BAME academic on interview panels. In our UoA11 submission, 3 staff are from BAME groups
and 3 (including the Professor) are women. When recruiting to funded and part funded PhD posts
we also actively encourage applications from women. In the current REF period, over 30% of our
PhD students are female.
Equality of treatment is promoted by transparency and inclusivity. All career and research
opportunities are shared with all staff and, mindful of a collegiate approach throughout the team, all
are encouraged to apply for funding with internal competition seen as healthy for the development
of individuals and the team. Events are planned to fit around school times to support those with
childcare constraints.
In the design of our research, we take great care not to prioritize or favour one group of users
over another. Similarly, when reporting research, we aim for inclusive language and wide
coverage. It is worth noting that the inclusive practice work of the ChiCI group – consolidated in
the CHECk toolkits (www.chici.org/ethics) – has influenced how research is reported and talked
about across the ACM conference series. This is described in a UoA11 Impact Case Study.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
Income to the UoA has come from Research Funding bodies and Industry. During this REF cycle,
staff within the Centre for Digital Life have secured over £1.8M in research funding. In addition, two
EPSRC grants totalling over £1M were completed during the REF period as well as four EU
Erasmus grants (totalling around £130K to UCLan but the total funding was in excess of £2M). All
the income brought into the UoA has been gained following competitive bidding processes. Small
grants from ESRC (£3K) and AHRC (£3K) have supported research and RAEng money (£5K) has
been used to bring an international researcher to UCLan from Canada to work on research
collaborations around input technology for special needs users.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Industrial income has come from the Agile Research Network who have supported our research in
ASD, recently funding two PhD posts. The Agile Business Consortium has provided research
income of £370K to UCLan during the REF period on a variety of projects; this has been a long-
term investment rising from £15K in 2013 to £225K in 2019. Other industry income has come from
consultancy work with the BBC and Amberlight (£40K).

Infrastructure and Facilities
In 2019 a major investment from the University created a set of research centres and the
University Research Centre for Digital Life was one recipient of funding following a successful
bid from Read for over £60K a year. This Centre now distributes money to its members using
competitive bidding process for projects that align with its strategic aims. The University has also
invested in the UoA through small grants that members bid for with considerable success. These
include funding to bring in visiting professors (£8K), grants to purchase equipment (£20K), grants
to buy research time (£4K), grants associated with GCRF (£6.5K), research impact (£6K) and the
research interns programme (£2K).
The UoA has three specialist labs in the Computing and Technology (CT) building as well as
access to specialist equipment across the University including that housed in the new £35M
Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC). The specialist labs in the CT building are the ChiCI PlayLab,
the IDPCC lab and the Agile lab. The ChiCI PlayLab, is the largest such lab in Europe and is
designed in such a way that research can be done with a whole class of children at a single time,
using specialist equipment in a sage child-friendly space. When not being used by children this is
a hub for an assortment of research activity including 3D printing, tangible prototyping, Internet of
Things development and VR / XR work. The IDPCC lab houses a suite of Apple computers used
for research related mobile development and has a usability testing bay with two-way mirrors and
movement and activity recording facilities. Also, in this lab is a driver simulator with emotion-
sensing capabilities to investigate the key factors influencing trust in autonomous cars. The Agile
lab is a bespoke configuration used for meetings and consultation. Specialist equipment used by
the research team includes a NAO robot, an eye tracking system, several different configurations
of XR kit and a large collection of IoT hardware. The EIC is the centre for investment from the
Lancashire Enterprise Partnership (LEP) which will see growth opportunities for data, medical
technology and cyber research.


  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations
Industrial collaborations
Over the REF period we have collaborated with a handwriting recognition company in France,
Vision Objects, on writing a joint funding bid around a planned project on text entry. We have also
run workshops and courses for Kano Computing in London enabling us to partner with them on
usability testing and design work. Kano have also collaborated with us on funding bids and
workshops. We have also written funding bids and shared workshops with the BBC and Lego
and they have attended courses that we have run at the International Interaction and Design and
Children conference. Currently we also have two visiting fellows from BBC Research and
Development and Avanade (an international UX company)
The Agile Research Network has worked with a variety of companies and organisations from
Banking, Education, Retail, the Public Sector, and from Charity. Some of our collaborators wish to
remain anonymous, but named collaborators include: LShift, Daiwa, Mastek, Workplace Systems,
Aylesbury Vale District Council, Your Homes Newcastle, and the RNIB.
Academic collaborations
We define an academic collaboration as one that has resulted in either a peer reviewed publication
or a grant application. We can count around 100 academic collaborations with institutes around
the globe spanning enrichment (Fitton with University of Strathclyde), experimental research
(Cassidy with York University, Canada), NSF grant writing (Read with University of Florida),

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
qualitative research (Gregory with Uppsala University) and case study research (Horton with
University of Bristol). Individuals typically have many collaborations focussing on a number of
different things; as an example, Sim has collaborated with IIT Guwahati on the organisation of the
IndiaHCI conference, with KU Leuven on HCI research and with South Ural State University on a
pedagogical paper. Since 2014, the ChiCI Group has a very strong record of collaborations in
workshops, funding bids and papers at a national and international level. Collaborations include 6
of the top 50 universities in the world based on the Times Higher Rankings (2018), including
Stanford University and the University of Texas at Austin.
To support academic collaborations, UoA11 has taken advantage of schemes run by UCLan and
elsewhere to bring guest researchers to the group. These have included distinguished scholars
including Paulo Bilkstein from Stanford University, Ole Iversen from Aarhus University, I Scott
Mackenzie from York University, CA, Russell Beale from University of Birmingham, Alan Dix from
Swansea University and Steve Brewster from University of Glasgow. In addition, the doors have
been open to scholars seeking to work with the ChiCI group on extended projects – we have had
four academics from Italy, Spain and Russia take advantage of these opportunities and we
regularly support fellowship applications. These collaborations have resulted in joint papers, PhD
exam invitations, and joint conference workshops.
School collaborations
Over the REF period we have collaborated with over 25 primary and secondary schools in the
local area and across the globe. We have worked with schools in India, Malaysia and UAE on
design activities. Primary and secondary school groups from across North West England engage
with us on research projects and STEM activities (most of which we have described earlier in this
document), We have also worked with special schools in Lancaster, Liverpool and the Fylde on
input mechanism design, and have worked with a school in Reading on a robot project. Feedback
from the schools and the children themselves shows their enthusiasm regarding their designs and
the chance to contribute to real computer games and app design. We have strong evidence that
this encourages STEM focus.
Networks and Partnerships
Members of UoA11 are active in several formal and informal networks. Read is the chair of the
International Federation of Information Processing SIG on Interaction Design and Children and Sim
is the Chair of the BCS HCI group. Fitton is an active member of the European FabLearn network,
having been instrumental in its formation and Gregory is a leading member of the Agile Research
Network.

Contributions to the research base
Senior staff in the UoA hold Journal Editing roles; Read is the Editor in Chief of the Elsevier
International Journal of Child Computer Interaction (IJCCI) and is an Associate Editor for the IGI journal
International Journal of Mobile HCI and the Oxford Press Interacting with Computers (IWC) Journal.
Fitton is an Associate Editor for IJCCI. The ChiCI team have run three conferences over the period
with FabLearn and ACMIDC in 2016 and British HCI in 2014. In addition to running these events,
members have taken on significant chair roles including paper chair at ACMIDC2016 (Fitton) and
HCI2014/18 (Sim). Other members have all actively reviewed for major conferences and journals within
the field and taken on roles such as associate chairs. The ACM invited Read, Fitton and Sim to a
SIGCHI Summit in 2020 (http://summit.acm.org) for strategic planning of events and the dissemination
of research to the community for the next decade. Our ECRs are encouraged to take on reviewing
roles and to fully participate in their research communities. The senior staff are well placed to
encourage this by using their editing roles to pass on suitable assignments to the ECRs who are
then able to construct reviews in a supportive environment.
Senior members have also taken on grant reviewing roles. Read was a panel member for the
EPSRC Human Like Computing Call and has regularly reviewed EPSRC grants as well as grants
from outside the UK including Horizon 2020 and grants from four overseas research councils. Sim
and Ta have also reviewed overseas grants (Sim for Dutch Research Council 2019; Ta for Israeli
Ministry of Science and Technology). Read has been asked to review promotions and
appointments in Finland and Sweden and was invited to contribute the ACM SIGCHI overseas

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
initiative which involved her running training events in India and China in a scheme paid for by the
ACM.
Staff have been active delivering courses, workshops and keynotes. A series of specialist
courses on Child Computer Interaction have been delivered at many major conferences (Read,
Sim, Horton) and at IIT Guwahati as a special invitation (Read, Sim). The course on Child
Computer Interaction has been successfully run across the Globe, including in Korea (2015), San
Jose (2016), and Mumbai (2019). These courses have been attended by Industry delegates
including Microsoft, Lego and Hyundai to determine how to integrate CCI methods into their
development practices. Workshops on Teen CCI (Fitton), and on Participatory Design and Ethics
(Read) have also been delivered in five international locations. Read has keynoted at ISD2017
and UXIndo2018 and was invited to keynote at British HCI in 2020.
Read is an invited member of the ACM SIGCHI Ethics panel where she is called upon to evaluate
and comment on ACM papers that have raised ethics questions. In this role she has participated
in four panel discussions at conferences across the spectrum of HCI. In 2016, in his role as the
Chair of the BCS Interaction Group, Sim initiated a fact-finding mission with eight UK Professors to
determine the state of HCI in the UK to help inform the EPSRC on future funding directions. Sim is
currently working with Helen Petrie at University of York to set up a PhD student training network
across the UK. This will involve professors running a series of one day events for the HCI
community on topics such as writing high-quality papers, working with vulnerable groups, and
mastering statistics. This initiative is being funded by the BCS with universities across the UK
running the one-day events.
During the REF period UCLan hosted two doctoral training events for UK PhD students studying
HCI. Beale assisted with one event and the other was facilitated by MacKenzie from York
University, Canada who ran a course on experimentation.

Contributions to the economy
Understanding industry needs is a core interest for the UoA11 team especially as computing is an
applied subject and tightly coupled with industrial needs. In 2016 Sim hosted a workshop at The
Landing in Manchester bringing academics and industry together to understand the needs of
industry to ensure that the curriculum and skills are being met. Gregory has been funded by the
Agile Business Consortium to work on projects to inform business practice and drive profitability.
Gregory has also worked with large organisations including IndigoBlue to examine and improve
their agile processes. It is estimated that this work has improved the profitability of the
organisation through improved business processes.
Research has resulted in the creation of innovative products (Guo) such as the iCardio - a portable
electrocardiogram. This product is currently being developed and will provide employment for
local Preston people. In 2019 Guo worked with Ansteel Mining corporation in China using a big
data and reinforcement learning-based approach to optimise efficiency of a grinding circuit
saving the company a large sum.
Read and Horton’s work for Manchester’s Chill Factore on evaluating user experience resulted in
the company gaining customers and thus making greater profit. The ChiCI group also did
consultancy work in 2016 for the BBC, working with Amberlight, in which they evaluated the
accessibility of CBBC games with children with special needs. Based upon the findings published
the BBC made strategic decisions about the distribution of the games in order to make them
accessible to children within the UK, and thus increasing their market share. Kano
(https://kano.me/) are also working with the ChiCI group to improve the evaluation of their
technology in order to speed up the throughput of their ideas to market. Prior to Covid - 19, they
were conducting usability tests every two weeks in schools and they are working with ChiCI to
develop remote methods.

Contributions to society
The societal contribution from the research team is significant. Since 2014 the ChiCI group has
actively worked with over 25 schools and 2000 children in a range of activities that have included
research studies (1500 children in 20 schools), and STEM activities (500 children in 10+ events).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The research work is organised in a schema referred to as MESS Days. In this protocol, children
typically come to the University in class groups for half a day or a full day and then spend their time
rotating in groups of four or five, thus taking part in many different activities and meeting many
members of the research team. On a typical MESS day, around half the activities will be empirical
research studies, there will typically be one or more design studies and some activities are
arranged ‘just for fun’. One of the contributions from this work, to the academic community, is a
protocol for the ethical and informed participation of children in HCI research activities. Our
approach has been widely applauded for its focus on the children’s experience. As a consequence
of these practices, Read was invited onto the International ACM Ethics committee.
Two other notable activities from the ChiCI group are their engagement in the Lancashire Science
Festival where we regularly run IoT activities for over 10,000 children, and a commitment to
support engagement activities at Ribblesdale High School, Clitheroe, where we run sessions over
7 weeks, once a year, teaching pupils about IoT and interaction design. Funding to support these
activities has been sought form the Ingenious Fund and the Royal Society Partnership fund.
Within the general theme of HCI we have been actively working in HCI4D (HCI for developing
countries) contexts. Read and Sim carried out an ethnography in India (2017) to understand
technology use in the Dharvani slums and Read worked with UXIndo (2018) to explore the lived
experiences of elderly women in Indonesian care homes. Both of these projects are ongoing with
the latter being currently the focus of a research grant and the former inspiring the current Stones
project, from the ChiCI group, which is discussed in one of the Impact Case Studies.
Our work with industrial partners is inspired by our enthusiasm to make a difference in society.
With the BBC we (Fitton Horton, Read, Sim) visited family homes in Lancashire, where one or
more children in the family had a disability, to discover their experiences with tablet technology.
The outcome was that the BBC changed its policy on accessibility – the group benefitted from
gaining a much deeper understanding of how these families struggled with technology. Read was
subsequently invited onto Women’s Hour, and later onto the BBC live news programme in 2019,
to talk about families and screen time.
Sim contributed to a Future of Technology in the Home research project funded by Huawei to
examine the likely technological trends for the next 5 years. Sim also appeared on a panel
discussion with the head of product services for BT and a Professor from the University of
Sunderland to discuss and critique the findings of this research report. The report is expected to
shape product development influencing society over the next 5 years.

Outside of the ChiCI group and the HCI team, the SaFeR group have been active in exposing
some of the myths and misunderstandings about personal cyber security and behaviour with
Eiza appearing in the press in Forbes on 14 March 2019. "Was the Facebook Outage A Cyber-
Attack?". and the Daily Mail on 08 January 2020 "UK firms and banks on high alert amid fears Iran
will mount cyber-attacks in retaliation for killing of Qassem Soleimani".

Conclusion
The UCLan UoA11 team are a relatively small group but we have worked together to take full
advantage of opportunities that have emerged from our efforts or simply come our way. A vibrant,
environment is emerging - and with virtual pub lunches, naked researcher events and a team
approach to supporting one another – this collegiate paradigm is the hallmark of this
submission. We look forward to the possibilities, opportunities and challenges that are coming
our way – the promise of new professors, investment in our current staff, and a commitment to
Computer Science growth within UCLan will energise our efforts towards 2027 and beyond.




                                                                                              Page 13
