Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview
 The School of Electronics and Computer Science (ECS) has 95 academic (CAT A) staff
 (including 39 professors) split across UoAs 11 and 12, of which 51 staff (20%F) are being
 returned in UoA11. Situated in the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences, ECS,
 established in 1947, is the oldest school of its kind in the UK and has an annual economy of
 £46M (£25M for UoA11). The interdisciplinary nature of ECS reflects its highly interconnected
 and collaborative philosophy. UoA11 draws especially upon, and benefits from, numerous other
 disciplines as evidenced below. This is a key element to our strong environment, both for the
 generation of new insights and for the translation of fundamental research into meaningful
 economic, societal and human impact. Our environment has resulted in key achievements over
 the past REF period, including:
    •     An influential government artificial intelligence (AI) review entitled “Growing the AI
          Industry in the UK”, which has shaped the government’s AI agenda (§4.2.1).
    •     The only computer science (CS) Regius professor chair in the UK.
    •     Renewal of the GCHQ Cyber Security Academy Centre of Excellence.
    •     3 new interdisciplinary centres around AI, digital health and the internet of things (IoT).
    •     A £1.5M Shell-funded centre with engineering focusing on digital maritime.
    •     Over £40M funding awarded to UoA11 including a CDT, 2 EPSRC platform grants and
          leading the £12M (total value) UKRI Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (TAS) Hub.
    •     Over the REF period, we increased the percentage of female academic staff in CS from
          11% to 20%, and of female PGR students from 26% to 32%.
 The Unit is wholly situated in ECS with academic staff split across five research groups for line
 management purposes. As shown in Table 1, AIC brings together pioneering research in AI,
 human-computer systems, complexity science and health/wellbeing. CPS undertakes research
 covering electronics and computer science that enables advances in engineering of cyber-
 physical systems. CSY brings together interdisciplinary expertise in whole-systems security
 bridging software, hardware and human factors. VLC produces internationally leading research
 in machine learning and computer vision. WAIS studies socio-technical systems at scale, using
 a combination of data, computational and social science methods to understand interactions
 among information systems that compose the Web and the Internet. Two groups, VLC and CPS,
 are split with UoA12.
                                    Table 1: Research Groups

                     Group                              Head         UoA11 Count         UoA11 FTE
  Agents, Interaction and Complexity (AIC)       Norman               15 (4F/11M)           14.96

  Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS)                   Gunn                   5 (0F/5M)            5.00

  Cybersecurity (CSY)                            Sassone                7 (1F/6M)            6.40

  Vision, Learning and Control (VLC)             Prugel-Bennett        10 (1F/9M)            8.80

  Web and Internet Science (WAIS)                Carr                 14 (4F/10M)           12.10

  Total                                                               51 (10F/41M)          47.26


                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In addition, there are three cross-cutting interdisciplinary research centres with UoA11 staff
 members: Centre for Machine Intelligence (CMI, Ramchurn), the Centre for Internet of Things
 and Pervasive Systems (CIoT, Merrett), and the Centre for Health Technology (CHT, Chapman
 & White).
 UoA11 is also leading the recently established interdisciplinary UKRI Trustworthy Autonomous
 Systems (TAS) Hub, in collaboration with King’s College London and University of Nottingham
 (https://www.tas.ac.uk/, Ramchurn (PI), Butler, Chapman, Evers, Hall (Co-Is)).
 Also, several long-standing University-wide centres are led by UoA11 staff. The Web Science
 Institute (WSI, Directors: Carr & Hall (WAIS) and Leonard (Sociology)) is jointly led by UoA11
 and social sciences. ECS is also home to both the UKRI-funded Software Sustainability Institute
 (SSI, PI: Carr) the world-leading hub for research software best practice, and the Southampton
 Research Software Group (RSG) which has a similar role but at the local level. Southampton is
 also home to one of 19 National Academic Centres of Excellence in Cyber Security Research
 (ACE-CSR), led by Sassone, recognising Southampton as an internationally leading institute for
 research on cybersecurity. ECS is furthermore home to the IT Innovation Centre which focuses
 on enterprise and applied research, and its staff are on enterprise contracts (rather than
 balanced pathways, REF5a§3.1). Finally, since 2018, Southampton is a member of the Alan
 Turing Institute (ATI) which has strong engagement from UoA11. Figure 1 provides an overview.




                              Figure 1: Overview of Unit Structure

 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims 2014-2020
 Our 2014-20 research strategy aimed to deliver world-class research and impact in a diverse
 range of interdisciplinary areas including formal methods, cyber security, AI and healthcare.
 During the 2016/17 academic year we conducted a thorough review of our overall strategy and
 structure. We identified the need to establish a new interdisciplinary group in Cyber Security and
 a refocusing of the CPS group (formerly Electronic and Software Systems). A clear need to
 develop additional cross-cutting research centres was also identified. This led to CMI, CIoT
 (which evolved from the existing Pervasive Systems Centre) and CHT, along with continuing
 centres delivering research excellence, impact, industry collaborations and funding.
 Another important development has been the retirement of senior academics (e.g. Poppleton
 and Wald) and some of our top academics taking up prestigious positions elsewhere (e.g.
 Shadbolt became Principal of Jesus College, Oxford in 2015 and Jennings became Vice-
 Provost at Imperial in 2016). Our strategy has been to replace these positions by predominantly
 early career researchers (ECRs). Indeed, 22 (6F/16M) of the 51 UoA11 returned staff were hired
 over the REF period, of which 18 (6F/12M) were ECRs. Despite fewer senior staff, we were able
 to achieve and, in some cases, exceed our targets. Our aims following REF2014 were:

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aim 1: Deliver excellent science.
 Over the REF period we have published almost 2000 research papers (conferences and
 journals). One indication of quality is the assessment of those indexed by Scopus, where 47%
 were in the top 25% (by CiteScore Percentile), and 83% in the top 50%, with papers in these
 categories increasing over the past 2-3 years. Our overall field-weighted citation impact was
 1.67 in 2018, and 1.99 in 2019, compared to 1.48 average over 2014-2019, with around 19% in
 the top 10% for citations. Despite fewer staff we attracted more than £47M of new grant awards
 (§3.2).
 Aim 2: Address major societal challenges.
 We have restructured our groups and created the cross-cutting centres focusing on major
 challenges, including AI, cyber security, IoT and healthcare. These centres have led to some
 significant success such as the £12M TAS Hub and £1.5M Shell-funded Centre for Maritime
 Futures (CMF) (§3.1), the development of which have been enabled by collaborative activities
 organised by CMI. The TAS Hub will address the societal issues around AI, and responsible
 innovation. The focus of the CMF is to use digital technologies including AI to reduce carbon
 emissions from shipping.
 Aim 3: Maximise research impact.
 We have extensively engaged with University-level services including Public Policy
 Southampton (PP|S), Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu), Future Worlds,
 SetSquared (REF5a§2.3), increased our consultancy income (39 organisations; £2.1M income),
 and initiated new partnerships with industry and government (§4). In addition, we attracted more
 than £12M of impact-oriented funding including industry funding (§3.2).
 Aim 4: Develop research leaders.
 Following the research strategy set out in REF2014, we have continued investment in CS and
 appointed 131 research staff (26%F:74%M), of which 25 were senior research fellows, lecturers
 and above (32%F:68%M). There were 18 promotions over the REF period.
 During the last REF period ECS proposed to grow the size of our Graduate School. In addition to
 core EPSRC DTP and additional school funding (§2.2), an important part of the training strategy
 included the establishment of Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs). These include the UKRI-
 funded centres: Web Science (EP/L016117/1) and Next-Generation Computational Modelling
 (EP/L015382/1, led by Engineering) which both started in 2014, as well as the recent Machine
 Intelligence for Nano-electronic Devices and Systems (MINDS) CDT (EP/S024298/1, started
 April 2019) and AI for the Future of Society (AIFS, jointly funded by ECS and industry). This
 strategy has led to an increase in the number of students being awarded PhDs, from an average
 28/year in REF2014 to 34/year in REF2021.
 1.3 Future research strategy
 Our ambition for UoA11 centres around four key pillars:
 1. Enterprise
 Establishing and sustaining long-term partnerships with industry and government organisations
 remains a key strategy. Partnership links are established and fostered in many ways, including
 through consultancy, Industry Days, KTPs, and engagement with ECS and University
 interdisciplinary institutes (REF5a§2.6) as well as other organisations within the University such
 as Research and Innovation Services (RIS). We will continue supporting our interdisciplinary
 centres, regularly revisiting them to see if refocusing is needed. We will further build
 collaborations between the IT Innovation centre and the research groups on application-focused
 grants. Furthermore, we maintain our 50% PhD funding pledge (§2.2.1), whereby the costs of
 studentships are shared between ECS and external partners, to foster long-term collaborations
 with industry.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. Grow research base in key areas
 We will continue to build on our research strengths including formal methods, cybersecurity (e.g.
 through CSY group and ACE-CSR) the internet of things (e.g. through the CPS group and CIoT),
 and expand in the following areas:
 AI and autonomous systems. Central to this will be the TAS Hub with a strong focus on
 human-centred AI. The research from this newly established hub will build on extensive
 expertise in this area, including the award-winning ORCHID programme (§4). The hub is led by
 Southampton establishing a UK-wide collaborative platform to deliver world-leading best practice
 for the design, regulation and operation of ‘socially beneficial’ autonomous systems which are
 both trustworthy in principle, and trusted in practice by individuals, society and government. This
 strand of research will be further supported through Stein’s recent prestigious £1.4M Turing
 Fellowship award on Citizen-Centric AI Systems (EP/V022067/1), as well as our connection to
 the ATI. The CMI will continue to play a key role in developing and shaping the AI agenda in
 ECS and across the University, and we aim to appoint a new chair in human-centred AI.
 Healthcare and wellbeing. This research will build on our extensive existing work and
 established links, such as schraefel’s prestigious EPSRC Fellowship on building a healthy
 nation (§3.2). The CHT will play an important role to form new collaborations and expand
 research funding in this area. There will be an increased emphasis on data-driven approaches
 for healthcare, driven by our recent NHS Digital Security Toolkit accreditation which enables the
 processing of pseudonymised NHS data (§4.1). Applications include improved health systems
 operations management, drug discovery, and precision and personalised medicine.
 3. Training the next generation
 Training PhD students remains core to maintaining a vibrant research community. Our aim is to
 continue training high-quality PhD students through the two CDTs led by ECS (MINDS and
 Future Society), as well as DTP funding. We will use the DTP funding to support strategic
 Faculty initiatives, including studentships for new cross-disciplinary research centres, improve
 the proportion of DTP funding allocated to ECR supervisors, and improve the use of the 50%
 rule (where costs are shared with industry investment). We will also take steps to improve the
 rates of thesis submission within the funding period and implement measures to further improve
 on equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI).
 4. Increase the number and quality of UKRI submitted proposals and fellowships
 Although we have met our targets for overall funding over the past REF period, we see
 opportunities to continue to improve our success rates. To this end, we will improve our
 mentoring and workshop initiatives, and deliver an improved internal review process, where
 each proposal is reviewed by two independent academics. In addition, we are discussing ways
 to reduce teaching loads for staff preparing proposals.
 1.4 Impact strategy
 ECS has developed a comprehensive strategy to cultivate, coordinate and establish a broad
 range of activities that delivers economic, institutional, and societal benefits to both University
 and non-academic partners. The strategy aims to increase industry funded partnerships of all
 types, fostering a culture that supports translation of theory to practice. We actively support staff
 to pursue significant impact activities through reductions in other duties. Staff can also take short
 term secondments to industry, or part-time buy-out from the University (§2.1).
 The ECS strategy for enabling impact is facilitated through a wide range of activities and
 engagement in interdisciplinary research: long-term partnerships with industry fostered by, for
 example, the Cyber Security Academy and the ATI; the aforementioned ECS Centres (CMI,
 CIoT, CHT); dedicated impact champion, enterprise director and committees to advise on
 strategy including incentivisation for enterprise activity by staff and students; an Industrial
 Advisory Board (IAB), which includes senior representatives from technology-focused
 companies and provides guidance on education, research and enterprise strategy; a
 consultancy unit, ECS partners, and many University-level partnerships and initiatives
 (REF5a§2), including Future Worlds, SETsquared, Z21, RIS and PP|S, some of which are led by

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and/or originated from ECS and all of which have contributed to the impact agenda. Z21 is a
 partnership between the University of Southampton (UoS) and the Solent Local Enterprise
 Partnership (LEP) supporting the development of Minimum Viable Products (MVP) and providing
 pre-seed funding.
 Our impact case studies (ICSs) benefited from the ECS approach to impact. For example, w.r.t
 ICS11-04, our approach to interdisciplinary research (§1.5) led to a collaboration between
 UoA11 and UoA4, where behaviour interventions through the Royal College of Nursing resulted
 in reduced occurrence of hand dermatitis, and a reduction of antibiotic prescriptions in the UK
 and internationally. The promotion of open research and research integrity (§1.6) and the
 industrial links with the Ordnance Survey and others enabled wide impact with open image
 capturing and analysis libraries in ICS11-06. Collaboration with the Open Data Institute, the
 interdisciplinary Web Science Institute, and the leading role that ECS academics have in the
 Web Science Trust network of laboratories (§1.6), enabled the development of two data-driven
 innovation incubators, ODINE and DataPitch in ICS11-07; those have been independently
 assessed to have contributed to the creation of 896 jobs and unlocked €132.4M in revenues in
 the UK and Europe. The promotion of open research and research integrity (§1.6), and industrial
 engagement via ECS Partners enabled £0.6M commercial income for consulting and training to
 businesses on software verification and achieved widespread use of open-source software
 modelling and verification tools as detailed in ICS11-09.
 Going forwards, we will maintain our existing strong culture for generating impact through
 established structures and organisations. We will reflect tangible and significant impact activities
 in the workload model and provide incentivisation and resources for these activities. We will
 continue to use Future Worlds as the preferred vehicle for marketing ECS research with impact
 potential, encouraging the costing of Future Worlds support in grant applications. We aim to
 provide a comprehensive overview of schemes and support to generate impact, including
 different options for commercialisation and blueprints for spinouts. In addition, we plan to
 develop further mentoring and training especially for PhD students and postdoctoral researchers
 around responsible research and innovation (RRI) and non-academic impact, using the MINDS
 CDT as a model. The MINDS iPhD programme integrates RRI and impact training and practice
 throughout, embedding a culture of impact early on. Students learn to think about impact on
 policy, society and the economy and how to communicate effectively with a wide variety of
 stakeholders. This training, along with the CDT Outreach Ambassadors programme, will be
 rolled out across ECS with a view to influencing PhD and research staff development across the
 institution.
 1.5 Interdisciplinarity
 Collaborative research across disciplines is at the heart of our research philosophy and is
 evident within our group structures, where two of our groups (VLC and CPS) and our centres
 (especially CIoT and CHT) have academic members from both UoA11 and UoA12. These
 collaborative links are not isolated to groups, however, as illustrated by the EPSRC platform
 grant “Wearable and Autonomous Computing for Future Smart Cities” (EP/P010164/1), which
 recognises sustained interdisciplinary research excellence across AIC, CPS and the Smart
 Electronic Materials and Systems (SEMS, UoA12) groups, and the MINDS CDT which involves
 CS and nanotechnology and combines forces between AIC and the Zepler Institute for
 Photonics and Nanoelectronics. We also have close collaborations with the rest of engineering,
 as evidenced by the Shell-funded Centre for Maritime Futures, a collaboration between CMI and
 SMMI.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                Figure 2: Southampton Publications by Subject Area for UoA11
                               Source: Scopus, December 2020.
 Interdisciplinarity extends beyond engineering. Figure 2 shows that over 50% of papers are
 cross-disciplinary. Over 25% of the new awards over the past REF period are shared with other
 UoAs within the University (§3.2), and 39% of our PhD students are co-supervised with other
 UoAs.
 1.6 Open research and research integrity
 ECS, specifically UoA11, is at the forefront of open science, data ethics and governance. The
 first of 18 recommendations from Hall’s AI review addresses the need to facilitate safe data-
 sharing by the creation of data trusts, which led to activities on standards for data trusts within
 the Royal Society and the Law Society of London. Also, Hall has been named Chair of the Ada
 Lovelace Institute for data ethics. Others, including O’Hara, Tiropanis, Simperl and schraefel
 have influenced policy around data governance (§4.2.1).
 ECS has championed many open data initiatives. Shadbolt launched the Open Data Institute in
 2011 and EPrints, developed by ECS 20 years ago, is the world’s leading open-source digital
 repository platform, having been adopted by 675+ institutional and subject repositories world-
 wide (REF5a§2.3). The Web Observatory (https://www.webscience.org/web-observatory/) was
 developed by academics from the WAIS group towards a global catalogue of datasets,
 applications and projects related to research on the Web, in collaboration with laboratories in the
 Web Science Trust network and the Worldwide Universities Network. Simperl led ODINE (2015-
 2017), an EU-funded incubator for open data businesses, followed by the EU-funded Data Pitch
 open innovation programme to encourage corporate and public-sector organisations to share
 data with start-ups and SMEs that work with data (see ICS11-07). In addition, three other ICSs
 have achieved impact through the development of open-source software: ICS11-04 (tools for
 behavioural interventions), ICS11-6 (image processing and analysis tools) and ICS11-09 (formal
 modelling and verification tools). Furthermore, ECS has contributed to creating free and open
 training materials about digital accessibility with wide reach (§4.2.2). Finally, both SSI and RSG
 champion the use of open software within the University and the UK, for example, collaborating
 with the Wellcome Trust on openness of software and producing parts of the Trust’s funding
 policy on this subject.
 Regarding research integrity, all research involving human subjects and data, including projects
 using social media and secondary data sources, is reviewed by the Faculty Research Ethics
 Committee (FREC), applying University Ethics procedures (REF5a§2.8). All staff and PhD
 students undertake mandatory Faculty-wide training in ethics and research integrity.
 Reproducible research practices are strongly encouraged with researcher staff, academics and
 research students alike publishing code and datasets via EPrints with library assigned DOIs. The

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University is a signatory to the Concordat for Research Integrity, and there is a dedicated
 concordat group in ECS with representation from each research group.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 2.1.1 Recruitment policy
 The staffing strategy is implemented through a regular review process and outcomes are
 incorporated into the Faculty Strategic Plan. A central tenet of our procedures revolves around
 seeking the best talent worldwide, and subsequently developing tomorrow’s research leaders.
 CS has seen a growth in areas of AI and cyber-security, and we have made strategic
 appointments in these areas including Hu (M) who is a leader in cyber physical hardware
 security, Norman (M) who is a leader in multi-agent systems, and Staab (M) who is a leader in
 semantic web. In addition, our focus has been on nurturing and attracting talented ECRs
 including those from leading universities and companies in the world: Oxford: Konstantinidis
 (M), Marchioni (M), Zhang (M), Atamli (M); Bristol: Rastegari (F), York: Tarapore (M);
 Imperial: Evers (F), Karafili (F); UCL: Cai (M); Surrey: Kim (M); CMU: Sogokon (M); Rome:
 Aniello (M); Goldsmiths: Farrahi (F); MITRE Corp.: Chapman (F, recently promoted to full
 professor). By having an environment that recognises the potential of outstanding, home-grown
 researchers, appointments have also been made from the best of our own: Hoang (M), Hare
 (M), Packer (F), Ibanez Gonzalez (M) and Middleton (M, originally on an enterprise pathway in
 the IT Innovation group).
 Ensuring diversity is a key part of our recruitment strategy has led to significant changes to our
 policies. Marketing and advertising are written in gender-neutral language to equally represent
 male and female traits, and we have family-friendly policies supporting flexible/part-time working
 (§2.1.4). Candidates from under-represented groups are proactively approached and
 encouraged to apply. All shortlisting and interview panels are mixed gender. Membership of the
 interview panel is proscribed by role within the University and recent panels have included at
 least two women (chair and group representative). As a result, since 2014, female academic
 staff in UoA11 has grown from 11% in 2013/14 to 20% in 2019/20, which is well above the
 Russell Group benchmark (14%). Over the same period, the proportion of BAME academic staff
 has grown from 9% to 25%.
 2.1.2 Supporting early career researchers
 The standard balanced pathway for academics has a 40/40/20 teaching/research/admin
 workload. However, newly appointed academic staff have a reduced teaching load for the first 3
 years with a gradual increase from 40% to 100% of their normal teaching load. They are all
 appointed mentors, allocated a PhD DTP studentship and £5k start-up. ECRs are given priority
 in the allocation of studentships. New staff work with their Head of Group/line manager during
 probation on a comprehensive personal research plan and, regardless of level, are supported by
 a senior academic colleague from within their research group who provides dedicated support
 and guidance. In addition, ECRs are encouraged to engage with the ECS Mentoring
 Programme, through which we match those seeking more focussed support in areas of interest,
 such as seeking funding or outreach. The mentoring initiative is led by the Senior Mentor, who
 reports to the ECS Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee. Mentoring is a confidential
 process, intended to be a separate activity from regular managerial support and induction.
 New staff are also supported through regular workshops covering topics such as finance, non-
 academic impact and other key aspects of an effective proposal. Successful applicants, more
 experienced researchers, and senior academic and professional services colleagues facilitate
 these events, with follow-up typically supported through ECS Mentoring. ECS also has an
 internal Grant Review Scheme in which all applications receive detailed feedback from two
 academics. In 2018 we introduced an ECS Fellowship Champion, who runs workshops to
 promote fellowships (including talks by female fellowship holders), and mentors applicants. ECS



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also runs mock interview panels for those reaching the interview stage of grants/fellowships
 (uptake 100%).
 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. Research Associates (RAs) are encouraged, and enabled, to explore career
 development opportunities, including workshops on developing a fellowship application, public
 policy impact, and outreach and public engagement in research. Initiatives such as short-term
 competitive seed-funding managed through our centres (CMI, CIoT, CHT & WSI) provide a
 means for research staff to develop research ideas and initiatives that are expected to lead to
 more significant activities. Additionally, two platform grants (Future Smart Cities and AutoTrust)
 have Flexible Innovation Funds. Researchers from across ECS can write short, EPSRC-like
 proposals capturing their own ideas, pitching them to senior academic colleagues, with
 successful proposals giving RAs the opportunity to plan, work independently on, and lead
 research projects.
 2.1.3 Appraisal, recognition and promotion
 ECS operates an open workload model that includes all teaching, administration and research
 duties. Enterprise and impact are explicitly reflected in promotion and seen as an essential part
 of the strong unit. All academic and research staff are appraised annually by their line manager
 through a confidential system designed to review their career progression and explicitly consider
 plans for progression and promotion. The University actively supports the recognition of success
 through schemes such as the annual Vice Chancellor’s Awards (e.g. Hare), and Early Career
 Awards (Tran-Thanh).
 ECS holds an internal review panel that evaluates all submitted applications and provides
 feedback to applicants. This allows applicants to improve their case prior to formal submission to
 the Faculty. Unsuccessful candidates are offered continued mentoring support to strengthen
 their case. Between 2013/14 and 2019/20, eight UoA11 staff were promoted to Associate
 Professor (8M/0F) and six to Professor (5M/1F). Promotions for women are below what is
 expected, and we have taken extensive measures to improve the success rate including
 encouraging more women to apply. Specifically, in 2016 ECS introduced promotion workshops
 with the aim to better inform staff of both the application process and criteria that need to be
 satisfied for successful promotion. Since 2019 we have held both mixed and female-only
 versions of these workshops. See also §2.3. Furthermore, as part of our Athena Swan action
 plan, we actively identify and nominate female staff for prizes and influential external
 committees. Participation in committees is strongly supported through appraisal and promotion
 criteria.
 2.1.4 Flexible working and maternity leave
 The University maternity provision provides up to 52 weeks’ statutory maternity leave
 (regardless of length of service or contract type). Teaching and supervision are covered by
 paying postdoctoral fellows who want career experience, employing teaching fellows, or by
 transferring duties to academic staff who are underloaded. In the most recent instance, the
 University funded a full-time teaching fellow to cover two staff on maternity, both during their
 leave and after returning to work. In ECS five periods of maternity leave were taken by UoA11
 staff between 2013 and 2020. The Faculty has a policy that all ERE staff on fixed-term contracts
 are eligible to receive fully-funded occupational maternity pay. In 2013 ECS introduced the
 additional policy that (where the funding body allows) staff can choose to extend their contract
 rather than hiring in cover, since this is often to their benefit. Up to ten ‘Keeping-in-touch’/ twenty
 ’Shared parental leave in touch’ (KIT/SPLIT) days are offered, whereby staff can undertake a
 limited amount of work without affecting statutory pay (e.g. to ease a return to work).
 Arrangements for return to work are made according to an individual’s level, roles,
 responsibilities and needs (e.g. a phased return to work can smooth the transition). Teaching
 and administration are reduced by 70% for the first year following leave to ease the transition
 and provide extra time to resume research activities. In April 2019 ECS also invested in a
 permanent ‘quiet room’ for mums to express/breastfeed with facilities to store milk safely.



                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University has a formal Flexible Working Policy which includes a process for considering
 requests for staff to change working pattern, or to change from/to part-time contracts. Requests
 to change hours are discussed initially with line-managers. Under research-funded contracts
 they can be approved by the grant-holder; for Faculty-funded posts Head of School and Faculty
 approval are required. During the REF period, 23 requests to decrease hours and 26 to increase
 hours were made and all were approved. The gender break-down of requests (20%F) is in-line
 with our overall staff profile (19%F).
 2.1.5 Merit-based sabbatical programme and secondments
 Southampton offers the opportunity for sabbatical leave every four years (REF5a§3.2). In ECS,
 the guidelines for applying include: scope (research plans and measurable objectives);
 relevance and fit to strategic direction of research (group and individual); funding (staff are
 encouraged to apply for external funding to support study leave); return from sabbatical and
 return to normal duties. We also operate an extended sabbatical scheme for secondment or buy-
 out into companies; e.g. Ramchurn was seconded 50% to North Star Solar from 6/2018 -
 6/2019, and 50% to Empati Ltd until 6/2020.
 2.2 Research Students
 2.2.1 Funding and recruitment
 Funding of CS students comes from CDTs (Web Science, AI for Future of Society and MINDS
 CDTs led by CS, and NGCM led by engineering), DTP funds, CASE studentships, industry and
 other schemes such as the China Scholarship Council (CSC) partnership scheme (whereby the
 University waves the fees), Southcoast DTP, Spitfire, and EU ITN. Over the REF period, ECS
 has also allocated additional funding of £220k/year for PGRs over and above the DTP funds
 (e.g. to cover international fees in order to utilise UKRI flexibility). Industry funding is through
 CASE studentships and ECS’ matched funding guarantee (50:50 with external funds).
 When recruiting, we actively approach female applicants especially from our local students. Our
 Careers Hub Director (F) runs the ECS Careers Hub and, since 2017, we have a “PhD
 Opportunities in ECS” stand promoting projects and funding. ECS also runs an annual UG
 Summer Internship Scheme to encourage the pipeline to PhD, funding ~25 students to
 undertake research in ECS over 12 weeks. Since 2017, we individually contact all female UGs
 with marks >70% to promote the scheme and prominently feature women in promotional
 materials. The proportion of awards to female UGs (24% in 2018) exceeds the proportion of
 females UGs (CS 16%, EEE 13% 2018/19). Over the entire REF period, we recruited more than
 300 new PGR students (33%F) and the percentages of female PGR students studying CS have
 increased from 25% in 2013/14 to 32% in 2019/20.
 2.2.2 Monitoring mechanisms and progression
 The PGR Tracker tool, developed within the ECS Graduate School in the previous REF period,
 has now been adopted across the University and is seen as an exemplar of best practice for
 progression monitoring. This enables formal recording of all the training activities undertaken by
 each student (including compulsory modules on data management, research ethics and EDI, as
 well as optional modules on everything from Teaching and Demonstrating to Presentation Skills
 to ECS-specific technical and research-skills modules). The Doctoral Programme Director (DPD)
 for CS (Hare) together with the Graduate School team use reports from PGR Tracker data to
 identify potential problems with progression before they become an issue and provide support to
 students and supervisors. The DPD also provides a monthly progression report, broken down by
 research group and supervisors, which is discussed at monthly heads of research group
 meetings.
 2.2.3 Skills development and preparation for future career
 The University Doctoral College, the Faculty Graduate School and ECS provide a broad range of
 courses to enhance research-centred learning and transferable skills training to optimise the
 development of postgraduate students. Through Academic Needs Analysis (ANA), each student
 is provided with a structured and supportive process enabling them to reflect on their own
 learning and achievements, and to plan for their personal, educational and career development.

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Subject-specific training is delivered at Faculty, School and research group levels, which
 includes formal lecture courses, seminar programmes, reading groups, through to taking formal
 UG or PGT modules, etc. Eight Faculty-led PGR modules include research methodologies (with
 interdisciplinary and experimental methods), responsible research, ethics and outreach. This
 complements central provision including presentation and writing skills. Our students can also
 join training programmes, such as the Software carpentry sessions run by SSI. Some CDTs
 have career-oriented modules and training events such as the MINDS CDT on Impact and
 Communication Strategies which teaches students about pathways to impact and responsible
 research and innovation. Students are also encouraged to attend summer schools and doctoral
 mentoring programs, both local and external.
 Each ECS PGR student has a personal Research Training Support Grant (RTSG) of
 £1,200/annum, to present papers at conferences, attend summer schools and buy necessary
 consumables for research that is not otherwise available. Our students are also encouraged to
 be actively involved in conferences as volunteers, session organisers and as reviewers.
 Students often undertake industrial internships or visit different institutions during their research
 programme with the support of their supervisory team, and have also won funding to transfer
 knowledge and build impact from their work. For example, Andrew Hill was awarded an EPSRC
 National Productivity Investment Fund placement grant (2019) to work with the Zoological
 Society of London for 6 months. Within the MINDS CDT, each student is paired with an industrial
 partner, and as part of their PhD programme, undertakes an internship with the partner.
 The Future Worlds start-up accelerator takes a leading role in developing the entrepreneurial
 skills of our students, providing expert coaching for those developing commercialisation ideas;
 for example, Daniel Martinho-Corbishley and Jaime Lomeli launched AuraVision and Iris Kramer
 has launched ArchEO based upon her PhD research. The culture of developing impact from
 research within ECS is further illustrated by the work of Tim Matthews and Ryal Beal working
 with Ramchurn to launch the analytics company Sentient Sports (§4.2.3).
 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 ECS received an Athena SWAN (AS) Bronze award in 2012. While the AS action plan helped
 deliver changes, initially, the activity was insufficiently embedded in the ECS operational
 structure. Consequently, we lost our AS Bronze status and created the ECS EDI Committee in
 2016/17 to address this. Membership comprises representatives from every major area in ECS,
 all research groups and job families (REF5a§3.1). The ECS Athena SWAN Self-Assessment
 Team (SAT) is a subcommittee which focuses on identifying and addressing gender inequality.
 The Head of School is both a co-chair of the ECS EDI Committee and a member of the SAT.
 The restructure delivered key initiatives, some of which (e.g. the ECS Mentoring Scheme,
 promotion workshops, and quiet room) have already been mentioned. Others include
 International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia (IDAHTB), Female Staff
 Forum, Wellbeing Champions, and a new Code of Conduct. The restructuring of the EDI
 Committee now makes it an integral part of how ECS operates, and the mechanisms in place
 have proved effective in delivering actions. This is evidenced by our successful 2019 Bronze AS
 Award. The action plan developed in this submission has been formally adopted by the EDI
 Committee and approved by ECS Board, with actions distributed to individuals and groups
 throughout ECS as indicated. We will submit our Silver AS application in 2021.
 In line with this plan and the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice, REF champions
 participated in unconscious-bias training sessions. For selecting REF outputs, individual
 academics proposed up to five papers which were assessed by a minimum of two independent
 reviewers from other research groups to prevent bias. The reviewers were selected based on
 group and gender representation and were given a similar number of papers to review. The final
 selection was done through the University’s outputs optimisation algorithm, with a custom
 feature to prefer a balance of papers per person and by gender in case of similar scores.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Strategy for generating Income
 A key element of our funding strategy from REF2014 was to diversify income, drawing upon a
 wider range of funding sources. This includes supporting new collaborations, particularly across
 disciplines, by allocating core funding for CIoT, CHT and CMI. The School invests £85K annually
 on seed funding for research activities, and part of this fund has been used to kick-start these
 centres. The plans for each of these centres focus on them becoming financially self-sustaining
 in a similar way to WSI. The centres run regular events, bringing together academics from
 across the University, industry, government and third sector partners. The CMI Showcase
 brought together over 200 participants including 60 companies in 2019. Similarly, the CHT has
 held regular “Clinicians meet Engineers” events. These interdisciplinary events have enabled
 substantial current and future funding through the MINDS CDT, TAS Hub (commenced
 01/09/2020, EP/V00784X/1), the Shell CMF, and HD-Sec (commenced 01/08/2020,
 EP/V000489/1). We have been successful in extending our funding sources, including
 Leverhulme Trust, John Templeton Foundation, the DASA, AXA, Shell and NIHR. During the
 assessment period, we have also played a leading role in the University by establishing a
 number of strategic partnerships with industry and government partners including Roke Manor,
 DSTL, Thales and GCHQ.
 Support for developing proposals is provided at many levels. We strongly engage with the
 University’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS, REF5a§1.5), who provide training as well
 as support for EU and UKRI grants, including business engagement officers to support
 InnovateUK grants and other industry collaborations. The University’s Research Finance Hub
 provides support for financial planning. We provide additional dedicated training and support
 within ECS and across the Faculty, including an annual Research Week event with tutorials and
 Q&A sessions on diverse funding mechanisms. ECS support is particularly focussed on ECRs
 and colleagues joining us from outside the UK, as well as underrepresented groups. All ECRs,
 for example, are supported through the process of developing a New Investigator Award (NIA)
 proposal with one-to-one mentoring, and access to a writing consultant. ECRs have also
 benefitted from the CPHC “Chair in 10 Years” workshops. Colleagues who have been successful
 with specific funders or schemes (e.g. Leverhulme, or programme grants) are paired with those
 planning proposals. Subject-specific mentoring and review is supported through research
 groups, and ECS has an internal grant reviewing process. This process simulates the real
 review process, including the allocation of referees and mock interviews. The ECS support is
 targeted at women by having female role models and speakers, highlighting grant successes by
 woman, and running events specifically for women. For example, CMI organised a “Women in
 AI” event in 2019 with high-profile female speakers.
 3.2 Major grants
 Over the REF period, our income expenditure totalled £43M (£5.7M P/A) and we were awarded
 166 new grants worth over £47M for UoA11. Our research has been supported by three
 programme grants: ORCHID (PI Jennings, now Imperial, £5.5M, 2011-2016); SOCIAM (PI
 Shadbolt, now Oxford, £6.2M, 2012-2015) with continued funding led by Oxford (PI Shadbolt,
 CI Hall, £2.7M, 2015-2018), PRiME (PI Al-Hashimi, CI Butler, £5.6M, 2013-2018). In 2016,
 ORCHID won the Collaborate to Innovate award. We have also secured an EPSRC Fellowship
 for schraefel (£1.6M, 2020-2025) and two platform grants: “Wearable and Autonomous
 Computing for Future Smart Cities” (PI Beeby (UOA12), CI Ramchurn, £1.4M, 2017-2021), and
 AutoTrust (PI schraefel, £1.6M, 2018-2023, £886K to Southampton).
 Research training has been supported by two competitively won CDTs: Web Science Innovation
 (PI Hall, £3.7M, 2014-2023) and MINDS (PI Norman, £5.8M, 2019-2027).
 Major interdisciplinary projects include the NERC-funded “Does developmental plasticity
 influence speciation?” (PI Ezard (UOA7), CI Watson, £1.6M, 2017-2022), EPSRC-funded “Early
 detection of contact distress for Enhanced performance monitoring and predictive inspection of
 machines” (PI Wood (UOA12), CI Niranjan, £1.1M, 2019-2022), EPSRC-funded GCRF-funded

                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 “BRECcIA” project (PI Sheffield (UOA14), CI Ramchurn, £5.5M, 2017-2021, £3.6M to
 Southampton), the EPSRC Network of Excellence “Artificial and Augmented Intelligence for
 Automated Scientific Discovery” (PI Frey (UoA8), CI Niranjan, £1.2M, 2018-2022), EPSRC-
 funded “Joining the dots: from data to insight” (PI Brodzki (UoA10, CI Niranjan and includes CIs
 from UoA10 and UoA5, £1.2M, 2015-2019) and the Shell-funded “Centre for Maritime Futures”
 (PI Hudson (UOA12), CI Ramchurn/Gerding, £1.5M, 2019-2024).
 International collaboration is a further characteristic of our research portfolio with more than
 £22M worth of H2020 EU funding, as well as the US/UK DAIS ITA (PI Stein, £728K, 2016-2021)
 and the “Centre for Spatial Computational Learning” led by Imperial (CI Hare, £1.2M, 2019-
 2022) among others.
 Substantial impact-oriented funding includes the EPSRC-funded “Software Sustainability
 Institute” (PI Carr, £3M, 2015-2023), and the H2020 projects “Open Data Incubator Europe” (PI
 Simperl, now KCL, £4.9M, 2015-2017). New UK industry and central government funding
 totalled £4.2M including £1.25M Innovate UK funding and £1.3M from industry.
 3.3 Facilities and infrastructure
 We have invested in research laboratories to support both existing research strengths and to
 directly support the research of ECRs. In 2019, for example, we invested £110K in a new
 Robotics research lab, including the cost of a TIAGo robotics platform, which supports a range of
 projects including resilient robotics (Tarapore) and human-robot collaboration (Evers,
 Ramchurn). The UKRI AI MINDS CDT lab was established in 2019 with £82K of investment
 from ECS, providing the centre with an environment to support collaborative research and cohort
 building. We invested in an £70k IoT testbed facility including a £50k contribution from GCHQ.
 This interdisciplinary multi-purpose environment serves a variety of research activities in the
 area of cybersecurity and IoT more generally.
 Compute-intensive research is supported through the IRIDIS cluster. The University invested
 £50M into this resource over the REF period (REF5a§4.2). Further investment totalling £192K
 (24 NVidia RTX8000 GPUs across six cluster nodes) has been made jointly by Faculty, ECS
 and the MINDS CDT for the exclusive use of ECS staff and research students, particularly in
 support of AI research.
 3.4 Impact
 An important route to impact for our research is through consultancy, supported through a
 dedicated Business Development Manager (Darlington) and ECS Partners Ltd. UoA11 staff
 have provided consultancy to over 39 different organisations totalling £2.1M. ECS Partners
 assists with licencing academic IP and the translation of research via, e.g., the creation of spin-
 out companies, thus maximising research impact in diverse areas, and supports early routes to
 market for potential impact cases, including over £0.6M to commercialise a formal verification
 toolbox developed by Butler and others (§1.4).
 Economic impact is further facilitated through Future Worlds (REF5a§2.3). This accelerator
 started life in ECS and is now a world-leading start-up incubator which nurtures aspiring
 entrepreneurs and cutting-edge technologies through one-to-one support and a network of
 seasoned founders, investors and millionaire entrepreneurs. Future Worlds has led to over 30
 start-ups launching or raising investment totalling over £5.8m, including five involving CS staff
 and/or PGR students (§4.2.3).
 In addition, SETsquared’s Innovation to Commercialisation of University Research (ICURe)
 programme, provides support for potential University start-ups and spinouts, and has helped
 establish several successful routes to commercialisation, including Blupoint (§4.2.3).
 Furthermore, the WSI has an initiative Zero-to-one (Z21), a £500K collaboration with the Solent
 Local Enterprise Partnership. Z21 has provided £200K of minimum viable product and pre-seed
 funding for seven start-ups (involving 12 ECS staff and students) since its inception in 2017.
 These initiatives have led to £1.2M worth of Innovate UK projects over the REF period including
 three Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs, §4.2).


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Enterprise activities are at the heart of the IT Innovation Centre (§1.1). A centre of excellence in
 applied research and knowledge exchange, it takes fundamental research through higher
 technology readiness levels towards the development of ideas for commercial exploitation. IT
 Innovation also leads the ECS industrial strategy working with other ECS groups and centres to
 establish industry and public sector propositions, and a culture of collaboration for effecting
 partnerships. IT Innovation leads the regional initiative Coalition for Innovation and Digital Health
 Research (CIDHR) across Hampshire and the Isle of Wight to build research and innovation
 pipelines into health and care systems, working with University Hospitals Southampton NHS
 Foundation Trust Public Health and the NHS Scientist Training Programme.
 Impact is further facilitated through the three centres, which provide a primary point of contact for
 industry and government collaborations, and the organisation of the aforementioned events.
 Policy impact is facilitated through the University’s public policy unit (REF5a§2.9), which
 connects researchers to policymakers and provides a range of services around impact including
 training, secondments, and policy consultations (§4.2.1). §4.2 provides impact highlights
 achieved over the REF period.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations
 CS has a strong track record in building collaborations with other institutions and with industry.
 Arrangements in place to support this at University level include RIS (REF5a§1.5). In addition,
 as member of the ATI, we have dedicated staff in ECS to encourage participation. At the census
 date we had five ATI pilot projects led by CS staff, seven CS ATI fellows (§4.4.1), and another
 seven where CS staff are co-investigators. Almost all grants have an interdisciplinary component
 or are joined with other institutions including industry. In particular, the recently awarded TAS
 Hub facilitates engagement with over 60 partners in areas ranging from computing and robotics
 to social sciences and the humanities. ECS supports industrial partnership within the WSI-
 fostered Centre on AI for the Future Society within the Web Science Institute (WSI) and,
 previously, within the Web Science CDT.
 ECS also has extensive collaborations, strategic partnerships, secondments and knowledge
 exchange activities with industry, NGOs, and government organisations. Examples include:
   •   Collaboration with researchers in Turkey, the UN (ILO) and industry on the use of sensor
       fusion and stream reasoning algorithms for real-time health and safety regulation
       monitoring in workplaces (incl. mining operations). British Council/Tubitak, €268K, 2017-
       19.
   •   Cyber security: “Chief Scientific Officer” at the Italian Ministry of Economy and Finance
       (Sassone); secondment of researchers as “Technical Fellows” to The UK Cabinet Office
       (Ferdous, Margheri); pilot of blockchain-based systems for “exporter bonds” at the
       Department of International Trade (Margheri); managing mobile phone numbers at Ofcom
       (Margheri, Sassone); peer-to-peer trading of energy at Ministry of Science & Technology,
       India (Lombardi, Margheri, Sassone); large-scale secure payroll at the Italian Ministry of
       Economy and Finance (Aniello, Margheri, Sassone); and taxation in Malta (Margheri,
       Sassone).
   •   Academic appointments: Endersby (formerly Head of Division DSTL, now CEO of the
       MET Office), visiting Professor in the CSY group, she sits on the CSA Strategy Board and
       contributes to our strategy for enabling impact through her role as mentor with Future
       Worlds. Jennings, Pro-VC research at Imperial, as Visiting Professor in AIC, contributed
       to PhD supervision and collaborated on several projects including DAIS-ITA. Stanford-
       Clark, CTO IBM UK is a Visiting Professor in AIC. Meers, Fellow at DSTL and Head of AI
       Labs at DSTL, is an Adjunct Professor in ECS, RAEng Visiting Professor and sits on the
       industrial advisory board, contributing to the TAS Hub. Wilby from Thales is Adjunct
       Professor in ECS and advises on several ongoing research projects.



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •       The Arm-ECS partnership celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2018. This Industry-University
           collaborative initiative focuses on advanced hardware and software co-design, has been
           cited as an exemplar for such partnerships by the EPSRC, and was invited to contribute to
           the Dowling Review of Business-University Research Collaborations. It was awarded
           ‘University Research Group of the Year’ in 2015 by the UK technology industry body,
           TechWorks.
   •       NHS: IT Innovation is one of six University groups to secure the NHS Digital Security
           Toolkit accreditation allowing research teams to process NHS data within a secure and
           ethical environment. The activity has led to significant local, regional, national and
           international collaborations. Partnerships with NHS organisations (e.g. University Hospital
           Southampton (UHS) and Wessex NHS Trusts) and local authorities (Southampton City
           Council (SCC)) have been established in response to COVID and wider challenges of
           digital health. ECS is now digital lead within the recently established Wessex Academic
           Health Sciences Centre and has formed the Social Data Foundation
           (www.socialdatafoundation.org) as a partnership between University, UHS and SCC
           tackling challenges of health and social care transformation.
   •       Shell is funding the Centre for Maritime Futures (CMF) through a £1.5M gift donation.
   •       Roke Manor sponsored Sassone’s Royal Academy of Engineering (RAEng) Chair and is
           a key partner in MINDS CDT.
   •       GCHQ sponsors the Cyber Security Academy, a GCHQ centre of excellence hosted by
           ECS and funds several projects.
 4.2 Contributions to economy and society
 4.2.1 Policy impact
 ECS has extensive impact on policy through high profile academics such as Hall, Sassone and
 Jennings. In addition, policy impact is facilitated through the University’s public policy unit,
 which connects researchers to policymakers and provides a range of services around impact
 including training, secondments, and policy consultations.
 Notable examples include:
       •    Hall is member of the UK Government AI Council and is their AI Skills Champion. She
            co-authored the influential AI review entitled “Growing the AI Industry in the UK”,
            commissioned by DCMS and BEIS, and has shaped the government’s AI agenda.
            https://bit.ly/2qExHdU. This led to the establishment of the Office for AI. Hall is a member
            of the World Economic Forum’s Global Futures Council on the Digital Economy, and
            participated in several UK government roles: UK Government AI Sector deal (2018);
            Final report of the Global Commission on Internet Governance: One Internet (2016);
            RUSI report "A Democratic Licence to Operate: Report of the Independent Surveillance
            Review" (2015).
       •    Jennings was HM Government Chief Scientific Advisor for National Security to the UK
            government (2010-2015).
       •    Simperl was invited to co-author a White Paper on engagement models for data trusts,
            presented to the Office for AI, the Government Office for Science and the Department for
            the Environment and Rural Affairs.
       •    Sassone is member of the Strategic Cyber Governance Group of the South East
            Regional Organised Crime Unit of the Police; Chief Scientific Officer for project Noi-PA of
            Ministry of Economy and Finance (Italy).
       •    O’Hara’s work has impacted policies around data governance. His anonymisation work
            led to the Anonymisation Decision-making Framework, published in 2016 by the UK
            Anonymisation Network (UKAN) and adapted for Australian law in 2017 with CSIRO and



                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        for GDPR in 2020. Since 2019, Hall and O’Hara have worked with the Royal Society and
        the Law Society of London to produce standards for data trusts.
    •   Snow (PDRA, AIC group, 2015-2019) was seconded to DEFRA (July-October 2018),
        and authored a report on behaviour change interventions focussed on indoor air quality.
    •   Tiropanis contributed to the EIT Digital report on "European Digital Infrastructure and
        Data Sovereignty - A Policy Perspective" (June 2020).
    •   Middleton was AI expert to UK Cabinet Office on “use of AI in policing” (2019).
    •   schraefel was a member of the of the World Economic Forum (WEF)’s data policy
        working group in 2019-2020 and was invited to work with Facebook on their privacy-by-
        design approach which contributed to the WEF’s report on “Redesigning Data Privacy:
        Reimagining Notice & Consent for human technology interaction” (July 2020).
 Policy impact was also achieved by our enterprise-focused institutes (§1.1), e.g.:
    •   SSI has significant influence on policy with regards to recognising software as an
        important part of research, leading to 28 Research Software Engineer groups across the
        UK, and the development of the e-infrastructure section of the 10-year UKRI roadmap.
    •   Pickering (IT Innovation) co-chaired the Global Research Data Alliance Legal and Ethics
        working group producing guidance for researchers and policy makers during COVID-19.
    •   Boniface (IT Innovation) led an interdisciplinary team to forecast the impact of COVID-19
        on hospitals providing insight to UHS and regional decision-makers.
 4.2.2 Broader contributions to the economy and society
 In addition to the impact described in §1.4 and §3.4, highlights include:
 Health and wellbeing: In 2016 schraefel set up the wellthlab (https://www.wellthlab.ac.uk/) with
 the vision to “make normal better for all at scale”. The lab’s mission is to develop, research,
 innovate, and question how interactive technologies and services can improve health and well-
 being. This has led to a series of international workshops on the “inbodied interaction” approach
 to computational interactive technology which schraefel has developed and has been featured
 in a special issue of IX magazine, the leading forum of the ACM for human computer interaction.
 This work has also been shared in an international summer school sponsored by the ACM and
 hosted at the UoS with participants from ten countries. This methodology is being adopted in the
 human-computer interaction undergraduate and post graduate curriculum in the UK and abroad,
 as schraefel has been helping groups including Cardiff, Edinburgh, Bath, Lancaster, Sheffield,
 Swansea, Brigham Young, UCSD, LSM and others to incorporate the approach into their regular
 HCI teaching. schraefel is also the University’s Health and Wellbeing Champion and co-founder
 of the LivingLab for leading wellbeing as lived research on the University campus.
 Accessible technology: Research by Wald et al on technologies to address gaps in media
 accessibility is reflected on the LexDis website (https://www.lexdis.org.uk) that provides
 strategies and support to approximately 10,000 users annually. Because of its recognised
 impact, LexDis was chosen in 2019 to host the national guidance information for the new UK
 accessibility regulations. This work also led to the creation of free and open training materials on
 digital accessibility and inclusive teaching and learning environments that have been used within
 a series of Massive Open Online Courses (2016-2018) with over 20,000 registrants.
 Furthermore, through an Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) project
 (investigators: Wills, Wald) with Microlink PLC, technologies for automated accessibility
 assessments were produced leading to a turnover and profit increase for the partnering
 company; this had a further impact in the companies employing disabled people, and to the UK
 economy by reducing the cost of benefits and increasing tax revenue.
 Disaster response: In the aftermath of the deadly earthquake in Nepal in 2015, algorithms
 developed by Ramchurn et al as part of the ORCHID project enabled the processing of large
 volumes of satellite and aerial imagery, and identified likely impacted locations not yet visited by


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 emergency response workers. This benefitted rescue work by Rescue Global who were partners
 on the project.
 Smart environmental monitoring: In 2018, a team from ECS included Rogers and two CS
 PhD students (Hill and Prince) who designed and developed AudioMoth
 (https://www.openacousticdevices.info), acoustic technology for identifying species and
 gunshots based on machine learning techniques. This technology has been deployed for the
 purpose of conservation in 687 projects across six continents and enabled the identification of
 three new orthoptera species in Brazil, and conservation projects by the Bat Conservation Trust
 in the UK, as well as the Belize Forest Department in its 25km2 Tapir Mountain Nature Reserve.
 Hill later applied similar technology at the London Zoo where he completed a secondment.
 Apart from the KTP on accessible technologies (see above) impact is achieved through two
 additional KTPs: With The ai Corporation (investigator: Niranjan) fundamental research on
 outlier detection in the area of bioinformatics is applied to a credit card fraud detection system of
 the partnering company. ExecView (investigator: Wills) is embedding the latest research in
 business psychology and gamification in its software for project and programme management
 support.
 4.2.3 Spin-outs
 The ECS enterprise strategy has resulted in several novel spin-outs during the REF period:
 ArchAI (https://www.archai.io/) was founded by CS PhD student Iris Kramer. Using deep-
 learning AI for archaeological surveys to reduce the need for manual field assessment, ArchAI
 received £70K investment from Future Worlds dragons (https://futureworlds.com/ai-
 archaeologist-tops-triple-investment-success-in-future-worlds-dragons-den/) and was valued at
 £770k in November 2020. This led to further funding and an RAEng Enterprise Fellowship
 (outside of the REF period) for its CEO, Iris.
 AuraVision (https://futureworlds.com/discover-aura-vision-labs/) was founded in 2017 by former
 CS PhD students with the help of Future Worlds and Z21 funding and resulted from the student’s
 PhD work.
 Blu.Network (formerly BluPoint; Co-founder: Wills) delivers educational materials and health
 information to people in remote areas using solar-powered content servers. The spin-out was
 formed in 2015 winning an ICURe programme award and received £500K funding from Innovate
 UK. The company attracted new investors and, as Blu.Network, is deploying pilots in many
 diverse locations including Dixons Carphone in South Africa.
 Empati Ltd. (Director: Ramchurn), incorporated in July 2019, is building on research for energy-
 saving, agent-based algorithms. By the end of the census period, Empati had received external
 investment of £2M and been granted ‘notices to proceed’ by UK Export Finance for solar energy
 projects in Colombia and South Asia totalling £500M.
 ResearchProof (Lombardi, https://www.researchproof.com/) has recently been awarded an EU
 H2020 “SME Instrument Phase1” grant, and Phase1 and Phase2 “Seal of Excellence”. Microsoft
 has shown an interest in the project and in May 2018 offered to support the development of a
 prototype R&D lab in Zurich.
 Sentient Sport (Director: Ramchurn, www.sentientsports.com) was launched in April 2020 with
 help of Future Worlds and uses AI to optimise decision making in sports. It builds on the AI
 research by Ramchurn and his former PhD student Ryan Beal.
 https://futureworlds.com/sentient-sports-ai-powered-player-recruitment/
 SPYDERISK (https://spyderisk.com/) was founded in 2019 by members of the IT Innovation
 group and provides tools to automate cyber risk assessment for compliance and certification
 (e.g. ISO 27001).
 WEBDROP Ltd (Co-director: Tiropanis), incorporated in July 2019, provides an online secure
 data sharing service. Z21 provided MVP and pre-seed funding, while Future Worlds provided
 mentoring.


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Public engagement and outreach
 Research focused outreach in ECS is led by the Director of Outreach and Recruitment (Merrett,
 UOA12) together with a dedicated Outreach Manager. As a result of her work, Pau (F) has won
 WiSET and UoS Dean’s Awards for championing women in STEM. In addition, about 75% of
 staff at all levels participate in outreach activities. During the REF period we have engaged with
 over 39,000 young people aged 11-17, and participated in 280 talks and events including: an
 annual summer taster course, annual Science and Engineering Day, taster days, school
 assemblies, school lessons, after-school club sessions, teacher breakfast sessions and careers
 fairs. We also engage with local events such as Pint of Science and the British Science Festival,
 and major events including the Farnborough Airshow and the BBC Countryfile Show through the
 University’s PERu. In her role as the MINDS CDT Outreach and EDI Champion, Pau has
 established an Outreach Ambassadors programme, providing enhanced training for research
 students in outreach leadership. As this develops, we plan to use this as the basis for a
 programme across ECS, extending it to research staff.
 An important part of our outreach strategy is to tackle gender imbalance and increase female
 participation in STEM. Since 2017, we have created four ‘A-level Physics Kits’ demonstrating CS
 principles. These were piloted with female students and each year we send 250 sets to local
 schools and train teachers to use them. Also, since 2014, ECS has hosted the annual
 Smallpeice residential summer school on topics including CS and robotics, with 50 students from
 40 schools around the UK (averaging 38%F) and led by a female ECS academic. ECS also
 annually hosts a range of school visits within its teaching laboratories, and our policy is to ask
 schools to bring a 50:50 gender group. We also have ‘Women in Tech’ days with 10-50 female
 students.
 schraefel initiated and leads the national seminar series with international experts on how to
 improve engagement of women as undergrads in CS (https://cphc.ac.uk/cphc-seminar-series-
 the-women-into-computer-science-experience/), which has over 800 members. This has also led
 to the Heads of CS ENGAGE group that continue to explore this space.
 4.4 Esteem
 4.4.1 Prestigious memberships and titles
 UoA11 has a total of 38 prestigious memberships and titles from 17 current and former staff
 (former staff are Jennings, Shadbolt, Moreau, Simperl; they were at Southampton during the
 REF period with titles before they left; Wald retired). Specifically:
 10 FBCS (Butler, Hall: DistFBCS, Jennings, Moreau, Niranjan, Sassone, Simperl, Shadbolt,
 schraefel, Hu); 5 FIET (Nixon, Ramchurn, Hall, Hu, Wills); 3 FREng (Hall, Jennings,
 Shadbolt); 3 EurAI Fellows (Staab, Jennings, Shadbolt); 2 RAEng Chairs (Sassone: Roke,
 schraefel: Microsoft); 7 Turing Fellows (Brede, Chapman, Konstantinidis, Ramchurn,
 Simperl, Stein, Wald); 3 Orders of Chivalry: Hall (DBE), Jennings (CB), Shadbolt (KBE).
 Others: FRS (Hall); BMVA Distinguished Fellow (Nixon, 2015), IAPR Fellow (Nixon); AAAI
 fellow (Jennings); Regius Professor (Jennings 2014-2016, Hall 2018-).
 Other significant memberships include:
 Butler: Chair of IFIP Working Group 2.3 Programming Methodology (2013-2019).
 Hall: Chair of the Ada Lovelace Institute, (2017); member of AI Council UK Government;
 member of the World Economic Forum’s Global Futures Council on the Digital Economy; BT
 Technical Advisory Board
 Sassone: Academia Europaea, elected member; Member and founding president of ETAPSeV,
 the European Association for Theory and Practice of Software; Member of the Board and of the
 Council of the EATCS, the European Association of Theoretical Computer Science; Member and
 former chair of the EATCS Awards Panel; Member of the IFIP Technical Committee TC1,
 Foundations of Computer Science; Member of the UKCRC.



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staab: Advisory board member of L3S Research Center, Hannover (2012-2018); Board member
 of Semantic Web Science Association (2015-2018); Chair of Web Science Trust Network of
 Research Labs (since 2015).
 Funded Fellowships include:
 Cai: Issac Newton Trust (2015), Wellcome Trust (2014- 2015).
 Marchioni: Marie-Curie (2012-2014).
 schraefel: EPSRC Established Career Fellowship (2020).
 Tarapore: Marie-Curie (2015-2017).

 4.4.2 Major roles at conferences
 During the REF period, 20 of our current (at census date) UoA11 staff had a total of 48 chair
 roles at international conferences, e.g. as general or programme (co-)chair, including ACM
 Hypertext 2019 (Millard, Programme Chair), Ubicomp 2019 (Farrahi, General Chair), ACM
 SigCHI 2017 (Program Chair) and 2017 International Joint Conference on Biometrics (Nixon,
 General Chair). In addition, most staff at all levels are engaged as regular members or senior
 members of program committees at top conferences (e.g. AAAI, IJCAI, AAMAS)
 4.4.3 Conference plenaries and keynotes
 During the REF period, 15 current UoA11 staff gave over 70 plenary and keynote talks at
 conferences and other major events: Chapman (1), Hare (1), Hall (34), Hu (5), Rastegari (1),
 Mahmoodi (1), Middleton (3), Martinez (1), Millard (1), Nixon (7), Ramchurn (1), schraefel
 (1), Staab (11), Tiropanis (2). These include a plenary at ACM CHI 2017 (schraefel) and the
 World Summit AI (Hall).
 4.4.4 Journal editorial boards
 Over the REF period, 12 UoA11 staff were members of editorial boards or editors of 29 scientific
 journals: Butler (3), Cirstea (1), Farrahi (1), Hare (1), Hu (6), Gerding (2), Mahmoodi (2),
 Millard (1), Sassone (4), schraefel (2), Staab (5), Wills (2). This includes Editor in Chief of IET
 Cyber-Physical Systems (Hu) and Advanced Research in Computing and Software Science
 (Sassone).In addition, 13 staff were guest editors for 28 special issues: Butler (4), Chapman
 (1), Cirstea (2), Hoang (1), Hu (5), Mahmoodi (2), Marchioni (1), Middleton (1), Norman (1),
 Ramchurn (2), schraefel (1), Stein (1), Wills (6).
 4.4.5 Honours and awards
 13 staff received 17 best paper awards: Evers (HSCMA 2017); Gerding (IEEE/WIC/ACM WI-
 IAT 2015); Stein (AAMAS 2016 Best Innovative Applications Paper); Millard (ACM Hypertext
 2016 Engelbart Best Paper Award, E-Learn 2014 Outstanding Paper Award); Hare (CrowdBias
 Workshop); Hu (IEEE Systems Journal 2018); Karafili (Best Poster MCAA General Assembly
 2019); O’Hara (WebSci’16); Nixon (CAIP 2015); Ramchurn (AAMAS 2015); schraefel (IADIS
 WWW/Internet 2015; UbiComp '13); Staab (Outstanding Contribution Design 2018, Best Video
 ETRA '18, Best Student Paper IEEE CBMS 2017); Tarapore (International Society of Artificial
 Life Award for Outstanding Paper 2016).
 Other prestigious awards include:
    •   Ramchurn: IJCAI-JAIR awards honourable mention, 2016
        (https://www.jair.org/index.php/jair/IJCAIJAIR) .
    •   Jennings and Ramchurn: The Engineer’s “Collaborate to Innovate” Award for ORCHID
        Programme Grant (2016) (Ramchurn was Co-I with Jennings PI).
    •   Butler: Microsoft Software Engineering Innovation Award, 2014.
    •   Cai: Best Thesis Award, Hong Kong Mathematical Society, June 2014.
    •   Hall: Recipient of MRC Sufferage Science Award, London Institute of Medical Sciences
        (MRC, 2016); Recognised as 1 of 50 most Inspiring Women in Technology, Inspiring Fifty

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (2016); Outstanding Contribution to ACM Award (2014); Recognition of being 1 of 100
        Leading Practising Scientists, Science Council (2014); Lifetime Achievement Award,
        FDM Everywoman in Technology (2014); Honorary degrees: DSc Hong Kong Bapist
        University (2020); DSc The Open University (2015); DSc University of Bradford (2015),
        DSc University College London (2014).
    •   Martinez: American Geophysical Union, Leptoukh prize 2017
    •   Tarapore: Awarded Popular Science “Best of What’s New” in the Engineering category
        (2015).
 4.4.6 Funding body and other memberships
 A total of 22 current staff have contributed to UKRI panels and equivalent international bodies.
 Specifically, 10 staff are full EPSRC College Members (Butler, Hall, Martinez, Nixon, Norman,
 Niranjan, Ramchurn, Sassone, schraefel, Watson). A further 4 have sat on UKRI panels
 and/or acted as reviewer (Cirstea, Gerding, Marchioni, Martinez). Finally, many have
 contributed to other panels, e.g. Brede (NWO), Cirstea (NWO, ERC), Butler (ERC, AXA, ANR,
 etc) Gerding (NSERC), Niranjan (ERC, Hong Kong), Millard (QNRF), O’Hara (COJR, NSERC,
 SSHRC), Prugel-Bennett (Catalonia, Sweden), Ramchurn (Mauritius, Norwegian etc),
 schraefel (NSERC, SSHRC, CHIR), Tiropanis (NSERC, Leverhume, ERC), Kim (Hong Kong),
 Staab (ERC), Weal (ESF).




                                                                                          Page 19
