Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Salford

 Unit of Assessment: 7

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 Researchers in the Ecosystems and Environment Research Centre (EERC) work in close
 partnership with conservation experts, academics and policymakers across the globe. We
 undertake research centred around biodiversity and sustainability that leads to preservation of the
 environment through changes to policy and practice. We have significant international reach,
 working across all seven continents, with key partnerships in: Ukraine, developing new methods
 in radioecology; India, improving environmental and public health; Brazil, studying mammal
 behaviour and conservation; and in Europe and the USA contributing to better surveillance for
 plant pathogens and sustainable marine management practices. We have increased the scale
 and quality of our research in this REF period: our number of research outputs has risen by 37%
 and more than 20% of our publications feature in the top 20% of most-cited articles worldwide
 (SciVal). Professor Mike Wood was awarded the Times Higher Education Research Project of the
 Year in 2016 for his research on radiation and biodiversity in Chernobyl.

 To achieve our aim of enhancing critical mass and ensuring a sustainable research environment,
 our staff development and recruitment strategy has focused on two main research themes:
 Sustainable Environments and Infectious Diseases, with investment in staff complemented by
 significant investment in related infrastructure and facilities. Many staff work across both themes
 but are listed against their primary affiliation.

 Sustainable Environments (18.0 FTE; 13 Male: 5 Female): Armitage; Beck; Benvenuto;
 Boubli; Coscia; Danson; Entwistle; Ferry; Hardman; Hutchinson; James; Jehle; McDevitt;
 Meyer; Mondal; Wood; Yates; Young. Research includes: biodiversity and conservation,
 including mammalian evolution (Beck), invasive species (McDevitt) and endangered species
 (Boubli, Jehle, Meyer, Young); terrestrial and freshwater systems, including soil health, glacier
 retreat related to climate change and remote sensing (Armitage, Danson, Entwistle,
 Hutchinson); environmental pollution, including heavy metals in agriculture systems (Mondal),
 and ecological recovery from major radioactive pollution such as Chernobyl and Fukushima
 (Wood); marine conservation, including fisheries management and policy (Benvenuto, Coscia,
 Yates); microbial ecology and biotechnology (Ferry); green infrastructure, urban agriculture and
 urban ecosystem services related to human and urban environmental health (Hardman, James).
 Wood’s research on changing practice and perception of radioactivity and Hardman’s research
 on mainstreaming urban agriculture are part of our REF3 submission.

 Infectious Diseases (6.0 FTE; 5M:1F): Antwis; Birtles; Jackson; Martin; Mastin; Parnell). This
 group links environmental and ecological facets with human health through a ‘one health’
 approach and comprises 11 staff in total, with five researchers who focus on the characterisation
 and epidemiology of human pathogens submitted to UoA3 (and Birtles’ research impact
 stemming from investigating antimicrobial resistance in low and middle-income countries (LMIC)
 settings is submitted to UoA3). Research includes computational modelling to understand the
 epidemiology of major agricultural and plant pathogens (Mastin, Parnell). This research has led
 to an impact case study on strengthening national and international plant biosecurity surveillance
 policy and practice (REF3). Other research includes host-parasite interaction and eco-immunology
 (Jackson) and infectious diseases of importance to species conservation, soil, plant and pollinator
 health and endemic zoonoses (Antwis, Birtles, Martin).

 Research and impact achievements 2014 – 2020

 The EERC was formed in 2015, bringing together environmental scientists with urban and physical
 geographers in an interdisciplinary group to develop new directions and develop high quality and

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impactful science. The EERC Steering Committee, led by James, is responsible for developing
 and implementing research strategy and monitoring performance and research integrity against
 Key Performance Indicators. Our objectives were to enhance capacity, increase income,
 improve quality and quantity of outputs and impact in our core research areas. We achieved
 these aims as follows:

    •   Increased capacity: eight submitted staff have been recruited into EERC this REF cycle,
        including one Professor, seven Lecturers and one Postdoctoral Research Fellow. This has
        supported achievement of our aim in REF2014 to grow molecular ecology expertise in line
        with the Strategy for UK Life Sciences (2012), as five new staff have core research
        strengths in this area (Section 2), which was complemented by >£500k investment in
        genomics and bioinformatics infrastructure (Section 3).

    •   Increased income: we have increased our Research Council funding by 154% since
        REF2014. Particular award successes have included NERC, through which we have
        received funding for 13 new projects during this period. In addition, two NERC projects
        leading into the next REF cycle have been awarded in 2020 for Beck as PI on the
        genomics of New World primates and Parnell as Co-I on the SMARTIES project led by
        Rothamsted Research to investigate epidemiology of Ash Dieback. Following a period of
        supportive development of our existing research staff and strategic hiring of
        complementary expertise the proportion of submitted staff with externally funded awards
        has increased from 30% in 2014 to 67%.

    •   Improved the quality and quantity of outputs: we have increased the quantity of our
        outputs by 37% to 582) and have a field-weighted citation impact of 1.55 in ‘Life Sciences’
        (across 2014-19, SciVal). EERC members shared 634 publications plus other products of
        research on our institutional repository (USIR) and outputs were downloaded 191,607
        times.

 Moving into this REF period we were focused on two priority areas of research, described in our
 REF2014 returns to UoA5 (Biological Sciences) and UoA17 (Geography, Environmental Studies
 and Archaeology): i) Develop capacity in using molecular methods to detect irregularities
 and fraud in the global seafood market, and ii) Develop capacity in methods for biodiversity
 assessment and monitoring, including environmental acoustics. Our achievements in these
 areas include:

 i) Combatting fraud in the global seafood market: through supporting existing staff and
 complementary hiring of new expertise, we attracted EU funding through the Interreg programme,
 a Marie Skłodowska-Curie postdoctoral fellowship and CEFAS to develop internationally adopted
 standardised methods for seafood traceability, establish seafood mislabelling rates for multiple
 species at a continental scale and identify labelling inaccuracies of highly valued fish species.
 Working with governmental agencies (e.g., Marine Management Organisation) and EU
 stakeholders, we have improved stock identification and assessments in multiple
 commercially important deep-sea fisheries in the Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea.
 Further, this research has changed stakeholders’ use of genetic-based evidence within policy
 decisions (e.g. Inshore Fisheries Conservation Authorities) and informed policy development by
 the European Commission Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries (Coscia,
 Mariani (leaver)).

 ii) Developing capacity in methods for biodiversity assessment: working with the Biological
 Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project (BDFFP), the National Institute for Amazonian Research,
 Federal University of Pará and the Brazilian Government (CAPES) has led to three PhD and nine
 MSc by Research students and generated data that have fed into four global data synthesis
 initiatives (PREDICTS, BIOTIME, CESTES and FragSAD). This has resulted in six publications
 on the effects of mining sound pollution on Atlantic Rainforest and Cerrado wildlife in Brazil and
 also to the development of automated classifiers for Amazonian bats. Meyer has published the


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 first echolocation key for Amazonian bats including novel descriptions for several species and
 developing and publishing deep learning methods for bird detection in soundscape recordings.

 Underpinned by the University’s Industry Collaboration strategy, much of our research is co-
 created with research end users, thereby driving our ability to embed impact into our research to
 address key international challenges. The extent of these collaborations is evidenced through
 ~50% of our research income deriving from, or directly involving, research end users. In addition,
 we produced 50% of our research outputs together with non-academic institutions.

 Key impact achievements have been ensured through support from a dedicated School Impact
 Coordinator (Wood) and institutional support through the provision of internal and external impact
 training, internal funding streams and dedicated workload allowances. Our University impact
 development framework supports staff to develop individual annual action plans around their
 research projects and, of eight existing action plans in EERC, three are presented in REF3. These
 epitomise how we work with research end users to solve real-world challenges as each case study
 lead (Hardman, Parnell, Wood) co-developed research with stakeholders and end users, co-
 authored guidelines and policy documents and took on roles on national and international advisory
 boards, ensuring translation of research into practice.

 Other impact activities in development are led by: Entwistle, who is leveraging expertise from our
 consultancy AquaUoS to develop remote sensing research applications in hydromorphology, river
 restoration, catchment connectivity, ecohydraulics and fluvial and glacial sediment dynamics;
 McDevitt and Coscia, who are developing citizen science-led investigations into invasive and
 endangered mammals in collaboration with Natural England, the Essex Wildlife Trust and Peoples
 Trust for Endangered Species; Mondal who is working in India, Peru and Nigeria to remove
 arsenic and lead contamination through environmental health policy making on the Nutri-SAM
 project (‘Nature and nurture in arsenic induced toxicity of Bihar, India’).

 The EERC has harnessed University expertise in media and digital creativity to bring our science
 to life through public engagement projects such as Virtual Chernobyl and work around urban
 agriculture (Hardman, Wood, see Section 4). The University’s television and radio studios at
 MediaCityUK provide a valuable resource for developing media communication skills amongst our
 researchers. As a result, the research of 60% of our returned staff has formed the basis for news
 features, television programmes and documentaries for national and international media outlets
 (see Section 4).

 Future research and impact strategy

 EERC’s vision is: to understand the biological, physical, and social dimensions of environmental
 change and its impact on humans, animals and plants through high-quality impactful research,
 becoming a leading international voice in these fields influencing the wider research community
 and global public policy.

 To enhance the international impact of our work and its use to inform standards in environmental
 assessment and good practice, we have adopted the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG)
 as a method to improve alignment with global development priorities, using this nomenclature to
 improve communication with the international public policy community. We will:

    •   Increase our internationally focused research in Sustainable Environments and
        Infectious Diseases, expanding our contribution to the discipline and impact on
        environmental policy making across every continent.

    •   Expand interdisciplinary collaborations with health researchers, both externally through
        networks in Uganda and Nigeria, and internally (School of Health and Society), to
        undertake capacity building to combat infectious diseases of public health and
        economic importance. Sustainable Environments will expand research with external
        partners in our city-region and internationally around food security, green infrastructure,

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        green spaces and urban sustainability. Collectively, these activities will address SDG2
        – Zero hunger, SDG3 – Good health & Wellbeing and SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and
        Communities.

    •   Develop novel molecular ecology tools to understand the evolution and distribution
        of species, working closely with non-academic partners to protect endangered taxa
        (SDG14 – Life Below Water, SDG15 – Life on Land) and develop technological
        innovations in disease ecology, especially in relation to monitoring and management.

 We intend to maintain our two themes and deliver our contribution through the following aims:

    •   Increase the diversity and number of staff by developing early career researchers
        (ECRs) through supporting them to develop their networks and establish new funded
        collaborations, and where appropriate making strategic appointments at senior level,
        seeking to increase representation of staff identifying as female and BAME.

    •   Increase the number of postgraduate researcher (PGR) enrolments and completions
        in EERC through growth in domestic and international recruitment. This will allow us to
        boost our knowledge base, enrich our scholarly community and grow the next generation
        of scholars.

    •   Increase the value and duration of external research funding to allow for greater
        stability in our activity. This will be achieved through the three-year research planning
        process and increased participation in larger collaborative research grant applications.

    •   Expand the breadth and depth of impact of EERC research for a diversity of non-
        academic users through continued staff development in this area, with a focus upon the
        deployment of novel methodologies, service delivery and informing policy related to
        environmental assessment and standards.

    •   Maximise the use of strategic infrastructure investments on campus. The new £65m
        Science, Engineering and Environment (SEE) building (to open in 2022/23) will have
        dedicated facilities for EERC research to support our two themes. As part of the Campus
        Masterplan development the campus itself will become a ‘living lab’ to create and test new
        sustainability initiatives. We will work closely with SEE researchers in built environment
        and urban planning (UoA13) to exploit these opportunities to develop solutions with global
        applicability.

 Open research with integrity

 Integrity is managed via the School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC); a research
 oversight committee of academics, technicians and PGR students chaired by the Associate Dean
 for Research and Innovation (ADRI). EERC researchers adhere to the University’s Research Code
 of Practice, maintaining research integrity and promoting an open research environment. We
 endeavour to make our research discoverable and accessible; all our researchers have ORCID
 identifiers, deposit research in USIR and publish gold Open Access wherever possible, with Article
 Processing Charges met through UKRI and University funding.

 We have EERC-specific frameworks for research integrity, including a CITES (Convention of
 Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) registration since 2019, which allows us
 to exchange animal samples from endangered species via the use of a labelling scheme (and
 supports upcoming NERC-funded research of Beck and Boubli). We also hold a DEFRA
 (Department of Environment, Farming and Rural Affairs) licence to import, move and keep
 prohibited soils for chemical and physical analysis (which supports NERC-funded research by
 Mondal and Wood). These licences are administered by a specialist technician and support the
 research of around half of our returned staff. Individual research teams ensure all other sampling
 permits, licences and/or shipping samples are in place prior to conducting research. Due to the

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 breadth of international collaborative activity, UoA7 led the University response to the Nagoya
 Protocol on Access and Benefit Sharing, shaping policy and driving improved research integrity
 across the institution, supported by a central point of contact (Research Governance Officer). For
 projects with a molecular ecology aspect, all sequence data are deposited in the National Centre
 for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and/or other archives. Similarly, our environmental science
 data are openly available through repositories such as the Environmental Information Data Centre
 (EIDC).

 Our integrity in research extends to research assessment. After the University became a signatory
 to DORA a Task & Finish Group was set up, which is chaired by Wood, and ensures that the
 DORA principles are implemented across the University. Within EERC, we maintain a clear focus
 on these principles when mentoring colleagues and in other aspects of staff development.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 In our REF2014 submission the Sustainable Environments and Infectious Diseases groups
 totalled 27.2 FTE. This has now increased to 29.0 FTE split between this and our UoA3
 submissions, which highlights the sustainability of these groups over time through investment in
 new expertise, especially ECRs. Given the institutional priority of industry collaboration, we have
 actively supported all staff in developing partnerships with non-academic partners, leading to all
 new early-career staff establishing such collaborations within the first year of appointment,
 evidenced through research outputs or collaborative funding awards.

 Of our 24 staff, eight are Professors (0F:8M), six are Readers (3F:3M), four are Senior Lecturers
 (1F:3M), five are Lecturers (2F:3M) and one is a Postdoctoral Research Fellow (1M). On the
 census date five staff (3F:2M) were within five years of their first permanent appointment. One
 third of our staff are Professors, ensuring that the groups benefit from senior leadership expertise
 for development of EERC and group strategy and effective mentoring of junior staff. 42% of our
 staff are mid-career and 25% are ECRs ensuring that there is a development pipeline to allow staff
 to progress into more senior roles. Promotion opportunities during the REF period have ensured
 staff are supported to progress their careers at Salford and workshops are held to encourage a
 range of applications from diverse groups. Nine staff have been promoted during the REF period
 (4F:5M): two from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer (Ferry, Hardman); six to Reader (Benvenuto,
 Jehle, Mondal, Parnell, Yates, Wood) and two from Reader to Professor (Boubli, Wood).

 For academic appointments, a senior research academic is part of the shortlisting panel and
 interview panels include a member of the School management team (usually the ADRI) and a
 panel member focused on assessing research potential and alignment. Following this strategy,
 we have recruited nine staff into EERC since 2013, including one professor (Jackson) and seven
 lecturers to their first substantive posts (Antwis, Beck, Coscia, McDevitt, Meyer, Parnell, Yates;
 4F:4M). To meet our REF2014 aim to grow molecular ecology research, five staff recruited since
 2014 have core research strengths in this area. Eight new staff have been returned with SRR
 (significant responsibility for research) status (3F:5M) and one is being supported as a next-
 generation researcher to commence their research.

 Sabbaticals
 Sabbaticals are awarded for a period of 3-12 months, primarily based on the alignment of the
 proposed research activity with the strategic aims of the EERC. Sabbaticals were awarded to
 seven staff during the REF period (Adams, Beck, Benvenuto, Danson, Mariani, Martin, Mondal;
 4M:3F). Many of these sabbaticals included time at international institutions including five US
 universities (e.g. University of Massachusetts, Boston and Harvard University), the National
 Agricultural labs in South Africa and with various research partners in Brazil, France, Hawaii, Peru,
 Malaysia and India, thus leading to strengthened partnerships. During their sabbaticals, staff
 collectively presented at 10+ conferences and published over 30 peer-reviewed articles.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research workload
 Staff are allocated a research workload as part of the Academic Career Framework, as detailed
 in REF5a. We have developed a new process to support academics’ research, where researchers
 can provide a summary of their current level of researcher development and produce plans for
 their research and support needs over a three-year period. Reviewed by a panel of senior research
 academics, through the EERC, the professoriate and the ADRI, staff agree on individual research
 workloads and support plans. The EERC steering committee links the University-level
 management structures and strategy, through the ADRI, facilitating the coordination and delivery
 of research objectives. Three-year plans feed into an annual Performance and Development
 Review process that manages objective setting, progress review and workload setting.

 Training and development for high-quality bids, outputs and impact
 All EERC staff have access to the University-wide researcher training and development (SECRET)
 programme (REF5a). At the School level, EERC staff participate in the SEE early-career and
 Professorial Networks that have been established (led by Wood) to develop and integrate
 research with teaching and enterprise and to give a voice to all sections of the research
 community. We facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration through research centre meetings,
 away days and weekly School research seminar series that invite prominent external speakers to
 talk and foster collaboration.

 Dedicated development opportunities are organised by the EERC and School. These include
 access to a peer-review network and funding for external research bidding training to
 develop bid writing skills and enhance bidding success. Constructive review and feedback are
 offered through this network for all external research bids and it is an institutional requirement for
 UKRI, GCRF and other large bids. Impact training, including competitive internal funding to
 resource impact generation and workload to develop major impact activities, is supported by a
 dedicated Impact Coordinator (Wood). Furthermore, monthly School-wide open meetings on
 research impact facilitate knowledge sharing across Research Centres, foster an impact culture
 amongst the broader staff base and provide a supportive environment to help staff develop their
 impact strategies.

 We support the development of research management and leadership expertise for ECRs through
 their membership of the EERC Steering Group. 13 staff (3F:10M) across a range of career stages
 have served on the panel, thus enhancing their research career development and ensuring EERC
 leadership succession planning.

 All staff have access to a University-wide mentoring and training scheme (REF5a, organised by
 Wood), especially during their probation period to facilitate their integration into the EERC. New
 staff have additional support through reduced teaching loads for one year and prioritisation for
 internal PhD studentships. Ten staff further benefitted from a VC’s Scholarship with an additional
 20% research time allocation for one year. Staff have access to competitive pump-priming awards
 of up to £5k from the EERC. Bidding support strategy for new lecturers has focused on starting
 with smaller bids (e.g. charitable funders, start-up awards and priority access to internal funding
 streams), building towards larger bids. UKRI (NERC, BBSRC) bids are supported by internal peer
 review prior to development and submission. As a result of this support, new staff have generated
 £2.7m in research income since their appointment, including ECRs:

    • Parnell: £861k from Horizon 2020, USDA, BBSRC, NERC and DEFRA, among others
    • Beck: recently awarded £648k for a NERC New Investigator Grant as PI (with Boubli as
      Co-I – start delayed by COVID-19 to September 2020).
    • Yates: NERC: Knowledge Exchange Fellowship (£94k), Innovation Grant, Landscape
      Decisions, iCASE (total: £274k) and a British Ecological Society-DEFRA Policy Fellowship
      (£20k)
    • Antwis, Coscia and McDevitt have collectively won over £270k from a range of funders
      including The Royal Society, NERC, DEFRA, NatureScot and various other trusts,
      societies, charities and philanthropic funders


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Internal funding schemes
 Internal funds, recovered from a proportion of overheads from grant income, are devolved to the
 EERC to strategically pump-prime research and support the purchase of equipment that will
 benefit multiple researchers. Funding is disbursed through a competitive bidding scheme (which
 develops grant writing and review skills amongst EERC members). Novel interdisciplinary
 research is prioritised to engender a collegiate culture of multidisciplinary collaboration that
 facilitates new research directions. During this REF cycle, over £70k of EERC funds have been
 distributed to pump-prime research projects in the EERC, improving publication and track records
 for these researchers. ECRs are further prioritised to establish new research projects and, with
 the recognition that this is a group with a higher proportion of female staff, ensures equality and
 diversity is considered in our mechanisms for support.

 In addition to EERC funds, staff have been supported by over £124k of funding from centrally
 administered internal schemes, including the Research Impact Fund (£17.5k), the VC Scholarship
 Award (six staff), pilot project and bidding support, as well as conference travel. Additional support
 to cover the cost of Article Processing Charges for publishing in peer-reviewed journals is provided
 by the University’s Open Access Support Fund, which 19 of our staff have accessed, in addition
 to open access agreements with publishers.

 Ensuring an excellent postgraduate research experience

 We have enhanced support for students through the development of new research studentships
 that are jointly funded through HEIF and investment from non-academic partners. EERC staff
 supervised 12 University of Salford iCASE PhD studentships, totalling over £1.1m. Matched
 funding has been provided by The Pew Foundation, Mersey Gateway Environmental Trust, Bee
 Disease Insurance, Operation Wallacea, DEFRA, NERC, CEFAS, Rushmore Estate, Chester Zoo,
 Natural England and NatureScot (formerly Scottish Natural Heritage). Expanding on this model is
 a strategic priority for PGR support and development going forward and we will leverage our
 networks to increase the proportion of PGRs working on projects with NGOs, charities and
 policymaking organisations.

 We have awarded 61 doctoral degrees this period: an increase of 15% from the 53 reported
 to UoA5 and UoA17 in REF2014. In addition, because of increased auditing of the progression
 journey and mandatory supervisor training, our on-time (four years full-time; seven years part-
 time) PhD completion rates have risen from 71% to 92%. 43% of our PhD students completing
 in the period were female and we have excellent representation of BAME students (40%) within
 our completions, representing 16 countries and reflecting our international approach to research
 and collaboration.

 PhD progression is closely monitored through the SREC, chaired by the ADRI, and any issues
 with progression are identified and resolved at an early stage; four members of EERC (Danson,
 James, Mariani, Wood) have served on SREC. All staff contribute to progression and final viva
 voce assessments (as examiners or independent chair), ensuring a common understanding of
 expectations across supervisory teams and an independent audit of PhD progression. Students
 have monthly formal meetings with their supervisory team, ensuring an excellent supervisor-
 supervisee relationship develops throughout their PhD studies. Supervisory teams are usually
 comprised of a main supervisor and a co-supervisor, often with ECRs paired with more senior
 researchers to develop new staff. In line with our industry collaboration strategy, 20% of our
 supervisory teams include non-academic partners, which supports students to understand and
 develop impact activities in their research. One such advisor is Dr Vincenzo Lorusso, Global
 Scientific Manager (Parasitology) at pharmaceutical company Vetoquinol.

 To complement the Salford Postgraduate Research Training (SPoRT) programme, SEE runs a
 first year PhD student symposium with training in giving scientific presentations. PGRs contribute
 to the SEE seminar series and the University-run Salford Postgraduate Annual Research
 Conference (SPARC; Wood served on organising committee), where students and ECRs present


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their research and gain feedback. EERC has developed a bespoke training course in statistical
 analysis for environmental sciences, including R software, which is offered to all PGR students.
 All PhD students are encouraged to apply for grants, publish and present their work during their
 PhDs in order to build a track record. Examples of our PhD students’ grant successes are:

    •   Brettell, who published eight papers and presented at five conferences
    •   Mastin, who published five papers during his PhD and presented at a range of national
        and international conferences, subsequently becoming a Postdoctoral Research Associate
        at the University (with funding from the USDA, H2020 and UKRI) and is now being returned
        in this submission.
    •   Passos, who published eight papers and won a Gold Award for Research from the British
        and Irish Zoo and Aquarium Association (BIAZA)
    •   Sales, who was awarded £20k as a co-PI from the People's Trust for Endangered Species
        and published seven papers during her PhD

 In addition to many of our students securing postdoctoral or lectureship positions, many also go
 on to work in non-academic sectors, particularly in government, for example: Aramrun is Head of
 Nuclear & Radiation Emergency Coordination for the Thai Government; Baillie is a statistician for
 the Department for International Development; and Perrin is a scientific policy advisor for the
 Animal and Plant Health Agency. Many of our students also return to their home countries to take
 up academic or industry positions, for example: Abdulghani and Althomali took up lecturing
 positions at universities in Libya and Saudi Arabia respectively, and Goulart and Kaizer returned
 to Brazil to work for an environmental company (Bicho do Mato) and to run a wildlife NGO
 (Muriquis do Caparoa, National Geographic Young Conservation Leader) respectively.

 Equality and diversity

 Our former School of Environment and Life Sciences (ELS) successfully achieved Athena SWAN
 Bronze in 2018. Following the unification of ELS into the School of Science, Engineering and
 Environment (SEE) with two other Schools, we will apply for interim Athena SWAN Bronze in
 2020/21. The EERC supports staff with relevant individual circumstances (whether protected
 characteristics or not) to make use of institutional mechanisms of support where necessary, which
 further enables productive engagement with research.

 Increasing our representation of women and BAME academics is a priority for EERC, SEE and
 the wider University and this is especially the case at Professor level. Over the current REF period
 we have had equitable recruitment of women to men at Lecturer level and achieved equitable
 representation of women to men at Reader level. Moreover, although only 25% of our returned
 staff are female, 43% of sabbaticals, 40% of promotions and 33% of central research funding was
 awarded to women including 40% of VC Scholarships. In alignment to our REF2021 Code of
 Practice, the attribution of REF2 outputs to staff has been subject to an equality impact
 assessment. Our REF2 submission reflects the gender ratio of our submitted staff, with 27% of
 outputs attributed to a female author (+2% compared to the proportion of female submitted staff).
 3% of outputs are attributed to staff from a BAME background (-1% compared to the proportion of
 BAME submitted staff). We recognise that this is low and as part of wider work within SEE relating
 to our Race Equality Charter submission we have committed to addressing diversity more widely
 within our research community.

 Since 2017, as part of the Athena Swan action plan, Wood has been delivering workshops at an
 institutional level to support those considering Readership/Professorial promotion. This was
 identified as a priority area for support in each School and subsequently there has been a
 significant increase in the number of women achieving senior academic promotions, evidenced by
 44% of promotions in this submission awarded to women. These workshops, coupled with specific
 mentoring of those seeking promotion, will be continued.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 We generated close to £3.9m in income with 112 active projects during this REF period. We have
 been predominantly supported by Research Council funding (£1.7m; 44% of the total), mostly from
 NERC schemes. Income from EU sources totalled £659k (17%) and we have also generated
 £532k from UK charities (14%), £493k from non-EU sources (13%) and £343k from UK
 government sources (13%).

 The School has an established internal peer review process, which provides mentorship and
 interdisciplinary, constructive feedback to grant applicants to help develop rigorous proposals
 for successful external funding. For major applications with strategic alignment to the School and
 University, a dedicated senior research development manager (a former UKRO European
 Adviser) provides technical & proposal/academic partnership development support as well as
 training and guidance on UK/EU research funding programmes and policy. The KTP and
 Partnerships Office is key for supporting the researcher community in developing academic-
 commercial partnerships and the joint preparation of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) and
 iCASE studentship applications.

 Key grants and associated non-academic partnerships during this REF cycle within our two
 broad areas of Sustainable Environments and Infectious Diseases include:

 Sustainable Environments:

    •   £1.2m award from the EU’s Urban Innovation Actions initiative for the IGNITION
        project (James as Co-I). This is led by colleagues in our Sustainable Urban Futures
        group (UoA13) bringing together 12 partners from local government, universities, NGOs
        and businesses to identify innovative financing and delivery of natural climate solutions in
        Greater Manchester. James also received £35k in NERC funding to understand the role
        of green infrastructure in promoting health and wellbeing in cities
    •   £505k of NERC and EC income to Mariani to investigate seafood mislabelling in
        collaboration with the Spanish government and other European partners
    •   £400k in NERC and other income to Mariani and McDevitt to explore the use of
        environmental DNA (eDNA) in terrestrial and aquatic species distribution mapping in
        collaboration with end users including DEFRA and various wildlife trusts
    •   £334k in EC income to Collins (†) for the HighNoon project to understand the adaptation
        to changing water availability in northern India as a result of Himalayan glacier retreat
        and changing monsoon patterns
    •   £271k from NERC to Wood to undertake the science required to reduce uncertainty in
        radiological risk assessments for humans and wildlife, using the Chernobyl Exclusion
        Zone as a natural laboratory (TREE project) and a further £100k+ from NERC and
        NATO to study the environmental impacts of radiation, including the development of
        biomarker-based methods
    •   £248k from NERC to Yates to develop and evaluate UK marine spatial planning and
        management
    •   £59k in Newton funding to Benvenuto to understand the current status and future
        directions of demand, supply and food security of crustaceans in Brazil
    •   £47k in British Council funding to Mondal and Danson to investigate arsenic induced
        toxicity in India
    •   Hardman generated £54k in funding from Manchester and Oldham City Councils, World
        Conservation Monitoring Centre, Wythenshawe Community Housing Group and other
        non-academic partners to develop a body of research around urban farming and food
        bank use




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Our extended network in Brazil, developed by Boubli, Meyer and Young, has led to
        >£1.1m of in-country research funding that has supported two postdocs and eight PhD
        students.

 Infectious Diseases:

    •   Over £1m of EU, NERC, BBSRC, USDA, The Royal Society and DEFRA awards to
        Antwis, Mastin and Parnell to understand the spread and impact of invasive tree
        diseases, including £217k from BBSRC to enhance UK surveillance and response to
        Xylella fastidiosa in collaboration with the John Innes Centre, FERA and the Forestry
        Commission; a further £139k in EC funding to understand the containment of this
        pathogen in Europe; £149k from NERC for the surveillance and management of resilient
        treescapes through the integration of epidemiology and stakeholder behaviour
    •   £593k from NERC to Jackson to understand immunodynamics and infectious disease
        risk in the natural environment
    •   £463k from Wellcome Trust to Craig to understand multi-species transmission of
        Echinococcus on the Tibetan plateau
    •   £328k from the Brazilian National Council, the Beekeepers Association, Project
        Apis-m and other non-academic partners to Martin to understand the spread and impact
        of deformed wing virus and varroa mites in bee populations in the UK and US.

 These collaborations with non-academic stakeholders have opened up access to new resources
 and led to future projects for our researchers. For example:

    •   Antwis’ iCASE studentship is supported by Rushmore Estate, which allows student
        access to sampling sites and training in forestry techniques. In collaboration with other
        project partners including DEFRA, Natural England and Chester Zoo, this project aims to
        identify effective strategies for reducing the impact of ash dieback on commercially
        important forest stands, the results of which will be used to inform management practices
        both nationally and internationally.

    •   James’ iCASE partnerships with the Mersey Gateway Environmental Trust have shaped
        the development of policies and management of habitats. Through this partnership, staff
        and students were able to access sites for various research projects and the results were
        used to directly shape the management plans for the Upper Mersey Estuary. One of the
        students was subsequently employed by the Mersey Gateway Environmental Trust and
        the other joined an ecological consultancy.

    •   Jehle’s iCASE was facilitated by Operation Wallacea, who provided access to sites and
        samples, leading to the establishment of the Morelet’s crocodile as a flagship species for
        a UNESCO World Heritage Site and Biosphere Reserve (Calakmul, Mexico) and resulted
        in several follow-up projects and proposals involving local stakeholders and Operation
        Wallacea.

    •   Martin’s two iCASE studentships with Bee Diseases Insurance facilitated access to a
        network of beehives for research and a platform for communication with beekeepers.
        Funding secured through that iCASE partnership also supported the purchase of dedicated
        molecular equipment for bee research. These resulted in monthly talks to beekeepers both
        nationally and internationally, the production of a ‘BBKA Special Issue’ and a further
        $30,000 USDA grant with partners in Hawaii.

    •   McDevitt’s two recently initiated iCASE studentships focus on the application of novel
        molecular tools in monitoring species of concern in multiple geographic regions. One is a
        partnership with CEFAS, for applying portable DNA barcoding techniques to improve
        traceability and reduce illegal wildlife trade in CITES-listed shark and ray species in
        Indonesia. The other is a partnership with NatureScot, informing management and


                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        eradication strategies on a national level by applying cutting-edge environmental DNA
        techniques to monitor endangered and invasive mammals in the UK.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 Our growth has been supported through the following targeted infrastructure investment aligned
 with our strategy to support expansion of molecular ecology and collaborations with industry and
 end users:

    •   A new Genomics Facility (£525k) complete with Illumina MiSeq and MinION Nanopore
        sequencing capacity and associated high performance computing equipment (£160k) to
        support eDNA and microbiome research involving half our submitted staff (5F:7M),
        resulting in 20+ peer-reviewed publications and new collaborations with several other
        universities and institutions (e.g., University of Manchester, Aberystwyth University)

    •   A new soils and DEFRA research lab (£252k) complete with Inductively coupled plasma
        atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) and X-ray fluorescence facilities, which have led
        to 10+ publications and support the research of 25% (2F:4M) of returned staff and the
        commercial projects of AquaUoS (see Section 4)

    •   The development of an eDNA laboratory (£55k) that supports six (4F:2M) of our submitted
        staff and has led to 10+ peer-reviewed publications and external funding totalling £345k,
        including new collaborations with DEFRA, NatureScot, Essex Wildlife Trust and The
        Vincent Wildlife Trust that aim to identify declining and elusive mammals in the UK and to
        reduce the illegal trade of shark products in Indonesia.

 Within this REF period we have also secured major institutional investment for a new £65m SEE
 building as part of the Campus Masterplan. This will include high specification laboratories,
 staff accommodation and flexible teaching space over 15,700m2, bringing SEE together under one
 roof to drive interdisciplinary research. The new Acoustics building (REF5a) will further expand
 the infrastructure and facilities that support our environmental acoustics research. Our
 interdisciplinary research on environmental acoustics for biodiversity assessment and monitoring
 would not have been possible without access to the physicists and facilities within the Acoustics
 Laboratories; the semi-anechoic and reverberation rooms have been key for characterising and
 calibrating environmental acoustics equipment prior to deployment in places such as the
 Chernobyl Exclusion Zone.

 Salford’s MakerSpace has been crucial to the development of our research programmes,
 providing design and fabrication capabilities that allow us to create equipment for our research. A
 notable example of this is the development of the Radioanalysis Of Small Samples (ROSS)
 detector for live measurement of radioactivity in small animals. Developed by Wood and one of
 his PhD students, this first-of-its-kind detector uses many parts manufactured within MakerSpace
 and enables non-lethal radioecological studies to be undertaken (thereby making an important
 contribution to realising the 3R agenda within our research and that of others internationally).
 MakerSpace and THINKlab have also been used extensively by EERC researchers to develop
 public engagement and educational resources based on their research. Examples include VR
 installations and a 3D model of the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone over which people can practice
 flying drones whilst learning about our drone-based research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 EERC research addresses both national and international needs and priorities within our two
 themes, partnering with the relevant overseas organisations to conduct research that leads to
 impact.

 Sustainable Environments: biodiversity and species conservation


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The impacts from habitat destruction and environmental pollution on species and ecology,
 including humans, is a core strength and focus of our international collaborations and we have
 developed approaches and new methods for global monitoring of endangered and invasive
 species with key organisations, for example:

    •   Boubli works with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Primate
        Special interest group having described two new genera and four new primate species and
        assessed their conservation status using predictive modelling of deforestation.

    •   Jehle worked with Kinday University (Japan), National Taiwan University, Paris Natural
        History Museum and Hellenic Agricultural Organisation to reveal how seven eel species
        share common breeding grounds in the South Pacific and to identify how amphibian
        biodiversity is impacted by biogeographical change.

    •   Meyer advanced understanding of bat responses to fragmented landscapes in Amazonia,
        culminating in an F1000-recommended synthesis of their findings, through a project with
        the Brazilian National Institute for Amazonian Research (INPA).

    •   Working with Chornobyl Center, the State Agency of Ukraine for Exclusion Zone
        Management and UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, Wood demonstrated that the
        abandoned Chernobyl Exclusion Zone (CEZ) has become a wildlife stronghold. This
        recognition of the CEZ’s conservation value further supported the Ukrainian Government
        decision to designate it as a biosphere reserve. Through NERC funding, our environmental
        radioactivity research has expanded significantly over the last three years to include 15
        Salford academics (5 from EERC).

    •   Boubli collaborates with the Brazilian Ministry of Environment and Centre for the Triage
        of Wild Animals (CETAS) to relocate or house animals impacted by illegal animal trade.
        Boubli, Coscia, Mariani and McDevitt work with the IUCN: Boubli has authored threat
        status assessments on 20 endangered primate species; Coscia, McDevitt and Mariani
        revised the Red List status of the Killarney shad (Alosa killarnensis) to ‘vulnerable’ to
        ensure appropriate conservation measures. Beck and Boubli will be combining fossil,
        morphological and genomic data to reconstruct the phylogeny of New World monkeys
        (NERC, awarded mid-2020) with multiple international partners, including the Barcelona
        Institute of Science and Leibniz Institute for Primate Research.

    •   We are leaders in developing methods for eDNA applications to marine, freshwater and
        now terrestrial systems. This work has led to a suite of collaborations across Europe, North
        and South America, Asia and Africa including with government agencies (e.g. DEFRA,
        Natural England, Scottish Natural Heritage, Marine Management Organisation) and
        conservation organisations (e.g. People’s Trust for Endangered Species, Operation
        Wallacea). Major impacts have been improving stock identification in multiple commercially
        important deep-sea fisheries and changing stakeholders’ use of genetic-based evidence
        within policy decisions at the UK, European and global levels through Coscia’s role on the
        ‘ICES Working Group on Application of Genetics in Fisheries and Aquaculture’.

 Sustainable Environments: better environmental health and management

 Our groups also collaborate widely to inform impacts of environmental change and wider studies
 on the human environment:

    •   Mondal is an adviser to the Bihar State Pollution Control Board on arsenic and lead in the
        rice-producing regions of India. Mondal’s work contributed to revised guidelines by the
        World Health Organisation for arsenic in drinking water.

    •   Wood’s radioactivity research has played a significant role in establishing the International
        Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) handbook of parameter values for the prediction of

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        radionuclide transfer to wildlife; the key resource for countries to assess the environmental
        impacts of radioactivity (e.g. releases from power stations and nuclear medicine facilities)
        (REF3). Wood has been appointed as an international expert for the IAEA, including
        advising the Fukushima Prefectural Government and invited to Chair the UK Government
        consultation on the development of new radiation protection.

    •   Yates contributes to marine spatial management through her role on the Management
        Committee of the MarCons European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST)
        Action, 2016-2021). MarCons consists of over 100 academic and practitioner scientists
        from 27 countries, with 17 journal articles and 12 policy briefs published to date.

 Capitalising on the University's partnership with the Greater Manchester Combined Authority
 (GMCA), research by Armitage, Hardman and James has underpinned major sustainability
 initiatives throughout the Greater Manchester region. For example:

    •   Our £4m interdisciplinary IGNITION project with GMCA is developing nature-based
        solutions to tackle socio-environmental challenges including flooding, water security, air
        quality, biodiversity and human health and wellbeing, towards a 30% increase in Greater
        Manchester green infrastructure.

    •   The Royal Horticultural Society (RHS) Bridgewater project (opening 2021) – a 63-ha
        garden including community garden areas – has been developed in collaboration with
        Hardman and James. James further contributes to the Local Nature Partnership in
        Greater Manchester and his advice, based on his research, has contributed to initiatives
        such as Natural Course (Mersey Rivers Trust, as part of an EU LIFE 10-year project) and
        the DEFRA Urban Pioneer project, to quantify the natural capital value of private gardens.
        His work influences Greater Manchester’s strategy on green space through the highly
        influential UK National Ecosystem Assessment and the Health and Wellbeing Influences
        on an Ageing Population project (NERC, AHRC and ESRC) as part of the Valuing Nature
        Programme.

    •   Hardman’s research on upscaling urban farming has informed environmental and policy
        change in the UK, South Africa and more widely across Europe, leading to large-scale
        development, job creation and support tools. Furthermore, our outreach activities and
        research have fed into the creation of Northern Roots, the UK’s largest urban farm and
        eco-park (65ha; £31m) that is now is a driver for employment across Oldham and Greater
        Manchester and has resulted in a further £2m investment into the area. Funding from
        charities, ESRC, local authorities and housing groups has facilitated further policy change,
        with a new national code of practice developed with Care Farm UK and a range of regional
        policies generated through research on urban agriculture (Manchester’s Food Board),
        including social prescribing practices (REF3).

 Infectious Diseases: improving monitoring and management of disease threats

 We have made key contributions to methods for monitoring of infectious diseases and influencing
 related policy change globally, for example:

    •   Birtles established USALTI-Afrique with Dr Lorusso from the international pharmaceutical
        company Vetoquinol (also a Salford honorary Research Fellow). USALTI-Afrique is a
        collaboration between five European and five African universities aiming to improve African
        capacity in infectious disease and ‘one health’ research. We have established a
        Memorandum of Understanding with Gulu University and Makerere University in Uganda
        to strengthen links for future projects.

    •   Martin has expertise in honeybee ecology and health, including the parasitic mite (Varroa
        destructor) and an emerging viral pathogen, deformed wing virus (DWV). He works directly
        with stakeholders throughout the UK (national and local Beekeepers associations),

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Australia (Department of Agriculture and Fisheries), China, South Africa (Agricultural
        Research Council), Brazil (UFRB), Czech Republic and USA (University of Manoa,
        Hawaiʻi). Martin also sat on the 2016 DEFRA committee to develop the white paper on
        pollinator health.

    •   Mastin and Parnell work closely with UK (DEFRA), US (Department of Agriculture, USDA)
        and European organisations (European Food Safety Authority) on pathogen surveillance
        and computational epidemiological modelling as applied to economically and ecologically
        important plant species such as olive and citrus trees (as crops) and oak and ash trees.
        This has led to improved risk assessment, national surveillance strategies and plant health
        policy in multiple countries, including new European-wide laws on ‘Europe’s most deadly
        plant bacteria’: Xylella (REF3).

 Outreach and public engagement

 A priority for the EERC is to involve the public in our research. Many staff also write for The
 Conversation, helping to disseminate their research to a wide audience. Our media engagement
 is extensive, with many of our research activities forming the basis for new pieces and or
 documentaries, for example:

    •   Beck’s research on mammal evolution has been covered by international media including
        the Washington Post and USA Today and he delivered two popular science pieces on
        dinosaurs for the children’s BBC news programme, Newsround.

    •   Hardman’s work on urban agriculture has led to over 200 media appearances including
        with international outlets such as CNN (‘Can Urban Farms Feed Our Cities?’, 2016) and
        national media including the BBC (e.g. ‘The Beast from the East’ documentary, 2018).
        Approximately 40 media articles followed his talk at the Royal Geographical Society on the
        impact of informal food production in cities in 2015/16.

    •   A long-term study by Martin and colleagues in Brazil uncovered a 4000-year-old network
        of 200 million termite mounds across an area roughly the size of the UK. Engagement with
        international mainstream media outlets (e.g. BBC, The Atlantic, Washington Post) raised
        the public’s awareness of the importance and scale of social insect colonies.

    •   A seedcorn award to McDevitt and Coscia funded a citizen science-led eDNA monitoring
        trial programme for invasive and endangered mammals in Essex, conducted in
        collaboration with the Joint Nature Conservation Committee, Natural England and charities
        the Essex Wildlife Trust and Peoples Trust for Endangered Species.

    •   Wood’s research on the wildlife of Chernobyl has received international coverage including
        the BBC, Channel 4, ABC, CNN, LA Times, National Geographic, TIME, New Scientist,
        and The Telegraph and featured in two documentaries.

 We actively and regularly seek to engage directly with the public on our research through science
 festivals, exhibitions and other events. International pop-up events have included Virtual
 Chernobyl (Wood: UK, Austria, Japan, Thailand, USA and Ukraine) reaching ~10,000 people and
 changing public perception of radiation and its impacts. Hardman has delivered a suite of public
 engagement events around urban agriculture, including Allotment of the Future in Manchester city
 centre, heading the launch of the new Social Farms and Gardens national organisation and
 launching a National Award for engaging young people around sustainability with the Royal
 Horticultural Society. Other engagement has been through installations at the Manchester Science
 Festival and the Big Bang Fair.




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline

 Selected leadership roles within learned societies and professional organisations
    • Antwis – Royal Society’s International Exchanges Committee (2020-); British
        Herpetological Society Council (2016-2019); Founder and Chair of the British Ecological
        Society’s Microbial Ecology Special Interest Group
    • Armitage – Founding Member of the Food Geographies working group of the Royal
        Geographical Society; Member of the Earth Observation Advisory Committee of the UK
        Space Agency (2015-2019); Chair of the Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing Society
        and Council Member of European Association of Remote Sensing Laboratories
    • Coscia – ICES working group (advisory); FSBI council (society)
    • Hardman – Expert for the Food Standards Agency; Founder of the Royal Geographical
        Society's Food Geographies Research Group
    • James – Chair CIEEM medal committee (their highest individual award); Chair of Mersey
        Gateway Environmental Trust Research Board; Trustee of Lancashire Wildlife Trust
    • Jehle – Council of Tropical Biology Association. Executive Committee of World Congress
        of Herpetology
    • Martin – IBRA executive board; Fellow of the Royal Entomological Society (FRES)
    • McDevitt – Council member of Mammal Society
    • Mondal – Member of UK and Ireland Exposure Science Group, Society of Environmental
        Geochemistry and Health
    • Parnell – European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) Working Group on Surveillance
    • Wood – Chair of UK Government Consultation on development of new radiation
        protection legislation; Trustee and Member of Council for Society for Radiological
        Protection (SRP); Member of SRP 'Outreach Committee' & 'Awards & Sponsorship
        Committee'.

 In addition, four staff have chartered status from: the Royal Geographical Society (Entwistle,
 Hardman), the Royal Society of Biology (James) and the Society for Radiological Protection
 (Wood).

 Peer reviewing for councils, charities and government organisations
 Staff contribute expertise to grant panels or undertake reviews for UK Research Councils including
 NERC (~50% of staff), BBSRC (25%) and ESRC, MRC, EPSRC, STFC and UKRI (Future Leaders
 Fellowships). Similarly, staff review for research charities and learned societies such as the Royal
 Society, the Leverhulme Trust and the British Ecological Society. Half of our staff undertake
 reviews for international funding bodies including: the US National Science Foundation (Antwis,
 Martin) and Department of Agriculture (Parnell), the European Research Council (Beck, Martin),
 National Institute of Amazonian Research in Brazil (Boubli), the Icelandic Research Fund
 (Coscia), Finnish Academy (Danson), Austrian Science Fund (Jackson), for NSERC (McDevitt),
 SSHRC (Canada; McDevitt), FNRS (Belgium; McDevitt) and NCN (Poland, McDevitt), NRF
 (South Africa; Meyer) and European Commission (Yates), as well as multiple international
 governments (Martin, Young).

 Honorary positions
 Honorary positions at other institutions include the following organisations: Institute of Zoology
 (Antwis); University of Manchester (Antwis, James); American Museum of Natural History and
 University of New South Wales (Beck); University of Liverpool (Birtles, Wood); University of
 Aberdeen (Birtles); University of KwaZulu Natal, James Hutton Institute and Ryseron University,
 Toronto (all Hardman); Mammal Research Institute (McDevitt); University of Queensland (Yates);
 Federal University of Ourobreto, Brazil (Young).

 Selected keynotes, plenaries, panels and awards
    • Antwis – British and Irish Association of Zoos and Aquariums Gold Research Award
        2014



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Armitage – seven invited talks including Royal Geographical Society and Remote
        Sensing & Photogrammetric Society (RSPSoc)
    •   Beck – Keynote speaker at Molecular Paleobiology of Australia (2016)
    •   Benvenuto - Keynote at the XXIII Brazilian Ichthyological Meeting (2019)
    •   Boubli - Keynote speaker for the III Congress of the Latin American Primatological
        Society
    •   Coscia - World Fisheries Congress 2020 panel member
    •   Danson – Keynotes at RSPSoc (2014) and Spanish Remote Sensing Society (2018)
    •   Hardman – 18 invited talks, including Chair of UNESCO Workshop on the Urban/Rural
        Divide and Invited Speaker for UNESCO Special Programme on Sustainable Cities
        (2017)
    •   Jackson – Invited speaker to British Society of Parasitology (2018)
    •   Meyer – Keynote at 5th British Bat Research Symposium (2018)
    •   Mondal – Keynotes at Arsenic (2018) and Royal Geographical Society Conference
        (2019)
    •   Wood - Awarded Times Higher Education Research Project of the Year (2016) and the
        Founder's Medal from the Society for Radiological Protection

 Conference organisation
 National and international conferences organised with expertise from our staff include: Amphibian
 Conservation Research Symposium and four events for the British Ecological Society (Antwis;
 2015-2018) including a simultaneous multi-city ‘Pint of Science’ public engagement event (May
 2017); Joint Chair of the UK Earth Observation Conference (Armitage; 2018); Organising
 committee member for Society of Vertebrate Palaeontology and Comparative Anatomy annual
 meeting (Beck; 2018); The Royal Society terrestrial laser scanning revolution in forest ecology
 conference (2017) and the Laser Scanner International Interest Group in 2014 (Danson);
 Executive Committee of World Congress of Herpetology, including Member of the Organising
 Committee of the 8th Congress in 2016, China (Jehle; 2008-2020), UK DNA Working Group
 (McDevitt; 2017); NATO symposium on radiation biomarkers (Wood; 2017).

 Journal Editorships
 Seventeen staff have served on editorial boards for more than 30 peer-reviewed journals. For
 example: The Herpetological Journal (Antwis and Jehle), Scientific Reports (Beck and
 Benvenuto), Journal of Mammalian Evolution (Beck), IJSM (Birtles), Biological Journal of the
 Linnean Society and Journal of Fish Biology (Coscia), Quaternary (Hutchinson), Parasitology
 (Jackson), Environmental & Sustainability Indicators (James), Animal Conservation (Jehle),
 Applied and Environmental Microbiology, and Journal of Chemical Ecology (Martin), Biological
 Invasions and Mammal Research (McDevitt), Diversity (Meyer), Frontiers in Science and
 International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health (Mondal), Journal of
 Radiological Protection (Wood), ICES Journal of Marine Science (Yates), Applied Animal
 Behaviour science and Frontiers in Animal Science (Young). Danson edited the Royal Society
 Interface Focus Special Issue, 2018.

 Books
 Returned staff have collectively written over 30 books and book chapters since REF2014.
 Examples from across our discipline areas include: ‘A Field Guide to the Bats of the Amazon’ by
 Meyer, the first book of its kind for the region, now widely used by bat biologists, bat conservation
 NGOs, and environmental consultancies in Brazil and the wider region; Yates’ book on ‘Offshore
 Energy and Marine Spatial Planning’ that brings together the ecological, economic and social
 implications of offshore energy and explores the direct and indirect impacts on the uses of marine
 space; and Antwis as lead editor of ‘Host Microbiomes of Soils, Plants and Animals: An Integrated
 Approach’ (Cambridge University Press).




                                                                                              Page 16
