Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Beckett University

 Unit of Assessment: 34: Culture, Communication and Media, Libraries and Information
 Management


 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

     A. Overview
     Leeds Beckett’s Media research group comprises of 9 FTE staff from the School of
     Cultural Studies and Humanities, which itself is formed of Media, English and History.
     Our research is characterised by an interdisciplinary concern with socio-cultural
     inclusion and social justice with a specific focus on everyday lives, belonging and
     community. We have a dual focus: the first is on media representations. Our work
     investigates and intervenes in the relation of media representations to socio-cultural
     inequalities with particular focus on race, age, weight and social class. The second focus is
     directed to mediation: our group is characterised by a significant orientation to non-media
     centric theories and non-representational theories of practice. Our work, in this regard, is
     concerned with mobile/creative methodologies and embodied and sensory engagements
     with places, digital immersions and temporalities. These foci allow us to approach media in
     their broadest terms and they underpin our mission to develop our discipline, extend media
     literacy, and generate critical curiosity and wonder for those in Leeds and beyond.

     There have been three significant developments in the research culture of the Unit since
     the last REF (i) the launch of a research centre, (ii) new research leadership structures,
     and (iii) new investment in Media staff.

     (i)     The first was the launch of the School’s research centre: the Centre of Culture
             and Arts (CCA). The CCA emerged from colleagues’ interest in the cross-
             fertilisation of disciplinary expertise across the School (English and History), its
             application to a range of socio-cultural issues and the wider University Research
             Strategy. A new Vice Chancellor (in 2015) aimed to make quality research a
             defining characteristic of the University with specific aspirations to advance three
             areas of proven strength in our institution: Culture, Health & Well-Being, and
             Technology & Society. The CCA speaks to these three areas through its five
             interdisciplinary strands which include Cultures of the Body, Gender and Sexuality,
             Cultures of Environment, Space and Place and Cultures of Stigma, Deviance and
             Dissent. (Each strand’s interdisciplinarity is signalled by its leadership; all strands
             are led by colleagues from at least two of the School’s three disciplines.) For
             example, Chan’s work on embodiment and movement in Virtual Reality spaces is a
             crucial interdisciplinary project within the strand ‘Cultures of the Body, Gender and
             Sexuality’. Her work interrogates issues of contemporary culture and the impacts of
             new technologies on bodily movements through space. Her research advances the
             University’s key focus on Technology and Society and brings her work into dialogue
             with others across the University. Similarly, Raisborough’s analysis of fat stigma in
             mainstream media and policy is key work in the ‘Cultures of Stigma, Deviance and
             Dissent’ strand where it launches a critique of neoliberal re-definitions of health.
             This work contributes to the University’s strategic area of Health & Well-being.

             Additionally, the CCA functions to disburse Quality Research funds to support short
             periods of research and activities such as conference attendance. Media have
             benefited from seed corn funding to develop research in spaces and places (Tew
             Thompson and Taylor). The alignment of colleagues’ work to School and
             University objectives has provided not just monetary investment to improve our




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
               research culture, but a strong sense of a wider purpose and a defined ‘home’ for
               our research – an important aspect for a small team.

    (ii)       The second significant development was the creation of an explicit research
               leadership structure. In 2016, LBU appointed Directors of Research (DORs) for
               each school, who in turn appointed research leads in each of the School’s
               subjects (this involved the investment in a new post for Media: their first research
               Professor in 2016). The DOR sits on the School’s senior management group, to
               ensure research is considered across all policy making. Further, all research leads
               meet monthly in a Professors and Readers meeting to discuss PGR development
               and training, impact, and research development. There are clear lines of
               communication for interdisciplinary exchanges and for the delivery of objectives.



    (iii)       There has been significant staff investment since 2014. Media has increased the
               number of FTE research active staff over five new appointments: (Kilvington, Chan
               and Harrison at Senior Lecturer, Raisborough as Professor, Pelurson as ECR
               Lecturer). These strengthen our research focus on social exclusions, non-media
               centric theory, the digital, and place, as well as providing defined research leadership
               for the team. LBU’s previous recruitment strategy was to only appoint to Senior
               Lecturer level: new policies have helped us widen our role demographic and in so
               doing, have helped motivate colleagues towards promotion (we expect to see a
               different profile in the next REF as colleagues apply for Readerships). As we enter
               REF 2021, we have one ECR lecturer (Pelurson), 6 at Senior lecturer level
               (Kilvington, Chan, Mills, Washbourne, Tew Thompson, and Harrison), 1 as Head
               of Subject (Taylor) and 1 Professor (Raisborough).

 B) Research strategy

 The unit’s research strategy has been informed by feedback received from REF2014, changes
 to LBU’s research infrastructure and the establishment of CCA, described above. Our strategy
 was co-developed over away days and workshops with colleagues in the team, in order to best
 reflect and support colleagues’ ambitions and their response to LBU Institutional Research
 strategy. Our strategic aims for 2016-2021 were:

    •       To nurture a confident research culture to enable the disaggregation of a School-wide
            submission (Media, English and History all entered Unit 36 together in REF2014) to
            produce the first REF submission solely from the LBU Media team.
    •       To nurture organic inquiry and intellectual interest for sustainable research cultures and
            research-led teaching.
    •       To strengthen the originality, significance and rigour of our academic outputs.
    •       To promote effective communication and dissemination of research within the University
            and academia more widely.
    •       To develop as public intellectuals with specific focus on building media literacy, inquiry
            and curiosity for the population of our city, its surrounds and beyond.
    •       To develop impactful work.

 The strategy has been delivered through an enhanced mentoring system organised through
 the CCA, team and school-based workshops on improving and making explicit, the significance,
 originality and rigour of our work. Close peer-mentoring has helped orientate the team towards a
 sharper consideration of methods and methodological issues. CCA and wider school events
 have helped us refine our understanding of impact. In 2016, we also established a research
 seminar programme and an annual ‘work-in-progress’ conference (Leeds Beckett Media:
 #LeBeMe), where colleagues in Media, our research students, and other media scholars from
 across LBU, shared our work and developed it through feedback. To help with practical matters

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of finding the time and peace to write, we also ran weekly ‘shut-up and write’ sessions on
 campus and online.

 These initiatives have produced a marked grown in research confidence and quality since the
 last REF cycle. More specifically, there has been a demonstrable uptick in research
 productivity and two shifts in our work. The first is an increased confidence submitting to
 peer-reviewed journals and favouring these over book chapters. This has provided us with
 wider peer feedback on our work and helped us target highly ranked journals such as
 Qualitative Research (Harrison) and Media, Culture and Society (Kilvington and
 Raisborough). The second, is a greater move towards collaborative working, both within the
 team (Taylor, Harrison, Raisborough, Tew Thompson), with colleagues from other HEIs
 (Harrison, Kilvington and Raisborough) and with our creative partners (Taylor’s co-
 production with the musician Boff Whalley, and ongoing work with artist Catherine Bertola).
 Our work is actively pushing theoretical debates in areas of embodiment (Chan), queer
 gaming (Pelurson), racism (Kilvington) healthism (Raisborough) gentrification (Tew
 Thompson), celebrity (Washbourne, Mills) and deindustrialisation (Taylor) and we are
 making space in specialist and international journals, such as Gaming Studies (Pelurson).

 This renewed confidence is demonstrated in bidding activity. We have had external funding
 successes with British Academy Small Research Grants (Hibberd and Tew-Thompson and
 Raisborough, Taylor and Harrison). Additionally, Taylor was shortlisted for 2018 ISRF
 mid-Career Fellowship and Harrison for the Fulbright Scholarship in 2020. Our commitment
 to collaboration is also demonstrated in our roles of Co-Investigators on successful bids:
 Kilvington was CI on a 2019 BA Small Research Grant on social media and racism and
 Raisborough’s Northern Network for Medical Humanities Research (2019) researched cultural
 representations of the menopause. This new bidding energy has already yielded results for
 the next REF cycle (Taylor has been awarded ISRF Mid-Career Fellowship for 2021-2022)
 and we have submissions awaiting results for Leverhulme, British Academy Fellowships,
 ESRC and ISRF ECR fellowship. Our research confidence is also demonstrated in a marked
 increase in invitations as keynote speakers (detailed in later in this report).

 Our strategy reflected the value Media place on public intellectualism. Over the assessment
 period we have done much to bring our research to wider audiences. The CCA has led a
 collaboration with Palgrave Macmillan and Leeds City Council for monthly lunch time ‘cultural
 conversations’ in city centre locations (museums, libraries and Leeds Town Hall). These are
 popular and well attended – over 2000 people have attended since 2013. All of the media team
 have shared their work this way and benefited from audience feedback and questions.
 Examples include Washbourne’s ‘W.G. Grace: Cricket missionary to the North and Hero of
 1985; Harrison’s Stitch and Bitch: Knitting, Femininity and Women's Everyday Lives and Tew
 Thompson’s ‘Verdant Creativities: Urban gardening and sensuous placemaking in West
 Yorkshire’. In one of the last live public events before Covid, two of the Media team were
 amongst the four researchers chosen from across the University to present their work in the
 University’s inaugural TEDx event. Under the theme of Our Changing world, Kilvington
 presented ‘the virtual stages of hate’ (addressing racism on social media platforms) and
 Raisborough’s ‘Grey planet’ (addressing ageism as a predictable result of media definitions
 of this life stage as a ‘problem’). The videos have an averaged over 1,000 views. In line with
 our focus on the sensory, Tew Thompson has taken her work into the city and led walking
 tours, helping people to ‘look-up’ and feel connections to their city. Furthermore, with the help
 of Media training, organised through the CCA, colleagues have also actively shared their work
 on national and local radio and news. For example, Kilvington has discussed his work
 extensively on 5Live and Sky News, Mills has also presented his research on Radio 3 Time
 Travellers in 2019.

 Our strategy has encouraged greater focus on the impact of our work. This emerges
 from our concern to chart and tackle social inequalities and injustice and with our interests
 in community and belonging. We see all of our work as providing theoretical frameworks for
 possible interventions – the relations of oppression and privilege are so normalised that a

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 critical forensic account of representations, discourse and visual grammar remain integral to
 our work. Yet we are developing expertise in empirical work and have worked to support
 the research the forms the impact case studies for this REF submission. CCA money has
 supported Kilvington’s grass-root intervention, Creating and Developing Coaches (CDC).
 CDC challenges cultures of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) exclusion in UK football by
 encouraging networking between BAME grassroots football coaches/managers and key
 stakeholders. He has worked with over 250 current and aspiring BAME football coaches across
 the country. Several stakeholders have collaborated including the Football Association (FA), the
 UK’s national football governing body, and the Zesh Rehman Foundation (ZRF). CDC has
 succeeded in increasing diversity in football; creating networks for marginalised communities;
 highlighting opportunities; providing support mechanisms; and showcasing role models.

 We are also developing impactful work across a range of projects relating to space and place
 (Taylor and Tew Thompson). This is an on-going project, also supported by the CCA, that
 aims to enable a fresh sense of belonging and of community in spaces where belonging may be
 disrupted by deindustrialisation or tourism. The skills developed over this work have positioned
 us to make an impact on a local business over the first lockdown: understanding how customers
 felt about and used their home space to exercise, helped an exercise business develop a new
 strategy and pricing for online classes (Taylor, Raisborough and Harrison).

 The work discussed so far, has allowed us to achieve our goal to be able to enter the REF as
 a Media team (not as previously, a School submission). We see this as the start of a
 trajectory of enhanced research expertise and sustainable impactful work.

 C) Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 Our research strategy evolves as we grow in strength and expertise and as we flex into new
 areas of media cultures. We are an evolving, not yet established research group, but we have
 done considerable work over this cycle to raise the quality of work and in developing the skills
 and expertise for impact, Over the next REF cycle we will build on this groundwork to enhance
 research quality and impact in sustainable ways that foster creativity, curiosity and collaboration
 with a range of stakeholders. Our future plans are based on our values to

    1. To approach media cultures in their broadest terms and diverse forms, past, present and
       future.
    2. To investigate and intervene in the relation of media cultures to social problems, social
       justice, emancipatory practice, subjectivities, belonging and community.
    3. To develop creative and ethically sensitive work around the local, regional and the North

 These inform a strategy to build expertise in method and impactful research. We aim:

    •   To build relationships which provide lasting benefit to our communities and thus play our
        part in LBU’s mission to be a Civic University and regional anchor institution.
    •   To regard benefit to our communities as integral to our research design.
    •   To continue to develop collaborative, participatory, interdisciplinary practice and
        scholarship
    •   To improve extending the value of our work through public engagement and knowledge
        exchange
    •   To develop rigorous methods and methodological frameworks to generate relevant and
        accountable knowledge about media cultures and social justice.
    •   To demonstrate our research confidence and standing through promotion from senior
        lecturer to Reader and Professor
    •   To build capacity and expertise in achieving external funds,



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We will be pursuing training in relationship building and we will use our seminars and workshops
 to develop our practice of putting impact at the centre of our endeavours over the next cycle.
 We will seek to have our research trajectory recognised in the role demographic of our research
 group: close mentoring and use of QR monies to afford short term teaching relief and research
 assistants, will help colleagues take up opportunities for promotion. We will better use mentoring
 and assistance from the University’s Research and Enterprise Service to assist us in identifying
 bids and practising our skills in writing them.


 Section 2. People

 The University’s staffing strategy seeks to enable all colleagues to achieve their potential.
 Equality is a priority for the University, and this is reflected in our research and the policies and
 procedures for recruitment, staff development and REF submission. Equality and diversity are
 also represented in our staff make-up, particularly in terms of social class background, gender
 and sexuality. There is a well-established network of equality and diversity coordinators within
 LBU and the University has been proud to be a Stonewall top 100 employer, has been awarded
 Bronze in Athena Swan, with our School working towards its own submission, is a Disability
 Confident Employer and is a member of the Race Equality Charter pilot. The DoR and media
 colleagues (Pelurson and Raisborough) are members of the Athena Swan working group. The
 unit’s research reflects and contributes to these activities, promoting equality and diversity
 through work about, for example, racial inclusion (Kilvington), ageing (Taylor, Raisborough,
 Harrison, Mills); gender (Tew-Thompson , Taylor, Harrison, Pelurson, Washbourne, Chan)
 , body-size and weight prejudice (Chan, Raisborough, Washbourne) and class inequalities
 (Harrison, Taylor, Raisborough). The unit is particularly concerned with geo-spatial
 inequalities and focuses critical attention on the construction and experience of the North
 (Kilvington, Taylor, Tew-Thompson, Washbourne, Mills).

 Research development via the development of staff
 Our development as researchers is tied to our commitments to; nurture inquiry into media
 cultures in their broadest terms; to academic citizenship and to public engagement. We
 recognise that we can live up to these if we are situated in a supportive and encouraging
 environment; one that enables the pursuit of ideas and one that realises that research is at times
 unpredictable and its demonstrable gaols, elusive. At the heart of our development is nurturing
 confidence, developing talent and helping support resilience. Much of this work takes place
 across our research seminars, the informal spaces of our annual media festival and in our
 research away days. These research developments are supported in two main ways.

      (i)     Research Mentoring.
 All Media colleagues in the Unit take part in mentoring sessions which take place each
 semester. Mentoring is used to reflect, discuss, share and define research goals and ambitions,
 and to identify any resources or training necessary for their realisation. The process is tied into
 the University’s Performance Development Review process and agreed objectives and plans
 feed into the annual PDR and from there, into deployment agreements. This relatively new
 initiative has bedded in well and has become a normalised part of our growing research culture.
 This has helped our team express, work towards and realise our goals for research-led teaching
 and also helped us formally sustain time for research amongst other duties.

     (ii)   Internal and external funding
 Competitive Centre of Culture and Arts research support schemes use QR to develop research
 ideas and secure outcomes. Since 2014, Media colleagues have been successful in bids for
 research expenses and research leave. Specifically, Kilvington’s success in bidding for CCA
 funds enabled two coaching workshops for his ‘Creating and Developing Coaches’ initiative
 addressing institutionalised racism in UK football from the grassroots. Tew-Thompson, and
 Taylor secured funds to establish a portfolio of work examining gardening, memory and place
 and the impact of deindustrialise spaces on once-working communities. This work has produced

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a number of peer reviewed outputs and provided empirical support for two successful bids to the
 British Academy Small Grants Award. Chan was awarded money to organise research
 networking and ground building symposiums around the digital. Tew- Thompson was awarded
 a semester teaching relief to conduct a pilot on women’s long-distance walking 2017. We have
 also been successful in bidding for University level sabbaticals: Taylor was awarded £8,636.20
 from central university funds to pilot her Landscapes of Loss project in 2014, which now forms
 the basis of external bidding for a mid-career fellowship with the ISRF (awarded for 2021) and
 resulted in a number of peer-reviewed outputs. A monograph from this project will be submitted
 in the next assessment cycle).

 Research students
 Recruitment
 We currently have 10 research students studying in the Unit, and for the REF census period can
 report 4 completions at the rate of roughly one per annum. The completion figure is currently low
 because previous numbers of students for this group was similarly low. The increase in
 recruitment demonstrates a significant growth for Media from 2014, where the majority of
 students and completions reported for UoA36 were actually located in sister disciplines. The
 growth in recruitment figures for students that are ‘ours’ indicates our growing research
 confidence and presence. We have worked hard to build an inclusive research culture that is
 open to their needs. The recent establishment of a PGR forum (2018) - where students meet
 regularly with the Dean, DOR and postgraduate tutor to discuss their place in the School, raise
 concerns or bring ideas to the table – is the direct outcome of a student request. Results from
 the most recent PRES survey (2019) at School level show that this work is bearing fruit, and
 high levels of satisfaction were expressed, especially relating to supervisory support (100% of
 our students were either very satisfied or mostly satisfied with their supervision).

 LBU’s institutional research strategy charged us with increasing research student numbers to
 contribute to both local and institutional environments. We are very aware that our subject area
 tends to be both very white and middle-class in its PGR recruitment, and if our subject’s future is
 to be more inclusive, we have a role to play in redressing demographic imbalances. With the aim
 of both increasing our numbers and increasing our diversity, we joined successful bid for an
 AHRC-funded Centre for Doctoral Training (The Heritage Consortium) and the CDT’s sister
 organisation, the North of England Consortium for Arts and Humanities (NECAH), which self-
 funds its students, but uses the cohort model of the CDT to build a broader research community.

 The two consortia were established in 2012 and 2014 respectively to deliver doctoral training,
 widen access to doctoral education to students who came from outside traditional research-
 intensive universities, to build a distinctive community of scholars, and to promote research
 across all arts and humanities disciplines. All consortium students benefit from a tailored
 research training programme delivered at the University of Hull with support from the member
 institutions and from a greater cohort of students than any single institution can provide. The
 events and some elements of the programme are also open to the wider PhD community from
 participating HEIs.

 All students, whether from the consortia or not, enrol as members of the University wide
 Graduate School. This offers research training programme, with specific training targeted for
 particular stages of the research journey (for example, writing up workshops and residentials are
 largely targeted at students in their final years). The Graduate School also offers a support
 network for students, career development programmes and an annual Postgraduate Conference
 to share work and practice academic skills. The Graduate School also administer students’
 recruitment and subsequent progression through annual meetings.

 We intend that our MA Media will encourage our students to continue to doctoral work. To this
 end, there is unique provision in the MA for student to learn and practise advanced academic
 skills, shadow a lecturer and meet with our research students for an insight into research life.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development of Doctoral Students
 All UoA34 colleagues with supervisory responsibility undertake Supervisor training and are then
 considered by University’s Research Degree Sub-Committee to be included on the list of
 approved supervisors. This ensures that our students can expect research-active and trained
 supervisors. Students benefit from a programme of training organised by the Graduate School
 and annual progression meetings. This offer is supplemented by a range of activity in the
 School of Cultural Studies. The postgraduate tutor facilitates the Cultural Studies seminar, a
 work-in-progress seminar, and a writing channel (via Teams) for those students who are unable
 to be on campus at any point. There is a postgraduate forum for them to meet regularly with the
 Dean and Director of Research. They participate in research seminars, workshops, and annual
 conferences. Media’s own annual festival of media (#LeBeMe – see above) offers the
 opportunity for our research students to present work-in-progress alongside established
 colleagues: this helps us to unpick and demystify common aspects of the research journey. In
 2017, Media colleagues invited research students to a monthly global writing motivation initiative
 ‘Shut Up and Write’ and in 2018 joined research students in a School book club.

 Facilities
 Media research students are housed centrally in dedicated office space with the School’s
 research students. This helps to develop a cohort experience, a sense of belonging within the
 wider rhythms of School life and to foster cross-disciplinary conversations. PGRs have access
 to a kitchen, lockers, desk and up-to-date computers. The University’s extensive library provides
 access to a wide range of information sources for researchers (journals and multimedia
 databases), further supplemented by SCONUL+ access use of other University libraries

 PGR Supervision, Mentoring and Training
 Participation in a University Induction programme is compulsory for all candidates accepted for a
 place on a research award of the University. This induction takes place on campus and the
 schedule is available online through the welcome system where students also enrol. The
 intention of this activity is to ensure that all students are oriented in a large organisation right
 from the start of their studies, and that they begin with a peer group who can be mutually
 supportive during the PhD journey.

 In preparation for their Confirmation of Registration (CoR – see below) students complete a
 Training Needs Analysis which forms the basis of an individual training plan that they undertake
 throughout their research degree. The competencies that students are required to develop, and
 evidence are based both on the needs associated with their individual doctoral research and
 also on the Joint Statement of the UK Research Councils’ Training Requirement for Research
 Students. Central sessions which meet key PGR criteria are provided by the Graduate School in
 block sessions at least twice a year. This offering is supplemented in this unit by a range of other
 activities which are more subject or domain oriented. Students are supported a supervisory team
 which normally includes a Director of Studies (DoS) and a supervisor. Within 4-6 months of
 beginning their project, research students at LBU are expected to undertake Confirmation of
 Registration (CoR), where they are able to discuss their project with senior members of the
 University and their supervisory team. Progress is also monitored further by an annual
 progression meeting, chaired by senior colleagues from the School where students report on
 their progress before being permitted to re-enrol. These are supportive meetings designed to
 uncover any problems and to support students to get back on track if required. Actions arising
 from progression meetings are often related to training needs for students

 Ethics infrastructure
 All research projects, whether staff or student, are required to have ethical approval in place
 before they begin. All researchers are required to undertake training in ethics to ensure that they
 understand their obligations. Simple approvals for desk-based research which does not involve
 human subjects are approved locally, by the research supervisor for students, or the Local
 Research Ethics Co-ordinator (LREC) for staff. More complex cases are considered by LRECs,
 and where they feel that there are particular issues that arise from the project, it may be referred
 to the University Ethics Committee for final decision. Annual audits of research ethics

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 compliance are undertaken to ensure that we are meeting our ethical obligations to all human
 participants, and to the general ethos of good governance across the whole of our activity

 Open access
 One of the ethical considerations that is new for REF2021 is the obligation, where possible, to
 make our research accessible to the public. All the journal articles contained in this submission
 comply with that requirement. The university has a fully searchable open access repository, the
 Leeds Beckett Repository, which is an online collection of Leeds Beckett research outputs.
 Media, in line with its commitments to engage with its various publics noted above, is strongly
 committed to making work available wherever possible. The institutional Open Research Policy,
 which encourages staff to deposit, where copyright allows, any output type, will increase the
 volume of other outputs openly available. Although out of scope of the REF 2021 Open Access
 policy, some Media book chapters are available open access in the repository. We look forward
 to the policy discussions on this element of our work in the future, and to the new mechanisms
 that will be required for open access to all research.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 There has been a significant support for and investment in research in recent years. The
 Strategic Planning Framework 2016-21 includes the explicit goal of growing and developing
 research culture, submitting 45% of colleagues to the REF2021, and creating a research
 environment for quality research. To realise these goals, in 2018/19, the University took the
 strategic decision to disburse 66% of QR funds to the areas which had earned them to enable
 those areas to own the strategic direction of their spending. UoA34 benefited from a share
 £165K, and School support the doctoral students who were recruited via NECAH The relative
 stability of this income stream speaks to the University’s commitment to its research strategy,
 and gives the unit the means to plan activity attached to the School and Centre priorities for the
 next assessment cycle.

 Current income
 In the census period we have secured two British Academy Grants:
 2014-15 British Academy Small Grant SG142952 Navigating Holme: Memory, Media and
 Imagining Place in the Summer Wine Town. Hibberd (PI) Tew Thompson (CI)
 £10, 000
 2018-20. British Academy Small Grant SRG18R1\180914 What function do representations of
 space and place perform in factual welfare programmes? Towards a visual grammar of benefits
 stigma Raisborough (PI), Taylor (CI) Harrison (CI) £9998.95.
 This success does not reflect the increase in bidding activity in Media, since 2016. We have
 already had a significant success: Taylor’s ISRF Mid-career Fellowship for 2021-22, will form the
 impact case study for the next REF exercise. Working on bid writing is a goal in our research
 strategy 2021- 2026.

 Facilities
 Media is housed, alongside colleagues in English and History in the Leeds City Campus on the
 second floor of the Broadcasting Place Humanities Building. Completed in 2009, this award-
 winning building has a Cor-ten façade, and is designed echo the flow of water through rocks.
 Inside the ‘rusty’ building, there is a modern, well-lit design of open plan offices, meeting rooms,
 classrooms and a recently refurbished social learning space. This space is ‘home’ to the
 School, and has been carefully designed to enable both quiet and collaborative working.

 Postgraduate students also have office space in this area. They enjoy a suite of hot-desking
 space, though in practice, individuals have created their own spaces and personalised the room
 accordingly. The main advantage of being all on the same floor is a stronger sense of
 community and, before Covid, the opportunity for sociable discussions as well as formal



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervisions. Our students report they are really an embedded part of the School’s culture
 (PRES survey 2019).

 Research is also supported by Libraries and Learning Innovation. The School of Cultural Studies
 has three dedicated subject librarians who help with the Information needs of all our PGRs, both
 individual needs and training sessions. The library is open 24/7/365. Alongside its book stock, it
 has excellent e-resources. It subscribes to a range of specialist databases relevant for History
 staff and students (British Library Newspapers Online, House of Commons Parliamentary
 Papers, Mass Observation Online, etc.). Its own internal offer is supplemented by a partnership
 with the Leeds Library (one of the oldest circulating and private members’ libraries in the world)
 which has unique historical collections, and also, membership of SCONUL access with multiple
 other university libraries. Postgraduates and staff are both permitted extensive rights via
 interlibrary loan. We are located in close proximity to local and regional archives and research
 libraries, including the British Library’s Northern Reading Rooms at Boston Spa, at which staff
 and students are regular visitors.

 Governance
 Research Infrastructure and Governance
 Overall responsibility for Research in our University is under the remit of the Deputy-Vice-
 Chancellor for Research and Enterprise. The DVC is supported by the Director of Research and
 Enterprise Services who leads the various research related teams (the Graduate School for
 PGRs, The Research Service which supports bidding activity and the development of impact,
 and the Enterprise Service which has oversight of the institution’s academic enterprise activity).
 Directors of Research provide the interface between these central services and the Schools. The
 work of the Research and Enterprise Services is the core business of our University’s Research
 and Enterprise Committee, which reports directly to Academic Board, and which also has
 oversight of the work of the University’s Postgraduate Research Degrees Sub-Committee, and
 the Research Ethics Committee. The Research and Enterprise Committee scrutinises policy,
 procedure and practice relating to research in all its guises, and makes recommendations to
 Academic Board for implementation. All DORs are members of this committee, alongside
 representatives from Research and Enterprise Services, the Library Service and the PGR
 student body. The specific policies relating to Ethics, Open Access, Research Concordance, the
 HR policies that attach to HR Excellence in Research, and the policies deriving from UKCGE for
 PGRs have all been debated and defined by this Committee structure, and implemented at Unit
 level by the Director of Research, postgraduate tutor and Local Research Ethics Co-ordinators.

 Students are represented at the School’s Academic Committee by a PGR representative. The
 administration of their programmes is overseen by the University Research Degree Sub-
 Committee, a sub-committee of the Research and Enterprise Committee. The centralisation of
 this work ensures fairness and consistency in the application of regulations across the institution.
 The ethics infrastructure is also part of this committee process, as noted in Section 2.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We value academic citizenship: we recognise that it sustains research culture, and it sparks
 imagination and the exchange of skills and expertise. Media continue to serve the boarder
 research community in several ways including

 Peer review activities. Members of the media group are active peer reviewers for journals and
 books, these include Taylor (Journal of Travel and Tourism) Kilvington (Journal of Sport &
 Social Issues, Journal of Cultural Research ,Leisure Studies, Ethnic and Racial Studies), Chan
 (book series for Routledge and Palgrave). Washbourne (Bloomsbury and Polity), Tew-
 Thompson (for Rowman & Littlefield International) Harrison (University of Chester Press Social
 Issues Series) and Raisborough (for Palgrave and Routledge). We also serve on editorial
 boards of peer reviewed journals: Washbourne (Celebrity Studies and Media Education
 Research Journal) and Raisborough (Fat Studies). We have edited special issues: Tew-

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Thompson was Guest Editor of Special Issue of Leisure Studies journal: ‘Leisure, activism, and
 the animation of the urban environment’ and Raisborough was co-editor of Frontiers special
 edition on weight stigma in 2019
 Funding reviews: Kilvington has reviewed a funding bid for The Council for Social Sciences
 and the Humanities of the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO);
 Washbourne for Canadian Social Science Research Council, Raisborough for the ERSC,
 Taylor for the ISRF. Additionally, Raisborough is also a member of the ISRF Advisory Board
 and a Member of Peer Review College for the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships scheme.

 Our work has also contributed to conferences in the form of keynotes, invited speakers and
 plenaries: for example
     • 2019 Pelurson, “‘Flawless in Defeat’: Failure and Queer Pleasure in Gay Ryona
        Videos”. Invited speaker for the Game Rats a London conference regrouping people
        working or interested in the game industry.
     • 2019 Taylor ‘Affective Gardens, Neoliberal Times; Reassessing the Garden in
        Contemporary Lifestyle Media’, at the ‘Er Indoors: Domesticity in the Home and Garden’
        Symposium, Humanities Research Centre, Warwick University, 23rd November .
     • 2018 & 2016 Raisborough has delivered keynotes at the Methodological Innovations
        Conference at Plymouth University (2016) and the British Psychology Women and
        Equalities Annual Conference in 2018.
     • 2017 Tew Thompson delivered a keynote at the Spaces & Flows: Eighth International
        Conference on Urban and ExtraUrban Studies in October 2017. The special theme of the
        conference was ‘Enculturing the City’ : it formed part of the Hull 2017: UK City of Culture
        bid.
     • 2015 Mills It’ll End In Tears - 4AD Records and This Mortal Coil’ headed the ‘Dark
        Sound’ Conference in Falmouth 2015
     • 2014 Washbourne’ ‘Reflections on ‘More than Cleggmania,’’ for the New Directions in
        Celebrity Workshop, University of Oxford,

 We also serve as invited speakers to seminar series and workshops; such as Taylor’s invitation
 to the Sociological Review Seminar Series, ‘Deindustrialisation and the Haunted Present’ at
 Cardiff University, June 2020 and Raisborough’s paper for Keele University’s Grand
 Challenges Seminar Series in 2019.

 Research collaboration is a practice we wish to develop over the next assessment cycle, but
 already there are key research collaborations Harrison with Liverpool John Moores on creative
 methodologies and Kilvington’s co-writing on racism with colleagues at the University of
 Sunderland.

 Engagement and impact beyond the academy

 We also expect to work for our communities by taking our subject expertise to where it can have
 practical use. This is an area identified in our research strategy 2021-2026. We have good
 experience to draw upon: Kilvington serves as Trustee on two charities tackling
 marginalization: the Annie Zaidi Foundation (AZF) and The Zesh Rehman Foundation.
 Furthermore: Pelurson was a member of Leeds Museums and Galleries steering group for their
 initiative ‘OUTing the Past 2020’. We are bringing our expertise to cultural events: Mills for
 example as consulted on the Leeds City Museum exhibition ‘Sounds of The City’ (2020) and to
 the ‘Joni Mitchell Event’, which was part of Garforth Festival, in July 2014. He is currently a
 consultant on a Davy Jones documentary in production.

 In addition to the cultural conversations detailed above, we have written for the Conversation
 (Kilvington, Mills) and Mills has shared his work with festival audiences (‘In Conversation’
 session on The Monkees, Roundhay Festival October 2015) and we reach wider audiences
 through media coverage and interviews. Recently Kilvington was on interviewed live from Stoke


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 City on BBC Asian Network discussing racism in football in ‘The Big Debate’. Kilvington was
 also involved in a Sky News Tackling Racism programme in September 2019.

 Interdisciplinarity
 The value of interdisciplinary research is that it offers new paradigms through which to work and
 think, and helps to underscore the value of humanities subjects. Much of our work already takes
 place at the borders of our discipline, since so many of the fields of Media Studies intersect with
 other subject domains. The thinking that underpins Raisborough’s work on class, age and
 weight stigma, for instance, exemplifies how the careful understanding of media constructs can
 help to unpick the assumptions that perpetuate inequity. Our two case studies also demonstrate
 the necessity for media scholars to think outside rigid definitions of discipline, and the value of
 working collaboratively outside those confines. Most recently, Raisborough in collaboration
 with two colleagues from English, has begun to consider questions of ageing in culture and in
 society, questions which focus on the sociology of media, the business of creative industries,
 and modes of representation. Interdisciplinary collaboration has been a productive mode of
 action for us, and we expect to build on this for the future.

 Advancing Media
 Since Media became a unit in its own right, we have made significant progress in building our
 research environment, while not sacrificing the advantages of working closely with colleagues
 across disciplinary boundaries. We have increased our PGR numbers, increased both our
 bidding activity and have seen success. We have produced many more research outputs than
 in previous REF periods – which we believe to have real quality. We have found a way to sustain
 our work by placing it alongside our teaching and other activities, and by constructing systems
 that make our progress sustainable. We see our future as one where we will continue the ethical
 commitments of our work and see ongoing improvements in the indicators of success alongside
 clear evidence of real-world effects. Our strategy described above is characterised by a capacity
 building - developing relationships and collaborations – to help us realise our ambition to
 undertake purposeful work.




                                                                                             Page 11
