Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University

 Unit of Assessment: 34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since our first REF submission in 2014, this unit has undergone a significant transformation
 resulting in the merger of the departments of Media and Performing Arts to form a new
 Department of Creative Arts in 2020. This reflects a growing closeness in research (and
 teaching) objectives and this combination of disciplines underpins the current submission.
 Following REF2014, the unit has achieved its strategic objectives: it has consolidated and
 expanded its intellectual research infrastructure; supported research that responds to the
 agendas of creative industries, marginalised and grassroots groups and communities;
 considerably improved support for staff research development; enhanced the postgraduate
 research culture, and has significantly increased external grant capture. As a result, the unit has
 expanded in size from 12.3 to 19.2 FTE with more than 25% being submitted to the REF for the
 first time. The research strategy has supported and enabled staff to secure grants from AHRC,
 British Academy, Leverhulme and NESTA and funding from The Vegan Society, Arts Council,
 and Wakefield Council. This reflects a more than 1343% increase in external grant income since
 REF2014. PhD completions have gone from zero in 2014 to 10 during the assessment period,
 and those who have completed their doctoral study with us have gone on to secure academic
 appointments both at EHU and elsewhere.

 Three research clusters existed in 2014. Following a period of consultation, and in light of the
 merger, staff elected to revise these clusters to better reflect the new synergies and dynamic
 range of research in this unit. These clusters facilitate collegial working, the cross fertilisation of
 ideas and support for early and mid-career researchers. They have led to research which is
 transformative, policy relevant and involving end-user participation, specifically in relation to:

    1) Transnational media and audiences:
 We can claim research strengths in transnational television through the work of Andrews,
 Pateman, Wright, and Weissmann whose recent research on transnational television drama is
 funded by a British Academy grant. Within this cluster, Barrett and Evans’ research outputs
 make contributions to transnational cinema scholarship.

     2) Community, identity and political agency:
 Central to this cluster is research on Romanian diaspora, culture and identity (Trandafoiu),
 activist media (Hoey; Parkinson), the Irish Peace Process (Hoey), ageing and queer identity
 (Edward) and community arts festivals (Evans).Through the work of Parkinson, the unit is
 home to the Centre for Human Animal Studies (CfHAS) and at the forefront of work in critical
 animal and media studies (CAMS): this includes two AHRC funded projects on multispecies
 storytelling and community landscape decision-making, and the impact case on 'Rethinking
 relationships with animals as food, companions and entertainment’,

     3) Critical production studies and audio-visual cultures:
 This cluster comprises work on critical practice (McQuillan), experimental film practice (Jukes;
 Snazell) and research in film sound, sound art and music (Johnston, Daniel, Meikle,
 Mollaghan, Pratt, Schrimshaw and Witts) and includes Johnston’s Leverhulme-funded project
 on music libraries and screen cultures. Staff in this unit have also continued to contribute to
 international scholarship on the work of Humphrey Jennings (Evans), Leonora Carrington
 (Shannon and Markova), Joss Whedon (Pateman), Fatih Akin (Evans), Roger Corman
 (Johnston) and Christopher Nolan (Parkinson). From this cluster comes our second impact
 case study on on the life and work of Leonora Carrington in partnership with TATE Liverpool.




                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research strategy
 Following REF2014, the first strategic objective for this unit was to consolidate and extend the
 intellectual research infrastructure. To achieve this, we:

    a) Encouraged and supported close alignment and integration with the University’s research
       institutes (Institute for Creative Enterprise (ICE) and Institute for Social Responsibility
       (ISR)), research centres and groups. These alignments have been vital to the
       development of grant applications, knowledge exchange and impact activities; and
       offering support, mentoring, peer review and networking opportunities. Combined these
       have improved the quality of applications and the success rate in grant capture.
    b) Expanded the unit’s research seminar series to give staff and PGRs additional
       opportunities to present their research to colleagues (internal and external), develop new
       research ideas, and network with fellow researchers from the UK and abroad.
    c) Increased membership of the Departmental Research Ethics Committee to involve those
       new to research in the ethics review process and more fully embed research integrity into
       our processes. For example, after being awarded their PhDs, Hoey and Jukes were
       included on the ethics committee and Edward was part of the working group that drafted
       the institutional guidance on researching ‘the self’.
    d) In recognition of the strategic imperative to build capacity in practice-research leadership
       and practice-led PGR supervision, the Department Research Committee convened a
       practice-as-research (PaR) Group with a remit to: provide peer support through meetings
       and discussion, identify opportunities for PaR, and develop collaborative projects and
       activities.
    e) To increase capacity in key areas, specifically peer review of external grant applications,
       research supervisory capacity, and experience in practice-based research, we enhanced
       research leadership via the appointment of two experienced professors (Pateman and
       McQuillan) as Head of Department (HoD) and Director of ICE in 2018. These
       appointments complemented the existing research leadership provided by three
       professors (Evans, Parkinson, Pratt) and four readers (Edward, Trandafoiu,
       Weissmann, Witts).

 The UOA’s second strategic objective was to realise the wider benefits of the collaborative
 working and practice orientation that has always underpinned our work. Thus, we needed to
 develop and sustain mechanisms to support impact and knowledge exchange.

 Our research focuses mainly on the agendas of cultural and creative industries, marginalised
 groups, communities and advocacy organisations. This is reflected in the unit’s two impact case
 studies, one of which has championed the artistic and cultural significance of the
 Lancastrian/Mexican surrealist Leonora Carrington, based on collaboration with Tate Liverpool,
 Arts Council England and Fundación Leonora Carrington (Mexico). The second case study
 includes research undertaken by members of CfHAS on relationships with animals as food,
 companions and entertainment that has underpinned impacts in both charity and advocacy
 groups’ digital content, public communication and campaign strategies.

 Since REF2014, knowledge exchange activities in this unit have increased substantially, and
 impact considerations are embedded at an early stage in research plans. To develop support for
 impact and knowledge exchange, the approach has been three-fold:
    a) Training: we have worked with the University Impact Manager and University Impact
        Fellow to arrange a series of impact and knowledge exchange training sessions,
        workshops, and meetings for staff. These have been in addition to training offered by the
        University and have, for example, dealt with topics specific to the unit such as creative
        practice and impact.
    b) The development of projects and activities in collaboration with institutional
        research groups, institutes and centres: Close links between the unit and University
        research institutes, centres and groups have given staff access to a wide range of
        stakeholders, networks and knowledge exchange opportunities which promotes


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       exchange and encourages research beneficiaries to be involved in research projects
       from the outset (see section 4).
    c) Resources with a focus on ongoing individual tailored support and concentrated
       blocks of research time: Staff in this unit have also benefitted from awards from the
       University Impact and Knowledge Exchange Fund (IKEF) which provides funding for
       research impact support and teaching buyout: for example, Parkinson received funding
       from IKEF funding to develop her impact case study.

 Over the next five years we aim to develop wider networks of research users and partnerships
 (see section 4). We remain committed to research that delivers impacts for cultural industries
 and marginalised groups and communities, and we will work towards the establishment of a new
 research centre which reflects our collective interests in creative arts, power and inclusion.
 Membership of the centre will be drawn mainly from within the department (especially those in
 the research cluster: Community, identity and political agency) but will be open to staff from
 across the university. This is to be led by Trandafoiu and Hoey.

 The third strategic priority is enhancing support for research staff at all levels. This unit is
 home to practitioners who have come into HE from industry. Some of these colleagues have
 benefitted from support to complete a MRes or PhD. In this assessment period, for example,
 Jukes and Edward were awarded PaR PhDs and are now part of supervisory panels for PaR
 PhDs; Snazell completed a PaR Mres, and there is mentor support through the line
 management structure, for practitioners who wish to develop PaR PhD proposals. As new
 researchers progressed during the cycle to a mid-career stage, it was clear that there needed to
 be a more focused support strategy for staff at all career stages. This has included support for
 applications to the University’s Research Investment Fund, enhancing the research seminar
 series, single semester sabbaticals and concentrated blocks of research time. The Unit has also
 supported 0.4 FTE (internal) secondments (Parkinson and Trandafoiu) to the University’s
 Institute for Social Responsibility (ISR).

 The change in strategy since 2014 has yielded good results for this unit. For example, papers
 delivered by Johnston and Hoey as part of the seminar series were developed into successful
 monograph proposals. Within the assessment period, and for a future REF submission, single
 semester sabbaticals have given staff the time to complete monographs on broadcasting
 biographies (Andrews), Irish film culture in the 1990s (Johnston), diaspora and media policy
 (Trandafoiu) and an edited collection on mobilities on screen (Trandafoiu). The success of RIF
 funding, single semester sabbaticals and concentrated blocks of research time is reflected in the
 production of a slate of monographs (8 included in this submission) as well as edited volumes
 on cinema and politics (Parkinson), drag histories (Edward), drag practices (Edward) media
 and cosmopolitanism (Trandafoiu), and Weissmann’s development of a successful British
 Academy proposal. With funding from the University Conference Travel Grant scheme, staff
 have been supported to present at major national and international conferences that include
 NECS, SCMS, BAFTSS, ECREA, UACES, ICA and MeCCSA. Parkinson’s secondment to ISR
 also led to grants from the AHRC. Staff have also been encouraged and given time to attend
 ISR writing retreats to develop grant applications and book proposals (Trandafoiu, Wright). A
 key outcome for this assessment period is that five staff (Andrews, Hoey, Johnston, Meikle,
 Woodward) are being returned to the REF for the first time.

 REF2014 saw this unit return no PhD awards making enhancement of the postgraduate
 culture a key strategic objective to ensure ongoing investment in the discipline. During this
 assessment period, staff have supervised 10 PhDs to completion, we have substantially
 increased research supervision capacity, and benefitted greatly from the University GTA
 scheme, as well as attracting self-funding doctoral students.

 To achieve this, it was important for this unit to address research supervisory capacity as, in
 2014, only 25% of staff had supervised to completion. Also, with only two PGR students, there
 were few supervisory opportunities. To upskill staff eligible to supervise, they were supported to
 attend research supervisor training and invited to join supervisory panels with more experienced

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff. This has resulted in increased capacity and in this return 90% of staff have supervised to
 completion or are currently supervising PhDs.

 During the REF period, our PGR community has been enriched by the recruitment of
 international students from Brazil, Bulgaria/Belarus, Serbia, Sweden and Turkey. While the GTA
 scheme has been the primary channel by which PhD students are recruited, we have also had
 success in attracting self-funding doctoral students. These students have come via CfHAS
 (Lindahl, Masefield (co-supervised with Social Sciences)) and a visiting PhD student (Capilé),
 through transfer to EHU following the appointment of Andrews (Stubbs) and through direct
 application (Herring). The interdisciplinary character of research in this unit has also meant that
 staff are part of cross-departmental supervisory teams. As a result, three PhD awards
 (supervised by Evans, Parkinson, Trandafoiu) are being returned to other UOAs. For the next
 five years we will continue to build supervisory capacity, especially in PaR, and continue to
 ensure that GTA opportunities reach a diverse array of potential applicants by optimising our
 networks and by working with the Graduate School and International Office. We will also seek to
 secure external funding to support studentships and be imaginative in how we do this by working
 with partners to identify suitable projects.

 The unit is committed to open access and, in addition to uploading journal articles and
 conference proceedings on our research repository, Pure, we will actively encourage and
 support all PaR researchers to make creative outputs available via the university Figshare
 repository. In the next REF cycle, along with promoting OA for journal articles, we will explore
 with Library and Learning Services options for OA books and chapters, for example by working
 with Open Book Publishers, university presses and other providers, building on the steps we
 have already taken with a number of open access chapters available via Pure (including the
 introductory chapter of Andrews’s monograph). We believe that making our work open access
 will make it more accessible and beneficial to other researchers and research users. To ensure
 this culture becomes embedded we will use staff development to ensure that researchers, both
 staff and PGRs, understand the benefits. We believe that a commitment to open research is an
 important way of reaching greater audiences, particularly research-user and HE colleagues in
 developing countries who may not have the same access to libraries and subscriptions.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 Staffing in the department is shaped by our delivery of practice programmes, underpinned
 by theory, and with an emphasis on student employability. As a result, the department is
 home to a mixed economy of mutually-informing theory and practice-led teaching and
 research. The merger between Media and Performing Arts has added to the vitality and
 sustainability of the unit by bringing together researchers from the two areas and increasing
 practice-research capacity which is important to the future development of this unit.

 In this assessment period we undertook an ambitious staffing strategy designed to underpin
 a sustainable research culture. Our recruitment strategy aimed to ensure that, with the
 retirement of Shannon, our senior staff base remained stable and that we addressed a lack
 of early career researchers in the unit.

 To consolidate and expand research and teaching in the areas of television studies, sound
 and music, four new posts were created for early career appointments (Andrews,
 Johnston, Meikle, Mollaghan). For the first time, and due to successful bids for internal and
 external funding, this unit was also able to recruit one postgraduate and two postdoctoral
 research assistants (Herring, Griffin Markova), all of whom contributed to impact case
 studies for this submission. We were also successful in attracting a Leverhulme ECR Fellow
 (Arcari: UOA20) to the department: she is attached to the CfHAS research centre.

 All new starters are supported via probation reviews and all ECRs and PDRAs are given a
 mentor, to assist with research development and making the transition from student to staff

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 member. In line with the ‘Concordat to support the career development of researchers’, all
 postdoctoral appointments on fixed-term contracts are offered the same opportunities for
 training and development as permanent staff, plus access to research and conference
 funds.

 To ensure continued research leadership in the unit, two professorial level appointments
 were made (Pateman, McQuillan) to replace outgoing senior staff and two members of
 staff were promoted (Hoey to SL, Edward to reader), resulting in Edward joining the
 Research Leadership Group (RLG). We also benefitted from the tenure of a funded Visiting
 Professor (Berland, York University, Canada) who presented a series of workshops through
 CfHAS. As a result of this strategy, this REF sees us returning an increased number of staff
 members (from 12.3 in 2014 to 19.2 FTE). We aim to provide flexibility, both informally via
 workload management, and formally via changes to contract: e.g. one part-time staff
 member successfully requested to move to full-time.

 Line management of academic staff in the department is split between the HoD, AHoD, Director
 of Research (DoR) and another professor (UOA27). All staff with significant responsibility for
 research have a time allocation for research which is reviewed annually, develop five-year
 research plans, and meet with a line manager on a regular basis throughout the academic year
 to discuss research. Staff without significant responsibility for research are supported into
 research through a time allowance for enhanced staff development, are assigned a research
 mentor and meet with their line manager and the DoR to develop a research plan. Using this
 approach, Woodward was supported to undertake a PhD which she completed in 2013 and is
 being returned to this REF for the first time. Jukes and Edward were also awarded PaR PhDs
 and Snazell completed a PaR MRes. Other practice staff are also being mentored to develop
 research independence with a view to them identified for the next REF.

 Annual performance and development reviews (PDRs) are used to support all staff with
 progression, identify training and development needs, and to review research plans. To give
 opportunities for progression and to ensure succession planning, all roles in the department,
 other than HoD and AHoD, are assigned on a rolling basis. When a role becomes available
 staff, including those on part-time contracts, are invited to submit expressions of interest
 and go through an internal interview process.

 The RLG, which includes professors, readers and postgraduate coordinator, was formed to
 ensure that research mentoring takes place across the unit and less experienced researchers
 and practitioners are linked with established researchers. Research mentoring in the unit has
 encouraged and enabled staff to apply for internal sources of funding and support such as the
 Research Investment Fund (RIF), Conference Travel Fund and a writing retreat which is offered
 twice yearly through ISR. The unit has also expanded the research seminar series, creating time
 and space for staff to present and discuss research ideas and conference papers with a
 supportive peer group. Research is consequently more embedded in the daily life of the
 department.

 Over the next five years we will support staff new to research and develop our excellent
 researchers. We aim to increase the number of staff returned to the next REF by 30%.
 Practitioners who, at present, do not have significant responsibility for research will be supported
 to develop research and knowledge exchange activities. Practitioners in the unit will benefit from
 the merger between Media and Performing Arts as this now brings together a critical mass of
 staff engaged in creative practice research, which is well established in the Performing Arts area
 through the work of the Professor of Theatre Praxis (Newall UOA27), and enhanced by the
 appointment of McQuillan. The retention of excellent researchers is strategically important to
 this unit to foster continuity, transferability of skills and succession planning. We will also
 continue to encourage a supportive and sustainable research culture through the research
 seminar programme, peer review of funding bids, ongoing mentorship and engagement with
 ICE, ISR and research centres and groups.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research students
 PGRs are important to the vitality of the unit. We are committed to investing in the next
 generation of researchers so growing the PGR community (MRes, GTAs and PhDs) has been
 central to our research strategy. We view PGRs as early-stage researchers and we aim to
 support them to become independent researchers by providing them with resources which, as a
 unit, we complement the central provision of the Graduate School.

 On arrival, GTAs have an induction, are assigned a line manager and have regular ‘keep-in-
 touch’ meetings throughout the academic year; these include probationary meetings every three
 months for the first year to identify support needs in relation to teaching duties. This is additional
 to the support from the supervisory panel which focuses on training and support needs in
 relation to research. GTAs are supported to complete a PGCHE by having teaching duties
 structured around their research. Most GTAs in this unit take up the opportunity and successfully
 complete the qualification during their contract, which has enhanced their employability.

 PGRs receive research training through the Graduate School (GS) and are funded to attend
 national and international conferences via funds from both the Department and GS, where they
 are also encouraged to attend doctoral events. Doctoral students have a supervisory team of
 two or three and students meet with one or more of the supervisory team regularly over the
 academic year. During these meetings one-on-one advice is given both on the research
 topic/material, alongside broader mentoring as required. With the expansion of the PGR
 community, we have introduced a postgraduate reading group which meets regularly throughout
 the semester and opportunities are available for PGR students to present papers as part of the
 department research seminar series. PGR students have access to funding from the department
 and GS to attend focused, methodological training where appropriate. Full-time PGRs take an
 average of 3.5 years to complete their studies.

 With the expansion of our PGR community has come the need to upskill our staff for
 supervision. Initial supervisor training is provided by the Graduate School and then twice yearly
 within the department. Supervisors also undertake viva chair training provided by the Graduate
 School and chair registration and progression vivas across the three faculties, with more senior
 staff chairing final vivas. The Unit also seeks to support ECRs and those new to supervision by
 ensuring that supervisory teams reflect differing levels of experience. This recognises that those
 who have just completed their PhD are closest to the processes and thus have a different skill
 set to those with longer careers, and so also enhances the supervisory experience for the
 student. This mixing of supervisory teams also allows ECRs to develop their skills with a view to
 leading teams in the future.

 Those who completed their doctoral study in the assessment period have been successful in
 finding academic positions. For example, as postdoctoral researchers at University of Leeds
 (Killick), British Academy’s Newton International Postdoctoral Fellow in the Institute for
 Diplomacy and International Governance at Loughborough University (Ozduzen), Edge Hill
 University (Herring) and in lecturing positions at Staffordshire University (Stubbs), Liverpool John
 Moores University (Killick), Brunel University (Ozduzen) and Middlesex University (Lad).
 Following a review of postgraduate teaching, a new suite of MAs is planned (MA Creative
 Enterprise, MA Creative Production Management, MA Film) that will build on research strengths
 in the department and will support transition to PhD for those interested in a research career.
 Over the next five years we aim to double the number of PhD completions; while we will
 continue to benefit from the GTA scheme for the recruitment of PGR students, we will aim to
 increase the number of funded PhDs via our research centres.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 We are also committed to promoting equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) and all staff in
 the unit undertake mandatory EDI training. The Department of Creative Arts has already put
 measures in place to decolonise its curricula over the next five years and recognises that
 research must also do the same. In response, senior management set up an Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion task and finish group, led by Weissmann, which works closely with the unit’s

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Leadership Group. Although in the early stages of developing our strategy, in 2020 the
 unit held two decolonising workshops and Barrett organised a series of Black Lives Matter
 lightning talks to launch the International Centre on Racism. We acknowledge the lack of ethnic
 diversity in this unit and we are committed to addressing this over the next five years, and so we
 are currently drafting a policy to address this. Key tenets of this will include the appointment of
 BAME visiting professors and researchers and by making the GTA scheme more attractive to
 BAME PhD students. We will put additional measures in place to support part-time doctoral
 study, and ensuring maximum diversity in supervisory teams, where practical and possible.

 The unit is approaching gender balance across the piece; while female researchers make up
 nearly half of the staff in this unit (47%), this balance is not evident at all levels, and so there is
 still work to be done. The 19.2 staff in the unit comprise of five professors, four readers, ten
 senior lecturers and one lecturer. In senior positions, two of the four readers and 1 of the five
 professors are female. We believe it is vital that we encourage initiatives which support the
 progression of female researchers. To this end, the Advance HE Aurora leadership
 development programme for women is actively promoted by the department and staff are
 supported to attend the programme through University funded places: ‘Auroran’ Barrett was
 subsequently seconded to an Associate Head of Department (AHoD) role, taking on a
 leadership role in academic quality standards, and is now Deputy Director of the
 International Centre on Racism. To help broaden the range of mentors, particularly access
 to senior women, we will promote greater engagement with the University mentoring
 programme managed by HR. This matches staff with mentors outside of the department,
 which provides an alternative perspective and the opportunity, where appropriate, to be
 mentored by senior women in other disciplines or professional services. Building on the
 University’s Athena Swan Bronze Award (2015, renewed 2019), we intend to make an
 Athena Swan application in the next two years.

 The University is also a mindful employer, committed to supporting mental health and
 wellbeing and a disability confident employer committed to recruiting, supporting,
 developing and retaining disabled staff. The unit has flexible working patterns and remote
 working to support staff with caring responsibilities, disabilities and health conditions. For
 example, where COVID-19 restrictions have made it necessary, staff in this unit have been
 supported to work remotely, restructure their working patterns, access counselling services,
 have regular ‘keep-in-touch’ meetings with their line managers, and those with parental
 responsibilities have had the opportunity to take periods of special leave. To support
 wellbeing all staff are encouraged to take annual leave throughout the academic year rather
 than as one large block during the summer.

 Research leave, supported via internal funding or through workload management, is
 prioritised for those staff who are, regardless of career stage, new to research, returning to
 research, using internal funding as a stepping-stone to a larger external grant application, or
 have secured a contract for a monograph (see section 3).

 Staff returning from parental leave are also assigned a named contact in HR and supported
 by staged return, managed workloads and prioritisation for internal funding (RIF),
 concentrated blocks of research time and single semester sabbaticals. Staff in the
 department have benefitted from these various initiatives. Five staff returning from extended
 leave, including parental leave, in this REF period were supported through staged return
 and managed workloads with some receiving RIF funds to support their return to research.
 This included supporting teaching relief resulting in a monograph (for next REF period) and
 edited collections.

 The DoR, with support from an appointed REF coordinator, has managed the REF process.
 Peer review was undertaken by all staff with significant responsibility for research. There
 was external review of a selection of outputs from staff at all career stages. The process has
 been underpinned by support from the Research Office and collaboration with other panel D
 UOA co-ordinators.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 We recognised the importance of securing income to ensure the sustainability of the
 unit and this has been a key strategic target for this REF period. External funding reported
 for REF2014 prompted a focus on strategy to significantly increase grant income. This was
 achieved by introducing a more robust internal review process for grant applications within the
 unit, identifying senior researchers to provide focussed mentorship and guidance at the grant
 development stage, and enhanced feedback on applications from a panel of professors and
 readers. In addition, staff development has included training and workshops on writing grant
 applications provided by ICE, ISR and the Research Office. It was also important that staff were
 made aware of funding calls and these are now disseminated directly to relevant staff in the unit.
 Strategic management of workloads has made blocks of time available to researchers at all
 career stages to write funding bids while internal funds (RIF and IKEF) have been used to pump-
 prime external grant applications. Senior researchers have also been supported to apply for a
 0.4 year-long secondment to ISR as a fellow to write grant applications: Parkinson was ISR
 Fellow in 2019-2020, and Trandafoiu in 2020-2021.

 We have expanded our scope to develop more ambitious funding applications
 supported by the strategy described above. During this assessment period, income has
 risen to £129,594 with funding from research councils, foundations, charities and public
 bodies. We draw direct links between the support infrastructure put in place, identified
 above, and on-going grant capture. Recently, Parkinson was awarded two AHRC grants for
 ‘Multispecies storytelling: more than human narratives about landscape (£36,204) and
 ‘Multisensory multispecies storytelling to engage disadvantaged groups in changing landscapes
 (£81,018), following her ISR secondment, and is now co-applicant on a £2 million AHRC grant
 application ‘Tree stories: multispecies connections of past, present and future’. Weissmann
 received a £7,060 British Academy/Leverhulme Trust Small Grant for ‘Transnational Television
 Drama in the Multiplatform Age’ following support from the RIF fund. McQuillan received a
 £9,500 British Academy/Leverhulme Trust Small Grant for ‘Jacques Derrida-Paul de Man
 Correspondence’. Parkinson received £11,000 from The Vegan Society for the ‘Pathways to
 Veganism’ project. This project was subsequently supported by the IKEF fund to facilitate
 impact. McQuillan was awarded £20,000 from the Elsinore Foundation Denmark (£20,000) and
 SCAPE films provided £6,995 for ‘The Philosopher’s Hamlet’, a project which was then match
 funded by EHU with £10,000 RIF funding and £10,000 IKEF funding. The university supported
 the Carrington impact case study through the appointment of a PDRA (Markova) to work with
 Shannon. The conference fund supported Markova to present research supporting the impact
 case study at international conferences in Puerto Rico, Gothenburg and New York.

 Overall, the unit’s strategy has resulted in eleven successful applications to a range of funders
 with six awards being split over this and the next REF period demonstrating an upward trajectory
 and improved overheads to support sustainability. The growth in experience of successful grant
 applications will also provide enhanced mentorship and peer review capacity to support an
 increase in high quality external funding applications over the next REF period. For those
 starting on their grant bidding journey, we will support them to identify the most appropriate
 funders, including the Arts Council and the British Academy, and align research with funder
 priorities where appropriate. We help all applicants revise strong but unsuccessful bids to make
 them more attractive to other funders. We will also ensure that researchers are aware of funder
 priorities and how their research engages with those. We will use this strategy to support our
 ambition to double the unit’s research income.

 Staff in this unit make significant contributions to university, faculty and departmental research
 and other infrastructures. This ensures that the creative arts, and research pertaining to the
 discipline, are well represented at the University-level, but also facilitates the building of cross-
 University networks, promoting interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary activity, and research
 collaboration. Head of Department Pateman is member of the Faculty Management Group; ICE
 Director McQuillan sits on the University Research Committee and University Research

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategy Group, Parkinson is Director of Research, member of the Faculty Research
 Committee, Chair of the Research Leadership Group, and Co-director of the interdisciplinary
 Centre for Human Animal Studies (CfHAS). Barrett is Deputy Director of the International
 Centre on Racism (ICR), Trandafoiu is Deputy Director of the Migration Working Group North
 West, Jukes leads the departmental PaR Group. Trandafoiu is member of the ISR
 Management Team, the ISR Strategy Group, ISR External Advisory Group, the RIF Steering
 Group (which decides on grant allocations) and the Arts and Humanities Research Ethics
 Committee. Jukes, Parkinson and Pateman are board members of ICE and the ISR Members’
 Group includes Evans, and Parkinson. Andrews is the PGR Co-ordinator and works closely
 with the Graduate School, Hoey sits on the Graduate Board of Studies.

 Creative Arts has two buildings, Creative Edge and The Arts Centre, which together house two
 TV studios, recording studios, edit suites, animation studios, photographic studio, radio studio,
 rehearsal rooms, two theatres, dance studios, theatre construction workshop, recital room,
 music practice studios and an outdoor performance area. The Arts Centre Rose Theatre has a
 café, exhibition space and art foyer. Creative Edge has a large foyer for exhibitions and
 performances, a dedicated PGR room and is home to CfHAS with office space for postgraduate
 research assistants and visiting research staff. PaR projects and knowledge exchange activities
 are supported by a twelve-person technical team.

 The Research Leadership Group (RLG) and the Department Research Committee (DRC)
 facilitate research in the department. The RLG which meets six times per year focuses on
 implementing strategies to support research across the unit. The DRC meets three times
 per year and acts as a bridge between the Faculty Research Committee and the
 Department. The DRC is open to all members of staff from across the department including
 PGRs. Its remit is to act as a point of dissemination and discussion, to receive and consider
 reports, and provide feedback to the RLG, Graduate Board of Studies and Faculty Research
 Committee.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We believe that research should extend beyond academia and staff in this unit work closely with
 the research institutes and centres to organise events that engage with academic and non-
 academic stakeholders, to ensure that research is of benefit to a wide range of people. As such
 we seek out connections, collaborations and networks that enhance our understanding and
 quality of creative arts research, look to widen the reach of our research outcomes through the
 creation of knowledge and ensure relevance through impact. To that end, we seek to engage in
 events that are tied to the main research themes of the unit and the strategic priorities of the
 university research institutes and centres. We also seek to shape the field of creative arts more
 broadly through engagement in learned societies, through membership of editorial boards, and
 keynote speaking engagements.

 Research in the community, identity and political agency cluster of this unit has, through the
 nature of the topics covered, placed strong emphasis on public engagement, and community
 intervention with a wide range of beneficiaries. Examples include:

 Political agency: knowledge exchange events responding to key debates that involve
 marginalised groups. The ‘Beyond Benefits Street’ symposium (2014) invited academics,
 journalists, members of the public and media professionals to debate ‘poverty porn’ and attend a
 screening of the film The Condition of the Working Class with a filmmaker’s Q&A. We followed
 this with a 2014 public screening of Common and Q&A session with Jimmy McGovern (writer),
 David Blair (director), Colin McKeown (producer) and Jan Cuncliffe (Founder of Joint Enterprise:
 Not Guilty by Association (Jengba), convened to discuss controversial interpretations of common
 enterprise law. The following year, a symposium ‘Critical Approaches to the Northern Ireland
 Peace Process’, organised by Hoey, discussed representation, culture and identity in Northern
 Ireland.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Arts and wellbeing: In 2015 and in conjunction with Tate Liverpool, Evans co-organized the
 symposium ‘Breaking Into the Temples of Culture: Exploring Arts, Health and Wellbeing
 Initiatives in the Community’ with keynote speakers Nick Ewbank, co-author of the AHRC-funded
 report Cultural Value and Social Capital: Investigating Social Capital, Health and Wellbeing
 Impacts in Three Coastal Towns Undergoing Culture-Led Regeneration (2014), and John E
 McGrath, Artistic Director of National Theatre Wales. This led to Evans’ collaboration with
 Wakefield Council on the evaluation of the Culture Cures programme, and with Canterbury
 Christ Church University on the Cultural Engagement for Wellbeing project. He is also an invited
 member of the Royal Society for Public Health’s Special Interest Group for Arts, Health and
 Wellbeing, Culture, Health and Wellbeing Alliance, and the Merseyside Arts and Health
 Assembly. Evans’s report to Wakefield Council made fourteen recommendations, all of which
 they have enacted, or will be enacted. Evans also presented the findings of the Culture Cures
 evaluation and introduced the Culture Cures documentary at the Nova AGM and Big
 Conversation on Social Prescribing at the Unity Hall, Wakefield, alongside Shadow Minister for
 Mental Health and Social Care, Paula Sherriff MP. The findings were also presented at the
 inaugural Culture Health and Wellbeing Alliance (CHWA) conference at the Great North
 Museum in March 2019.

 Reflecting diasporas: In 2018, Trandafoiu co-organised with the Romanian Consulate
 Manchester and the Romanian Cultural institute London, a cultural event celebrating the
 Romanian state’s centenary. Entitled ‘Queen of the Damned: Vampires and Knights in British
 and Romanian Culture’, it included a photographic exhibition on the role of Romanian women in
 World War One, an academic symposium and a film screening. The event was attended by
 academics, the general public, members of the diplomatic corps and migration/diasporic
 associations. Trandafoiu has also collaborated with Migrant Workers Sefton Community charity
 (Southport), The Whitechapel Centre (Liverpool) and Europia charity (Manchester) on her
 ‘Impact of Brexit’ project. In 2018-2019 Trandafoiu advised Save Romania Union (Romanian
 political party) and diaspora senator Radu Mihail on the party’s diaspora policy.

 Community decision-making and activism: Through the work of CfHAS and Parkinson’s AHRC
 projects on multispecies storytelling and community decision making, we have research
 partnerships with The Vegan Society, National Autistic Society, Natural England, Blackpool
 Council, Chapel Gallery (Ormskirk), Williamson Art Gallery (Manchester), Burscough Community
 Farm and Wildfowl and Wetland Trust Martin Mere. In addition to a public seminar series, events
 organised by CfHAS brought together advocacy organisations and charities, academics, artists,
 businesses and members of the public for conferences, symposia and workshops that included
 the ‘Animals: Ethics, sustainability, sentience’ conference in 2014, ‘Animals and Social Change’
 conference and workshops in 2017, ‘The Beast and The Sovereign: Jacques Derrida and other
 animals’ symposium in 2019, and the ‘Multispecies storytelling: who speaks on behalf of
 animals?’ symposium and ‘Multispecies Heritage’ conference in 2020.

 These and other research collaborations have also resulted in the co-delivery of workshops by
 Parkinson (National Ecosystem Assessment Follow On Meeting for Decision and Policy
 Makers, London, 2014) the development of a handbook for vegan advocacy groups (Vegan
 Pathways Toolkit, 2020) and research reports and recommendations for The Vegan Society;
 Parkinson’s impact case study reflects collaborations with The Vegan Society, The Animal
 History Museum, Animal Equality and eco-media organisation Planet Shine. Similarly, Hoey
 collaborates with The National Football Museum, Celtic Football Club, The Mayor of Liverpool
 City region, Fans Supporting Foodbanks, On the Ball period poverty campaign, Fans Against
 Criminalisation, and the Kick It Out anti-racist campaign to create a network focussed on football
 fan activism. Jukes is part of a knowledge exchange collaboration between Ormskirk residents,
 West Lancashire Borough Council and Historic England which will create animation projects with
 local schools and VR archive of Ormskirk.

 Our research in the areas of transnational media and audiences and critical production
 studies and audio-visual cultures have, through their nature, led to collaborative working with
 a range of stakeholders from the creative and cultural industries. Examples include:

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The 2014 symposium ‘Re-imaging Regional Television Drama: Women as Agents of Cultural
 Change’ convened by Weissmann was a response to gender inequalities in the industry with
 speakers Helen Cross (writer), Emma Lennox (writer), and Dhivya Chetty (producer-director).

 The 2015 ICE ‘Independent States’ Conference with specialist panels convened by Hoey
 debated the state of independent creative production in the UK. Speakers included Eddie Berg
 (Director of Partnerships, BFI) and Eric McKay (VP International Business Affairs & Business
 Development, VEVO) Professor Sue Clayton (filmmaker, Royal Holloway), Dr Yannis
 Tzioumakis (University of Liverpool), Laura Brown (journalist), Neil Atkinson (filmmaker,
 producer), Peter Guy (journalist and blogger), Iain Christie (Marketing Director Royal Court
 Theatre/Liverpool Comedy Festival). The conference was followed a few weeks later by the
 Northern Powerhouse and Film Policy roundtable, convened by Shannon (retired 2018) to
 discuss key issues in film policy with Eddie Berg (BFI), Nik Powell (producer and Director,
 National Film and Television School), Jason Wood (Artistic Director of Film at HOME,
 Manchester), Hugo Heppell (Head of Screen Yorkshire Content Fnd), Lynn Saunders (Liverpool
 Film Office) and Jo Wright (Executive Director, FACT).

 The ECREA bi-annual conference, a significant event in the international calendar for this
 subject area, was co-organised by Weissmann in 2014, 2016 and 2018. Weissmann also
 coordinates and co-edits the ECREA blog and in 2018 organised the Critical Studies in
 Television Conference. Keynote speakers included Ruchi Kerr Jaggi (Pune, India), Kristyn
 Gorton (York University), Eva Novrup Redvall (Copenhagen), Derek Kompare (Southern
 Methodist University, Dallas). The three days included a public talk ‘Capturing Locality in
 Television Production’, with Len Gowing, Director of Photography on Scott & Bailey and Moving
 On.

 Our close association with Tate Liverpool has resulted in collaborative events including the ‘In
 Conversation’ ICE public event hosted by Jukes with Darren Pih Exhibition Curator TATE
 Liverpool’s ‘Op Art in Focus’. Other collaborations with Everyman Theatre Liverpool included
 McQuillan and Pateman’s ‘The Brilliant Bard’, a series of masterclasses, workshops and study
 days, part of the Shakespeare Festival.

 International Collaboration
 Since 2014, the reputation of the unit has been enhanced through the international links driven
 by staff activities. These include:
      • A long-term and ongoing relationship with Ann Arbour Film Festival (Evans, Snazell)
      • The UK/Sino Creative Animation Knowledge Exchange (Jukes).
      • AHRC/UK-China Creative Industries Partnership which explores and exchanges best
          practice in developing young people to become creative talents from the view of the
          creative industries and the higher education sector in Liverpool and Shanghai (Pateman,
          McQuillan).
      • Canada/USA/UK collaboration on ‘Digital Animalities’. A four-year project (2016-2020)
          examining the impact of technologies on human-animal relationships. SSHRC (Canada)
          funded collaboration with York University, Toronto (Parkinson)
 Members of the Unit have also been engaged as visiting fellows and networks at overseas
 Institutions – again both enhancing the reputation of the Unit, but also extending our reach and
 influence on the field. Specifically, Pateman was Scholar in Residence at the Mudra Institute of
 Communications, Ahmedabad, India (2014). Parkinson was Visiting Professor at the Kassel
 University Summer School on Interspecies Relationality (2019). Wright is Council Member of
 the New Zealand Studies Association (NZSA). Evans is co-founder and co-director of the ECRF
 (European Cinema Research Forum) with Professor Graeme Harper (Oakland, USA).
 Parkinson is on the advisory board of the University of Vienna International Network for Cultural
 and Social Studies on Vegetarianism and Veganism.

 Key to ongoing staff development within the unit is regular attendance at the main disciplinary
 conferences in the field (SCMS, ECREA, NECS, BAFTTS, MeCSSA). As such staff are
 supported through time allocation and funding to attend these key meetings. In addition to article

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development, such attendance facilitates networking, upskilling through associated training,
 meeting journal editors, and extending the reputation of the Unit.

 During this period we have also used keynote and plenary talks to further enhance the
 reputation of the Unit. These engagements also reflect the interdisciplinarity of our research and
 include; Edward’s keynote at the 2014 Elixir Festival ‘Art of Age’ conference at Sadler’s Wells.
 Parkinson’s plenary at the British Sociological Association Conference AHSG (University of
 Leeds, 2014) and keynote addresses at the European Association of Critical Animal Studies
 Conference (EACAS) (Barcelona, 2019), International Society for Anthrozoology (ISAZ)
 Conference (Sydney 2018) and ESSIR Summer School (Kassel University, Germany 2019),
 Pateman’s keynotes at the H G Wells Society Conference (University of Durham, 2014) and
 Interdisciplinary Bible Studies Group and Sheffield Gothic Buffy and The Bible conference
 (Sheffield University, 2019). Weissmann’s keynote at the La Sociedad Española de Estudios
 Literarios de Cultura Popular (SELICUP) Conference (University of La Coruña, Spain, 2016).

 Invitations to speak were also extended to members of the Unit from Lund University, Wurzburg
 University, Sao Paulo University, Humane Society International Washington DC, Pufendorf
 Institute, Sweden (Parkinson), Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada (Johnston) and Kent
 State University (Pateman). Such invitations are a measure of the growing international esteem
 of this unit and recognition of our research strengths in critical animal and media studies, and
 transnational television.

 Invitations to speak at public events also testify to the reach of our research. These include,
 Parkinson at the 2014 Green Party Conference Policy for Health, Social Justice and
 Sustainability Fringe Debate. Evans was an invited speaker at British Film Institute in 2019.
 Pateman was invited panellist on "The University at War?", University English AGM, St. Anne's
 College, Oxford in 2016, Andrews was an invited contributor to the roundtable ‘Teaching
 Television Now, ‘State of Play: Television Scholarship in TV IV’ (2018) and Parkinson chaired
 the ‘Humans and their nonhumans’ public debate at the British Library, (2015). Trandafoiu was
 invited to speak at the Global Romanian Society of Young Professionals Conference (London
 2017); Merseyside Skeptics Society (Liverpool 2019) and the Romanian Honorary Consulate
 (Liverpool, 2017) and delivered briefing sessions at Liverpool Central Library at the invitation of
 the Romanian Consul in Manchester.

 The unit believes that all staff should engage with the discipline and contribute to its
 development in the broader sense. Staff are encouraged and supported through allocated time
 for research to take on roles to advance scholarship such as editorial posts, peer review, and
 advisory roles, all of which are recognised as important to promotion and progression.

 Staff in this unit are co-founding editor of the international journal Studies in European Cinema
 (Taylor and Francis) and Journal of Popular European Culture (Intellect) (Evans). They are also
 members of the Critical Studies in Television editorial team (Andrews), the executive board of
 editors of Critical Studies in Television, the editorial board of the Journal of Popular Television
 and Media and Communication (until 2019) and, until November 2016, was vice-chair of the
 Television Studies Section of ECREA (Weissman).

 Other staff have editorial roles with Creative Industries Journal (Trandafoiu) The New
 Soundtrack, and Music, Sound, and the Moving Image (Johnston) International Journal of
 Scottish Theatre and Screen and International Journal of Whedon Studies (Pateman), SF Story
 Worlds: Critical Studies in Science Fiction (Woodward) and Journal of Animal Sentience
 (Parkinson).

 Indicative of the interdisciplinarity of CfHAS and of research in this unit, Parkinson also sits on
 the advisory boards of Trace: Journal of writing, media and ecology, Antennae: Journal of Art &
 Nature, GUP Animal Voices/Animal Worlds book series, Encyclopaedia for Cultural and Social
 Studies on Vegetarianisms and Veganism, Journal of Animal Ethics (until Nov. 2015) and was


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 specialist contributor on media studies for the British Animal Studies Network ‘Living
 Bibliography of Animal Studies’.

 We also contribute to the research base nationally and internationally through our review
 activities. Evans, Parkinson and Trandafoiu review for the AHRC. Evans and Trandafoiu are
 members of the AHRC Peer Review College and in 2019 they both received a Gold Standard
 Letter in recognition of their consistently high level of performance and extremely valuable
 contributions. Evans is a strategic reviewer for the AHRC, was appointed to the AHRC Covid-19
 Expert Peer Review Group and has also reviewed for the Medical Research Council. At an
 international level we review for The Royal Society Te Apārangi (New Zealand) (Parkinson),
 Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, (Canada) (Parkinson) Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft (German Research Foundation), Fulbright Commission (Trandafoiu),
 Research Council of Norway and Austria’s FWF (Wissenschaftsfond) (Weissmann).

 Across the unit, staff review for 34 different journals as well as major publishers in the subject
 area including I. B. Taurus, Berghahn, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, Lantern Books,
 Edinburgh University Press, Manchester University Press, Columbia University Press, Oxford
 University Press, WLU Press, Bloomsbury, Wiley-Blackwell, Rowman and Littlefield, Liverpool
 University Press and University of Nebraska Press.

 Finally, we have already begun to develop research impact in the areas of arts and wellbeing
 through Evans’ work with Wakefield Council and Leigh Film Festival, community decision-
 making through Parkinson’s AHRC-funded research, and from Edward’s work on drag,
 performance, sexuality and ageing, Trandafoiu’s research on Romanian diaspora, culture and
 identity and Hoey’s work with football fan activist and community media groups, the outcomes of
 which will fall in a future REF submission.

 Through these collaborations and other research activities the unit contributes to the reputation
 of the discipline, with some novel research in key areas that benefits society, industry and
 culture, animal advocacy, environment and sustainability, health and wellbeing, diaspora policy,
 and enhances the political agency of marginalised groups.




                                                                                              Page 13
