Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: B-12 Engineering


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview

As engineers, our overarching goal is to make the world a better place. We are committed to
undertaking excellent fundamental research and creating discipline-leading innovations to address
key global socio-economic challenges. It is ingrained in our research culture that discoveries drive
innovation, and innovation drives discoveries. This research lifecycle is fostered by a vibrant,
diverse and inclusive multidisciplinary environment. To connect and bring together our academic
departments and translational centres, we have defined four challenge-driven research themes,
shaped by societal grand challenges:

   •   Energy with a mission to create low/zero-carbon technologies and systems and to address
       the energy security, sustainability, and affordability challenges of the 21st century.
   •   Infrastructure and Environment aims to deliver innovative transdisciplinary research that
       enables sustainability, and resilience in response to demographic and climate change.
   •   Manufacturing works with regional, national, and international partners to meet global
       competitiveness and sustainability challenges via fundamental discovery in processes and
       materials.
   •   Engineering for Life has the vision to drive innovation in healthcare for an ageing
       population, address healthcare disparities and foster the revolution in personalised
       healthcare.

Our strategy has sought to invest in research facilities and recruit staff and PGRs to deliver our
ambitions, underpinned by strong growth in external grant funding. In the assessment period, we
have become one of the largest engineering research communities in the UK, with over 1,900
academics, researchers, technicians and PGRs. As well as our four challenge-driven themes, we
provide numerous mechanisms to enable our diverse research community to identify opportunities
for ‘bottom-up’ research areas to grow and be productive.

Our six academic departments, together with the Advanced Manufacturing Group (AMG), our
sector-leading translational research flagship, have delivered on our REF2014 strategic objectives
of expansion, excellence and reach, and we have experienced 7 years of unprecedented growth
and success.

Highlights include:

   •   £623M in external research income. HESA data places us 2nd in the UK over the period,
       and 1st in 2017/18 with £118M. This includes a 110% increase in annual RCUK funding.

   •   Significant internal investment alongside external grants (EPSRC, ERDF, BEIS) to create
       17,760 m2 of new research and translational facilities.

   •   More than 150% increase in the rate of open access publication, ensuring wide-scale
       dissemination of our discoveries and impacts across our disciplines.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   An increase of 51% in academic and research staff, supported by a 74% increase in
       technical staff to ensure excellent support in our new research facilities.

   •   Annual Doctoral awards increased by 44%. Creation of an Engineering Graduate School
       has enhanced PGR experience and we have either built or refurbished 70% of PGR
       accommodation (5,932 m2).

   •   New strategic partnerships with global industry leaders (e.g. Airbus, GKN Aerospace,
       McLaren, [text removed for publication]), are central to our research and innovation
       agenda.

   •   We have impacted on growth in the region and nationally via leading SME engagement
       and knowledge exchange programmes such as “Fit for Nuclear” - involving 757 SMEs and
       creating and safeguarding 1100 UK jobs.

   •   Our impact and innovation pipeline covers all thematic areas and underpins over £4.5bn of
       economic value, as evidenced by our 11 impact case studies.




                                 Figure 1.1 – Key growth highlights

1.2 Unit structure

Our unit structure efficiently and effectively facilitates a joined-up approach to our research and
innovation activities, exploiting the synergies between the six academic departments and the two
major translational centres under the AMG (Figure 1.2): leadership structures, and the focus on
challenge-driven research themes, enable coordinated top-down strategy, decision making and
planning; departments, research groups and communities contribute to the creation of bottom-up
drivers for research; and, our translational research centres and facilities act as a catalyst for
industry engagement and impact.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                Figure 1.2 Major components of Sheffield’s Engineering submission

Leadership structures. The six academic departments sit within the Faculty of Engineering, led
by Head of Faculty and University Vice-President (Hounslow). Long-term vision and strategy for
the Faculty, as well as investment decisions, are overseen by the Faculty Executive Board (FEB).
FEB provides a strategic framework within which departments can define aligned local strategies
and objectives. This structure is a crucial mechanism to efficiently coordinate and support our
broad research base. This structure is further facilitated by a research directors committee (Faculty
Research and Innovation Committee), chaired by the Faculty Director for Research and Innovation
(FDRI, Panoutsos). This cascade governance structure ensures a clear and cohesive framework
for decision making, strategy and planning across Engineering.

Both the University Executive Board (UEB) and University Research and Innovation Committee
(RIC) include representation from the Faculty of Engineering and the AMG, giving both a
leadership voice in thinking and strategy development (REF5a). We facilitate coordination between
our six academic departments and the AMG through the Manufacturing Research Board (Section
1.4). This is a key instrument for further strategy and operational alignment. Other key unit

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
structures are our translational research centres and research facilities (Section 3.3), and our
interconnected research and innovation support structures (Section 1.4).

1.3 Research themes, strategy, and progress towards REF2014 objectives

Early in this assessment period we committed to an ambitious programme of targeted growth, with
the aim of further strengthening our areas of excellence, extending our reach and impact, and
investing in research facilities in areas of strategic importance. We established four strategic
objectives to enhance our research environment:

   •   Fostering a culture of interdisciplinarity.
   •   Investing in challenge-driven research excellence.
   •   Promoting research collaborations and diversity.
   •   Nurturing and sustaining impactful research and partnerships.

In Figure 1.3 we outline REF2014-specific objectives and reflect on progress with reference to our
six REF2014 2014 submissions.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                         Figure 1.3 Achievement against REF2014 plans

The following sections outline our new strategy and provide evidence for how our four objectives
have underpinned research excellence and growth across all our challenge-driven research
themes. For each theme (Sections 1.3.1 – 1.3.5) we detail vision, strategy, support mechanisms,
and progress towards our objectives since REF2014 as well as future strategy and plans.

1.3.1 Research Theme: Energy

Energy research spanned multiple REF2014 submissions (UoAs 12-15). We have delivered on our
aim to coalesce our critical mass through a strategic cross-disciplinary approach, as well as
through co-location, new infrastructure and fostering new stakeholder relationships. Mechanisms to
deliver this strategy include investing in new academic leadership, forming a cross-disciplinary
institute that is now one of the University’s four Flagship Research Institutes, grown our research
funding portfolio and built and equipped a £21M Translational Energy Research Centre (TERC)
funded by BEIS, ERDF, and University investment. A commitment to train the new generation of
engineers led to partnering in six energy-related EPSRC CDTs. As a result, our key research areas
in this theme have flourished.

Combustion and Carbon focuses on controlling the emissions of alternative and new low carbon
fuels. TERC hosts 24 pilot-scale test rigs, including state-of-the-art equipment unique in academia.
We host the EPSRC UK Carbon Capture and Storage Research Centre (£1.9M) and the Advanced
CO2 Capture Technology Pilot Plant. Our work (e.g. EPSRC programme grant 2012-2017, £2.4M)


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
has had multiple policy impacts: membership of the DECC Scientific Advisory Group, G20, EU,
Royal Society policy briefing documents.

Wind Energy Our strategic partnership with Siemens-Gamesa has led to co-location of
researchers from industry in our joint Siemens-Gamesa Renewable Energy Research Centre. Zhu
leads this and holds an RAEng/Siemens Research Chair (2014-2023). We lead an EPSRC
Prosperity Partnership (£2.6M), are a partner in the Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult
Powertrain Research Hub (£700k), and host fellowships in structural health monitoring (Worden,
EPSRC £880k; Cross, EPSRC £580k). Research has resulted in world-leading electricity generator
designs for wind turbines (impact case study: Siemens-Gamesa), and we have discovered new
approaches to wind turbine damage detection (Renewable Energy 168: 1249-1264), followed by a
patent (WO2020161309A1).

Nuclear Energy focuses on safe immobilisation of historic radioactive Higher Activity Wastes
(HAW) and our research has successfully demonstrated safe disposability based upon our
research (impact case study: HAW Management). We host the HADES/MIDAS hub of the National
Nuclear User Facility (University/DECC/EPSRC £3.75M). Strategic leadership was enabled by an
RAEng/NDA Research Chair (Hyatt), supported by two early career fellowships (Corkhill, EPSRC
£1.1M, Thorpe, EPSRC £401k). In thermal hydrodynamics we lead modelling studies for the BEIS
Digital Reactor R&D Consortium, where we created new reactor calculation methods (Nuclear
Engineering and Design, 355: 110318).

Energy Storage has provided leadership and involvement in significant national programmes. We
are key contributors to the UK’s Faraday Battery Challenge (£8.5M) and are engaged in five of the
nine Faraday Institution large-consortia projects. We lead on ‘next-generation cathodes’ and
contribute to ‘prolonging battery lifetime’, ‘solid-state batteries’, ‘sodium-ion batteries’, and
‘electrode manufacturing’ (Nature Communications 11: 6392). Sheffield energy storage research is
highly-collaborative with chemical engineering and materials science expertise contributing to
solving complex challenges as we transition to a zero-carbon future. To overcome emerging
energy storage challenges, we work with major energy companies, such as EoN at our 2MW
Willenhall Grid-Scale Battery Demonstrator (£4.6M).

Future Strategy. In the next period, we aim to achieve further impact in structural health monitoring,
in nuclear and in low carbon technologies, such as biofuels, including fostering links with our new
Sustainable Aviation Fuel Centre. Exploiting our large translational research facilities, and our
leadership of the University’s Energy Institute will be key. For example, via fundamental research
we aspire to underpin sector-leading zero-carbon technologies, and develop the technology
required to safely dispose of the UK’s 140 tonne plutonium inventory, recognised as the highest
hazard challenge on the Sellafield site.

1.3.2 Research Theme: Infrastructure and Environment

At the heart of our strategy are transdisciplinary collaborative communities that understand and
overcome the ‘wicked’ problems that infrastructure poses. Our ethos is that while technical
innovation is key, it is not sufficient in itself. We work to deliver integrated, systems-based, socio-
technical innovation, and ensure a range of policy and practice impacts that deliver transformation.
Essential to our success, and aligned with our strategic objectives for our environment, is a focus
on leading cross-sector collaboration. Full-scale research facilities enable this via realistic
interactions and complexity. For example, our Integrated Civil and Infrastructure Research Centre
(ICAIR: £10M ERDF, UKRI and University) enables academic collaboration and industry to de-risk
novel technologies.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Water engineering. We lead the largest UK-based urban water engineering research group. Our
TWENTY65 EPSRC Grand Challenge consortium of six UK universities (£2.4M) epitomises our
strategy. Its transdisciplinary, socio-technical approach coupled with sector wide collaboration and
long-term vision are leading to substantial impact (case study: Managing discolouration) and
discoveries (e.g. Science of The Total Environment, 593–594:571-580). The UKCRIC National
Distributed Water Infrastructure Facility (EPSRC, £3.7M) is the latest of our suite of full-scale
facilities, enabling research on pipe, ground and loading interaction never before possible. Our
EPSRC programme grant, ‘Pipebots’, £2.6M, utilises this facility to investigate autonomous in-pipe
inspection systems.

Blast and impact engineering. Highly specialised facilities at Harpur Hill enable us to lead at
international level, studying blast and impact interactions at a scale and complexity not possible
anywhere else in the world (Proc. R. Soc. A. 476: 20190791). Aligned with our strategy to invest in
research leadership, we made the professorial appointment of Genevieve Langdon from the
University of Cape Town, bringing world-leading capability in structural response to blast. Our end-
user collaborations enable us to deliver transformation (impact case study: Blast protection). We
have developed key collaborative partnerships in this area, e.g. an RAEng/DSTL Chair, and via our
membership in the MoD national Centre of Excellence in Energetic Materials.

Systems and Infrastructure was an emerging sub-theme in REF2014 that we have developed as
it aligns with our strategic objective to support excellent and impactful interdisciplinary research.
We have integrated research on energy, carbon and material flows in buildings and cities,
considering infrastructures as complex interconnected systems. For example, at the interface
between energy systems and information systems we disseminated influential work on smart grid
security (IEEE Trans. on NNLS 27(8):1773-1786). Key mechanisms for the success of our strategy
here include leading networks and centres (Sections 3.3 and 4.1).

Communications. Our collaborative trans-disciplinary strategy saw us leading the EPSRC
network CommNet II, defining the UK’s roadmap for ICT research on communications and
networking infrastructure; key work here includes resource allocation in spectrum-sharing (IEEE
Trans. on Communications 62(7):2366-2377), frequency selective surfaces (DSTL, £1.24M) and
energy efficient networks (EPSRC, £618k). We lead the National Millimetre Wave Measurement
Facility (EPSRC, £1M) enabling us to drive the UK’s research on millimetre wave components,
circuits, and subsystems, including research and significant awards that put us at the forefront of
5G and 6G systems (EPSRC £853k; WAVECOMBE H2020 €577k).

Future Strategy. Strategic partnerships and large-scale translational research facilities will continue
to be at the core of our plans. We will increase our focus on legacy infrastructure and harsh
environments (themes emerging from our most recent research), repurposing, retrofit and
sustainability; generating and translating the knowledge and understanding for the UK to
accelerate its emerging status as a world leader here. Exploiting 5G/6G communication
connectivity between systems (energy, healthcare) will be a strong focus. We foresee a number of
interdisciplinary opportunities cutting across infrastructure (e.g. advanced manufacturing, public
health and improving wellbeing).

1.3.3 Research Theme: Manufacturing

We have the largest share of EPSRC’s Manufacturing the Future portfolio with £40M of live awards
in 2020 (£20M in 2014), enabling multiple outputs and impacts. We made significant progress
towards developing a cross-institutional approach to manufacturing research and our
Manufacturing Research Board is a key mechanism to deliver our strategy.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our strategy revolves around exploiting our world-class network of research and innovation
centres, working with industry partners to jointly guide fundamental research towards knowledge
exchange and impact. This includes investing in industry-scale and industry-relevant translational
research infrastructure, such as pilot lines, and a strong portfolio of innovation projects. Over the
assessment period, investment in infrastructure as a mechanism to support our ambition has been
pivotal (Section 3.3). Deep partnerships with industry enable us to understand challenges in
different sectors which ensures effective knowledge exchange through access to research
strategies, co-development of technology roadmaps, co-design of facilities, and co-location of
teams.

Materials processing. Leadership and collaboration are at the heart of our approach. We lead the
EPSRC MAPP Hub (Manufacture using Advanced Powder Processes) and lead the national
Advanced Metals Processing theme via our partnership in the Henry Royce Institute. We discover
new processing and design routes (e.g. Nature (565):305–311). A system engineering approach
brings together mechanical, materials, control, and electrical engineers to develop ‘right-first-time’
manufacture in challenging-to-optimise processes such as additive manufacturing. We have a
substantial translational research portfolio (e.g. IUK FASTSTEP3, and DAM >£1.2M).

Advanced machining and tribology. Machining research spans many decades and underpins
the creation of our Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre. In this assessment period, we have
built on our strategic partnerships with numerous translational programmes (e.g. IUK SAMULET
with Rolls-Royce, IUK Landing Gear of the Future with SAFRAN, IUK Gear and Actuation
Manufacturing with Boeing) and delivered significant impact (Rolls-Royce and Boeing factories;
impact case studies Rolls-Royce Tribology; and Rolls-Royce aero-engines). Investing in our future,
we led an EPSRC IDT and a CDT in Machining Science, addressing challenges of hard-to-
machine materials (composites, high strength alloys). Pivotal work includes tribo-acoustic sensors
for measuring machine element contacts (Ultrasonics 94:364-375), supported by a £1.3M
fellowship to Dwyer-Joyce.

Digital Manufacturing focuses on developing data-driven approaches for intelligent control and
optimisation of manufacturing processes and operations. Our academic department devoted to
control and systems engineering is unique in the UK. We have exploited this to interface state-of-
the-art fundamental research in control and systems theory with advanced manufacturing through
translational research programmes (e.g. IUK MIRIAM, VULCAN, AIRLIFT ~£1.73M) and
interdisciplinary outputs (e.g. IEEE Trans on IE 66(5):3794-3803). We lead key fundamental
research programmes (e.g. EPSRC DigiTwin, £1.4M). Strategic investment in leadership, and co-
location have been key enablers, such as Tiwari, RAEng/Airbus Chair, leading on the Wing of
Tomorrow and Wing of the Future industry programmes.

Pharmaceuticals and formulated products. In collaboration with our core stakeholders in the
pharmaceutical industry who provide ~£1M research funding annually, our Advanced
Biomanufacturing Centre uses multiple host cell systems, from mammalian to algae and bacteria,
to make high-value lifesaving biopharmaceuticals and high-volume commodities. State-of-the-art
mass spectrometry funded by BBSRC, is developing computational design platforms, derived from
high throughput ‘omic data, leading to influential discoveries in programmable RNA shredding
(Molecular Cell 56(4):506-517). We are partners on the EPSRC Continuous Manufacturing and
Crystallisation Hub, generating significant impact on granulation (impact case study: [text removed
for publication]).

Future strategy. We will continue to grow our manufacturing research portfolio, partnerships,
research facilities and leadership in the national manufacturing research agenda. Continuing to
focus on connecting novel engineering research with manufacturing expertise within our AMG will

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
be key, as well as developing new research areas in national priority themes (e.g. via our
leadership of the EPSRC Future Electrical Machines Manufacturing Hub). We have identified
digitalisation, resource efficiency, and manufacturing resilience as key areas for growth.

1.3.4 Research Theme: Engineering for Life

Our overarching aim is to foster the revolution in personalised healthcare, responding to evolving
regulatory agency requirements and contributing substantially to reducing the cost of innovation in
healthcare in an ageing population. Our strategy is tailored to suit the key stakeholders in medicine
and biosciences.

In-silico medicine drives the development of technologies to provide patient-specific predictions
for clinical decision-making, in close collaboration with healthcare practitioners. We launched the
INSIGNEO Institute for in-silico medicine in 2012; it is now Europe’s largest research institute
dedicated to the development, validation, and use of in-silico medical technologies. INSIGNEO
brings together 153 researchers from Engineering, Medicine, Science and Sheffield Teaching
Hospitals. For example, in this period, patient specific multiscale models of the musculoskeletal
system have predicted the risk of bone fractures for individuals (Frontier Engineering, EPSRC
>£5.5M) and led to key outputs (e.g. Biomechanics 73:108-118).

Biomaterials has addressed the challenge of a healthy and ageing society, through open access
biomaterials microfabrication and non-invasive imaging (Chem. Sci., 2014,5:879-886) for
regenerative medicine (MRC £730k). Underpinning programmes include multiple EU-funded
projects (~€910k SPINNER and NEURIMP) for numerical and experimental repair strategies,
implantable polymeric nerve guides, and reinforced bioresorbable biomaterials. We are a partner in
a new CDT for Advanced Biomedical Materials, and we have successfully translated our research
into real-world impact, such as scaffolds for corneal repair (impact case study: Saving eyesight).

Neuroscience. We contribute to the University’s Flagship Neuroscience Research Institute
through leadership of the Computational and Systems Neuroscience theme, focusing on signal
processing and system identification, as well as neuromuscular implants, to improve the diagnosis
and treatment of a range of degenerative, sensory, and developmental neurological disorders (e.g.
soft bioelectronic implants in: Nature Biomedical Engineering 4:1010-1022). Researchers have
worked on fundamental projects including the “digital fly brain”, brain computer interfaces,
investigation into the thalamocortical loop in essential tremor, and cervical impedance
spectroscopy (EPSRC and BBSRC, ~£0.8M).

Health policy focuses on the interface between social science and systems engineering. The UK
Prevention Research Partnership SIPHER Consortium – “system-science informed public health
economic research for non-communicable disease prevention” (£1M) is supporting cost-effective
action across multiple policy sectors to reduce health inequalities. We are a key partner in the
establishment of the Sheffield Alcohol Policy Model, cited in legislation and UK Supreme Court
judgements.

Future Strategy. We will continue to develop our research at the engineering, life science and
social science interface underpinned by development of multidisciplinary teams focused on
challenges informed by clinical and social needs (e.g. our emerging strength in healthcare
robotics). We will strengthen our collaborations with Medicine and the Sheffield hospitals as this is
critical to translation. We plan to invest in leadership, including via joint appointments - a model
that has worked well in our manufacturing research theme.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3.5 Community-driven research

In addition to our four challenge-driven research themes, researchers are encouraged and
supported to self-organise into areas of critical-mass as driven by sub-discipline research
challenges. Research groups are pivotal in this, and bottom-up strategy and support is provided at
departmental level. Two examples of such research communities include Materials and Transport.

Materials aims to create and innovate the next generation of advanced materials and processing
technologies, to address the global grand challenges of clean growth, future mobility, and a healthy
and ageing society.

Over the period, our goal was radical renewal of materials research infrastructure and
establishment of a leadership platform for materials discovery and innovation. This was achieved
with investment of £44.3M in the Royce Discovery and Translation Centres (EPSRC); £7.6M in the
EPSRC National Epitaxy Facilities (EPSRC), and £1.2M in Micro-XCT facilities (EPSRC).
Capability was enhanced by two UKRI Future Leaders Fellows (Guan and Cogswell, ~£2.6M).

Advanced metallurgy has made pivotal contributions to clean growth and future mobility. Data-
driven design has realised sustainable high-performance alloys for light-weighting in transport
(EPSRC, £1.6M); nuclear fusion (UKAEA Chair, £616k); and high entropy alloys (EPSRC, £1.1M).
Through SUSTAIN (EPSRC, £1.98M) we are innovating low CO 2 steel production in close
collaboration with UK industry, including key discoveries (e.g. in microalloyed steels: Acta
Materialia 161:374-387). The MAPP EPSRC Future Manufacturing Hub enables us to interface
with the powder-based manufacturing sector, leading to co-creation of significant materials-centric
UKRI programmes (EPSRC, >£1.1M).

Functional materials has advanced clean growth and future mobility, through innovation and
uptake of cold sintering and thick film technology through strategic partnership with Johnson
Matthey (JM), and substitution of critical elements for sustainability (EPSRC, £2.2M; JM, £600k).
Through collaboration with AVX Ltd. we have developed next generation multilayer ceramic
capacitors for electric vehicles, now in pilot production, and published influential underpinning
research (Energy Environ. Sci. 12:582-588). Nature-inspired processing of materials was
advanced through leadership and partnership in Flow Induced Phase Transitions and ECOAT
(H2020, ~€622k).

Semiconductors and photonics. We host the National Epitaxy Facility (EPSRC, £7.6M) and a
Quantum Technology Capital award for an MBE cluster tool (EPSRC, £2.2M). We are a partner in
a CDT for Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing and in a quantum information programme
grant (EPSRC, £1.4M). Research on semiconductor devices includes the development of near-
infrared photodiodes (e.g. EPSRC, £5.5M; IUK, £264k; H2020, £858k), single photon emitters (IUK
£653k), and GaN power electronic devices (EPSRC £871k). In advanced photonic devices and
their production we pioneer semiconductor growth methods (EPSRC £777k, H2020, €3.21M), the
integration of photonic devices (EPSRC, £2M), and GaN optical devices in the EPSRC Future
Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing Hub (£1.6M); and other EPSRC projects (£1.7M).

Future Strategy. In the next period, we will exploit data driven discovery, simulation and
optimisation of materials properties and processing, underpinned by life cycle assessment. Within
our core research themes, we will address our adopted grand challenges, enabled by our state-of-
the-art research environment. We will enable clean growth and future mobility through light-
weighting of aerospace components, and material and device innovation for electric motors, engine
management and communication.



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Transport takes a user-driven approach, developing a close understanding of sector needs
through partnership with industry, as well as fundamental research that spans the breadth of
engineering. We have targeted growth in the ground and aerospace transportation sectors.

Rail has grown collaborations and leadership through the UK Rail Research and Innovation
Network (£1.6M) and a RAEng/Rail Safety and Standards Board Chair (Lewis £0.8M). Research
has developed a new understanding of rail track tribology (Proc. R. Soc. A. 476:20200057); Lewis
was awarded the IMechE Donald Julius Groen Prize and the Institute of Physics "Innovation in
Tribology" prize. Strategic investment in infrastructure has enabled unique full-scale test capability
for on-track cryogenic cleaning. In close collaboration with our partners, optimisation of end-to-end
rail passenger journeys has been sponsored by Siemens, RSSB & Network Rail.

Aerospace is a long-standing strength. We lead the Rolls-Royce University Technology Centre
(UTC) in Control, Monitoring & Systems Engineering (established 1993), and the Rolls-Royce UTC
in Advanced Electrical Machines and Drives (established 2003), and are a member of the UK
Aerospace Research Consortium. Outputs of our research are embedded in the next generation of
manufactured products for Rolls-Royce. For example, our tribology research has developed a new
understanding of abradable linings technologies with Rolls-Royce (impact case study: Rolls-Royce
aero-engines). Computational and theoretical fluid dynamics research has explored efficient
optimisation and found new evidence to re-characterise transient turbulent flow (J. of Fluid
Mechanics 764:395 - 427).

Automotive research on optimisation for robust design has developed new methods and workflow
tools for cross-function design optimization in collaboration with JLR (EPSRC, £1M) and Ford
Motor Company and Ricardo. We have won EU funding to work with European-based partners to
expand the reach of our research. We have developed data and service ecosystems to improve
mobility in urban areas, developed models and optimisation algorithms for automotive engine parts
and created emulators to allow the safe development of autonomous vehicles (>£1M, EU H2020
SETA, COMBILASER and Dreams4Cars).

Future strategy. Our strategic partners, in the UK and overseas, have been key to our success in
transport. We wish to strengthen such partnerships and develop new ones, driven by enhanced
understanding of the sector’s challenges, our industry-scale facilities and ambitious fundamental
research in areas such as electrical motors and drives. A recent exemplar of the industry-scale
approach is the Laboratory for Verification and Validation – a £9M facility (EPSRC, ERDF,
University) hosting purpose-built environmental testing chambers.

1.4 Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research

Fostering a culture of interdisciplinarity is one of our four strategic objectives (Section 1.3) for
enhancing our research environment. Our four challenge-driven research themes (Section 1.3.1)
act as focal points to drive impact through partnerships across domains and bring together staff
across disciplines and with external partners. 195 of our research awards involve collaborations
with other disciplines. For example, de Borst's theoretical and computational work on the fracture
of fluid filled porous materials influences research in geomechanics and biomaterials (Mechanics
Research Communications 80:47-57) and Balikhin’s research on equatorial magnetospheric waves
identifies phenomena hazardous to spacecrafts (Nature Communications 6:7730). O'Farrell’s
research on distributed wireless sensing underpins, NERC funded, world-leading glaciological
research on iceberg calving (Science, 349(6245):305-308), and Speight’s expertise in water
system resilience supports a major multi-disciplinary study led by Rhodes University in South



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Africa to build resilience for African water resources. We support and model interdisciplinary
approaches in the following ways:

Strategic leadership for University Flagship Research Institutes. Pourkashanian directs the
University Flagship Energy Research Institute, providing visible leadership for coordinated
interdisciplinary work. This includes, for example, work with social scientists in our Management
School on lifecycle analysis. Senior staff also hold leadership positions as well as providing
scientific inputs in numerous cross-disciplinary centres (Section 4). These facilitate our involvement
in large collaborative grants (e.g. TWENTY65 EPSRC Grand Challenge consortium) as well as
lead to interdisciplinary outputs such as position papers in influential journals (e.g. Front. Energy
Res. (03) 2015; The Lancet (383)9929, 2014).

Recruitment strategy. We recruit researchers who have demonstrated an ability to work across
disciplinary boundaries. All academic appointment panels are chaired by the VP and include
significant cross-unit membership to ensure interdisciplinary approaches are valued. Strategic
interdisciplinary appointments also cement our links with our partners. Examples include the
Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Health and the NHS, via INSIGNEO.

Professional support. A challenge-driven research support hub provides bespoke services
aligned to our four interdisciplinary research themes (Section 3.1). Its support has been
instrumental in coordinating cross-unit funding applications, to growing our manufacturing critical
mass activities and securing major BEIS and ERDF investment in research facilities.

Investment to support interdisciplinary research. Our substantial investments in PhD
studentships (Section 2.5) include targeted opportunities for co-supervision between disciplines.
During the assessment period, 123 PGRs were co-supervised between disciplines within this unit,
and 106 PGRs were supervised across faculties. We organise events and provide seed funding to
initiate interdisciplinary collaborations, such as a Biomedical Systems workshop with Medicine. We
also fund significant infrastructure specific for interdisciplinary research (Section 3.1).

Future strategy. Continued investment in existing successful mechanisms and capitalising on our
strategic involvement in interdisciplinary Flagship Research Institutes. We plan to build on our
positive experience with manufacturing and healthcare to support other emerging interdisciplinary
areas such as circular economy and sustainable development.

1.5 Impact strategy, support mechanisms and outcomes

Our impact strategy relies on four pathways as illustrated in Figure 1.4. Our 11 impact case studies
(Figure 1.5) evidence over £4.5bn of economic impact, together with many wider socio-economic
benefits. Innovation is coordinated and supported by our Deputy Faculty Director of R&I (Dickman);
impact development and opportunities are identified and supported by our Impact Champion
(Holland) and an Impact Manager. This leadership and support structure was created during the
current submission period.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                      Figure 1.4 Pathways to impact and support mechanisms

Partnerships. Our AMG has an established subscription-based model, with 160 end-user
partners, enabling access to industry-scale research facilities as well as a pipeline of co-created
technology-driven roadmaps and projects. With major companies such as Boeing, Rolls-Royce,
BAE Systems, Airbus, and Westinghouse, the AMG are core partners in the High Value
Manufacturing Catapult (HVMC), where Sheffield is the only university to host two HVMC hubs
(AMRC and Nuclear-AMRC), and so to influence and support government policy and major
companies and their supply chains. Its success has led to opportunities to work with partners to
develop and launch new projects and facilities in Sheffield and in other areas of the UK (Section
3.3), contributing to the University’s mission to support the economic development of the Sheffield
City Region. Mechanisms for strengthening our partnerships include strategic joint funded chair
appointments (e.g. Tiwari Airbus, Todd GKN, Tyas DSTL), visiting academic appointments (e.g.
Jackson, Meggitt), and appointing senior leaders directly from industry (e.g. Mayfield, Cordiner).

Challenge-driven research support hub. We frequently co-create research programmes with our
industrial partners to tackle real-world challenges to deliver impact. £137M, approximately 20% of
our research income, is directly from industry, providing strong gearing and alignment between
academic research and industry-relevant impact. Our challenge-driven research support hub has
been pivotal in identifying opportunities and supporting bids, in turn enabling the creation of critical
mass and laboratory infrastructure leading to impact. This has been very prominent in our Energy
and Infrastructure research themes (Section 3.3).

Translational research facilities and the AMG. Our impact capabilities have been further
enhanced with the delivery of major outward-facing translational research centres (e.g. Factory
2050, LVV, TERC, see Section 3.3) in areas of underlying research strength in energy, materials,
and infrastructure. These facilities mirror industry in scale and complexity, providing industry-
relevant research infrastructure. This strategy resulted in opportunities for end-users to de-risk the
adoption of novel technologies developed by our researchers. Prime examples of this approach
are our case study BAE Systems and Boeing Sheffield. All case studies are summarised in Figure
1.5.



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                                    [text removed for publication]

                            Figure 1.5 Summary of impact case studies

Targeted staff support. Core to our impact strategy has been ensuring a greater proportion of
researchers are engaged in impactful activities. We established an impact team in 2015 to provide
peer-support, mentoring and signposting for researchers who seek to develop impact. The team
both responds to researcher requests for support, but also works closely with departments to
identify research that has the potential to mature into significant impact. For example, Dr Ben
White received tailored support and is now CEO and founder of the University spinout company
Phlux and holds a RAEng Enterprise Fellowship.

Researchers have access to specialised IP and commercialisation expertise in the tech transfer
team in Research Services, who work closely with our local impact team. The University has an
investment fund for proof-of-concept work which makes spinout companies more attractive to
venture capital investors. This approach has led to a number of spinout companies being
incorporated during this assessment period, including Pyroptik Instruments Ltd, EpiPix, Stratium
Ltd and Symemetic Ltd.

We are well supported to develop impact, including £0.9M from the University’s EPSRC Impact
Acceleration Account (IAA), a Research England Connecting Capability Fund (with Leeds and
Manchester) and a generous patent budget. 76 projects, involving 80 staff, have been funded by
EPSRC IAA, either as proof-of-concept studies or collaborative R&D. HEIF funding has been
instrumental in developing Advanced Metrology for Additive Manufacturing, which resulted in
further work and research grants with SMEs (Reliance Precision, Wayland Additive), a Catapult
Centre (MTC) and the Diamond Centre Wales.

Future strategy. We plan to build on AMG’s highly successful collaborative model, with a strong
focus on exploiting the potential of digitisation, including 5G/6G connectivity, and more sustainable
production to increase the competitiveness of the UK manufacturing sector. We will broaden this
approach, both regionally and internationally and engage more strongly with SME-dominated
supply chains. Focusing on our significant potential across our large research base within the
Energy Institute, Manufacturing Hubs and translational research centres and facilities, we aim to
continue delivering internationally leading impact across all our research themes.

1.6 Open research and research integrity

We strongly support open research approaches. Key to our impact agenda is broader access to
ideas, data, and software that also helps to improve the quality of our research, encourages
collaboration and avoids duplication, speeds up innovation, and increases the visibility of
engineering innovation. 80% of our funding is from public sources so we strive for our research to
be accessible to ensure maximum societal benefit. We also emphasise the need to balance
openness with the protection of intellectual property, personal data, and national security.

Our strategy for developing an open and ethical research culture is based on the following
principles:

   •   Encouraging behaviours that reward and respect honesty, collaboration, and trust.
   •   Supporting open access publication to ensure that research derived knowledge is made as
       accessible as possible.


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Encouraging and supporting actions to ensure all outputs are FAIR - findable, accessible,
       interoperable, and reusable, whilst taking into account commercialisation, intellectual
       property rights, the protection of personal data and national security.

A culture of integrity. We have put in place mechanisms to support the above principles,
supported by a dedicated Engineering Graduate School Ethics Lead (Section 2.6). All PGRs
undertake assessed professional behaviour and ethical conduct training which incorporates the
values and obligations of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and includes discipline-
specific case studies to allow PGRs to explore ethical judgement and behaviours. New research
staff training also reflects this. We have panels of trained ethics reviewers supported by an online
system, who can offer advice and guidance relevant to the challenges raised by current research.

Open Access (OA). All staff and students are required to follow University-wide principles of open
access for published outputs. Our staff information systems allow support staff and University
library staff to provide a mediated service, removing burden from researchers. They can also
monitor compliance with external funder requirements. Funding is available for gold OA and
publications may also be placed in an institutional green OA repository. To ensure maximum
discoverability of our research, we use White Rose Research Online, our shared repository with
Leeds and York (green route). The 6,695 outputs deposited over this assessment period were
downloaded 644,435 times. This route ensures equity in publishing opportunities regardless of
available funding; we publish outputs in fully OA journals, or hybrid where required for funder
compliance. Staff increasingly use preprint services (e.g. arXiv) for timely dissemination.

Open Data. The University operates an open data repository ORDA (Online Research Data). All
PGRs receive training in developing data management plans, which are mandatory. This ensures
they have the knowledge and skills to ensure their data is curated and deposited in an accessible
repository, such as ORDA so that it is reusable by the wider community. Recent investments have
been linked with developing our capabilities for widespread open dissemination of data. The new
Sheffield Urban Flows Observatory (Section 3.3.2), part of the UK Collaboratorium for Research on
Infrastructure and Cities (UKCRIC), gathers environmental and infrastructure performance data
with the specific intention to share this amongst citizens, companies, and local government to
support knowledge exchange, innovation, and policy development. All datasets are open by default
(https://sheffield-portal.urbanflows.ac.uk/uflobin/ufportal). We are a founding member and play a
leading role in the Data Analytics Facility for National Infrastructure and the National Digital Twin
Programme that are aimed at creating an open data ecosystem for infrastructure research.

Future strategy. We will develop mechanisms to ensure that all our research data is openly
available within the next 5 years, where appropriate, following the FAIR principles. Our training on
data management plans will be extended to all academic and research staff. Specialist training and
support will be provided to enable all our staff to develop the skills to ensure that data and other
outputs, such as software are findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable, unless there are
legal or contractual constraints. Responsible Innovation training is to be introduced for all PGR and
staff to address the ethical dimension of our research and innovation activities in complex, real-
world situations. We aspire to lead our discipline in open research and research integrity.

1.7 Overarching future strategy

In the assessment period, we have become one of the largest engineering research communities
in the UK, as a result of our strategy for research excellence, challenge-driven research themes
and nurturing leadership, targeted growth, translational research infrastructure, strategic



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
partnerships and impactful innovation. In the next 5 years, we will continue with our successful
approaches, in addition to supporting emerging research strengths noted above.

Early in the next period, we will review our four challenge-driven themes, to ensure emerging areas
of research are captured, including reflecting on national needs and the international research
landscape. We will also review our plans and mechanisms to support community-driven research.
In Energy, Infrastructure and Manufacturing we have identified our translational research centres
as key drivers for excellent and impactful research and focal points for collaboration and co-
creation. We will seek to maximise the effectiveness and impact of our large-scale research
facilities, while ensuring their sustainability and strategic leadership via diversification of income
and investing in people. We will create a new focus at the interface between our research themes
(e.g. Energy-Infrastructure, Infrastructure-Manufacturing) to capitalise on our areas of excellence
and aim to lead emerging research areas, while developing existing, and fostering new, national
and international partnerships. In Engineering for Life, there are significant opportunities to further
address global challenges, by bringing closer together other research communities (e.g. Biology,
Medicine and Healthcare) with Engineering acting as a focal point and catalyst. Bottom-up
community driven research will also have a pivotal role in driving excellent fundamental research
and responding to emerging research with flexibility and agility.




 2. People


2.1 Overview

Our people strategy supports two of our four strategic objectives for enhancing our research
environment by growing our capability, setting the highest standards of excellence and integrity,
and fostering a collegial community, with particular focus on equality, diversity, inclusion and
wellbeing.

Our 267 Category A staff includes 24 staff on research contracts who have been identified as
carrying out self-directed research and were deemed to be “independent researchers” in line with
the definition of Category A eligible staff.

We have delivered on our REF2014 plans; our academic staff whose primary function is to carry out
teaching and research (T&R) and post-doctoral or equivalent research staff FTE have increased by
51%, (Figure 2.1) and our PGR by 10%. To capitalise on our growth in research infrastructure and
laboratories, we have also invested in technical and support staff (74% FTE increase) essential
because of our significantly increased levels of activity.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       Figure 2.1 FTE and percentage staff changes: academic; research and technical staff




2.2 Staffing and recruitment strategy

Our strategy aims to ensure that we have the excellent research expertise, matched by technical
and professional support staff, needed to fulfil our mission and ambition. Our academic recruitment
process is transparent about expectations for research outputs, income and impact, which are all
explored during selection. Mechanisms include targeted recruitment in areas of challenge-driven
research, actions to enhance staff diversity and also planned recruitment to ensure balanced and
stable workloads to deliver capacity for research and impact activities. We have recruited 106
academic staff (T&R) and 761 post-doctoral (or equivalent) researchers over the period, as shown
in Figure 2.2. In the first part of the assessment period, the proportion of female academics (T&R)
recruited was relatively stable. We launched our EDI strategy in 2016, resulting in the proportion of
female academics (T&R) recruited rising to 41% in 2019-20 (Section 2.5).




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




        Figure 2.2 Academic (T&R) recruitment over the period - headcount and % female

Recruitment planning. We take into account our challenge-driven research themes, as well as
local departmental priorities and we plan collectively for recruitment across the unit. A joined-up
approach across departments and AMG ensures we have the expertise so that we can effectively
translate our fundamental discoveries into meaningful academic and societal impact.

Selection and training. Responsibility for recruitment is undertaken at discipline level, via a
search committee comprising a diverse staff mix with a remit to attract the best possible future
colleagues, for example via personal and professional networks, collaborations and proactive
contacts. There is active targeting towards under-represented groups and steps are taken to
eliminate bias at all recruitment and selection stages including staff recruitment training. All
recruitment material is tested to ensure non-gendered language, and we regularly advertise in
specialist media targeting women and BAME communities. Our approach was initially shaped to
address female under-representation in the discipline, particularly at more senior levels. In the first
two selection stages, the proportion of female candidates longlisted and shortlisted is equal to, or
higher than, the proportion of applicants. Final selection is on merit, by a mixed panel whose
members have all undertaken unconscious bias training; the Chair must also have completed the
University training for panel chairs. Over the assessment period, our proportion of female
academics increased from 14% to 21%. We now apply many of these recruitment strategies to
other under-represented groups to broaden the impact of our inclusive approach.

Our reputation and the support we offer enable us to attract international leaders from academia as
well as industry; in exceptional cases we have directly appointed such leaders and in doing so we
have consciously sought to improve gender, ethnicity and international diversity. Examples include
Professor Mohamed Pourkashanian who now leads the University’s Energy Institute; Professor Jim
Litster joined us from Purdue; Professor Serena Corr now heads our prestigious Faraday Institute
group; and Professor Ashutosh Tiwari holds an RAEng/Airbus Chair in Digital Manufacturing.



                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Recently, we attracted Professor Genevieve Langdon, from South Africa and Professor Joan
Cordiner who joined us after a high-level career in US industry.

Induction. We recognise the importance of effective induction for all new staff. For academic staff
with teaching and research responsibilities, we provide a programme delivered at department,
faculty and university levels over several months. This programme sets out our strategic ambitions
and cultural expectations and includes specific sessions focusing on research, innovation, and
impact, and leading and managing people. The programme highlights academics’ responsibilities
as effective managers of research staff and students, in line with the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers. This is backed up by an online Faculty Academic Staff
Handbook. The success of our induction programmes is reflected in our biannual staff survey, with
94% having a clear understanding about their role and expectations. The AMG is pioneering an
online staff induction system as we now have a number of remote sites (Section 3.3). This allows
us to tailor induction programmes to individuals’ role and location.

Probation. We support all new academics, with teaching and research responsibilities, with an
attractive package including internally-funded PGR studentships, a reduced teaching load and
flexible funding to help them integrate into our research groups. Academic probation provides
guidance for new lecturers over a period of three years, with regular input from a designated
adviser and discussions with the Head of Department (HoD). Our framework for probation ensures
consistency of expectations across the unit, with adjustment for discipline variations and individual
circumstances. The 2016 University review of probation practices adopted many of the features
pioneered in Engineering, for example collective review of cases by HoDs and Faculty Directors
prior to Faculty VP sign-off which ensures cross-departmental calibration and informs future
objective-setting and review.

2.3 Career development, reward, and recognition

Career development is supported for all staff through a formal annual staff review and development
scheme, workload planning and specific developmental activities (see below).

To ensure clarity and drive ambition, the University’s Academic Career Pathway (ACP) framework
was introduced in 2018. It provides a defined, transparent structure for academic (T&R) and
research staff from early career through to senior professor. The framework includes clearly
expressed expectations, appropriate to each grade in research, impact, leadership, professional
standing (including membership of engineering institutions) and teaching (for academic T&R staff),
assessed by a range of measures adjusted for different disciplines. The ACP reflects our values of
collegiality as well as excellence and ambition. It is now referred to consistently for annual review,
probation, and promotion. Expectations are adjusted to take account of part-time working, career
interruptions and protected characteristics, and guidelines are in place to mitigate COVID-19
impacts. The ACP has now been operational for one full academic cycle, and staff feedback has
been positive. The framework also facilitates movement between pathways where appropriately
evidenced, for example Dr Nicola Green has successfully transferred from researcher to academic
(T&R). While the ACP provides a clear structure to reward academic research and resulting
impact, industry-focussed innovation is less well represented. We are currently leading the
development of an innovation pathway on behalf of the University. Whilst important for the whole of
engineering, this development is considered particularly important for the AMG.

Support for early career researchers. We have dedicated professional support within the
University’s “Think Ahead” programme, providing face-to-face and online training for PGRs,
postdoctoral researchers and early career academics as well as mentoring programmes, careers


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
advice, community networks and wellbeing support. 156 colleagues have taken part in the
mentoring programme as mentees during the assessment period, 40% of them female.

All postdoctoral (or equivalent) researchers undergo tailored annual staff development review to
ensure consistently high-quality, career-focused advice in line with our commitment to the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Our 2014 and 2016 staff surveys
found that the existing review framework was unhelpful, which led to a specific template being
developed. Training for reviewers and reviewees was enhanced. Feedback from researchers
improved in the 2018 survey, with 83% now saying they found reviews useful. We believe that the
improved focus on research career development, from 2016, contributed to the clear increase in
successful promotions between 2016-18, as shown in Figure 2.3, illustrating the effectiveness of
our career support. A total of 219 post-doctoral (or equivalent) research staff were promoted within
the ACP researcher pathway during the period; in addition, 30 of our research only staff were
promoted to academic (T&R) positions, and 114 lecturers progressed to senior lecturer.




  Figure 2.3 Number of early career researchers promoted annually over the assessment period

Employment security is a particular issue for researchers on fixed-term funding, and in accordance
with the Concordat principles, we actively consider offering open-ended contracts, taking account
of our longer-term capability requirements. This policy was introduced in 2012 to provide financial
and wellbeing benefits, to demonstrate our commitment to career development, and to retain a
more gender-diverse workforce as research shows that employment security is more important for
women. The proportion with open-ended employment contracts increased steadily from 19% in
2014 to over 30% in 2020. All staff with over 6 months’ employment have the right to access
internal redeployment opportunities. Redeployment is often successful, and an average of 164
research contracts have been extended annually during the assessment period.

We support researcher development at all career stages, and in particular recognise the important
role of fellowships. Professional staff organise individual mentoring, workshops, and interview
training (Section 3.1) to support fellowship applications. This support recently contributed to Dr Ben
White securing a RAEng Enterprise Fellowship. We have also developed a distinctive pathway for
fellowship holders with guaranteed progression to an open-ended academic position, subject to
meeting standard probation requirements. Examples of success by this route include Dr Claire
Corkhill (Energy) and Dr Rick Smith (Materials).



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Career development for support staff. We are active signatories to the Technician Commitment,
encouraging all technical staff to engage in professional registration with bodies such as the IST,
IET and Advance HE, and maintain this registration through relevant CPD activities. A number of
professional and technical managers have been supported to undertake Higher Apprenticeship
programmes for MBA or MSc in Leadership and Management (Section 3.3.3). We also provide
bespoke in-house staff development events, which enable networking, as well as specific training.

Leadership Roles are advertised openly to all eligible staff, and selection is by a structured and
transparent process. The AMG leadership are in permanent positions, whereas in academic
departments, leadership roles rotate enabling colleagues to enhance their skills as well as
developing an experienced pipeline. Potential leaders are encouraged to gain experience through
membership of executive teams and project groups. Our HoDs have been appointed following this
kind of development. At research group level, HoDs work with current research leaders to develop
internal talent or identify where targeted recruitment is needed. A total of 236 staff have taken part
in institutional leadership programmes. For academic staff, a positive action bias was observed
with 31% being female. Participants in our leadership programmes often achieve accelerated
career progression. For example, Professor Claudia Mazza was recruited in 2016 as Lecturer, in
2019 became leader of INSIGNEO.

Study Leave. All academic staff are scheduled for one semester of study leave, after seven
semesters in post. They are relieved of all duties, except research supervision, to pursue
developmental opportunities. All staff scheduled for study leave attend a planning workshop to
agree individual plans with their HoD. In the last 4 years, 92 staff have taken study leave, with
outcomes including new collaborations, expanding areas of expertise, obtaining new grants and
fellowships, and publications. For example, Dr (now Professor) Nicola Morley established a new
research area and obtained a one-year fellowship, a DSTL PhD scholarship and a 3-year
Leverhulme Trust grant; and Dr (now Professor) Russell Goodall gained a one-year fellowship, a 3-
year EPSRC grant and wrote several significant publications.

We encourage and enable staff secondments as ways to develop a better understanding of partner
challenges and to develop impact pathways. Examples include staff seconded into government
departments (Bruce Adderley from the Energy Institute to BEIS, Professor David Lerner to
DEFRA). Opportunities arise directly from our close working relationships, particularly when
supporting the Government’s strategic decision making in areas such as nuclear and
environmental sectors.

2.4 Staff wellbeing strategy

We aim to enable a supportive, healthy, and caring environment. Analysis of the biannual
University staff survey allows us to understand issues specific to particular groups. With HoDs
taking the lead and with professional support from HR, the Employee Assistance Programme,
Occupational Health and external providers, we have taken active steps to raise awareness for
supporting colleagues’ physical and mental health. We encourage a culture of openness and
inclusivity around mental wellbeing and neurodiversity. Examples include a staff and student
neurodiversity support group, around 150 staff and managers have undertaken Mental Health
Awareness training, with 5 identified mental health champions. Within the AMG, a Health and
Wellbeing Community Forum was established to encourage an inclusive working environment.
Since the impact of COVID-19, this forum has proved to be particularly important, ensuring that
staff feel connected and supported by sharing coping mechanisms and support routes.




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Flexible working requests have been agreed for a wide variety of caring and personal reasons, and
a growing number of staff are using shared parental leave. Specific policies limit meeting times to
agreed core hours to facilitate caring responsibilities. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic staff
have been able to adjust working patterns to accommodate caring or childcare responsibilities. All
staff and students have been provided with regular updates and the reopening of laboratories for
staff and PGRs in June 2020 was subject to consultation and thorough risk assessment.

Active management of hazards and risks is central for all staff groups. In 2019, we used the HSE
Cultural Maturity survey to explore current practices and attitudes. The results showed a very high
level of commitment and integrity across all staff groups, with 89% saying that their supervisor
takes health and safety seriously and 80% saying their department cares about the health and
safety of people.

2.5 Creating an inclusive and diverse community

In 2016 we launched a 5-year EDI strategy covering all aspects of diversity, with an initial focus on
improving gender balance. Over the assessment period, the proportion of BAME academic (T&R)
staff rose by 1% to 25.4%; BAME research staff rose from 29.0% to 33.9%. Staff declaring
disabilities rose from 2.8% to 3.3% for T&R academics and 1.4% to 5.3% for research staff. These
increases in declared characteristics were thought to be due in some part to the higher visibility of
the value that leaders and managers placed on EDI in the workplace. We are currently developing
our 2021 strategy, prioritising more explicit recognition for all aspects of diversity. Our primary
focus will be on inclusion, and our action plans will take account of the impacts of different
characteristics and circumstances on all our activities.

Our ambitious target to improve female representation was to more than double the proportion of
female professors from 5% to 12% by 2020, based on the sector average in 2016, and we aim to
achieve 20% by 2025. We have deployed a combination of mechanisms, ranging from outreach
activities through to external recruitment activity and targeted support for progression. As a result,
the 2020 target has been exceeded, with 16% of our current professors being female. We are
strongly committed to the Athena SWAN equality charter, with all departments attaining bronze or
silver status and our plans have concentrated on recruitment, retention and promotion of female
staff. External funding from a local industry sponsor AESSEAL, helps overcome barriers to female
academics’ (T&R) progression. This includes a travel fund for conference attendance where caring
responsibilities constrain participation. Our success in improving female academic representation
is shown in Figure 2.4, with a steady increase in the percentage of female representation at
lecturer (24% to 32%) and significant increase in the percentage of female professors (16%)
towards the end of the assessment period.




                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




             Figure 2.4 Female academic representation over the assessment period

We have delivered unconscious bias training since 2014. Feedback has been overwhelmingly
positive, and Engineering is leading and advising on implicit bias training at institutional level. To
support equality of access and outcomes in career progression, we have introduced a number of
specific practices. Our application of the ACP framework explicitly takes account of the impact of
protected characteristics and individual circumstances on achievement. We review academic
workloads on return from maternity or parental leave to minimise impact on research productivity,
for example by reducing teaching commitments. Female staff are supported to apply to the
University’s WARP fund which provides financial support for women returning from parental leave,
for example paying for research staff. Evidence shows that some staff, often those with protected
characteristics, are less likely to put themselves forward for career progression. In response, we
have developed new guidance for HoDs in holding supportive career conversations. Some
departments have an “encouragement panel”; others hold annual pre-promotion panels which
review the CVs of all staff. The most recent staff survey indicates that 95% of our staff have
confidence that their employer respects individual differences, and respects people regardless of a
range of protected characteristics.

REF submission. Our unit REF working group is diverse in terms of disciplinary representation,
gender, and ethnicity. All members of the working group undertook the University’s REF-specific
EDI training. The work of this group was overseen by a REF Steering Group (reporting to FEB and
the Institutional Steering Group) with clear governance and formal reporting.

Written communications, workshops and departmental meetings were developed to ensure all staff
understood the eligibility criteria, including those for independent researchers. There were
opportunities to declare equality-related circumstances confidentially. Decisions on output
reductions due to equality related circumstances were taken at the University level to ensure a
consistent institutional approach. Staff absent from the University, for example on maternity,



                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
parental or study leave, were contacted personally to ensure they received the relevant
information.

All REF eligible staff are included in our submission, so our focus was on output selection. Outputs
were reviewed independently and ranked against clear criteria, with the Working Group acting as a
moderation panel. Decisions were taken collectively by the panel and recorded formally. Equality
impact assessments at each stage, considered any potential bias against staff with protected
characteristics.

2.6 Postgraduate research students

Enhancing the capacity and diversity of our research community and providing a supportive
environment are priorities for us and we have worked hard to deliver a significantly improved
environment for our PGRs, who make valuable contributions to our research output and outcomes.

Over the assessment period our PGR community grew by 10% to 735; 55% of our PGRs are from
the UK, 10% from the EU, and 35% are international, with 83 countries represented within our
student body. Our PGR community covers all disciplines in the unit. 20% of our PGRs are co-
supervised between engineering disciplines, and 15% undertake interdisciplinary projects with
other faculties, demonstrating our capacity and encouragement for interdisciplinary PhD training.

Enhanced resource availability has enabled us to balance the successes which have resulted in
higher levels of research and impact activity with our commitment to individual support. The
expected supervision load is, on average, 3 PGRs per academic FTE to ensure time for high-
quality supervision. We have consistently achieved this expectation over the period.

We aim to promote a culture of excellence, and to prepare our PGRs for careers in industry and
academia. The Engineering Graduate School (EGS), established in 2013, coordinates student-
facing support and ensures processes are harmonised across the Unit. The EGS takes the lead in
ensuring that best practice is followed unit-wide in recruitment, progression and support and that
the student voice is heard through student representation, working closely with PGR leads,
supervisors and professional staff. Quality assurance of programmes is supported by annual
reviews with academic departments to consider specific data (such as submission rates) and
discusses topics such as quality of supervision and support for PGR mental health. Feedback is
also gathered annually from PGR tutors and managers to help identify good practice and shared
challenges and to promote continuous improvement. An example of this is the significant increase
in the proportion of PGRs submitting without requesting extensions to their period of study up from
53% in 2014 to 80% in 2020 (Figure 2.5).

The EGS comprises three academic roles and three professional staff. Recognised as an exemplar
of good practice, Graduate Schools have now been rolled out across the University. The Director
of the EGS led the 2018 review of the institutional PGR progression processes, identifying
opportunities to harmonise and improve the way all PGRs are supported and developed.

PGR recruitment. Increased diversity in our PGR community is a current focus. Our PGR
community has been 77% male, 23% female over the last 5 years, with female students
representing up to 30% in some disciplines. The proportion of BAME PGRs has grown by nearly
50% over the period, and the number of PGRs with a declared disability has almost doubled. All
applicants submit a standard application form with supporting evidence and are then interviewed
by two academics who have completed unconscious bias training. Regular contact from the
supervisor/professional staff aims to integrate them before arrival. All PGRs receive inductions at
unit and discipline level. Whilst we attract a diverse pool of PGR applicants, we continually develop


                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and review our processes to ensure we continue to recruit and support candidates with the
greatest potential to succeed, thus taking more than prior attainment into consideration.

PGR funding. We have successfully secured 549 UKRI studentships to support the recruitment
of excellent candidates, including 222 from EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership, 198 via our
participation in 20 CDTs, and 77 as part of iCASE/CASE studentships. Sponsorship by UK
industrial partners has increased by 65% over the assessment period. UKRI funding via CDTs and
direct commercial sponsorship for PGRs has amounted to £45.6M of support.

Internal investment has supported seven international studentships per year since 2016. We
have invested £17.9M over the period, often to leverage externally funded sources such as
Chinese Scholarship Council and CONACYT. Internally funded studentships are a minimum of 3.5
years to enable submission within that funded period, contributing to PGR wellbeing and
enhancing their working environment and experience.

PGR progress is assured primarily through regular high-quality supervision. Our expectation is
regular (and minuted) meetings with supervisors. Formal milestones are:

   ●   Confirmation review at 12 months to confirm PhD candidature and review the student’s
       Data Management Plan - this is done via a committee to provide early experience of
       defending their research.

   ●   Submission review 6 months before submission deadline; each student is invited to meet
       with the Head of EGS to plan the final stages of their project and ensure they are positioned
       for a timely submission. This monitoring procedure was instituted across the unit in 2015
       and has led to a significant improvement in the number of PhD submissions without the
       need to request extensions to their study period (Figure 2.5). Enhanced and consistent
       support and taking pre-emptive action to mitigate submission delays is a key success of the
       EGS.




Figure 2.5 Number and proportion of PGR successfully submitting their PhDs without an extension
                                    to their period of study.

PGR Training. Through the ‘Think Ahead’ programme, PGR students access a series of
workshops, events, and training sessions to develop their core skills including communication,
networking, project management, and academic writing. It is managed by our dedicated
Researcher Development Manager whose remit includes development of professional and
entrepreneurship skills. Each year PGRs undertake tailored Training Needs Analysis, take stock of
their aptitudes, abilities, and future career direction to prepare a training plan.

Nearly 50% of our PGRs have publications, evidencing their highly developed writing skills,
demonstrating their contribution to our research output, and giving them a platform to learn critical
dissemination skills.

Resources available are targeted by year of study (such as peer mentoring for new recruits) or
networks for particular groups, such as students with caring responsibilities. The Researcher

                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Development Manager also supports student-led activity, working closely with the appointed PGR
President and Student Committee. One important contribution of this student group is the yearly
Engineering Researcher Symposium, which brings together PGRs and ECRs to present their work.
We are unique within the University in having a dedicated ethics lead for PGR students to provide
strong senior academic leadership. They are a member of the EGS Board and have a role
providing expert advice on research ethics. Our ethics module is mandatory for all our PGRs.

PGR Wellbeing. We are committed to supporting our students’ personal and family circumstances
with flexible working, parental and medical leave as required. We mirror UKRI policies for our own
funded students, providing parental leave stipends and stipends for medical absences up to 13
weeks per year. We support shared parental leave for PGRs where we provide stipends and
provide maternity grants for those with no other source of income.

We encourage a healthy approach to taking holidays; PGRs have the same entitlement as
academic staff. Each academic department has a PGR Tutor whose role incorporates an element
of pastoral support to students. This support is flexible in that an alternative academic may become
involved, if for example, a female PGR wishes to discuss issues with a female academic. We have
a welfare advisor to provide support and signposting to PGRs with mental health issues. We have
introduced pro-rata leave of absence to enable a phased return for students returning from mental
ill-health absence. This provision is promoted to students both before and at the start of their
studies, with ongoing support and promotion via the academic department and EGS.

2.7 Future strategy

In the next 5 years, we plan to continue with targeted recruitment to strengthen our challenge-
driven research themes, enhance diversity and balanced workloads for all staff. Our new (2021)
EDI strategy focuses on inclusivity with action plans to examine all research and impact activities.
We will continue with our progress in addressing the gender imbalance, via recruitment and
progression so that we exceed our current long-term targets. We will broaden this focus to cover all
under-represented groups with actions to ensure that we attain a more diverse workforce at all
grades. A task and finish group in our EGS is considering PGR recruitment practices especially for
applicants from non-standard and more diverse backgrounds, we are committed to implement the
outcomes of this group. We are also committed to providing continuing professional development
for all PGR supervisors.




                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Overview

Income, infrastructure, and facilities have been a major strength and key enabler for excellent
research and innovation over the period. £623M in external research income over the
assessment period, represents a 65% annual increase. HESA data show we are 2nd in
Engineering (including Computer Science) in the UK for our grant portfolio, with a peak spend in
2017/18 when £119.6M put us 1st. A particular highlight is more than doubling our expenditure on
low TRL fundamental research (118% increase in RCUK grant awards). Combined with internal
investment we produced excellent research outcomes (Section 1.3) and created new world-class
research facilities, including 17,760 m2 of new research laboratories and translational centres.

Our strategy for income generation (Section 1) underpins our four strategic objectives. To deliver
this strategy, we focused our professional and peer support on priorities including:

   ●   funder-specific income streams including large critical and/or cross-disciplinary
       opportunities aligned with national and global societal goals;
   ●   major infrastructure to secure our future competitiveness and to support excellent research
       and impact;
   ●   dedicated support for research leaders and teams to secure prestigious funding across all
       career stages.
From 2013/14 to 2018/19 annual research spend per academic staff FTE rose by 65% to £464k.
Both total research expenditure and expenditure/FTE ranked within the top 3 of UK universities,
demonstrating a leading and sustainable track record (Figure 3.1). Engineering (including
Computer Science) at Sheffield rose from 8th to 5th for RCUK support and was consistently ranked
in the top 2 for government and industry supported research across UK universities.




                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




   Figure 3.1 Total research expenditure and expenditure per FTE Academic T&R (£k) and rank
                                     against UK Universities.

Overall research expenditure increased 65% between 2013 and 2019 (Figure 3.2), with a spike in
2017 reflecting a series of new capital research investments (Section 3.3).




            Figure 3.2 Annual research expenditure (£M) over the assessment period.

The breakdown of the growth across income sources is illustrated in Figure 3.3.

   ●   RCUK funding of £149.4M, supporting more fundamental research and a number of
       critical mass activities and national facilities, including the UK Carbon Capture and Storage
       Research Centre (UKCCSRC), Faraday Challenge, Royce Discovery and Translational
       Centres, Laboratory for Validation and Verification (LVV), Integrated Civil and Infrastructure
       Research Centre (ICAIR), Manufacturing Hubs, and EPSRC Grand Challenge, Frontier
       Engineering and Programme Grants. Annual expenditure from these highly competitive

                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       awards rose from £13.3M to £29.2M, a 120% increase, and the proportion of RCUK spend
       within our overall expenditure increased from 22.5% (2013) to 30.3% (2020).

   ●   £247.8M income from UK government sources, focused on translation and impact,
       including significant capital investment and revenue funding via BEIS, DECC, Catapult,
       Regional Growth Funding, IUK (Section 3.3). Support for collaborative R&D via IUK/BEIS
       ranged from large collaborative programmes (e.g. Aerospace Technology Institute) to 58
       Knowledge Transfer Partnerships. Annual expenditure from the UK Government rose from
       £19.2M to £34.8M, an 81% increase.

   ●   Commercial income (UK and non-UK) of £136.8M resulted from the growth of both
       established and new partnerships across manufacturing, aerospace, energy,
       pharmaceuticals, transport, and infrastructure sectors (Section 3.2), underpinned by
       investments in large scale and translational infrastructure.




           Figure 3.3 Annual expenditure over the assessment period by funding source.

In the assessment period there were ten large research awards >£5M, 34 awards in the £2M-5M
range and 52 staff were awarded externally funded research chairs, research and industrial
fellowships reflecting our focus on supporting larger, multi-institutional funding bids and our focus
on enhancing research quality and the capabilities of our staff.

Professional support. Growth in income has been enabled by enhanced support for funding
applications. Research support hubs have 25 FTE dedicated staff across academic departments,
and the AMG, together with our multidisciplinary challenge-driven hub supporting our four priority
research themes. This to a ratio of around 1:10 FTE professional to Category A staff providing a
strongly supportive environment.

                                                                                              Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Hubs provide pre-award and implementation support, tailored to the funding scheme and
applicant’s career stage, including proposal development, costing preparation, training on
responding to reviewers’ comments and organisation of mock interviews. Support for early career
academics includes bid writing, peer review workshops, institutional funding for PGRs and
technical staff. Support for fellowships includes mentoring from senior colleagues, reviewing of
applications and reviewers’ comments and interview preparation. For more experienced colleagues
there is dedicated, industrially experienced, support from the challenge-driven hub to develop
major translational proposals (£2M-£30M), with significant project coordination (up to 50% FTE)
over 6 to 18 months. This support has resulted in a number of large awards aligned to our
challenge-driven research themes and strategic objectives (EPSRC Manufacturing Hubs, ERDF
bids). Processes are in place for swiftly securing internal co-investment for major capital projects,
enabling the timely decisions essential to securing £19M ERDF contribution for the delivery of
Royce, LVV and ICAIR (Section 3.3). In addition we organise regular workshops to foster and
support new capital infrastructure ideas and needs across all scales.

In summary, the increase in funding over the period reflects the development of a more
experienced staff profile with the proportion of staff at senior lecturer and professorial grades
increasing from 26.3% to 34.8%, and 37.1% and 41.9% respectively, the recruitment of a number
of exceptional research leaders, and enhanced, consistent professional support focussed on our
priority areas: larger multidisciplinary and collaborative grants, infrastructure investment, and
targeted individual support for fellowships and studentships.

3.2 Research income (non-capital)

Our leadership across engineering disciplines is demonstrated through large multidisciplinary
and collaborative awards, and hosting of critical mass activities and networks. Strategic
investment in facilities, particularly large scale and translational (Section 3.3), has allowed us to
drive complex challenge-driven research across our themes aligned with the UK’s strategic needs
(Eight Great Technologies, Industrial Strategy, Net Zero).

In Energy, we lead the UK Carbon Capture and Storage Research Centre (UKCCSRC, EPSRC,
£1.9M, +8 HEIs) and Prosperity Partnership with Siemens (EPSRC, £2.6M, +2 HEIs). We are
major contributors to the Faraday Challenge, leading FutureCat (£3.2M, +5 HEIs) and partners on
four other Faraday projects (£8.4M over 4 awards).

Our Infrastructure theme hosts the TWENTY65 Grand Challenge Consortium (EPSRC, £2.4M, +5
HEIs) building on our track record of platform grants in water engineering since 2001 (EPSRC,
£1.2M, 2011-2016), led the CENTAUR project (H2020, £477k) and leads the Pipebots programme
grant (EPSRC, £2.5M, +3 HEIs).

In Manufacturing, we lead two EPSRC Future Manufacturing Hubs (Advanced Powder
Processes, MAPP, £4.8M, +5 HEIs and Electrical Machines, FEMM, £6.3M, +2 HEIs), and partner
on a further five (Photonics, Semiconductors, CMAC, Metrology and SUSTAIN). We lead EU
MMTech and AMOS (H2020, ~ £1M) projects developing materials for additive manufacturing and
applications in aerospace repair.

Our Engineering for Life theme leads the MultiSim project (EPSRC Frontier Engineering, £5.6M)
developing a multiscale modelling framework for the human musculoskeletal system. INSIGNEO
remains at the heart of the EU Virtual Physiological Human initiative with >£4.8M income from the
EU (e.g. VPH-SHARE, MySpine, Mobilise-D, Back-Up).

We lead EPSRC programme grants, large awards, and networks (and partner on many others):

                                                                                             Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ●   Designing Alloys for Resource Efficiency (DARE, Programme Grant, £1.6M, +3 HEIs),
       SUBST - Substitution and Sustainability in Functional Materials and Devices (£2.2M),
       Digital Twins for Improved Dynamic Design (Programme Grant, £1.4M, +5 HEIs) and
       Engineering Nonlinearity (Programme Grant, £1.1M, 2013-2017, +4 HEIs).

   ●   EPSRC Network and Networks Plus grants: UK Acoustics (£1.4M, +10 HEIs), as well as
       Engineering Complexity Network Resilience, JUNO Network for Japan-UK Nuclear
       Opportunities and CommNet II (~£940k).

Fellowship income (UKRI, EU, RAEng) was in excess of £18.5M, supporting UKRI Established
Career and ERC Advanced Fellowships, Early Career/Future Leadership Fellowships and more
impact-focussed RAEng Enterprise and Industrial Fellowships (Section 4.5).

Industrial income over the census period was £137.3M with further support leveraged through
collaborative R&D programmes (UK government,IUK, BEIS). Highlights include:

   ●   Industrial income from AMG’s partners in excess of [text removed for publication].

   ●   Collaborative R&D projects across manufacturing including: [text removed for publication],
       Advanced Manufacturing Supply Chain Initiative with Laing O’Rouke ([text removed for
       publication]), additive manufacturing projects with GKN (HORIZON, DAM, AIRLIFT, [text
       removed for publication]), Landing Gear of the Future with Safran ([text removed for
       publication]), and Aerostructures: Factory of the Future with Spirit AeroSystems ([text
       removed for publication]).

   ●   Electrical machines and drives (energy, transport) secured [text removed for publication]
       industrial income (including [text removed for publication]) with five research centres with
       co-located industry staff, together with collaborative R&D projects [text removed for
       publication].

   ●   Our Energy Institute secured collaborative R&D across conventional combustion and
       CCUS [text removed for publication] (IUK, BEIS) and industrial income [text removed for
       publication].

   ●   Our bioengineering and biomanufacturing activities secured [text removed for publication]
       of industrial income (including [text removed for publication]).

   ●   Partnerships across rail secured [text removed for publication] income (including [text
       removed for publication]).

   ●   In infrastructure and environment, industrial income from water research was [text removed
       for publication] (including [text removed for publication]).

   ●   During the assessment period, 58 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (£9.8M) enabled
       collaboration with 70% SMEs, 25% in the Sheffield City Region.

3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

Staff have access to an extensive range of major laboratory facilities located across the city
campus, at the Advanced Manufacturing and Sheffield Business Parks, and at additional sites
remote from Sheffield. Our core infrastructure comprises 38,696m2 of high-quality laboratory space
and over 5,900m2 of dedicated PGR office space, of which 70% has been refurbished or newly
built over the assessment period. In 2014, the University secured 50 acres of land on the Sheffield
Business Park, enabling significant expansion of translational research facilities (Figure 3.4).

                                                                                             Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Infrastructure has been enhanced to: (i) expand capacity in areas of strength; (ii) support strategic
new appointments; and (iii) support areas of research with the potential to make significant
contributions and to generate impact. Research infrastructure programmes of £255M (~£123M
buildings, and ~£132M equipment) have been completed through internal investment, UKRI, UK
Government (HVM Catapult, Growth Deal, BEIS, DECC), ERDF and industry funding.




                    Figure 3.4 Location of new engineering facilities, 2013-2020

3.3.1. Large-scale and translational research facilities

We have invested strategically in translational and large-scale facilities across our manufacturing,
materials, energy, infrastructure, and transport themes, enabling partners to access equipment
which is either unaffordable or unavailable for research. These facilities allow us to de-risk new
processes and approaches with partners, supporting adoption and business investment. Co-
location of industry staff ensures effective knowledge exchange and supports the translational
process.


                                                                                             Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our Advanced Manufacturing Group is an exemplar of university-led economic development.
Close partnership work with the Sheffield City Region is part of its success. During the assessment
period, a focus for AMG’s expansion has been cementing the offer across the whole manufacturing
value chain (design, fabrication, assembly, and testing), the key threads across this chain
(productivity, digital, sustainability, skills), coupled with increasing access to supply chains and
regional clusters. AMG's research infrastructure has been further developed through significant in-
kind contributions ([text removed for publication]) from partners across the supply chain via
machines, equipment, engineering support and software (e.g. DMG Mori, Renishaw, Siemens,
Dassault Systems).

Examples of infrastructure at AMG which enables effective impact include:

Factory 2050, the world’s first reconfigurable research factory opened in 2016 (4,100m2, £21.6M,
ERDF, HEFCE). It houses a Kuka Titan robotic arm, upgraded with new encoders and sensors to
create the world's most accurate large-volume machining robot for aerospace applications. Our
Integrated Manufacturing Group has developed smart benches to support workers with manual
assembly processes and pioneered the use of AR and VR in manufacturing including
maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) operations. The impact case study BAE Systems
exemplifies the impact potential of the facility.

Composites Press facility. A Rhodes 1,000 tonne press for moulding carbon-fibre reinforced
composites was integrated with a KraussMaffei high-pressure resin transfer moulding with a 100kg
capacity (£10M, Sheffield City Region). A Staubli Jacquard 3D loom was purchased to support
work in the expanding area of composite dry fibre preforming. These new composites facilities
supported McLaren in reshoring chassis manufacturing from Austria to Sheffield in 2018, with a
new [text removed for publication] manufacturing facility on the Advanced Manufacturing Park,
bringing high value manufacturing regeneration to an economically deprived area ([text removed
for publication]).

AMRC’s Design and Prototyping Centre (2,300m2, £6.1M), completed in 2013, is equipped to
support the design process from concept through to fully functional prototypes. A Training Centre
(5,400 m2, £17.9M, ERDF, BIS) was built in 2014 to support degree apprenticeships in
Manufacturing Technology and degrees in Mechanical and Manufacturing and Maintenance
Engineering.

The AMG has extended this successful model to other regions:

AMRC Cymru (housed within 2,000m2, £20M facility leased from Welsh Government) opened in
2019, is a state-of-the-art applied research centre. We are supporting R&D for anchor tenant
Airbus helping to secure future wing manufacturing in the UK. In AMRC Cymru we also develop
manufacturing supply chains in Wales, especially in the food and drink sector, with a recent £2M
investment for a packaging sustainability centre. In 2020, we played a key role in the UK
Government’s Ventilator Challenge (Section 4.2).

AMRC North West supports BAE Systems and the North West Aerospace cluster. Operational in
rented facilities since 2018, a new £25M 4,500m2 facility will open in September 2021 on the
Samlesbury Aerospace Economic Development Zone (supported in part by Lancaster Enterprise
Partnership Growth Deal funding). Key capabilities include MELD, a solid-state additive
manufacturing process for large aerospace structures. AMRC NW is leading a new £9.5M project
to develop a 5G industrial test bed with BAE, IBM, and regional suppliers.

In Nuclear-AMRC’s Birkenhead R&D centre (1,000m2) we are conducting research into modular
construction methods for new reactors and decommissioning activities. The facilities are based at

                                                                                           Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
our partner Cammell Laird’s site, close to the North West nuclear cluster and the Wylfa new build
site in North Wales. Nuclear-AMRC’s Midland facility will extend capabilities in supply chain
management. The team is currently operating in rented facilities with construction of the new £25M
facility (HVM Catapult, Derby City Council Local Enterprise Partnership), located next to the Rolls-
Royce Innovation Park, scheduled to start in 2021.

We have also developed large-scale facilities for fundamental research:

We are a partner in the Henry Royce Institute, the national institute for advanced materials
research and innovation. A £44.3M capital investment (EPSRC, ERDF, University) has established
two facilities covering discovery (TRL 1-3) and translational (TRL 4-6) research supporting our
materials, manufacturing and transport themes. In the Royce Discovery Centre (1,200m2,
2020) we focus on the design of new materials with facilities for high throughput discovery, rapid
property screening and new process development. In the Royce Translation Centre (1,500m2,
2018) we incorporate advanced powder production and near net shape manufacturing
technologies at pilot/full scale. The two facilities work in tandem, enabling low TRL discovery
science to be rapidly scaled up, de-risked and adopted by industry. Royce has worked with and
provided equipment access to 19 HEIs and 19 industry partners with collaborative R&D
programmes across automotive ([text removed for publication]) and aerospace ([text removed for
publication]).

The Laboratory for Verification and Validation (LVV, 750m2, £9M, EPSRC, ERDF, University) is
a major structural dynamics, acoustics, and vibration testing facility supporting researchers across
our infrastructure, transport, and manufacturing themes. Opened in 2019, the facility provides
unique facilities for dynamic testing of full-scale structures in ambient laboratory conditions, and
vibration testing of substantial structures, sub-structures and components in simulated conditions
in controlled climatic test rooms (-55°C to +50°C, humidity, wind and rainfall effects). LVV provides
a platform for academic research (EPSRC DigiTwin) and research with industry partners.

The Integrated Civil and Infrastructure Research Centre (ICAIR, 970m2, £10M, EPSRC, ERDF,
University), established in 2018 is part of the UKCRIC network of infrastructure laboratories. ICAIR
contains the National Distributed Water Infrastructure Facility which has internationally leading
capabilities for supporting fundamental and applied research on urban water infrastructure. ICAIR
contains a unique 2,000m3 test cell for the study of buried underground pipe network infrastructure,
providing a platform for a number of projects (EPSRC Pipebots, Plexus, IUK, water companies).
Flexible laboratory space with a strong floor is enabling research on repair, inspection, and
maintenance strategies for legacy infrastructure (e.g. concrete, masonry arch bridges, EPSRC
£586k) and the design, manufacture, and construction of new infrastructure.

The Translational Energy Research Centre (TERC, 1,540 m2, £12.9M, BEIS, ERDF, University)
forms a key part of the University’s Energy Institute. In TERC we host the national Pilot-scale
Advanced CO2 Capture Technology (PACT) facilities. We also host 24 pilot-scale permanent test
rigs, including state-of-the-art equipment for conventional energy, carbon capture, utilisation and
storage, biomass, hydrogen, renewable energy, energy storage and smart grids. Since 2013, more
than 74 industrial and 48 academic collaborations, with over 785 test days has enabled
development of knowledge-based screening tools to assess new aviation fuels (EU JETSCREEN,
US National Jet Fuel Program), processes to improve biomass combustion (Bio FIB, Energy
Technology Institute) and process intensification of carbon capture to reduce capital costs
(ARTEMIS, BEIS).




                                                                                            Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



3.3.2. Development of core infrastructure

In REF2014 submissions, we planned two major infrastructure projects to deliver enhanced
research and teaching facilities for our growing academic staff and PGR communities: (i) the Pam
Liversidge Building (Engineering Graduate School Building) opened in 2014 (£18M, including $1M
donation from alum Hon. Sir Sze-yuen Chung); and (ii) refurbishment of the Central Wing of our
main engineering building (“Heartspace” project, £51.5M) completed in 2020. These projects have
delivered over 1,200m2 of world class laboratory facilities and nearly 1,700m2 of excellent quality
PGR working space.

Additional significant investments in core infrastructure are summarised below, including a number
of national facilities open to other HEIs and industry.

We are the main site for EPSRC’s National Epitaxy Facility (+ UCL, Cambridge) providing high-
quality semiconductor epitaxy for custom-designed structures and devices for UK academics and
industry. During the assessment period, Sheffield’s core epitaxy facilities have been enhanced
(EPSRC, £7.6M) and a new £3.1M quantum technologies laboratory has been supported via
EPSRC (£2.2M) and the University. In 2019, at the midpoint of the current 5-year contract, the
national facility was supporting UK researchers across 23 UKRI grants. Industrial projects include
AQuaSec (IUK ISCF Quantum Technology) led by Toshiba developing new quantum
communication components.

The National Millimetre Wave Measurement Facility (EPSRC, £1M), opened in 2019, is the only
millimetre wave measurement system in the UK for characterising integrated on-wafer antennas
and microchips. The measurement capabilities offer a significant technological advancement by
enabling the stable, vibration-free integration of a probe station to test on-wafer antennas and on-
chip devices, which is critical to the development of future millimetre wave radio systems for 5G
and 6G wireless networks.

MIDAS is a national user facility supporting research in the management and disposal of
radioactive waste. New state-of-the-art materials radiochemistry laboratories were established in
2015 with £3.75M from the University and the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC).
The facility is the largest of its kind across UK HEIs, with both supervised and controlled areas to
handle radioactive materials according to risk, enabling the formulation, design, processing and
characterisation of radioactive waste forms and nuclear fuels. This facility enabled the
underpinning research for our impact case study HAW Management.

We host the Urban Flows Observatory (£2M, EPSRC/BEIS), one of the national UKCRIC urban
observatories focussing on energy and resource use at the city, neighbourhood and building level.
This consists of distributed fixed sensor networks, mobile sensing vehicles, Mobius (environmental
sensing), MARVel (built environment remote sensing) and Morca (radio frequency sensing), data
extraction tools, data storage, visualisation, and analytical tools.

We have established new facilities for the characterisation of particles and colloidal materials
including atomic force microscopy and micromanipulation particle testing to improve the
understanding of food powder processes from micro to industrial scales ([text removed for
publication]). These investments have supported our impact case study [text removed for
publication] that derived over [text removed for publication] in economic benefit. A £4M investment
in the Diamond Pilot Plant enables the study of cutting-edge integrated manufacturing processes
at industrially relevant scales, including the ability to manufacture high-value formulated products.


                                                                                             Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Since 2014, our internationally-leading laboratories for the study of processes related to urban
water supply and drainage have received over £1.1M of investment from EPSRC/EU and UK
water companies, including a temperature controlled 4km pipe loop to study hydraulic and
biological processes in water supply systems and 240m 2 of refurbished analytical laboratories.
These enhanced facilities have been essential to support the research that led to the impact case
study Managing discolouration.

We have made a number of investments in our Energy Institute supporting energy storage
research and our partnership with the Faraday Institute. Extensive battery production,
characterisation and testing facilities, part funded by EPSRC were completed in 2016. These
facilities include new X-ray MicroCT (Zeiss Versa 620, first in UK) with <0.5micron resolution and
allow unique in-situ mechanical, environmental, and electrochemical testing for in-situ
characterisation of batteries, fuel cells and multilayers. A suite of SGI high performance computers
running Emmerson Distributed Control Systems and nHance MODULAR Modelling System
software for energy storage research were supported by EPSRC funds.

Tribology is a key enabling science supporting our manufacturing, transport, and energy
themes. We have invested in additional measurement capabilities including a second Alicona non-
contact surface profilometer, a OnTrak rail head tribometer, a portable Laser Induced Breakdown
Spectrometer and a Digital Image Correlation system (total £579k). Additional laboratory
capabilities including a unique dry ice environment for rail head cleaning developed via UKRRIN
funding specifically for rail tribology research. These enhanced capabilities have been crucial in
enabling an EPSRC programme grant, an Advanced Fellowship, Centre to Centre project and
industrial partnerships. Tribology is a key technology in our impact case study Rolls-Royce aero-
engines.

Investments have fostered interdisciplinary research in our Engineering for Life theme.
Biomechanical laboratory facilities opened in 2013 comprise ex-vivo biomechanical testing to
measure properties at the tissue and organ levels, and in-vitro biomechanical testing to measure
properties at the cellular and molecular levels. Additional facilities for investigating human
movement biomechanics were created in 2015 (EPSRC/EU). Investment in bioanalytical facilities
(UKRI, £0.6M) delivered a custom-built analytical facility with state-of-the-art equipment for
proteomic workflows for protein and peptide analysis and characterisation of nucleic acids,
nucleosides and other metabolites. This facility enables the bioanalysis of multiple cell systems
from mammalian to algae and bacteria, supporting our bioengineering and biomanufacturing
collaborations across the University, external academics and industry. The Sheffield
Collaboratorium for Antimicrobial Resistance and Biofilms (SCARAB) is a new laboratory (IUK,
£0.4M) studying how bacteria protect themselves from antibiotics.

Online systems coordinate use of facilities to ensure fair and transparent access and management
of technical resources, and visibility of use. Staff and PGRs can request access and support, which
is prioritised against agreed criteria and progress monitored with appropriate charging made to
funding sources (external and internal).

3.3.3. Technical Staff

Investment in high-quality support staff is crucial for researchers to develop and deliver world class
outputs from our physical infrastructure. Currently 395 technical staff are employed throughout the
unit, an increase of 168 since 2013. Their skillsets cross our disciplines from mechanical
fabrication, to electronic design and manufacture, material characterisation to advanced chemical
and microbial analysis. The University is a signatory to the Technician Commitment and the
institutional working group is chaired by a unit HoD.

                                                                                             Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Early in the assessment period we recognised it was increasingly difficult to recruit skilled technical
staff. In 2014, a two-year in-house technician trainee scheme was launched. Since 2014, 9 cohorts
of multi-skilled technical staff have been trained. In total, 46 trainees have taken part in the
programme of whom 41 secured permanent positions. All trainees obtain City and Guilds in their
chosen discipline, and a number have gone on to further qualifications, including NEBOSH diploma
and degree programmes. Professional development is maintained through professional
registration, CPD and established technical career pathways, through which 19 former trainees
have progressed to more senior roles.

At the AMG a structured three-year apprenticeship programme provides an entry-level skills
pipeline to support research activities while strengthening links with local and regional partners. In
the assessment period, 131 apprentices have taken part in the structured professional
development programme. Upon successful completion, apprentices progress to a substantive
technical position. During the assessment period, 41 apprentices have progressed to permanent
positions within AMG.

These two highly successful programmes have ensured that we now have a sustainable technical
and skilled support base, also contributing to up-skilling the local economy.

3.3.4. Sheffield’s use of wider national infrastructure

Our researchers have made extensive use of UKRI’s central facilities such as the Diamond Light
Source, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (CLF) and international infrastructure such as the
European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Ion Beam Centre Helmholtz Dresden, the Canadian
Neutron Beam Centre and the Japanese KEK Photon Factory, supporting projects across energy,
materials and manufacturing. The value of this usage has been estimated at £11.2M and involved
38 academics.

3.4 Future strategy

Income, infrastructure, and facilities are a major strength of Engineering at Sheffield and are a key
enabler for research and innovation over the submission period; our future strategy is to capitalise
on this strength. A number of large capital programmes and facilities concluded in the latter years
of the assessment period with further programmes starting in the next period (Nuclear-AMRC
Midlands, AMRC North West, and a new Sustainable Aviation Fuels Innovation Centre). We
envisage major opportunities for research discovery and innovation at the interface between
disciplines in alignment with the socio-economic challenges of our era. For example, interfacing
our unique environmental testing facilities (LVV) with our excellent manufacturing infrastructure
(AMG, Royce), and using our specialised testing facilities (e.g. Blast Engineering, Energy,
Infrastructure) to understand new materials and processes under different environments and
conditions. Sustainability and resilience of such infrastructure will be key to deliver the UK’s carbon
targets, hence we will invest further in emerging interdisciplinary research areas to maximise use,
while we diversify our sources of income at the same time (e.g. EU, international funding bodies).
To strengthen the UK’s research base, we will expand on the collaborative aspects of our research
facilities (HEIs, Industry), including leadership and management of national facilities.




                                                                                              Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Promoting research collaborations, nurturing and sustaining impactful research and partnerships
form two of our four objectives to enhance our research environment and are embedded
throughout our research activities. This is reflected in the collaborations and networks we have
created and partnerships we have fostered, leading to increased academic collaborations,
industrial engagement, and wider impacts. Support mechanisms encourage and facilitate the
acquisition of resources to enable both national and international research collaboration as well as
end-user engagement across all our challenge-driven themes.

4.1 Research collaborations

Developing ‘best-with-best’ collaborations is a key driver of excellence and impact. Our
collaborations range from leading international consortia to academic-led partnerships with local
SMEs (Figure 4.1) and involve staff at all career stages.




                     Figure 4.1 Academic and industrial collaboration overview

Collaboration is encouraged and supported by a range of mechanisms. Professional research
support, including for consortium building, is available through the challenge-driven research
support hub and the AMG bid writing team for large strategic bids. These staff also support the
development of interdisciplinary links and networks (Section 1.4). The institutional Partnerships

                                                                                            Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Regional Engagement team has excellent links with local government and industry within the
Sheffield City Region and facilitate strategic links in addition to providing support for knowledge
exchange activities. We have used internal seed funding competitions to initiate collaborations in
emerging funding streams (e.g. GCRF) and to develop impactful partnerships. Importantly,
collaboration and engagement are encouraged and valued as a core element of the Academic
Career Pathway (Section 2.3). The study leave scheme has provided academic staff with time to
initiate, renew, and deepen established relationships with HEIs and research users.

International collaborations. We have won research awards involving over 130 international
HEIs and over 150 international industrial partners during the assessment period, demonstrating
our commitment. For example, we had pivotal involvement in securing a new 5-year EPSRC
centre-to-centre grant between Sheffield and the University of Dortmund on nanoscale quantum
photonics. INSIGNEO were instrumental in establishing the partnership Sano centre for
computational medicine in Krakow, Poland with a €15M EU award which funds ongoing
collaboration until 2026.

Sheffield leads the UK Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) Research Centre (EPSRC). With 10
core and partner institutions, since 2012 it has grown the UK CCS community to over 1,400
members. It runs a core research programme and open funding calls. It interacts strongly with
industry through its test facility (Section 3.3.1) and has forged strong international links with CCS
organisations in Australia, Canada, the Netherlands, South Korea, and the USA. Its research
leadership have participated in several UK government initiatives such as the BEIS CCUS Cost
Challenge and the CCUS Council. We are the lead partner in the International Test Centre
Network, which aims to accelerate global R&D into carbon capture technologies by sharing
knowledge on the construction and operation of large-scale test facilities. We are a partner in the
€23M ALIGN CCUS consortium which unites 34 science and industry partners in a shared goal of
transforming six European industrial regions into economically robust, low-carbon centres by 2025.

We have been active participants in European collaborations through FP7 and Horizon 2020,
participating in 126 projects and leading 17, often with wide international reach. For example,
Sheffield’s expertise in additive manufacturing and metallic technologies were a key component of
the INTEGRADDE project in which Sheffield researchers are working with 25 partners to develop
and demonstrate end-to-end Digital Additive Manufacturing solutions.

The AMRC’s long-term relationship with Boeing led to a 2016 research programme to translate
Sheffield’s extensive underpinning research expertise in machining technologies to deliver major
cost and material waste reductions in the production of lightweight alloy components. Combining
this with our expertise in discrete element simulation allowed Boeing to explore the possibilities of
different operational scenarios, leading to the opening their first new-build factory in 30 years
adjacent to the AMRC in 2018. The facility has produced components for 737 and 767 aircraft [text
removed for publication] (impact case study Boeing Sheffield).

National collaborations Over the assessment period we have formally partnered with 66 UK HEIs
and 291 industrial organisations. We have led work with the UK research community to set the
national agenda. The EPSRC MAPP Hub hosted a ‘town hall’ meeting in 2020 bringing together all
Manufacturing the Future and Catalysis Hubs, Catapults, industry and UKRI to discuss establishing
a manufacturing focused beamline at the Diamond Light Source. In 2020, we led community
engagement and developed ‘Big Ideas’ assessments to the EPSRC SET-B panel around Digital
Materials from within Royce and Distributed Mega Cities from UKRRIN. Critical mass awards such
as EPSRC programme grants (Section 3.2), Faraday Institute awards and CDTs have supported
deep, sustained collaborations with national partners in areas of research excellence.


                                                                                             Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UK academics can access the AMG via the UKRI-supported researcher in residence scheme.
AMRC operated the first HVM Catapult Fellowship Centre across the HVMC Network (EPSRC,
£1M) supporting UKRI and BEIS ambitions for closer working between Catapult Centres and
academia. AMRC hosted Clare (Nottingham) and Longstaff (Huddersfield) developing new
metrology methods. Current resident fellows at Nuclear-AMRC are Francis (Manchester), Roy
(Manchester) and Fletcher (Huddersfield).

Research Networks. Sheffield researchers have led five EPSRC Network or Network+ grants
demonstrating acknowledged leadership in their discipline: O’Farrell (communications),
Horoshenkov (acoustics), Hyatt (nuclear opportunities with Japan), Styring (carbon dioxide
utilisation) and Mayfield (complexity and resilience). These networks have spanned the disciplinary
range and have had national and international impact. The JUNO network co-ordinated and
enabled the growth of strong UK-Japan collaboration in nuclear decommissioning, addressing
challenges common to Fukushima Dai-ichi and Sellafield, engaging over 60 UK and Japanese
researchers. The network supported collaboration development for 12 joint projects sponsored by
EPSRC and MEXT (Japanese equivalent), through its programme of annual meetings and bi-
lateral visits to research and nuclear facilities. The network contributed to the development of the
joint UK-Japan research strategy through participation in the annual nuclear dialogue between the
UK and Japanese governments, and championed research translation and commercialisation
through the DIT Civil Nuclear Showcase. The network also improved public understanding and
awareness of nuclear decommissioning through participation in expert seminars such as the Daiwa
Symposium 2016 and events such as the TUC Conference 2019, as well as >20 articles in online,
print and broadcast media.

The UK Acoustics Network (UKAN) grew from 200 members at its inception to welcoming its
1,000th member in June 2020 with membership split roughly 50:50 between academic and non-
academic members. Over 100 UKAN networking events including workshops, conferences, staff
exchanges, grant writing workshops and early career summer schools have taken place. UKAN
includes 15 special interest groups, ranging from bio-acoustics through to hearing, computational
acoustics, metamaterials and an early career researcher group. New research directly or indirectly
supported by UKAN include UKRI strategic priority awards such as Physics of Life, Fellowships,
Programme Grants and CDTs. A successor £1.4M EPSRC Network+ has been awarded and will
run from March 2021 led by Sheffield.

4.2 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries, or audiences

Our strategy and four pathways for delivering impact are described in Section 1.5. Here we
highlight key impacts for our four research themes.

Energy. Our long-term partnership with Siemens-Gamesa is driven by our global research
leadership in electrical machines and drives and underpinned by the RAEng Chair (Zhu) and the
joint Siemens-Gamesa Renewable Energy Research Centre (S2GRE). Step-change improvements
[text removed for publication] have led to five successive generations of offshore wind turbines with
increasing power output from 6MW to 14MW and an associated reduction in levelised energy costs
from £157 to £39 per MWh. This technology is incorporated into all 1,049 of Siemens Gamesa’s
direct-drive offshore wind turbines, accounting for 23% of global offshore wind grid-connected
capacity (ICS Siemens Gamesa). [text removed for publication]

Our innovative work in nuclear waste immobilisation has led to the design, manufacture, and
performance assessment of glass and ceramic materials for plutonium residues and intermediate
level waste. This research has developed confidence that these waste packages will be disposable


                                                                                            Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in a future disposal facility and the surrounding evidence base for the safety case, supporting
national policy decision-makers to address a key UK priority. It has had international impact with
uptake of knowledge and technology throughout the UK nuclear industry (Radioactive Waste
Management, Sellafield Ltd, Costain), the Ministry of Defence, and the US Department of Energy
(impact case study: HAW Management). This work has been extensively promoted to the public
via more than 20 radio and television interviews, over 30 published news articles and online media
and a documentary with an estimated reach of 1.1m people.

Infrastructure and Environment. Our unique translational facilities (ICAIR, two UKCRIC facilities,
Buxton Blast laboratory) support long-term partnerships with the UK water sector and DSTL.

TWENTY65 Tailored Water Solutions for Positive Impact is an EPSRC Grand Challenges
consortium of six UK universities (EPSRC, £3.9M) which aims to tackle the challenge “of
sustainable water for all” through innovative social and technical solutions. This Sheffield-led
project is addressing the failure of the UK water sector to exploit innovation and engaging national
politicians, regulators, NGOs, water companies and their supply chain. Its work has influenced
OFWAT’s water sector innovation strategy and Boxall has spoken at the all-party parliamentary
group for water and a DEFRA water efficiency evidence day.

Sheffield research has provided critical insights into blast load characterisation and bomb
neutralisation techniques. A strong partnership with DSTL, underpinned by an RAEng Chair
(Tyas), led to these advances in fundamental understanding being translated into life-saving
applications for the UK and its defence partners (impact case study: Blast Protection). This
research has influenced defence and security practices and policies and enabled new technical
standards. Applications of our blast research, such as the Fly-Bag aircraft hold liner, have received
extensive media coverage.

The UK Research Strategy Community Organisation in Communications, Mobile Computing and
Networking (EPSRC) attracted 230 academics and industrialists (75:25 split), representing over
80% of the UK's communications and networking community. Led by O'Farrell, it delivered 17 UK
research challenge workshops, 2 international workshops, 1 international conference (Next-GWIN
2018) and 4 PhD schools to over 1200 attendees. Its activities seeded numerous EPSRC awards:
standard awards, managed calls, programme grants, fellowships, capital equipment, Prosperity
Partnerships and CDTs.

Manufacturing We have strengthened key partnerships with leading manufacturers over the
assessment period including Rolls-Royce, Boeing, GKN Aerospace and Airbus. The strategic
expansion of the AMG and the new Henry Royce Institute (Section 3.3.1) have supported these
partnerships and the development of new collaborations via co-location opportunities, access to
key equipment, which is of particular value to SMEs, and enabling translational projects at
industrially-relevant scales.

The Airbus partnership on the Wing of Tomorrow/Future programmes is an exemplar of how we
work across TRLs with a clear pipeline from discovery to application. Fundamental low-TRL work is
delivered via our RAEng Chair (Tiwari) in parallel with a programme of mid-TRL research at
Factory 2050 and AMRC Cymru. Low-TRL work transitions to Airbus either directly or via Factory
2050 and/or AMRC Cymru depending on risk. Co-location of staff is key, with Airbus an anchor
tenant at AMRC Cymru and David Harra, Head of Airbus Assembly Technology, an RAEng Visiting
Professor.

As part of the 2020 Ventilator Challenge UK, the AMRC’s Cymru facility was transformed, from
joint R&D activities for Airbus wing manufacture into a production hub for ventilator parts. Airbus’s


                                                                                              Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
aerospace engineers were re-trained to make medical equipment using ‘mixed reality’ headsets
pioneered by AMRC, combining the real world with interactive holograms. This allowed engineers
on the production lines to see every part of the process involved in assembly and even talk directly
to a remote support engineer while maintaining social distancing. Discrete event simulation models
created by AMRC staff ensured a socially-distanced flow of people around the facility during
manufacture. In total, 13,400 ventilators were delivered in 10 weeks, a task which would have
normally taken 10 years.

Following a series of highly successful collaborations, including a project that halved the machining
time of titanium fan discs, AMRC participated in two Rolls-Royce/IUK-sponsored four-year
programmes (SAMULET 2 and 3), [text removed for publication]. SAMULET 2 included High
Performance Shaft Manufacturing, which won the Henry Royce Engineering Excellence Award for
2016. In SAMULET 3, the majority of AMRC projects focussed on machining. Proprietary aero-
engine alloys were tested for their machinability, then machining methods were matured up the
readiness level scale towards the point of mass production. AMRC’s machining simulation tools
were used to propose significant process improvements. Rolls-Royce’s dedicated disc
manufacturing facility in Tyne and Wear and facilities in Germany and the USA have benefitted
from the manufacturing techniques developed in the two projects (impact case study: Rolls-Royce
aero-engines).

Academic-led partnerships include our two Rolls-Royce University Technology Centres: Control,
Monitoring and Systems Engineering (Kadirkamanathan) and Electrical Machines and Drives
(Jewell). Over the assessment period these centres have received [text removed for publication] of
core funding with a further [text removed for publication] to fund specific research activities.

The UK’s success in manufacturing depends not only on major contractors, but on the large
number of SMEs who supply key components. The AMG occupies a pivotal position, having both
close partnerships with the major contractors and strong links with SMEs, and an excellent
underlying research base in key technologies that can support supply chain development. The Fit
for Nuclear (F4N) scheme, funded by the HVMC and developed by Nuclear-AMRC, utilises this
position to help manufacturing companies assess and develop their readiness to participate in the
UK nuclear industry supply chain. Since 2013, 757 companies from outside the traditional nuclear
supply chain have participated in the programme, working with our staff to build their capacity.
Over this period, these companies have been awarded 1079 contracts with a value of £76.5M,
creating 385 new jobs and safeguarding 780 jobs UK-wide. Building on F4N’s success, we are now
working with the Offshore Energy Renewable Catapult to bring similar supply chain development to
the UK offshore wind sector. Fit for Offshore Wind was piloted in Scotland in 2019, engaging 40
companies, with the project rolled out to the rest of the UK in 2020.

Engineering for Life Healthcare. We engage with Sheffield Teaching Hospitals Trust, the largest
single NHS trust in the UK, via INSIGNEO. This partnership also enables engagement with wider
audiences and stakeholders in healthcare, to create impacts and disseminate our discoveries. For
example, non-invasive in-silico models of cardiovascular pressure have been successfully tested in
clinical trials and used to augment catheter guided interventions in coronary artery disease (e.g.
Frangi, STH collaboration), hence engaging with clinical and technical staff in the NHS and the
private sector.

Innovative tissue engineering research integrating tissue culture techniques with ocular surgery led
to the development of simple limbal epithelial transplant (SLET), an improved and lower cost
treatment for blindness caused by ocular burns and provided the opportunity to engage with
international stakeholders. We have provided skills and treatment strategies to ophthalmologists in


                                                                                            Page 42
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
14 countries (in Asia, Europe, North and South America) enabling 1,291 children and adults to date
to have their eyesight saved (impact case study: Saving eyesight).

The Sheffield Alcohol Policy Model supported policy development for minimum unit pricing (MUP).
The model, and its findings, played a key role in the UK Supreme Court judgment ruling in favour
of the introduction of MUP in Scotland. The policy was implemented in May 2019 and its
effectiveness at reducing alcohol-related harm is being evaluated by the Scottish Government.

4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society

In addition to the £4.5bn of economic impact described in our impact case studies, the following
examples detail additional significant impacts arising from our research, representing wider
contributions to the economy and society.

Our research (H2020, COMBILASER), integrating machine learning, data curation, and modelling
frameworks has transformed [text removed for publication] (automotive) laser welding process,
[text removed for publication]. Further uptake of Sheffield’s COMBILASER research by [text
removed for publication] (white goods) in Europe and China, and [text removed for publication] (oil
& gas) has extended the reach of the impact of our research.

Two streams of our bioprocess engineering research have underpinned improvements in the
efficiency of bioprocesses, an increasingly important issue as the number, diversity, and
complexity of biological therapeutics being developed increases. [text removed for publication].

Our excellence in composite materials and manufacturing resulted in a partnership with McLaren to
deliver an extensive programme of research to improve the performance and processing of carbon
fibre reinforced polymer composite components. The success of this programme and the
importance of continued close collaboration led McLaren to construct a new [text removed for
publication], 7,000 m2 carbon fibre manufacturing facility adjacent to AMRC which utilises an
improved method of manufacture, developed in collaboration with our researchers. [text removed
for publication]

4.4 Engagement with diverse communities and publics

As an institution with a strong sense of civic duty and engagement, we believe that engaging with
the wider community is a vital strand of engineering research to support our overarching goal of
making the world a better place. Our outreach activities aim to interest and inform a broad cross-
section of the public; we are particularly keen to engage and excite the next generation of
engineers and support their education. In order to develop a more diverse pipeline of engineering
talent, many of our events actively target under-represented groups. Engagement is achieved
through virtual activities, the provision of educational resources, demonstrations, and
communication via new and traditional media. Activities are often led by teams from large research
projects, drawing in our ECRs and PGRs.

The Flashy Science website developed by materials scientists Allwood and Dean, provides
interactive, virtual experiments linked to common school and university curricula. They allow school
and university students to ‘learn-by-doing’ where local experimental facilities may not be available.
This activity has been commercialised and is currently used by 250 groups internationally, and
20,000 individual users. We also run a programme of public activities (Engineering Imagination -
held online in 2020, Exploring STEM for girls) and contribute to local and national events (Sheffield
Festival of Science and Engineering, Engineering Week -Tomorrow’s Engineers, This is
Engineering Day, Big Bang Fair), aimed at encouraging young people, especially women to

                                                                                            Page 43
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
consider engineering as a career option. A number of residential summer schools are run to
encourage young people from under-represented backgrounds to enter the engineering profession.
We have a have a dedicated 3-person STEM/Outreach team (AMG) who deliver a bespoke
programme of activities, group tours and work placements to schools in the region.

Our researchers have contributed to public debate via the broadcast (BBC/ITV/Sky/BBC World
Service/BBC Radio) and print media in a wide range of topics such as nuclear waste management,
reactor failures, CO2 shortages, robotics, plastics, blast protection in aircraft, and bio-pesticides. A
small number of staff also contributed to scientific documentaries in their areas of expertise.

4.5 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

We contribute to the sustainability and vibrancy of Engineering nationally and internationally in
diverse ways. Academic citizenship is recognised in the Academic Career Pathway ensuring
internal as well as external recognition for work undertaken peer reviewing, providing editorial
services, organising conferences, serving on advisory boards, and contributing to learned
societies. Our work allocation model provides protected time for scholarly activities. Often research
sabbaticals are strategically devoted to providing leadership for the discipline.

Editorships and conferences. Our staff are editors on some of the leading journals in our
disciplines. During the assessment period staff have served as editor-in-chief or editor for 25
journals including: FUEL (Nimmo); Journal of Geophysical Research: Space Physics (Balikhin);
International Journal of Systems Science (Kadirkamanathan); and Theoretical and Applied
Fracture Mechanics (Susmel). Staff have served on a further 90 national and international journals
as associate editors and on editorial boards.

We have been active on the organising and programme committees of over 50 national and
international conferences and workshops including chairing and organising Computing and Control
in the Water Industry 2017 (Boxall), 16th International Symposium on the Science and Technology
of Lighting (Wang) and the 2018 IEEE Sensor Array and Multichannel Signal Processing
Conference (Lu). We have hosted a range of events in Sheffield, providing additional opportunities
for our researchers and PGRs to network with experts in their fields. Our CDTs have also initiated
and hosted national student conferences to provide a supportive environment to develop
presentation and networking skills.

Recognition. A number of staff have been recognised by the Royal Society and Royal Academy of
Engineering for their work. J Rodenburg was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society; Cordiner,
Dwyer-Joyce, de Borst, Rainforth, Viceconti and Zhu were elected Fellows of the Royal Academy
of Engineering during the assessment period. Other colleagues have been active in the leadership
of learned societies, for example as Vice President of the IMechE (Beck), President of the
European Society of Biomechanics (Reilly), and President of the International Society of
Information Fusion (Mihaylova). Stand-out prizes include the 2019 IEEE Industry Application
Society Outstanding Achievement Award (Zhu), the 2019 Nigeria Prize for Science (Wang), the
IMechE Donald Julius Groen Prize (Lewis) and the Institute of Physics "Innovation in Tribology"
prize (Schirru), Grand Prize of the Japanese Society for Computational Engineering Science –
JSCES (de Borst), Minerals and Mining Chapman Medal - Institute of Materials (MacNeil), and
Group Achievement Award (Geophysics) by the Royal Astronomical Society (Balikhin).

Advisory Boards. Tiwari, Corr, Heffernan and Gandy serve or have served on EPSRC Advisory
Boards; Boston, Law, Majewski, and Smyl serve in early career forums. 117 staff have been
Full/Associate EPSRC college members. We actively contribute to diverse national and
international standards boards including BSI committees for the coding of picture, audio,

                                                                                               Page 44
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
multimedia and hypermedia information, safety footwear, green roof substrates, and ASTM
standards for cements, as well as friction and wear.

Fellowships often underpin our strategy for industrial collaborations, fundamental research
themes and joint appointments. Hyatt (Nuclear Decommissioning Authority – Radioactive Waste
Management), Lewis (Rail Safety and Standards Board - Wheel/Rail interface), Pilakoutas
(Twintec - Sustainable Fibre Reinforced Concrete), Tiwari (Airbus – Digitisation for Manufacturing),
Todd (GKN Aerospace – Advanced Structural Metallics), Tyas (DSTL- Protection Engineering
against Blast), and Zhu (Siemens-Gamesa - Wind Power Generation Systems), held Royal
Academy of Engineering Research Chairs during the assessment period.

De Borst held an ERC Advanced Grant (PoroFrac, £1.8M) and Minev an ERC Starting Grant
(IntegraBrain, £1.3M). Dywer-Joyce, Guymer and Worden received EPSRC Advanced
Career/Leadership Fellowships during the assessment period. EPSRC Manufacturing/HMVC
Fellowships were awarded to Tiwari and Willmott. EPSRC Fellowships were also awarded to
Corkhill, Cross, Douterelo Soler, Kessarwani, Patwardhan, Rodenburgand and Thorpe. Goodall,
Keylock, Lynsdale, Morley and Wong were awarded RAEng/Leverhulme Trust/Royal Society
Senior Research Fellowships and Boston a RAEng Research Fellowship. Campbell was awarded
a Royal Society/Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship. ECRs have also accelerated their career
development through prestigious fellowship awards including UKRI Future Leader Fellowships
(Guan, Cogswell). To support our impact agenda, Brown, Green, Hathway, and Smith were
awarded RAEng/Royal Society Industrial Fellowships and Hartley and White were awarded RAEng
Enterprise Fellowships. Fifteen Marie-Sklodowska Curie Individual Fellowships were awarded
during the assessment period.

Collaborative PGR training. The strength and depth of our research in particular areas has been
reflected in our leadership and participation in competitively funded early-stage researcher/doctoral
training programmes, including EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training/Industrial Doctoral Centres
and EU Initial Training Networks. Over the assessment period, 20 EPSRC-funded CDT/IDCs and
11 EU ITNs have been active at Sheffield. We lead CDTs/IDCs in Advanced Metallic Systems,
Interdisciplinary Energy Research, Machining Science, Energy Storage and Integrated Tribology.
We co-ordinated seven ITN training networks (QUICs, Endure, INSPIRATION, DyVirt, PROMIS,
SPINNER, Wavecombe), and partnered in four others (Hytech, DuRSAAM, CReaNet, B-QMIND).
Most have been collaborations with other major research groups at national and international
research-intensive universities, often with significant industrial partnerships.

4.6 Future strategy

We are immensely proud of our existing collaborations as well as our contributions to the UK and
the engineering discipline. Our growth in impact activities over the period has enabled us to extend
our collaborations and reach and disseminate our discoveries and impacts to our peers as well as
to diverse communities and the public.

We plan to enhance our existing four pathway model of engagement. We will strengthen our
existing long-term partnerships in the manufacturing area by exploiting the opportunities in

digitalisation and more sustainable materials and production processes. In Energy and
Infrastructure we plan to develop new strategic long-term partnerships utilising our recent
investment in industrial-scale translational research facilities. In Healthcare we will aim to engage
more fully with the NIHR and also at the international level with our excellent European networks.



                                                                                              Page 45
