Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University

 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The Department of Law and Criminology was established in 2004 by bringing together Edge Hill
 University’s existing and well-regarded subject of criminology, which had been part of Edge Hill since
 1984, with new provision in law. Our ten-year strategy launched at our department’s inception sought
 to build our research capacity to a point where we ‘would rival more established Units elsewhere’
 (REF2014 UOA 20 Law submission). In order to achieve this, emphasis was placed on the
 overarching theme of justice, with research clusters in criminology and law as well as a specialist
 Centre for Sports Law Research, providing intellectual focus and research leadership.
 At the end of our first ten years in 2014, two-thirds of staff were submitted to REF14 Law UOA, with
 one other being submitted to another UOA (totalling 71% of staff). In REF2014, 83.7% of our outputs
 were rated 2* or above, with 43.9% rated 3* or above. Both of our impact case studies were rated at
 3* and 75% of our environment was considered 2* or above.
 The theme of ‘justice’ has underpinned our research focus since our inception, and it continues to do
 so. This provides distinctiveness and visibility and was developed from the mid-1980s when Edge Hill
 University became synonymous with ground-breaking and impactful criminology research. This
 includes the internationally-heralded work on the Hillsborough stadium disaster and the subsequent
 campaign for justice. Proud of this tradition, our Power, Harm and Justice Research cluster continues
 to advance understanding of abuses of power with a focus on agnotology and zemiology. Our more
 recent International Justice and Human Rights Research cluster has developed through collaborating
 with NGOs and legislative bodies. Our emergent Police Research Unit explores the police’s role
 within society and also focuses on transitioning practitioners to research. Finally, our new Philosophy,
 Culture, Law and Criminology Research cluster (formed 2019-20) explores the theoretical
 underpinning to concepts relating to justice. Justice also lies at the heart of our Centre for Sports Law
 Research which has made a substantial contribution to the understanding and practical development
 of ‘sporting justice’.
 Post REF2014 we entered our second decade as a department with a new plan to sustain our
 research focus and improve our reputation both nationally and internationally. We focused on four
 strategic areas:

      •   increased quantity and enhanced quality of research outputs
      •   deeper and wider research impact footprint
      •   substantially improved levels of research income
      •   an expanded and more vibrant PGR community.
 We unpacked our broad disciplinary research groups (law and criminology) into more intellectually-
 discrete research clusters to promote focus, innovation, collaboration and collegiality. Staff submitted
 to this exercise are therefore members of one or more of these clusters. Each cluster has a discrete
 presence on the University website and engages with external audiences through the provision of
 end-user focused research summaries of its activities and social media presence. Each research
 grouping has staff at different career stages and working together helps to provide mentorship and
 peer review. They also help to facilitate collaborative working and maximise external partnerships.
 They are particularly important for supporting the induction of new staff and the development of early
 career researchers.
 The Centre for Sports Law Research (CSLR): Established in 2007, the CSLR is known throughout
 Europe for its work on sports law, regulation and governance. Its focus is on EU sports law and policy
 (Parrish, Director), football law (Pendlebury, co-ordinator), sports arbitration (O’Leary) and
 regulation and sports broadcasting (Cattaneo). Currently, one PhD student is a member of the
 Centre and four PhD awards were made in the census period. The Centre has acted as the
 intellectual home for passionate researchers, thereby creating the conditions for individual career
 progression, and has several external members: alumni members, practitioner members and visiting



                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research fellows. The CSLR is amongst the largest specialist sports-law centres in Europe and has
 worked with national and international public authorities and sports organisations.
 International Justice and Human Rights Research (IJHR): Established in 2017, the IJHR has
 provided a forum that supports research in international criminal law (Rizzuto), international
 humanitarian law (Butchard), human rights, (Hale-Ross, Langford) and migration (Giuffré,
 Martynowicz). IJHR members undertake collaborative research and provide expert advice and
 training to the legal profession, governmental and non-governmental organisations, and judiciaries.
 Three graduate teaching assistants (GTAs) are also members of this cluster, undertaking research
 on modern slavery and international criminal tribunals.
 Police Research Unit (PRU): Established in 2017, the PRU aspires to be a centre for research
 excellence in policing. Members of the PRU provide research which aims to make evidence-based
 impacts on policy and practice at local, national and international levels. Under the leadership of
 Millie, the focus of this cluster is to transition new policing staff from professional practice to become
 independent researchers (such as Hopkins who was awarded her PhD in 2020). In addition to Millie
 and Hopkins, members, with professional policing backgrounds, have research interests in police
 education, investigation, domestic violence and homicide, and evidence-based policing. During 2019
 Dr Richard Hough from the University of West Florida and International Ambassador for the British
 Society of Criminology was a Visiting Fellow in the cluster.
 Power, Harm and Justice Research (PHJR): Established in 2017, this cluster provides a network for
 colleagues who are engaged in research around the inter-relationship between: state/corporate
 power; state/corporate discourse; and an examination of their impacts through the lenses of
 zemiology (study of social harms) and agnotology (deliberate construction of social ignorance). The
 focus of the cluster is ‘institutional power’, or to use David Whyte’s (2009) definition, the ‘form of
 power transmitted through state institutions and private business organisations or companies.’
 Colleagues are engaged in research on the politics of punishment (Barton, convenor), crime and
 young people (Davis), prisons and punishment (Martynowicz), domestic violence and parental
 abuse (Baker), and fear of crime (Kinsella: UOA20). fear of crime (Kinsella: UOA20).
 Philosophy, Culture, Law and Criminology Research (PCLC): A number of our academics adopt
 philosophical or cultural perspectives on issues of relevance to law and criminology. To celebrate this
 distinctly theoretical domain, and to provide focus and sustainability, a research cluster was
 established with a focus on music and crime (Peters, convenor), narrative criminology (McGregor),
 aesthetic criminology, philosophical criminology and theology (Millie), and legal theory (Langford).
 The cluster is in its early stages of development (est. 2019) but is highly distinctive. The PCLC
 currently has two PhD students: one a GTA and one self-funded, researching gender and zemiology,
 and aesthetic criminology respectively.
 Our four clusters and the CSLR do not work in isolation. Collaboration and interdisciplinarity are
 strongly encouraged, both within the department and across the University, such as the CSLR and
 the PRU collaboration on a ‘Policing Football’ event in November 2019. We also work with Edge Hill’s
 research institutes; for example, the Institute for Social Responsibility (ISR) sponsors the PRU
 Annual Policing Lecture. ISR also supported our events on criminology and theology (2018) and
 victims of terrorism (2020). Our four clusters and the CSLR are also encouraged to collaborate
 internally; illustrated by Barton’s work with historian Brown (UOA 28) and external partners from
 academia and industry (see section 4).
 Oversight of these clusters is via a departmental Research Management and Development Group
 consisting of research cluster/centre co-ordinators, the Head of Department and two professors (one
 for research and REF21 preparation, and one for external engagement and enterprise). Individual
 research-performance is managed via annual performance and development review (PDR) with the
 professoriate which provides opportunity for staff to agree individual objectives connected to the
 realisation of our post-2014 strategy. A departmental workload model facilitates this process with
 staff free from teaching for approximately two days a week pro rata for research activities across the
 teaching year. A departmental Research Ethics Committee meets to scrutinise research applications
 and provides developmental feedback to applicants in preparation for institutional subject specific
 ethical review.
 We have developed a departmental culture that shares and celebrates research impact success
 stories with research clusters producing ‘research in action’ summaries on our website. Staff also
 actively share stories internally and externally via corporate communications and social media. We

                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 encourage staff to engage with non-academic research audiences through staff publications in
 professional outlets and membership of non-academic boards such as the Prison Education Trust
 (Barton). We build research impact into our existing activities, such as inviting research end-users to
 participate in our guest speaker programmes, workshops and conferences; for example, Judge Cuno
 Tarfusser (Vice President of the International Criminal Court) was an invited guest speaker in 2017
 (see section 4) and to help identify themes for research. We encourage staff to take on external roles
 and build research collaborations (see section 4 for more detail).
 Since 2014 we have staged annual research-focused departmental away-days, at which staff present
 findings of their research, and impact strategy is discussed. This is designed both to support staff to
 enhance research quality and to maintain awareness of the external funding environment, and it
 places emphasis on knowledge exchange and impact. In addition, Departmental Professional
 Practice Advisory Boards composed of research end-users meet three times per year and advise us
 on sector developments, including research needs.
 The UOA has supported researchers through time and resources, to pursue relationships with a
 number of key stakeholders who have helped us to grow the impact of our research. This is evident
 in our impact case-studies and in our broader research impact portfolio which involve work with: the
 European Commission; the European Parliament; the Court of Justice of the EU, the Court of Human
 Rights; the International Criminal Court; the UN; the House of Commons; national and international
 sports organisations and federations; non-governmental organisations; policing bodies; and members
 of civil society, including refugees.
 The focus on these strategic priorities has led to new impact cases being identified and the number
 of staff, external funding and outputs have increased in this submission when compared to REF
 2014. There is a healthy balance of monographs (28%), book chapters (22%) and journal articles
 (50%) and our reported income has risen from £78,997 in REF 2014 to £425,672 for REF2021. With
 the establishment and maturation of discrete research clusters, we have been able to present a more
 vibrant and sustainable research culture that is deepening its impact on our respective sub-
 disciplines. Our staff are more externally engaged nationally and internationally, and we have
 benefitted from a more active and vibrant PGR community directly embedded within our research
 clusters. In REF2014, we reported just one PhD award; in REF2021 census period, we awarded 8
 PhDs (although one was awarded posthumously so is absent from HESA data).
 2024 will mark our 20th anniversary, still a young department nationally, but no longer to be
 considered an emerging player. By the time of the next research assessment, we aim to be
 recognised as a department conducting internationally-leading research of global significance in the
 areas of justice, human rights, international law and sports law and to secure international recognition
 for our policing, philosophical and legal theory enquiries. Through our research, we aim to make
 more of a difference to the lives of more people and change more organisational cultures, thereby
 positively affecting policy and practice. We will undertake this challenge with passion and integrity,
 our methods underpinned with a commitment to the University’s research codes of practice. As we
 move to achieve this aim, we aspire to become a centre of research excellence capable of retaining
 and attracting the best scholars and postgraduates.
 The primary vehicles to achieve our vision will remain our research clusters, which will continue to be
 refined over time. Enhancing our interdisciplinarity and international collaborations is fundamental.
 We will seek greater synergies between our groups, particularly between IJHR and PHRJ, so that the
 richness of interdisciplinary enquiry can be strengthened and the building of more substantial
 international networks advanced. Our new philosophical and cultural research cluster is specifically
 interdisciplinary bringing together staff from law, criminology and policing strands and we will
 encourage staff external to the department to engage as it matures. We will also work more closely
 with Edge Hill’s research institutes and departments engaged in related work, specifically offending
 behaviour (Bussu) (Applied Health and Social Care) and work on prisons (Barton with History) and
 explore stronger links with EHU’s North West Migration Network, to advance interdisciplinarity even
 further.
 To build our international dimension and deepen our impact footprint in the next REF period, our
 research groups will engage further with post-doctoral and visiting scholar schemes, expand our
 range of international research fellowships, appoint more research end-users to our existing
 departmental advisory boards and look to develop research-cluster specific boards, develop more
 active research-focused alumni groups, and encourage deeper engagement with international
 networks. None of this will undermine our commitment to our more local outreach activities and

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 events that have helped establish the University as an important regional resource, e.g. through our
 speaker programmes open to the public.
 We will continue to apply our research focused deployment model so staff have time for research and
 for making grant applications. We will look to strengthen the link between research and teaching and
 we will reflect on changing work patterns brought on by the pandemic. On-going staff transition
 support mechanisms will be needed, particularly to support our growth in policing.
 We are committed to open research, as identified in the University’s statement of support. Journal
 articles and conference proceedings are deposited in Pure (research repository) and posters are
 starting to be shared on Figshare. Researchers are encouraged to consider publishing in journals
 where the University has ‘read-and-publish’ agreements to help extend reach, while remaining
 mindful that it is important to publish in the best journal for the particular project; the University
 recently secured agreements with Cambridge University Press and Oxford University Press, among
 others. In the next REF cycle, along with promoting OA for journal articles, we will explore with
 Library and Learning Services options for OA books and chapters, for example by working with Open
 Book Publishers, university presses and other providers, building on the steps we have already taken
 by making chapters, editorials, research reports OA wherever possible. We believe that a
 commitment to open research is an important way of reaching greater audiences, particularly
 internationally, and research-users who may not have the same access to libraries and subscriptions.
 All of our research, including grant capture, is underpinned by ethics and integrity. The University
 Research Ethics Policy and the Code of Practice for the Conduct of Research are the principal
 documents for guiding researchers and the induction process ensures that these are understood. Our
 approach to integrity includes having respect for our sources and subjects and through our
 commitment to responsible metrics, we do not use metrics as a proxy to judge quality, to assess
 promotion applications, or to allocate resources. Parrish was chair of the University Research Ethics
 Committee for six years after a complete revision of our ethics policy; in that role he was central to
 shaping the University’s approach to ethics and integrity. In addition, discipline-specific codes of
 conduct for ethical research, notably the British Society of Criminology Statement of Ethics and the
 Socio-Legal Studies Association Statement of Principles of Ethical Research Practice, guide our
 research.
 2. People
 Since REF2014 the department has added policing (2016) and politics (2017) to our undergraduate
 portfolio and we now stand as one of the largest departments in the University. Our growth, since our
 establishment in 2004, has been achieved without compromising our commitment to research, as
 evidenced by our post-REF2021 trajectory. Our recruitment, with the partial exception of policing, has
 prioritised attracting applicants with research ambitions who can add value to our existing research
 clusters. Since REF2014, we have added several strategic appointments, including ECRs, who have
 strengthened our research clusters. Our job opportunities are generally permanent positions and
 offer flexible modes of employment (available to those seeking part-time or full-time roles). Our
 department has a history of attracting ECRs, as evidenced in this submission (33% of submitted staff
 are ECRs). As of 31 July 2020, our department employed 28 full-time permanent members of
 academic staff, 46% female, which is also reflected in this UOA18 submission (one female colleague
 being submitted to UOA20). The department has a well-balanced ratio of senior (4), mid-career (17)
 and early-career staff (7) which provides for a dynamic and supportive environment providing scope
 for succession planning.
 Our team includes several non-UK nationals who have brought an international richness to our work;
 they have contributed to department research strengths in international sports law, international
 human rights, and international labour law. To enhance our diversity further, our recruitment priorities
 will include working with the University to review our job adverts, to emphasise our collegial and
 flexible environment, and reconsider where we advertise job opportunities to ensure that we are
 reaching as wide and diverse a pool of applicants as possible. further, our recruitment priorities will
 include working with the University to review our job adverts, to emphasise our collegial and flexible
 environment, and reconsider where we advertise job opportunities to ensure that we are reaching as
 wide and diverse a pool of applicants as possible.
 We will also seek to appoint a diverse profile of visiting professors and researchers, and work with
 Graduate School to review how we can attract more applicants from under-represented groups for
 GTA and PhD opportunities to strengthen the future pipeline for our disciplines.


                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There is gender imbalance in research leadership with our professoriate being all male; however,
 during this REF cycle, in alignment with EHU’s Athena SWAN accreditations, we have encouraged
 and supported female colleagues to consider promotion opportunities and leadership roles (two
 women have been promoted to readers (Barton, Giuffré), women lead three of our five research
 clusters, and Kinsella (UOA20) has been funded to attend Advance HE Aurora Programme.
 Our development strategy begins with annual performance and development reviews (PDRs), which
 are facilitated by professoriate (Rizzuto, Millie and Parrish). PDRs facilitate career planning and
 identify development needs and opportunities. Through PDRs we can identify resources (funding,
 equipment, mentoring etc) and adjust departmental workload allocations to support colleagues in
 achieving their ambitions. We encourage our academic staff to utilise their staff development
 allowance (ten days a year pro rata), which we increase (enhanced staff development allocation) for
 those undertaking PhDs or who are transitioning to research independence (see below). For staff
 with research objectives, we allocate approximately two days a week pro rata for research activities.
 The department does not stipulate how, when, or where, a member of staff should utilise their
 research allocation and judges research performance on realisation of their agreed objectives.
 A central feature of our development strategy is the ‘disciplinary belonging’ that comes through
 joining one of our research clusters. Membership of our clusters provides staff with a support network
 that can facilitate the identification and establishment of collaborations and connections to external
 agencies, provide peer review support, and it is a forum for contributing to the development of our
 policies and the dissemination of information (where the University has OA agreements etc.).
 Research clusters provide our mid-career researchers (MCRs) with mentoring and leadership
 opportunities that can support their career progression. To illustrate, in mid-career, O’Leary has
 become an influential actor in international sports governance as evidenced by her work with sports
 governing bodies and her appointment as Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) arbitrator.
 Supporting ECRs and practice colleagues making the transition to research independence is
 fundamental to both the vitality and long-term viability of the department. In addition to support
 provided through PDR, each ECR is allocated an experienced research mentor who supports their
 integration into our research clusters and advises on research expectations, strategies, governance
 and wider sources of support. Research mentors work with their mentees on specific projects as a
 route for those staff to acquire research skills, confidence and ultimately independence. By way of
 example, Cattaneo earned his PhD in 2017 as part of the CSLR and has since developed into an
 independent researcher: Cattaneo and Parrish co-authored a monograph (REF2) on Sports Law in
 the European Union. Cattaneo was co-investigator with Parrish (PI) on the football agents and
 sports diplomacy projects (see below); in doing so he has acquired valuable project-management
 and research experience. Our deployment model is sensitive to the pressures ECRs face; workload
 allocations are agreed during PDRs to ensure ECRs are supported in establishing their teaching,
 including time for completing PGCert in Teaching in Higher Education (PGCHE), and research
 careers. ECRs are strongly encouraged to engage with the University’s research support funds
 through the priority ECR stream: Butchard received support to take up a House of Commons
 Parliamentary Fellowship in his first year. We are also keen to develop PhD supervisory experience
 for ECR; we partner ECRs with established supervisors to form supervisory teams. Catteneo, for
 example, is now a member of two PhD supervisory teams. McGregor entered academia after a
 professional practice career and is submitted here as an ECR. By having dedicated research time, he
 has developed a strong publication profile and is now securing research grants and international
 recognition.
 Staff without PhDs are encouraged to register for doctorate and are supported to achieve the
 qualification through a combination of measures including funding and enhanced staff development
 workload allocation (reduced teaching or teaching relief as agreed during PDRs) (e.g. Giuffré and
 Hopkins have secured doctorates whilst at Edge Hill).
 Research away-days have been held throughout the census period at which all staff – including
 ECRs – have delivered presentations on their research, allowing them to develop presentation skills
 and test research ideas in a supportive environment. The success of this approach is illustrated by
 several of our ECRs in REF2014, including Cattaneo, Giuffré and Mariniello, having developed
 profiles of international standing and achieving promotion.
 The department is sensitive to personal circumstances and staff well-being. We utilise informal
 flexible person-centred solutions to support our staff to achieve their ambitions. The ethos of the
 department is to accommodate requests from staff and provide reasonable adjustment where

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 possible: e.g., staff returning from prolonged periods of absence, including family-related leave, are
 encouraged and supported to engage with the University’s research support funds which prioritise
 access for them. We also provide them with a reduced teaching and administrative workload
 allocation (approximately 50%) to support re-booting their research. In addition, we facilitate short-
 term informal changes to start and finish times and workplace location, and provide additional funding
 (e.g., conference attendance).
 Since 2014 we have used our research clusters as vehicles to showcase our expertise with a view to
 attracting a strong PGR community. This includes GTAs (we have actively engaged with the
 University scheme), self-funded doctoral students and MRes students (we do not have a professional
 doctorate programme). As a unit we wish to give all our PGR students an enriching and supportive
 experience. To that end, PGR students are co-located in our building in a designated PGR room,
 equipped with desk space, computers and printers, to facilitate discussion and peer-support. All
 PGRs also have access to the state-of-the-art Catalyst Learning Resource Building, opened in 2019.
 As full and active members of the department, PGRs are encouraged and supported to participate in
 research clusters, seminars, workshops, to boost and build their confidence, and develop their skills,
 and build their own networks. We also support all PGRs who wish to attend doctoral symposia at
 conferences in their field.
 Our GTA students also gain teaching experience as part of their training and can opt to take the
 PGCert in Teaching in Higher Education: this has helped to make them highly employable. All
 PGRs receive training on the use of social media and writing blogs to support the dissemination of
 their research. PGRs can also access all training available to staff, including the research training
 programme delivered by ISR, including sessions on research methods and academic writing. By
 folding these transferable skills opportunities into their experience, we hope to equip all PGRs to
 secure the professional route of their choosing once their studies are complete.
 Since 2014, eight PhD candidates have successfully completed: four self-funded and four GTA
 students. The career destinations of our PhD candidates in this period include two senior sports
 lawyers working in the Netherlands and Portugal (one of whom was also Secretary of State for Sport
 in the Portuguese government whilst undertaking his PhD with us) and six UK-based academics
 employed at Birmingham, Chester, and Leeds universities, as well as Edge Hill. As a result, we are
 increasingly able to develop alumni networks in our research clusters, and these have resulted in
 profitable collaborations such as between Barton and Davis and former PhD student White on the
 topic of agnatology.
 When developing our output recommendations for the REF submission, we were committed to
 including representatives of all career stages in our peer review processes to support personal
 development and transparency. As per the University’s Code of Practice, our unit established a long-
 list of outputs through the processes of self-review and peer review. A REF group was constituted to
 implement the internal peer review process in which all staff with SRR participated. The outcome of
 peer review was discussed by a group comprising Millie and Parrish (UOA co-coordinators), the
 HoD and coordinators of the research clusters. Discussions around selection of outputs for peer
 review and selection of internal/external peer reviewers were made in these meetings, including
 identification of outputs that should be considered and peer reviewed by alternative units (cross
 referred). All output review scores were made available on the staff shared drive to support
 transparency. Recommendations of outputs for inclusion were then made to the REF Decision Panel
 at a selection meeting.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 Since REF2014 we have seen a marked increase in staff applying for and securing external research
 income. Our REF2021 income return of £425,672 highlights strong growth (439%) from that reported
 in REF2014 (£78,997). We have achieved this step change by adopting a targeted research income
 strategy linking our key research strengths to specific funders; specifically EU and other European
 funding pots, including EU Erasmus+, and charities linked specifically to legal and criminal interests,
 including the Irish Penal Reform Trust. We have also made use of the University’s Research
 Investment Fund, both to pump prime bids to larger applications and to help establish profiles. Millie
 received three RIF grants between 2013 and 2018, one of which supported his successful ESRC
 application, and Parrish received RIF funding in 2016 to support the first of his EU applications on
 football agent regulation. This support has also been used to support research grants that are not

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fully funded, such as ECR Butchard’s House of Commons Parliamentary Fellowship. Millie’s ESRC
 project on ‘Visible Policing’ in partnership with the Open University and Northumbria University
 (2019-2021) is also an example of working in partnerships with HEIs that have more experience of
 winning larger (UKRI) bids. All staff have access to the wider research-support mechanisms available
 across the University and detailed in REF 5a, including research training offered both by the
 Research Office and the Institute of Social Responsibility (ISR).
 In recent years, our department has developed a highly regarded reputation in international law,
 particularly the work of Giuffré who, as principal investigator on the EXTERN project, investigated
 how European states support African countries to manage migration and refugee flows, thereby
 limiting onwards movements to Europe (2019-20). This project was funded by the University’s GCRF
 monies and complementing a grant from the University of London Visiting Fellowship (2017).
 European funding has been important: Parrish secured a number of EU grants, including two major
 EU awards to lead projects examining the regulation of football agents and the development of an EU
 sport diplomacy strategy (reported in our two impact case studies). As Jean Monnet Chair, Parrish
 was also awarded a grant, part of which funded a programme of research.
 Millie’s work on policing has attracted funding and his visibility is an important part of our strategy of
 ensuring the success of our Police Research Unit. Along with his co-investigator ESRC project, he
 also received two research grants from Lancashire Constabulary to run projects on police recruits
 (2017-18) and police volunteering (2016).
 Martynowicz’s research interests lie in the areas of prisons, migration and criminal justice. She has
 attracted income from The Liberty Centre to evaluate domestic violence awareness and she secured
 a grant from the Irish Penal Reform Trust (2018) and two grants from the British Academy Visiting
 Fellowship scheme in 2018 and 2019. McGregor, whose work lies at the intersection between
 criminology and philosophy, was in receipt of two grants from the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation
 and the British Society of Aesthetics.
 Since the ending of the REF2021 period, further grants have been awarded including to O’Leary on
 employment relations in Olympic sports (€300,000) and Parrish on sport diplomacy (€340,000), both
 under the EU’s Erasmus+ Programme, and to McGregor from the Croatian Science Foundation
 (£140,000). Two further large grants are awaiting outcomes including applications submitted to the
 AHRC and the UKRI Future Leaders Award.
 As outlined above, we are keen to diversify our income sources, particularly around contract and
 commissioned research. We are also seeking to expand the number of staff applying for funding and
 to facilitate this we have put in place mandatory peer review procedures to improve the quality of
 applications and will monitor progress and provide support through the performance review process.
 For those who have yet to secure funding, we will support them to seek smaller grants, through time
 allocation, mentoring and working with the RO to identify suitable funders. Where appropriate, ECRs
 work with colleagues on larger projects, as seen with Parrish and Cattaneo. These processes help
 to establish experience and profile for the ECRs. Our more experienced colleagues are encouraged
 to seek funds with larger overheads to ensure sustainability. The Unit will continue to work closely
 with European partners and funding opportunities in Horizon Europe/Erasmus, while being mindful of
 the changing environment. We will also look to UKRI’s ‘Place Strategy’ to identify synergies with our
 own research interests to ensure that we are engaging with the key issues identified. Building on our
 partnerships will be central to securing further research funding.
 Infrastructure and facilities
 The department enjoys the benefit of very considerable institutional investment made during the REF
 period. Its substantial growth led the University, in 2018, to invest £7m in a major refurbishment of
 the Old Library, the first floor of which is now occupied by the department. This attractive
 accommodation has a mixture of single and double occupancy offices with a suite of individual study
 rooms. A purpose-built courtroom (using courtroom furniture and fittings acquired from Sefton
 Magistrates’ Court in 2014) is located close by. Furthermore, a state-of-the-art crime-house (a large
 Victorian detached house adjacent to the campus, 2019) was also made available to us, to support
 our policing activities. Our staff have been successful in securing internal research income to support
 research time, including teaching relief, fieldwork, travel and conference attendance. Departmental
 funding has also supported these activities.



                                                                                                     Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Departmental research is supported by a Departmental Administrative Manager who updates the
 research pages on the website and a qualified law librarian who supports the acquisition of research
 (and teaching) materials via the University’s new £17m Catalyst learning centre (opened 2018),
 which includes a researcher-only space that is particularly well-used by PGRs and encourages
 exchange with students in other departments. We also have a subject specialist librarian and a
 research librarian to support us with queries from open access to metrics, as well as accessing
 sources.
 The University recently revised its ethical review processes to establish five subject research ethics
 committees and implement an online ethics monitor (Haplo); all projects must now be registered via
 Haplo but review is expedited for low-risk projects. Barton was a member of the working group that
 reviewed the processes and established the online process. She was appointed deputy chair of the
 Social Science REC in 2019-20 for a three-year appointment. Researchers cannot begin data
 collection until formal ethical approval has been granted.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Strong central strategic steers are fundamental to the UOA approach to research, but equally we
 value organic developments and so we invest trust and support into our research clusters.
 Centre for Sport Law Research (CSLR)
 The CSLR has made a substantial contribution to the sports law literature, and informed high-level
 legal and political debates and practice across Europe. This has been achieved in part through
 building important collaborations.
 Founding Director, Parrish, has played a prominent role in directing the future of EU sports law and
 policy. For nine months across 2015/16, he advised European Commissioner Navracsics on the
 development of the EU’s sport diplomacy strategy (impact case study 1). He also advised EU Sports
 Directors (senior national servants with a sports portfolio) on ‘The European Model of Sport’ at an
 Austrian Council Presidency meeting (Vienna, 2018) and he was keynote speaker at European
 Commission flagship events on the European model of sport in Brussels (2018) and at the European
 Commission’s ‘Specificity of Sport’ event in Brussels in 2019, an event attended by senior politicians,
 civil servants and leading figures from the international sports movement.
 Parrish is frequently invited to speak at the annual EU Sport Forum (for example, in Romania 2019,
 Bulgaria 2018 and Malta 2017) and at other European Commission events, such as EU sport
 diplomacy events in Brussels in 2016 and 2017 and the European Week of Sport Flagship Event in
 Brussels in 2016. Parrish submitted invited evidence to the UK Government’s 2014 Balance of
 Competences Review and between 2016 and 2019 he received international recognition by the
 award of the EU’s Jean Monnet Chair title. He has advised the Association of Summer Olympic
 Federations on its EU relations policy (Lausanne, 2018). His high-level advice has been translated
 into practical impacts, with his work being influential in the development of EU sport policy, notably
 expressed in successive EU Work Plans for Sport (2011-14, 2014-2017 and 2017-2020 – see impact
 case study 1).
 Working with CSLR member Cattaneo, Parrish has acted as lead on two EU funded studies on the
 regulation of football agents and the development of the EU’s sport diplomacy strategy (see our
 impact case studies). These case studies detail how Parrish’s underpinning research and expert
 advice substantially informed the adoption of the EU’s first ever sport diplomacy strategy and
 secondly, how his work on football agent regulation and nationality discrimination in sport significantly
 contributed to the adoption of new globally applicable football regulations and informed the
 Commission’s and Court of Justices’ approach to nationality discrimination in EU law. These projects
 have involved multi-university international collaboration and work alongside public authorities and
 private sports bodies.
 O’Leary is a specialist in the area of employment relations and dispute resolution in sport. In 2017,
 she conducted a review of the International Netball Federation’s (INF) Disciplinary Procedure which
 led to the INF Board implementing a new disciplinary procedure to secure the independence and
 impartiality of its judicial function. These were cascaded to national associations extending the reach
 and significance of this work. O’Leary is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators and
 the Sport Resolutions (UK) Panel of Arbitrators and Mediators. In 2019, she was appointed as
 Arbitrator to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) in Lausanne following nomination from FIFPro,

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the world football players’ union. O’Leary is a member of the INF’s governance committee,
 disciplinary panel and grievance panel and she sits on England Boxing’s Safeguarding Review panel,
 British Canoeing’s Disciplinary, Disputes and Appeals panel and on the IAAF (athletics) vetting panel.
 Both she and Cattaneo have sat as mediators for the Amateur Swimming Association.
 CSLR events have made far-reaching contributions to the vitality of our discipline. Pendlebury has
 worked with Wigan Athletic Supporters Club on its strategy following the club entering administration
 in 2020. As CSLR co-ordinator, he is responsible for forging links with professional practice and leads
 the organisation of our events; including: ‘Bosman at 25’ with a CJEU judge as speaker (2020);
 ‘Policing Football’ (2019); ‘Resolving Sports Disputes’ (2018); the 13th Annual Sport & EU
 International Conference (2018); ‘eSports’ (2017); ‘Bosman at 20’ (2015); ‘The Regulation of
 Players’ Agents and Third Party Ownership’ in Lisbon (2014). We also staged the ‘Football Law’
 international conference at Old Trafford Stadium, Manchester (2016), and both ‘The Future of Sports
 Law and Business’ (2019) and ‘Sports Law and Business Conference’ (2018), at the Etihad Stadium,
 Manchester.
 Our expertise is also made freely available to the public. Since 2016, the CSLR offers a free EU
 Sports Law and Policy Summer School with classes taught by all members of the Centre. Members
 of the Centre have provided visiting sports law classes to numerous institutions across Europe and
 we have supported our discipline by being editorial board members on some leading journals and
 bodies including: Law in Sport, Sport and the Law Journal, International Sports Law Journal,
 International Journal of Sports Policy and Politics and the European Sports Law and Policy Bulletin.
 International Justice and Human Rights Research (IJHR)
 This group works closely with external partners in and outside the UK. Giuffré has advised several
 bodies on migration policies and litigation including the EU institutions, the UK Parliament, NGOs,
 academics, practitioners, working groups and law firms from different countries. Working with the
 Association for Juridical Studies on Migration (ASGI) and the Cairo Institute for Human Rights
 Studies (CIHRS), Giuffré filed a complaint against Italy, Malta and Libya with the UN Human Rights
 Committee concerning the treatment of refugees. She was also invited by the UK Parliament to
 submit evidence to an inquiry on the management of migration in the Mediterranean and the role of
 the UK (March 2019). She is a Research Affiliate at the University of London and has developed
 extensive collaborative ventures with several UK, EU and international universities including, in
 addition to those cited above, the Lund University and Jendouba University (Tunisia).
 In 2020 ECR Butchard received a House of Commons International Law Fellowship leading to the
 co-authorship of a number of prominent Commons reports, including the paper on the United
 Kingdom Internal Market Bill which was debated by MPs in September 2020. Prior to that, Butchard
 submitted evidence, subsequently cited in the final report, to the House of Commons Foreign Affairs
 Committee inquiry on Humanitarian Intervention and the Responsibility to Protect (September 2018).
 He is Regional Co-ordinator for Digest of State Practice, Journal on the Use of Force and
 International Law (Middle East Region, 2014-2018 and from 2018, General Editor). Butchard has
 forged several collaborations, including with the universities of Ljubljana, Leeds and Liverpool and
 will co-organise a 20-year anniversary event for the Responsibility to Protect at an international
 interdisciplinary conference in Liverpool in 2021. These activities were supported by the University’s
 RIF and dedicated research time.
 Langford, along with a former colleague, produced a research report on Administrative Detention
 that was presented to the International Criminal Court (November 2019), the House of Commons
 (April 2019) and the European Parliament (April 2019). Related to this, Langford has accepted a
 number of speaking invitations across Europe.
 The IJHR staged an event on ‘Unwanted Citizens of EU Member States’ funded by the British
 Academy (2019), an international conference on ‘Twenty Years of the ICC’s Rome Statute’ at which
 senior judges spoke (2018), an event on Refugee Law (2017), an international workshop held in
 Liverpool on ‘Administrative Detention of Palestinians’ (2016), and an event on ‘The “Cross-
 Fertilization” Rhetoric in Question: Use and Abuse of the European Court’s Jurisprudence by
 International Criminal Tribunals’ (2014). The IJHR also organises a guest speaker programme with
 notable speakers including Judge Cuno Tarfusser (Vice President of the International Criminal Court,
 2017), Judge Paulo Pinto de Albuquerque (European Court of Human Rights, 2017 and 2019), Judge
 Keith Raynor (Vice President, Kosovo Specialist Chambers, 2019) and Mr Niccolò Pons (Associate
 Legal Officer Kosovo Specialist Chambers, 2019). While we are pleased that we have hosted such

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 high-profile speakers, we are aware that we need to ensure greater diversity among our speakers for
 future events. We will work with the Research Management and Development Group to identify a
 broader range of speakers for future years, as we recognise that such speakers can be an inspiration
 for ECRs, PGRs and undergraduates and so it is important that speakers reflect those constituencies
 as well.
 Power, Harm and Justice Research (PHJR)
 The PHJR builds on a rich tradition of critical criminology at Edge Hill. Martynowicz is an Assistant
 Editor of the journal of the European Group for the Study of Deviance and Social Control, Power,
 Justice and Resistance, and in 2018 she acted as commissioning and production editor of EG Press.
 She is on the International Advisory Board of Archiwum Kryminologii (Archive of Criminology).
 Martynowicz is an expert grant reviewer for the National Science Centre in Warsaw and in 2018 she
 spoke at the Polish Academy of Sciences on deportations and extraditions of EU citizens from the
 UK. Martynowicz is evaluating the West Lancashire Safe Teens’ Project being delivered by the
 Liberty Centre. The project is being funded by the Home Office’s Violence against Women and Girls
 Service Transformation Fund, (through the Liberty Centre). Barton, Davis and Martynowicz, are
 members of the European Group for the Study of Deviance and Social Control.
 Martynowicz is a member of the Anthropology of Confinement Network and she co-founded the Irish
 Postgraduate and Early Career Prison Researcher Network. She is also a member of the University’s
 Migration Working Group North West, through which she continues to develop connections with
 academic colleagues and partners from the non-governmental sector. She also collaborates with
 colleagues from the Polish Academy of Sciences (Warsaw) and the University of Warsaw in joint
 research projects (see examples of events below). As part of this collaboration, she worked with Prof
 Witold Klaus of the Polish Academy of Sciences – a collaboration which contributed to his receiving
 the British Academy Visiting Fellowship in March 2018 to visit Edge Hill (August to October 2018).
 Her collaboration with the Polish Academy of Sciences resulted in a contribution to a 2019 edited
 collection of essays on the future of criminology as a discipline. Martynowicz’s research report
 (2018) funded by the Irish Penal Reform Trust contained 25 policy and practice-orientated
 recommendations and was launched by the former UN Special Rapporteur on Torture, Professor
 Juan Méndez, in February 2018. It gained national media coverage in Ireland, eliciting a public
 statement by the Minister for Justice in direct response, addressing the findings of the report.
 Members of the cluster have developed links with research end-users. For example, Barton is a
 member of the Learning Together Network led by Cambridge University and member of the Prison
 and University Partnerships in Learning Network (Prison Education Trust). This collaboration
 was central to the establishment of a partnership between Edge Hill University and HMP Thorn
 Cross, leading to a ‘Learning Together Forum’ and ‘HMP Thorn Cross Art Exhibition’ (2017).
 Launched with a symposium on ‘Agnotology’ (2017), the PHJR routinely organises events, including:
 a collaboration with Edge Hill’s History Department to stage the ‘British Crime Historians Symposium’
 (2018); the public lecture, ‘Regarding the ‘Pain of Others’: Fractured Lives, Dissenting Voices,
 Recovering Truth’ delivered by Professor Phil Scraton from Queen’s University Belfast (2019); and a
 2019 one-day conference on ‘Unwanted Citizens of EU Member States’, an event funded by the
 British Academy with speakers drawn from Spain, Poland, Romania and the Netherlands comprising
 academics and activists.


 Police Research Unit (PRU)
 Millie’s work is based on extensive collaborations: his ESRC-funded research on police visibility,
 with the Open University and Northumbria University; his links with the College of Policing,
 Lancashire Constabulary, Greater Manchester Police, Cumbria Police and West Yorkshire Police. He
 often gives invited keynote speeches: e.g., International Conference on Law Enforcement and Public
 Health (LEPH) in Amsterdam (2014) and the Australian Institute for Police Management (AIPM) on
 the ‘purpose of the police’ (2014). Millie’s research has impact through projects funded by
 Lancashire Constabulary, specifically on police volunteering (College of Policing website, 2016, and
 Lancashire Constabulary Evidence-Based Policing Research Champions Event, 2017). In 2017-2018
 Millie’s work on police recruits, also funded by Lancashire Constabulary, provided valuable evidence
 for the Constabulary on values and beliefs of recruits.



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Millie also plays a leading role in the British Society of Criminology (BSC) having been the society’s
 Publications Chair and Executive Committee member 2008-2014, and Co-Chair of the North West
 Branch of the BSC 2013-2019. In 2020 he returned to the Executive Committee and was made
 Regional Groups and Specialist Networks Chair. He is also on the Advisory Group for the BSC
 Policing Network. Millie is on the Research Advisory Group of the Howard League for Penal Reform
 and is an Associate of the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research. Millie is an HE partner of
 the N8 Policing Research Partnership and a member of the ESRC Peer Review College since 2010.
 Along with Millie, other members of the PRU have excellent links with police forces and this enables
 our public-engagement strategy. Hopkins, formerly an officer with Greater Manchester Police, has
 been instrumental in developing research links here and in other local and international forces. She
 led on developing links with the German Police Academy in Münster, Police Headquarters in Cologne
 and the Academy for Applied Sciences of North-Rhine Westphalia. The PRU organises an Annual
 Policing Lecture which is supported by the University’s ISR. It attracts high quality academic and
 practitioner speakers including senior police. Chief Constable of Merseyside, Andy Cooke, delivered
 guest lectures in 2018-19 and 2019-20. These relationships will be central to establishing research
 partnerships for the post-REF2021 period.
 Philosophy, Culture, Law & Criminology Research (PCLR)
 This relatively new group is building on pre-existing public and external engagement. Langford was
 peer review panel member for the AHRC (2017-2020) and his work on legal theory saw him speak at
 the University of Salerno Congress on Theory and Sociology of Law (2017). Likewise, McGregor
 was invited to speak as a keynote at the Narrative Criminology Research Network annual conference
 (Genoa, 2020) and at the Third International Perspectives on Art Conference (Rijeka, 2020). He has
 been a trustee of the British Society of Aesthetics since September 2019 and he was one of 13 UK-
 based early career researchers selected for the British Academy Knowledge Frontiers Symposium in
 Shanghai in September 2019.
 Peters’s current research focuses on music and criminology and includes her 2019 monograph. In
 2018 Peters hosted an Edge Hill Festival of Ideas event with the rap artist Professor Green: ‘In
 Conversation: Professor Green on Working Class White Men’.
 Millie’s PCLR activities include a presentation to the Institute of Criminology, University of
 Cambridge (2017) on ‘criminology, philosophy and Christian theology’, and at the Institute of Criminal
 Justice Studies, University of Portsmouth on ‘Christian theology as a challenge to criminal justice’
 (2017). Millie’s work on aesthetic criminology led to an invitation to speak at a British Society of
 Aesthetics Conference (2019), and also at a roundtable discussion on ‘Theorising Urban Violence’ at
 the British Academy, led by Professor Ash Amin, University of Oxford (2019).
 Millie is editor of Bristol University Press’s series, ‘New Horizons in Criminology’ and a member of
 the Editorial Board of Crime Prevention & Community Safety and, up to 2016, the Editorial Board of
 the British Journal of Criminology. To 2014, Millie edited the British Society of Criminology
 Newsletter and the BSC online journal ‘Papers from the British Criminology Conference’. Millie
 organised a day-long seminar (2018, co-funded by Edge Hill University’s ISR and the British Society
 of Criminology) on ‘criminology and theology’. This was one of the few times that the two subjects
 had ever come together and resulted in an interdisciplinary collection published by Bristol University
 Press (2021).
 Members of the cluster are members of the British Society of Criminology, European Society of
 Criminology and British Society of Aesthetics. McGregor’s application for a major grant from the
 Croatian Science Foundation (successful 2021) was based on a collaboration with the
 Department of Philosophy at the University of Rijeka. McGregor organised and hosted the
 conference ‘Narrative Justice: Aesthetic Education from Theory to Practice’, at Edge Hill
 University which was funded by the British Society of Aesthetics (2019), leading to a special
 issue of the Journal of Aesthetic Education.




                                                                                                Page 11
