Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution:
 University of Bedfordshire
 Unit of Assessment: 23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 The Institute for Research in Education (IREd) is situated within the Faculty of Education and
 Sport. Its core mission is to facilitate evidence-informed practice amongst educators in schools,
 further and higher education (inter)nationally. IREd has well established research relationships
 and         collaborative       partnerships         with     user      communities         (e.g.,
 schools/colleges/communities/charities in Bedford, the wider Bedfordshire region, Australia, New
 Zealand (NZ) and the Caribbean) through funded research projects and engagement with
 educators via seminars, lectures, workshops and University of Bedfordshire’s (UoB’s) master’s
 and doctoral programmes.

 Led by Professor Goodwyn, IREd has 9.1 FTE members comprising staff within the Schools of
 Teacher Education (TE), Education, English and Language (SEEL) and the Centre for Learning
 Excellence (CLE). IREd has three research groups:

    ●   Educational leaders, teachers and expertise (Lead, Goodwyn);
    ●   Social Constructivist approaches to teaching and learning (Lead, Wearmouth);
    ●   Participation, citizenship rights and equity (Lead, Maylor).

 IREd’s work and review of progress/achievement is overseen by its Board which includes full-and-
 associate institute members and representation from PGR students and professional service staff
 that support research. It reports annually to the University Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Committee.

 IREd is a small and developing research institute. It was established in 2008 and first returned to
 REF 2014, submitting 8.4 FTE staff. Six had expertise in educational digital technologies. Of these
 six, two have since moved to other institutions and four have retired. Two remaining academics
 provided a strong basis for rebuilding IREd’s future research activity and overall sustainability.

 IREd’s research achievements include:
    • an increase of doctoral completions from 1 to 25.5;
    • nomination by UoB of an IREd member (Wearmouth) to the THES for a national award for
        research supervision;
    • external research funding of £288,000;
    • award to Maylor of c£69,000 for a funded collaborative doctoral partnership with the Tate
        Gallery;
    • staff publications comprising 6 monographs, 5 authored books and 5 edited collections
        published by Routledge, Sage, Springer, McGraw Hill/Open University Press and NZ
        Council for Educational Research (NZCER); 55 articles in leading journals; 39 chapters in
        edited volumes, 10 research reports; and 71 papers presented at peer-reviewed
        (inter)national conferences. Notably, a paper by ECR Belas and Hopkins published in the
        British Educational Research Journal (BERJ) was nominated for the BERJ Editor’s
        Choice Award, December 2020.

 IREd’s vibrant research environment, growth, vitality and sustainability are enhanced by research
 expertise in the fields of English, social constructionist approaches, further/higher education,
 social justice, diversity, citizenship, inclusion and philosophy of education; internal bi/monthly
 research seminars with internal and external speakers; an annual IREd conference in
 collaboration with the British Educational Research Association (BERA) English SIG (special


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interest group); collaboration with Bedford Borough Learning Exchange; seminars in conjunction
 with the Philosophy of Education Society of GB; which all provide opportunities for staff and PGRs
 to share/discuss/showcase diverse research and analytic approaches. Also central is IREd’s
 contribution to the faculty’s doctoral training programme.

 Research

 From a strong focus on the use/influence of digital technologies and social inclusion in teaching
 and learning in 2008-14, in 2015, IREd’s research focus broadened to examine from early years
 to higher education, professional education, participatory and innovative approaches to enquiry,
 supporting literacy learning, informing practice and policy development and social justice and
 diversity issues. In 2017, with the appointment of Goodwyn as director, IREd’s research was
 further revised to focus on transforming learner educational experiences and outcomes and
 understanding/enhancing the quality of pedagogy.

 IREd members have (inter)national recognition for their research related to special educational
 needs and disabilities (SEND), autism, English/art/science teaching, critical media literacies,
 culturally responsive pedagogy/teaching and learning, equity, diversity, inclusion, social justice,
 philosophy of education, citizenship and democracy, creative writing, race/ethnicity, culture,
 mentoring in post-compulsory education, pedagogy, teacher self-identity, raising the attainment
 of disadvantaged learners, oracy and dialogic learning across the curriculum, initial teacher
 education, leadership and management in schools, further and higher education. Examples of
 projects include:

    ●   Work with Māori teachers and academics in New Zealand;

    ●   Evaluation of the Chartered College pilot teacher programme;

    ●   Evaluation of the school readers programme with local schools;

    ●   Research with SEND students, and special educational needs coordinators;

    ●   Research with English teachers and literary subject knowledge (Australian Council for
        Educational Research);

    ●   Evaluation of the raising achievement project of disadvantaged young people running in
        18 local schools in Bedfordshire;

    ●   A five-year collaborative project (IREd, Cambridge and a Bedford school) exploring the
        development of oracy and dialogic learning across the curriculum.

 Research integrity

 IREd supports a culture of research integrity informed by the University’s Research Ethics
 Committee (UREC), ethics policy and training delivered in line with UKRIO and Vitae Research
 Concordat expectations. At an institute level, research integrity is maintained through ethical
 review of staff/PGR research proposals (by two/three independent reviewers), outcomes of which
 are reported to IREd’s Board, and annually to UREC. IREd provides ethical guidance/training to
 staff/PGRs according to BERA guidelines (2018). Such training is further enhanced by insights
 derived from Maylor and Goodwyn’s internal reviews of research misconduct cases outside
 Education, and IREd’s participation in the University’s Research Degrees Committee where PGR
 misconduct and resolutions are discussed.

 Review of research objectives in REF 2014

    ●   Strengthen and extend membership and activities of the existing research groups and
        support the development of new groups and collaborations within and beyond the UoB;

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 From 2014, IREd’s membership has been expanded to include academics with recently awarded
 doctorates (see staff section). A new collaboration was established in 2020 between IREd and
 local Bedford schools, resulting in the creation of the Institute for Research and Continuing
 Professional Development (IRCPD), funded (£5,000) by The Harpur Trust charity. The partnership
 is designed to support the implementation of action research projects led by teachers in Bedford
 schools, the production of high-quality, research-informed CPD outputs and is key to IREd’s plans
 to achieving greater impact with school/teaching communities (see impact strategy).The projects
 currently prioritised are critical teaching and learning issues identified by the local authority which
 impact across compulsory education phases (e.g., new arrivals with English as an additional
 language, literacy – early years and primary, and supporting vulnerable learners). IREd
 researchers provide guidance (e.g., data collection, ethical insights, analytical processes) to help
 teachers develop their research skills in implementing these projects.

    ●   Increase the number of doctoral completions, including those of education staff and build
        staff capacity;

 IREd has achieved 25.5 doctoral completions (see 4a) compared with one returned to REF 2014.
 12 were by internal staff in Teacher Education, Art and Design, Media and the CLE. Of these 12,
 three have gone on to establish research careers elsewhere; two in other English universities and
 one in Australia (see staff development). An international student (Usi) completed his doctorate
 focused on addressing low youth educational access in Malawi in 2018 and, notably, became
 Minister of Culture, Tourism and Wildlife in Malawi in 2020.

    ●   Recruit high-quality PGR students to areas of research expertise and excellence;

 Recruitment of such students is exemplified by an AHRC-funded, collaborative doctoral training
 grant with Tate Gallery awarded in 2016 to explore questions around race, culture and art in the
 museum context.

    ●   Continue formal mentoring support for staff to facilitate publishing, increasing quality
        outputs, and improving the rate at which conference papers are developed into published
        articles and chapters;

 The ROSA mentoring scheme (see staff development) successfully mentors ECRs and mid-
 career researchers in TE and SEEL, resulting in staff publications in leading journals (e.g. Belas
 and Hopkins in BERJ, 2019), 30 book chapters in edited collections (e.g. Wearmouth, J. &
 Goodwyn, A. (eds) (2019) Pupil, Teacher and Student Voice in Educational Institutions, London:
 Routledge; Wearmouth, J. & Lindley, K. (eds) (in press for 2021) Bringing the Curriculum to Life,
 Maidenhead: Open University Press) and a co-authored volume (Wearmouth, J., Gosling, A.,
 Beams, J. & Davydaitis, S. (2017) Understanding Special Educational Needs and Disabilities in
 the Early Years, London: Routledge).

    ●   Continue assisting PGR students to publish as part of their PhD process, attend
        international conferences, take part in research projects with experienced staff and be
        provided with opportunities to facilitate recruitment into academia;

 PGRs have publication opportunities via edited collections (see above) and conference
 attendance: e.g., Kuegel, C. (2017) Research methodology: What do we ‘know’ about research
 and why do we know it? Journal of Playwork Practice, 4 (1). pp. 59-61.

 PGR staff develop their research profile by undertaking small-scale research projects, contributing
 to bid submissions, internal research seminars and external conferences (e.g., British Educational
 Leadership Management & Administration Society (BELMAS) attended by Mistry, 2014; BERA,
 attended by Kikabhai, 2016; European Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, Leuven, Belgium attended
 by Rapley, 2017).


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR staff experiences and examples of staff PGR recruitment into academia are outlined below.

    ●    Increase external research income over the next five years;

 IREd has achieved research income of £288,000 (see funding). Saliently, IREd successfully
 secured Research Council (AHRC) funding for a collaborative doctoral partnership, the first for
 UoB.

 Impact strategy in REF 2014

 To ensure impact, IREd staff will:

    ●    Conduct research relevant to practitioners and policy makers and publish in forms which
         practitioners and policy makers can use;

    ●    Research topics likely to make a systemic difference and co-research and co-publish with
         users (e.g., teachers) at local/national/community/international level;

    ●    Undertake research and consultancy commissioned by users;

    ●    Disseminate academic research tailored to lay/professional audiences, seminars,
         conferences and workshops, delivered to professional and non-academic audiences.

 Review of impact achievement

 The success of IREd’s impact strategy is reflected in its research projects with teachers,
 dissemination of research findings (via seminars and 71 conference presentations), publishing in
 accessible forms (including open access journals e.g., Cogent), and the two submitted case
 studies which emphasise international impact on teacher knowledge/learning/parent communities
 and national impact on FE leadership/teacher autonomy and creativity.

 Research and impact post REF 2021

    ●    Build on growth in doctoral completions;

    ●    Increase PGR recruitment – through development of a new EdD, more targeted
         international recruitment and increased number of research council-funded students;

    ●    Continue to generate research income;

    ●    Build on the projects developed through the IRCPD partnership as a model to address
         critical teaching and learning issues, develop greater engagement with local user
         communities/policy makers and foster national/international impact;

    ●    Increase international collaborations to generate international impact with user
         communities;

    ●    Develop interdisciplinary research opportunities with measurable impact.

 2. People

 Staff

 IREd’s institute membership includes five full members (Goodwyn, Hopkins, Maylor, Price,
 Wearmouth) and 10 associates (Bates, Belas, Butler, Connolly, Hudson-Glynn, Lindley, Malcolm,
 Nethercott, Pritchard, Thompson). Associates include four ECRs, three with doctorates from UoB
 since 2014.

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Staffing strategy

 IREd’s goals in progressing the institute are taken into consideration when new education
 academics are recruited to schools within the Faculty of Education and Sport.

 To fulfil IREd’s need for a quantitative expert a post-doctoral research fellow (Ahmed) was
 recruited (with QR funding of £28,000 p.a.) for a fixed-term (2016-2018) to support PGRs’ and
 ECRs’ quantitative skill development, enhance quantitative consultancy opportunities and
 strengthen research proposals requiring complex quantitative analyses; an example of which is a
 collaborative bid with Liverpool John Moores University to evaluate the potential of web-based
 annotation tools to improve the accuracy, efficiency and learning outcomes of assessed practical
 science activities at A-Level, submitted in 2017 to the Welcome Trust. Quantitative bids were also
 submitted to Leverhulme and the Department for Education (DfE).

 To facilitate opportunities for ECR engagement in IREd’s research activities, career opportunities
 and decision-making, IREd’s associate membership was expanded in the academic year 2018-
 19 to include academics with recently awarded doctorates.

 Staff development

 IREd is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (2019 -
 http://www.vitae.ac.uk/policy/concordat). Since REF 2014, much of IREd’s staff development
 support has been aimed at increasing the number of staff with a doctorate, doctoral completions
 and examination experience, and to enhancing staff research capacity (e.g., submitting bids)
 and publishing skills. To achieve this a range of opportunities have been made available to ECR
 and mid-career staff, for example:

    •   Croft achieved her EdD in 2015 and was awarded £3000 IREd funding in 2016 for a
        project: 'The challenge of Teacher Subject Specialism Training: Growing a Supply of
        Inspirational Mathematics and Physics Teachers from Diverse Subject Roots’. Preliminary
        findings were presented at the British Society for Research into the Learning of
        Mathematics conference (November 2017);

    •   ECR Fensham-Smith was awarded £1,000 for a pilot photovoice project with a home-
        education group in Bedfordshire;

    •   As a lecturer and PGR student studying play among autistic children for her doctorate,
        Kuegel was given an opportunity to conduct research about early years play resources for
        a small-to-medium-sized company that the University provided with consultancy support.
        Kuegel’s (2015) report was entitled: The use and value of 'The Play Doctors Reflect and
        Draw Expression Kit in a Tin'. Innovation Bridge, University of Bedfordshire.

    •   Staff have presented their research at national (e.g., BERA, BELMAS) and international
        conferences (e.g., Thompson and Hopkins at AERA 2019), internal bi/monthly IREd
        seminars and Philosophy of Education, Society of Great Britain (PESGB) national
        seminars (hosted by IREd), and a national BERA English in Education SIG one-day
        conference in 2019 hosted in collaboration with IREd.

    •   Development of research bid capacity on large-scale projects has been supported through
        inclusion of ECRs in bids with senior researchers. For example, Thompson and Hopkins
        (both with expert FE knowledge but limited experience of bidding) helped to develop a bid
        with Carmichael focusing on choice and quality in FE submitted to the DfE/ESRC in 2017.

    •   Staff research expertise and access to external funding has been enhanced through
        targeted staff development workshops (provided by the University’s Innovation and


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Enterprise Service following liaison with IREd) covering grant funding, bid submission and
        project management.

    •   Supporting those ECRs with doctorates, but limited experience of doctoral supervision and
        examination, to take on these roles by:

        i) Including them on supervisory teams with staff with completions and doctoral
        examination experience (Wearmouth, Goodwyn, Maylor). In this REF period, Butler gained
        two completions and Hopkins one as part of supervisory teams organised in this way;

        ii) Supporting them to examine doctoral progression stages (see research students) and,
        where possible, acting as internal examiners. Such opportunities were afforded to Butler,
        Connolly, Hopkins and Thompson;

    •   Supporting ECRs (e.g., Connolly) to take on more responsibilities in IREd e.g., ethical
        reviews of internal research proposals.

    •   During his appointment (2016-18) IREd’s post-doctoral researcher also benefited from
        career development as he completed the University’s PgCert Teaching in Higher
        Education lecturer course.

 Support for early career researchers

 Education staff in SEEL and TE are supported to undertake doctorates and, subsequently, publish
 from these. For example, upon completion of his EdD, Moya was supported to present his work
 at external conferences (such as BERA; ESREA), submit two journal articles which were invited
 publications from his thesis, and subsequently he published three outputs:

        i)      Moya, M. (2014) Reconsidering a strategy-based instruction (SBI) to teaching and
                learning another language using transferrable language learning strategies within
                a sociocultural framework, Revista Electrónica Matices en Lenguas Extranjeras,
                número 8. ISSN 2011-1177. Páginas 49-79

        ii)     Moya (2015) Cognitive apprenticeship and structured debriefing as tools to develop
                reflective practice in initial teacher education, Argentinian Journal of Applied
                Linguistics,3 (1), 5-13

        iii)    Moya, M. (2015) El modelo de cognitive apprenticeship y la técnica de la charla
                estructurada como herramienta de reflexión en el desarrollo de las competencias
                profesionales en la formación docente inicial. Diálogos Pedagógicos 13 (25), pp.
                76-85.

 Moya was recruited to a lecturing post at the University of East London shortly after being awarded
 his doctorate. A year after completing his EdD, Moya had three more articles accepted for
 publication from his thesis. He had also written a chapter for a book about teaching modern
 languages to children to be published by Cambridge University Press [email from Moya, 1 July
 2015, can be provided to support evidence].

 Following his PhD by publication in 2014, Gardner was appointed senior lecturer for teaching and
 research at Curtin University in Australia.

 Two staff (Kuegel and Kikabhai) secured lecturing posts at the universities of Sussex and Bristol
 respectively, after completing their doctorates in 2017 and 2018 respectively [reference provided
 for both posts].

 IREd’s mentoring scheme (ROSA), led by Wearmouth allows for ECRs and mid-career
 researchers to be allocated to a senior, internationally recognised researcher who reviews (at

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 various points in the year) their annual publication plans and future research targets and provides
 essential support to enable achievement of their stated goals. ROSA mentors use their expertise
 to help to build ECR/post-doctoral capacity in undertaking research, developing research
 leadership and project management skills, and enhancing ECR ability to submit research bids,
 prepare and submit conference abstracts, write papers and present at conferences. The
 mentoring process (bolstered by workshops/seminars) also provides ECRs with insights into
 achieving research impact.

 Research students

 PhD Recruitment

 Since 2014, IREd has recruited 48 doctoral students, 13 full-time and 35 part-time, most home/EU
 funded. IREd’s recruitment of international students was negatively affected by changes to UK
 government visa regulations for international students, introduced in 2014/15.

 Research Council studentships – IREd recruited one full-time research council (AHRC)-funded
 student in 2016 (see above).

 Training

 In addition to Research Graduate School induction of new PGRs, IREd provides research
 materials and training covering theoretical and epistemological frameworks, research methods,
 data analysis, presentation, ethical issues and thesis writing. These are supplemented with three
 research awaydays which provide intellectual stimulus, discussion and feedback on research,
 written and oral presentations and specific skills to support researcher development. Sessions
 also cover the demands of the viva, career development, writing for different audiences, securing
 funding, and building an academic profile/career. Joint PGR training with other research institutes
 in the faculty provides students with access to a wider range of staff expertise, research
 methodologies and interdisciplinary research approaches.

 IREd has also funded students to attend external training in specialised data analysis (e.g., QSR
 qualitative data analysis) alongside doctoral training summer schools run by the ESRC in Bristol,
 conferences and seminars early in their studies, before attending as presenters themselves.

 Supervision

 Each supervision team includes two staff with doctorates. One must have PGR completions.
 Additional supervisors and external advisors are appointed as required.

 Monitoring and support mechanisms to advance student progress and completion

 Individual PGR training, progression and completion needs are monitored by supervisors
 (throughout the year) and the Research Graduate School (RGS) (annually and via supervisory
 meeting records uploaded to a central system by students after supervisory meetings).

 The RGS facilitates and ensures regular contact between supervisors and students through a
 virtual environment, which creates and stores records of learning and additionally provides a
 platform for regular interaction between supervisors, supervisees and the RGS. Supervisors
 attend supervisory training delivered by the RGS at least once every two years. Supervisors meet
 PhD students at least monthly, and outcomes are recorded. Doctoral students are supported to
 progress through two progression points, requiring written reports of 10,000 and 25,000 words at
 six months (FT or 11-12 PT) and 16 months (FT or 22-25 PT) respectively. Specific requirements
 are augmented with RGS online training. Progression point two forms the upgrade from MPhil to
 PhD. Both stages are reviewed by two reviewers and include a public presentation and defence
 of the student’s work. Where students may need additional support, supervisors can initiate a


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 formal academic progress meeting, which is minuted, independently chaired with additional
 support measures put in place.

 Doctoral completions

 Since REF 2014, there were 25.5 doctoral completions: 15.5 PhDs, two PhDs by publication and
 eight EdDs. See table below.

  Award by      2013-14    2014-15     2015-16    2016-17    2017-18    2018-     2019-    Total
  type                                                                  19        20
  PhD           1.25       2 .25       3          0.25       5.75       2         1        15.5
  PhD      by   1                                 1                                        2
  publication
  EdD           1          2           2          1          2                             8
  Total         3.25       4.25        5          2.25       7.75       2         1        25.5

 Student skills development and preparation for future careers

 See above for internal opportunities for students to present their research-in-progress. PGRs and
 ECRs can apply for IREd QR funding (see infrastructure) to attend external conferences to support
 development of their presentation skills, academic writing/publication and networking skills. As
 part of the IREd mentoring process, internal PGR staff are supported to write for publication with
 some having outputs in edited collections led by, for example, Wearmouth and Goodwyn (2019),
 Wearmouth and Lindley (2021).

 Our collaborative doctoral partnership (CDP) student, Francois has had additional opportunities
 to experience day-to-day working at Tate Gallery via access to the Tate’s teachers and learners
 programme, as well as engagement with artists, curators and art educators. The CDP funding
 supported Francois to strengthen her art academic practice skills by attending two courses:
 ‘Decolonising Europe’ in Amsterdam, and Sotheby's ‘Art, Ethics and the Law’ in New York in 2018.
 Both courses were instrumental in Francois devising workshops to support her doctoral data
 collection.

 Equality and Diversity

 IREd’s commitment and approach to equality and diversity is exemplified as follows:

 PGR recruitment, mode of study and teaching

 The AHRC studentship (see above) was targeted at Black and Minority Ethnic groups and the
 recruited student (Francois) is Black Caribbean; a group who are the least likely to have their
 doctoral study funded through Research Council funding (Williams et al., 2019 -
 http:www.leadingroutes.org). Francois commenced as a full-time student but changed to part-time
 study with the support of IREd and subsequent approval by the University’s Research Degrees
 Committee.

 Throughout the assessment period 48 students studied for a PhD, professional doctorate or PhD
 by publication via both full (13) and part-time (35) modes.

 Equality and diversity and PGR inclusion is further reflected in IREd’s doctoral teaching provision
 (e.g., inclusion of culturally relevant/diverse and decolonised theoretical frameworks).

 PGR completions

 Of IREd’s 25.5 doctoral completions, more were females (15) compared to males (11); most (17)
 studied part-time. The two PhD by publication completions were by men.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Completions were representative of a slightly higher proportion of home-based students
 identifying as White British (15) compared with 11 international students: Pakistan (two), Sri Lanka
 (two), Thailand (one), Saudi Arabia (one), Mauritius (one), Malawi (one), Nigeria (one), the USA
 (one) and one EU student from Poland.

 Supervisory arrangements

    i)      Incorporating PGR gender and religious beliefs

 IREd’s commitment to equality and diversity is reflected in its doctoral supervisory arrangements.
 Gender and religious beliefs are carefully considered when allocating supervision teams. For
 example, Wedikandage (a Muslim female) initially had a male director of studies. This was
 changed to an all-female supervisory team when the student expressed this preference in line
 with her religious beliefs/expectations. Choudry (a Muslim female) was first given the option of an
 all-female team. However, she declined this offer and accepted instead a male director of studies
 and female second supervisor because she felt comfortable that she could share any female-
 related concerns with her female supervisor. Such a situation occurred at the MPhil/PhD transfer
 stage when the student shared with her female supervisor that she was experiencing challenges
 from her family regarding continuing with her doctoral studies.

 IREd’s commitment to equality and diversity gave these students the confidence to share how
 cultural expectations (pertaining to women studying) impacted on their studies. The two students
 successfully completed their studies in 2014 and 2019.

    ii)     Students with caring responsibilities

 IREd’s support for PGRs with caring responsibilities is reflected in its supervision arrangements.
 Supervisors supported two full-time, female doctoral students (Choudhry and Wedikandage) with
 new babies by holding meetings at each student’s home or on campus with the baby attending if
 childcare proved an issue. Supervisory meetings for a third, full-time student (Darnell) with two
 pre-school age children were scheduled around her childcare arrangements. Supervisions were
 often slotted into a childcare timetable drawn up six to eight weeks in advance of a meeting.

 For all three students, childcare/parenting responsibilities and restricted availability during certain
 times of the day were taken into consideration when supervisory meetings were being arranged,
 and flexibility in terms of supervisory availability was shown if the students needed to cancel and/or
 rearrange a scheduled supervisory meeting with no/limited notice.

    iii)    Flexible PGR study arrangements/meetings

 IREd’s equality and diversity and inclusion policy is further evidenced in its approach to students
 studying flexibly and remotely. For example, Usi, based in Malawi, was recruited to study on a
 part-time basis. His studies in Malawi were supported with supervision meetings held via Skype
 and phone conferencing (when the internet was down in his locality). Face-to-face supervision
 meetings were arranged around his employment at an NGO and when he was visiting the UK and
 Europe. Such meetings were at times tightly scheduled around a three-month visit or a short stay
 in the UK en-route to NGO meetings in Europe.

 Supervisory meetings have operated flexibly, especially when international students returned
 home, for example, to undertake data collection. Given the time differentials, supervisory meetings
 have at times been held very early in the morning and/or late at night (UK time).

 Study leave/sabbaticals

 IREd staff have opportunities to apply for periods of study leave under the University’s special
 leave policy to assist with, for example, writing up their thesis or completing a monograph.


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supporting flexible and remote working

 Staff can work flexibly. Remote working is supported by online communication systems:
 Collaborate and Microsoft Teams.

 At IREd Board meetings in 2020 PGR students reported feeling fully supported by the move to
 online supervision and PGR training owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.

 Access to internal funds

 IREd QR funding is open to all Education staff. To enhance ECR staff research capacity/careers,
 priority for accessing QR funding in this REF period has been given to staff:

    ●   Who have not yet undertaken a formal research project outside what they may have done
        in a master’s degree or doctorate;

    ●   Whose research capacity would be enhanced by dedicated funding; and

    ●   Whose research project will lead to the submission of at least one article to a peer-
        reviewed journal and to the presentation of the study and its findings at an
        IREd/faculty/external seminar/conference.

 QR funding has also been used to support staff and PGR conference attendance with sums of
 between £300-500 available. Applications for staff conference funding are reviewed and prioritised
 according to researcher stage of development, thereby helping IREd to fulfil its aim of enhancing
 ECR development.

 Supporting staff and PGR well-being

 During her doctoral studies [name withheld to protect the student’s identity], a PGR student
 experienced racism during her data collection which led to her experiencing depression and
 anxiety, and ultimately going on sick leave before interrupting her studies in 2019 for nine months.
 Returning to study in 2020, the student was further impacted by a Covid-19-related bereavement.
 The student was supported to interrupt her studies for a further six months. Prior to, and
 throughout the periods of interrupted study, the student was provided with extensive supervisory
 and research institute support (including phone calls enquiring as to her well-being) to ensure her
 welfare and maintain her sense of student belonging. This student’s experiences of racism were
 instrumental in IREd reviewing the mechanisms it has in place to effectively support staff and PGR
 well-being. Underpinned by a social justice commitment to inclusion and equality of outcomes, the
 approach adopted to support this student now informs IREd’s mentoring of its doctoral supervisors
 and the encouragement they are given to feel empowered to raise/discuss/have addressed racism
 and other protected characteristic experiences where they themselves need well-being support.
 Additionally, updates are sought from PGR representatives at IREd Board meetings about PGR
 well-being issues not brought to the attention of their supervisor, and how PGR well-being can be
 better supported, should the need arise.

 Equality and Diversity in construction of IREd’s REF submission

 IREd’s submission consists of 10 staff (six men, four women) that represent a mixture of ECR (two
 men), mid-career (four, of whom three are men) and senior researchers (four, of which three are
 women). Two staff (one woman, one man) are employed part-time. The submission is of staff
 predominantly identifying as White British.

 Staff inclusion in this submission was reviewed against the University’s Equality and Diversity
 Code of Practice (2019), then mapped against institutional and faculty data regarding staff with
 protected characteristics, research and caring responsibilities. The faculty report revealed that five
 staff in Education have a declared disability, but none have significant responsibility for research.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The faculty report led to IREd prioritising disability as a key staff characteristic that needs to be
 better understood alongside staffs’ intersectional identities, and how staff with a disability can be
 supported/developed to become researchers with significant responsibility, and eligible for a future
 REF submission.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 During this REF period, IREd has generated external research income of £288,000, derived from
 four UK funding streams: BEIS Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy
 (£126,443), UK-based charities (competitive process - £5,000), UK-based charities (£22,835), UK
 Central government/local authorities (£110,701), and international income from the NZ Ministry of
 Education (£22,936) through Wearmouth’s funded consultancies, which builds on £50,000
 received in REF 2014.

 External funding for students comes from a range of sources, including international charities,
 governments, students’ employers and students themselves.

 Infrastructure

 Across the REF period, £182,000 (£26,000 annually) of QR funding was allocated to IREd to
 support IREd’s research culture. As part of establishing a high quality research and publishing
 culture in education, IREd has used its QR funding to build PGR/ECR staff research capacity
 through bursaries (e.g. a £15,000 bursary was allocated to Proctor’s full-time doctoral study), a
 small-scale grants scheme (e.g. £3,000 each for up to five staff- beneficiaries include, for example,
 Croft, Connolly-submitted in this submission) to support ECR research projects with the
 expectation that they produce publications within 12 months of conducting their research. Funding
 can be used to buy out the staff member from teaching and/or cover their research travel and
 transcription costs (where applicable).

 £56,000 of QR funding was used to fund a two-year, post-doctoral research fellow post to develop
 staff and PGR quantitative capacity through workshops and tailored one-to-one support.

 QR funding has afforded 20 staff and all PGR’s to contribute to the research environment through
 engagement and knowledge exchange in awaydays, networking activities and dissemination of
 research findings at national (e.g., BERA) and international conferences (e.g., AERA, ECER,
 EERA, ARLE - the International Association for Research into L1 Education, IACCM, Vienna) and
 to host external speakers (e.g., Gibbons, KCL; Berryman, University of Waikato, NZ).

 Staff undertaking doctorates with the university can obtain fee waivers.10 of the PGR completions
 in this submission benefited from a staff fee waiver (Barron, Croft, Dean, Edwards, Gardner,
 Hudson-Glynn, Kuegel, Layden, Mathew, Shea).

 PGR/staff knowledge of open access requirements, accessing online resources and the
 institutional repository have been facilitated by training provided by a dedicated education librarian
 (0.3FTE).

 IREd’s research bidding/project management activity is supported by the University’s Innovation
 and Enterprise Service (see staff development) and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships which led
 to research links with small-and-medium sized organisations (see contribution to the economy).

 Facilities

 IREd full-time PGRs have a designated desk, computer, and a separate telephone, with access
 to a shared printer; ‘hot desk’ space is provided for part-time students. PGRs have a dedicated
 online space (Collaborate) to communicate with other PGRs and their supervisors and have

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 access to research materials on the cross faculty Teams PGR site. University libraries are open
 24/7 which help to support PGR research activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 IREd contributes to the development of Education as a discipline through its wide-ranging internal,
 (inter)national collaborations, publications, consultancies, and external networks supporting
 knowledge sharing as discussed below.

 Internally, IREd members work with other research institutes to provide joint supervision for PGR
 students, review research and ethics proposals, and contribute expertise to joint projects and co-
 authored publications and proposals. This involves working with colleagues in Business,
 Psychology, Media and Performance, Health, Applied Social Research, Sport, Language
 Assessment and the CLE. Such collaborative working has, for example, contributed to doctoral
 completions in Business (Johnson, 2017) and Health (Akinbode, 2015) and an interdisciplinary
 project (Refugee legal aid) with the Law department.

 Collaborations with academics in other institutions (national, international, local)

 Wearmouth is a key international collaborator on improving Māori education in NZ and as part of
 this has an advisory role to the University of Waikato, Hamilton. Her work is central to the NZ
 Ministry of Education’s goal of reducing underachievement amongst Māori students (see case
 study 1). Goodwyn has undertaken several collaborations with Australian colleagues, including
 McClean-Davies (University of Melbourne), Sawyer (University of Sydney) and O’Sullivan
 (Macquarie University) on studies about English teachers. Hopkins and Maylor have written
 collaboratively with colleagues in Finland as part of developing insights into the two education
 systems, and Butler has a co-authored chapter with colleagues in Kosovo, salient in enhancing
 teacher education provision.

 Nationally, IREd members have a range of collaborations. For example, Pritchard has long-term
 collaborations with Worsfold (Brunel). This has involved developing authentic assessments, which
 have been incorporated across life sciences courses in Bedfordshire and Brunel, and findings
 presented at the Advance HE Teaching and Learning Annual Conference (2020). Thompson
 writes extensively about FE, with Wolstencroft at Liverpool St John’s. Maylor collaborates with
 Wright at the University of Nottingham, which culminated in a journal article (2016), a book chapter
 (2018) and an invitation to write a book about young Black male resilience for a Routledge gender
 and education book series in the USA. Maylor was invited in 2015 to join colleagues at Sheffield
 Hallam, Oxford University, and the University of West of England to conduct an OFFA (Office for
 Fair Access)-funded study on the impact of student bursaries on student attainment. Maylor has
 well established links with Showunmi (UCL/IOE) which led to an invited collaborative presidential
 session with American academics, Baldridge (Wisconsin) and Stovall (University of Denver) at
 AERA (2020).

 Research engagement with diverse communities and publics

 IREd regularly presents its research to diverse communities and publics in the UK and
 internationally. For example, Thompson has presented at several ESREA conferences
 (European Society for the Education of Adults), including at the universities of Seville, Rennes,
 Verona and Coimbra. These conferences attract academics from all over Europe, as well as
 Canada and Australia. Goodwyn, Maylor, Hopkins, Thompson and Wearmouth have
 presented at AERA, which attracts a global audience and facilitates access to diverse local
 schools/communities. Wearmouth’s collaboration with NZ academics has resulted in
 engagement with Māori teachers, students and parents (see case study 1). Maylor has presented
 at the RSA (Royal Society of Arts), Tate Gallery, and Birkbeck, each of which have attracted
 ethnically diverse and mixed audiences comprising academics, students, teachers, parents,
 policymakers and other users of research. Goodwyn’s BAME teacher project, shared at an


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 IRCPD online seminar (2020) with local teachers in Bedford, attracted over 50 BAME teachers
 (https://photos.app.goo.gl/pXoakgrd4tnV74rq7).

 Collaboration with external bodies and responsiveness to national/international
 priorities/initiatives

 Hopkin’s work on democratic citizenship and inclusion led to an invited submission to a
 parliamentary committee: Hopkins, N. (2017) Written Evidence to House of Lords Citizenship and
 Civic       Engagement          Committee     [online]     (CCE0016).       Available       at:
 http://data.parliament.uk/writtenevidence/committeeevidence.svc/evidencedocument/citizenship-
 and-civic-engagement-committee/citizenship-and-civic-engagement/written/69337.pdf

 Maylor’s work in education has informed both policy and practice and has led to her appointment
 to key national expert panels, reflecting the research impact of her work. Between 2014 and 2015
 Maylor was an invited expert panel member for the RSA’s investigation of supplementary school
 education (‘How can we re-envision the role of the supplementary school to best support ethnic
 minority achievement?’) London: RSA, and in 2016 she was an invited expert panel member of
 the Office for Fair Access (OFFA) BME Research Task and Finish Group concerning BME student
 access to HE. In 2018, Maylor’s expertise in race and qualitative research led to an invitation to
 join the advisory board for a research project: ‘The Geek as gatekeeper? Changing relations
 between gender, race and technology’, at Umea University, a three-year study (2019-22) funded
 by the Swedish Research Council. Maylor is an invited member of the UK Council for Graduate
 Education, Working Group (since 2019), reviewing BME participation in postgraduate research,
 and a member of the London Higher Tackling Racism Task Group, examining ways of tackling
 racism in higher education.

 Thompson’s research on building professional identity through agency in FE supports a
 Department for Education national priority area which aims to ‘improve the quantity, quality and
 professionalism of teachers/trainers and teaching/training’. Thompson’s work is reflected in case
 study 2.

 Research activity that impacts on the economy and society

 IREd’s research impacts on society are epitomised through fostering improved access to
 education and educational outcomes in schools and HE (inter)nationally through changes to policy
 and practice. This is evidenced through for example:
    i)      Pritchard’s research on collaborative approaches to sustainability resulted in the
            University of Essex contracting her in 2017 to support its staff. Subsequently, a
            university-wide sustainability team and strategy were created and formalised. Further
            research (‘Higher Education practices for C21st learning: A scoping review’, 2020),
            funded by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office was presented to
            Advance HE (Nov 2020). Prof Tilbury (HMG), Commissioner for Sustainable
            Development and Future Generations, emphasised that “I do believe the work is
            impressive and has the potential to effectively shape policy and funding going forward
            so higher education can be transitioned”. (Personal communication to Pritchard).
    ii)     The NZ Ministry of Education funding of Wearmouth’s international research
            partnership with University of Waikato colleagues led to publication of a co-authored
            book - Bishop, R., Berryman, M. & Wearmouth, J. (2014) Te Kotahitanga. Towards
            effective education reform for indigenous and other minoritised students, Wellington,
            NZ: NZCER Press - and development of culturally appropriate pedagogical practices
            and toolkit in NZ secondary schools to raise Māori secondary students’ achievement
            (see case study 1);
    iii)    IREd staff (e.g., Butler, Hopkins) collaboration with the University of Pristina (Kosovo)
            on a multi-year EU funded project aimed at improving teacher training by developing
            master’s level teaching qualifications. As well as developing an outcomes-based
            education handbook for the University of Pristina, produced as part of the project, IREd


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            supported the development of courses, and the capacity of members of staff at the
            University of Pristina to become research-informed teachers.
    iv)     Goodwyn et al’s (2020) national evaluation of the Chartered College Teacher pilot
            project (funded with £5,000);
    v)      Moya’s (2014) doctoral research culminated in development and dissemination of a
            Strategy-based Instruction Approach to Teaching and Learning Modern Languages to
            train ab-initio Primary PGCE trainees.

 IREd’s relationship with research users has contributed to economic impacts fostered through
 UoB’s Innovation Bridge projects which enable IREd members to provide consultancy research
 support to small and medium-sized companies. Examples include:
    i)      Wearmouth’s, (2015) publication: Effective SENCO: Meeting the challenge, McGraw-
            Hill Education, led to Dyslexia Matters (https://www.dyslexiamatters.co.uk/) funding
            Wearmouth £7,000 to help them increase access of their dyslexia training to a wider
            public. This was followed by an invited public lecture later published as a book chapter:
            Wearmouth, J. (2020) ‘Putting the dyslexic learner at the centre’, in L. Peer & G. Reid
            (Eds) Special educational needs. A guide for inclusive practice, Ch 3, pp 31-47,
            London: Sage
    ii)     2017-19 Goodwyn et al worked with Nutshell Marketing to develop ‘Topic Heroes’
            software to help primary children write their own books and improve literacy at Key
            Stage 2, with a follow up evaluation of the views of primary teachers supported by
            Huddersfield Town FC;
    iii)    Belas and Hopkins (2020) worked with Luton Citizens Advice Bureau to improve
            online access to their services amongst communities with limited/no technological
            resources.

 Contributions to sustainability of the discipline

 External examining

 IREd contributes to sustaining the discipline nationally and internationally through numerous
 external examinations of master’s degrees and doctorates. Internationally, Goodwyn has
 examined doctorates at six Australian universities (McQuarrie, Griffith, Edith Cowan, Sydney,
 Melbourne and Monash) and Wearmouth at the University of Wellington in NZ (2018). From 2016
 to 2020, Goodwyn examined PhDs nationally at the universities of Bath Spa, Staffordshire,
 Liverpool, East Anglia, Bath, London, Durham, Exeter and Reading, and EdDs at Newman,
 Liverpool Hope and St Mary’s. Goodwyn regularly examines Durham University’s Master’s in
 Education (2015-20) and has a four-year appointment to examine Brunel’s Master’s programmes
 (2019-2023). Wearmouth has examined PhDs at the universities of Manchester (2019), Derby
 (2020) and Hertfordshire (2017). Between 2015-2020 Maylor examined PhD’s for the universities
 of Bristol, Lancaster, Westminster and De Montfort, and EdD’s at Sheffield University and
 UCL/Institute of Education. Her expertise in race, led to an invitation in 2016 to be an external
 PhD supervisor by Goldsmith’s College, University of London. She reviewed a new EdD with
 specialism options in teacher education and educational leadership at Maynooth University,
 Ireland (2016, 2018), alongside an MReS for validation at Edge Hill University (2014). Connolly
 examined PhDs at Reading (2019) and Bournemouth (2020), whilst Pritchard was part of an
 examination panel convened by the University of Bradford for the award of a Higher Doctorate of
 a professor (2020).

 Indicators of influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 IREd staff influence the education research base in various ways, and this is reflected in the
 recognition they have received, as follows:

 Editorial Roles



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 IREd staff members are key contributors to the education discipline through the review process
 and editorships. For example, Goodwyn is on the editorial boards of L1: Educational Studies of
 Language and Literature, English Teaching: Practice and Critique, The International Journal of
 Media Education, English in Education, English in Australia, Literacy, Learning Research and
 Practice. He is lead editor on three international publications for the International Federation for
 the Teaching of English (IFTE):

    •     Goodwyn, A., Durrant, C., Sawyer, W., Zancanella, D. & Scherff, E. (2018). (Eds.). The
          Future of English teaching worldwide and its histories: celebrating 50 years from the
          Dartmouth conference. London, Routledge;
    •     Goodwyn, A., Durrant, C., Scherff, E. & Reid, L. (2016) (Eds.). International perspectives
          on the teaching of Literature in schools; global principles and practices, London,
          Routledge;
    •     Goodwyn, A., Durrant, C. & Reid, L (Eds.). (2014) International perspectives on the
          teaching of English in a Globalised World. London, Routledge.

 Maylor is on the editorial board of the British Journal of Educational Studies, and on the editorial
 advisory board for the Journal for Critical Education Policy Studies. She is lead guest co-editor of
 the special issue (race and educational leadership) to be published by Educational, Management
 Administration and Leadership journal in 2021. Wearmouth is Editor for England of the
 Bloomsbury Education and Childhood Studies website of online peer-reviewed articles
 (https://www.becs-bloomsbury.com/). In 2020 Pritchard joined the editorial board of the
 International Journal for Sustainable Development in Higher Education. Belas is editor of the
 PESGB (Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain) Blog, which is editorially reviewed and
 is a platform for research-informed work on philosophy and education.

 Other influential roles

 Goodwyn is convenor of BERA’s English in Education SIG, trustee and research officer for the
 National Association for the Teaching of English and President of the International federation for
 the Teaching of English (IFTE) – a body that brings together the English teaching Associations in
 Australia, Canada, NZ, the UK and the USA. He has been instrumental in the organisation of IFTE
 conferences, in New York (Fordham University 2015), the UK (Aston University 2018) and
 Sydney, Australia (2020).

 Hopkins is the Coordinator of the Bedford branch of PESGB, and in this capacity also performs
 a national role.

 Participation on grant committees

 Maylor was an invited panel member of the UKRI grant-making committee for research proposals,
 submitted as part of the UKRI ESRC Covid-19 funding scheme to address Covid-19 and ethnicity
 (October 2020).

 Fellowships

 Thompson was awarded a Further Education Teaching and Learning Fellowship in 2018 along
 with £14,000.

 Goodwyn is a longstanding Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts for his research concerning English
 Education.

 Maylor has been an invited Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts since 2010 for her work on ethnicity
 and education.

 Prizes


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Belas and Hopkins’ joint authored article (2020) 'Subject English as citizenship education',
    published in British Educational Research Journal, 45 (2), pp.320-33 was selected for the British
    Educational Research Journal’s Editors' Choice Award (December 2020).

    Goodwyn is a recipient of the Terry Furlong Award (National Association for Teaching English)
    for a distinguished contribution to research in English Education (2018).

    Mistry (then a PGR student) won the best paper awarded by Management in Education journal,
    for an article entitled: ‘Under-representation of males in the Early Years: The challenges leaders
    face’ (July 2014).

    Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees

    Maylor served as a member of REF 2014’s Education sub-panel and will serve for a second time
    in REF 2021, whilst Goodwyn is a consultant to the Norwegian Research Council.

    Invited keynotes/lectures

    During the review period IREd staff members delivered 23 invited keynotes discussing English
    education, diversity, inclusion and equality issues in the UK and internationally. For example,
    between 2015-2019 Maylor delivered keynotes about equality and diversity in educational
    achievement at the universities of Keele, Birkbeck, Chester, Plymouth, Bristol and the University
    of Medicine in St Kitts. A keynote by Wearmouth (2019) for the company Dyslexia Matters
    (discussed above) called for ‘Putting the dyslexic learner at the centre’.

    Alongside keynotes, IREd staff have delivered international workshops. For example, Pritchard
    was invited by the British Council to facilitate a HE workshop in Kenya involving university senior
    management and academics from across the globe (2018). This led to a subsequent invitation by
    the British Council to write a blog on its SPHEIR 1 site about ‘Tools to measure student learning
                                                      0F




    and lecturer development’ in 2019, and an invite by Advance HE to lead a workshop on ‘Measuring
    C21st Competences’ at its annual Survey and Insights Conference in 2019, with its national survey
    expert (Jonathan Neves), and to also present at their Teaching and Learning Conference in 2020.

    Refereeing academic publications/research proposals

    Academic publications

    IREd staff play a crucial role in reviewing academic outputs for nearly 40 international journals,
    such as: International Journal of Inclusive Education, the British Journal of Special Education
    (Wearmouth); Journal of Research in Post Compulsory Education (Thompson); European
    Journal of Pragmatism and American Philosophy, Journal of Philosophy and Education and
    philosophy of education conference submissions to BERA’s annual conference (Belas); Research
    in the Teaching of English, English Education, Australian Journal of Language and Literacy,
    International Journal of Learning and Media, Journal of Education for Teaching, British Journal of
    Educational Technology, British Journal of Educational Studies (Goodwyn); International Journal
    of Qualitative Studies, BERJ, Journal of Education Policy, Ethnic and Racial Studies and Review
    of Educational Research (Maylor).

    Research proposals

    IREd staff play key roles in reviewing research proposals. For example:


1
 SPHEIR (Strategic Partnerships for Higher Education Innovation and Reform) is a Foreign, Commonwealth
and Development Office funded programme to support HE transformation in Sub-Saharan Africa, Asia and the
Middle East to facilitate students - HE access and employability and employers/societies labour market
needs.

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Goodwyn reviewed research proposals for the National Institute of Education Singapore between
 2015-2020. He is an invited member of the Literacy Research Panel, the International Literacy
 Association (2017-20) and is the international research consultant on the Norwegian Research
 councils ‘Extended teacher programme’ (2017-2022).

 Maylor is an expert reviewer for proposals submitted to the ESRC/UKRI (2018-2020); The
 Education University of Hong Kong (2017, 2019, 2020) and the European Science Foundation
 (2018, 2020).

 In 2020 Wearmouth was invited by the Austrian Science Fund to review: ‘Evaluation of Austrian
 Reception Classes’, and by the National Institute for Health Research, PG Stage (202025) ‘The
 special study’ – Special educational needs provision to improve child health’.

 Referee for Associate/professorial appointments

 Goodwyn reviewed Associate professor/Professorial positions between 2016-2020 in the UK:
 University of Oxford (twice), Kings College London, University of Leicester, London Metropolitan
 University; Australia: University of Technology (Sydney), University of Sydney, Monash University,
 University of Melbourne, Edith Cowan University; Malta: University of Malta; the USA: University
 of Pittsburgh, University of Colorado; the National Institute of Education (Singapore) and Oranim
 Academic College of Education (Israel).

 Maylor has reviewed professorial appointments for the universities of Edge Hill (2014), Suffolk
 (2015), Huddersfield (2016), Roehampton (2017), Chester (2018), UCL (2018, 2019), Sheffield
 Hallam (2019), London Metropolitan University (2019) and the University of the West Indies
 (2018).

 Cooperation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training

 Maylor has a collaborative doctoral partnership/AHRC-funded (2016-2020) doctoral student with
 Tate Gallery which was developed out of a longstanding relationship with Tate staff, whilst
 Wearmouth is a contributor to the University of Waikato, NZ’s PG course in improving and
 enhancing education for Māori students.




                                                                                           Page 17
