Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 14: Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Department of Geography and Environment and its associated research centres are home
 to a vibrant, multidisciplinary academic community committed to demonstrating why thinking
 geographically and environmentally about real-world problems matters. The Department is
 among the leading geography departments in the world. As one of the LSE’s founding
 departments, it has pushed the boundaries of the discipline for 125 years – particularly in the last
 quarter century when the Department has focused on human geography and built on the LSE’s
 strengths in the social sciences.

 This strategy has increased the visibility, prestige, and influence of the Department, both within
 Geography and across the wider scholarly and policy-making worlds. The standing of the
 Department is reflected in international rankings. Among departments of geography, it has been
 2nd in the world in the QS rankings for the last three years. Research excellence was reflected
 in REF 2014, where it ranked 1st in outputs (4*+3*), with 84% assessed as world-leading or
 internationally excellent. Nine professors are amongst the 70 most cited academics at LSE
 (Google Scholar).

 The UoA regards geography and environmental studies as integrative disciplines, in which
 diverse interdisciplinary and methodological approaches are used to answer geographical and
 environmental questions. In developing our research, the UoA exploits LSE’s unique strengths in
 social science. Accordingly, the UoA is unusual on several counts: physical geography is absent,
 and we emphasise interdisciplinary research and co-operation with cognate disciplines. Our staff
 come from diverse disciplines including human geography, urban, planning and development
 studies, environmental economics and policy, and economic geography and urban economics.
 Our strategy has driven substantial expansion since the 1990s. Expansion continued between
 2014 and 2020 as we increased critical mass and secured additional funding, including for our
 research centres.

 Our REF2014 strategy reasserted one prime aim: to become distinctive and world-leading in our
 areas of specialism (economic geography; environmental economics and policy; and urban,
 planning and development). Reflecting continued growth, and a desire to further strengthen our
 interdisciplinary approach, our current strategy aims to build on our specialisms while also
 placing more emphasis on how these contribute to our understanding of pressing global issues:
 the causes and consequences of geographically uneven development; the challenges and
 benefits of urbanisation and life in cities; and the sustainability of our environmental and socio-
 economic systems – particularly given global climate change. We address fundamental
 questions. What explains inequalities in regional and urban development? How do we
 understand the economic, environmental, social and spatial dimensions of urbanisation and
 development in cities? What role do economics and politics play in land use and planning? What
 are the links between sustainability and development and human wellbeing and behaviour? How
 do we ensure environmental justice and security? What is the appropriate response to climate
 change? In all of this, what is and should be the role of politics, policy and governance? We
 believe the social sciences are central to understanding these challenges. We use our research
 to inform public debates and help improve the world’s economic, environmental, political and
 social future.

 Our REF2014 strategy identified several high-level research and impact objectives:

    1. We will pursue research of the highest standards;
    2. Our research should be anchored in core research values emphasising theoretically-
       informed, policy-relevant and evidence-based research;

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. We will nurture research on ‘real world’ issues, ultimately aimed at influencing and
       improving policy and the lives of individuals;
    4. We will strengthen our approach to knowledge exchange and impact and provide even
       more support for generating it.

 We are committed to maintaining and enhancing our reputation for research excellence.
 Excellent staff are central to this along with our efforts to support a conducive research
 environment. Our REF2014 objectives continue to apply but we have added two additional
 objectives:

    5. We will strengthen links between the Department and its research centres by further
       developing joint programmes of research and better collaborating on events and wider
       impact activities;
    6. We will enhance support for research, protecting research time, increasing financial
       support, and strengthening links with initiatives across the LSE.

 Structure

 The UoA is home to 54 academic staff (23 Professors, 10 Associates, 13 Assistants, 8 early
 career) and 78 PhD students. The Department is structured around three clusters reflecting our
 core specialisms. The clusters provide an effective mechanism for organising research around
 substantive themes. Cross-cluster working is encouraged and supported through joint projects,
 events and PhD supervision. The centres provide additional support for academic research and
 impact. Departmental staff have senior leadership roles in the associated centres - and around
 80 percent of staff are associates of one or more centres.

 The Economic Geography (EG) cluster integrates economic geographers and spatial and urban
 economists in a unique multi-disciplinary group. It has strong links to the Urban Programme in
 the Centre for Economic Performance (CEP, incorporating the previously independent Spatial
 Economics Research Centre, SERC) and the What Works Centre for Local Economic Growth
 (WWG) established at LSE in 2013. We believe that economic geography must engage with
 research emanating from a variety of economic, institutional, social and political perspectives.
 The emphasis on 'economic' logics differentiates our approach from many other economic
 geography groups. As a result, the cluster has become a key player in promoting research
 stemming from the interplay between the field of economic geography, as practiced by
 geographers, and geographical economics, as practiced by economists. Our research has
 focused on the causes and consequences of uneven economic development and the challenges
 and benefits of urbanisation and life in cities in both developed and developing countries. The
 role of innovation, international capital flows and agglomeration have been a focus of research
 on causes. The geography of discontent has been a noticeable strand of research on
 consequences. We also study property markets, regulation, the 'political economy' of housing,
 the economic and political forces that shape city structures and productivity, the provision of
 public goods (e.g., schooling, public transport) and negative environmental externalities (e.g.,
 pollution). While there remains a strong focus on the UK and Europe, much research also
 considers other developed and developing countries - in particular China, Latin America and the
 Sub-Saharan African nations. Methodologically, research concentrates on applying and
 developing quantitative approaches, as well as on integrating institutional perspectives into
 quantitative frameworks. More recently, our traditional approach to causal, data-driven methods
 of investigation has been complemented by more theoretically-founded structural approaches.
 Finally, research is pioneering new methods for using untapped information from novel, large
 and unconventional data sources, informed by theory and combining techniques developed in
 econometrics and data science.

 The Environmental Economics and Policy (EEP) cluster draws on different disciplinary
 perspectives – primarily human geography and economics – to inform and challenge
 environmental policy. It has strong links with the Grantham Research Institute for Climate

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Change and the Environment (GRI), the Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy
 (CCCEP), and the LSE Middle East Centre (MEC). Research across the cluster and research
 centres focuses on environmental and sustainability challenges, including climate change. Our
 research draws on perspectives from environmental and development economics, the political
 ecology of development, and the study of environmental governance and regulation. These
 different perspectives are informed by distinct theories and conceptual frameworks and explored
 using a range of methodologies. However, each perspective provides an important lens with
 which to view a common set of environmental challenges, as well as enabling ever-growing
 interaction with other groupings in the UoA. Common to all our work is a commitment to robust
 evidence-based research, informed by theory, and relevant to policy-relevant debates within
 environmental studies and sustainability science. Topic areas include sustainability and
 development, human wellbeing and behaviour, as well as environmental policy, governance,
 justice and security. Our research seeks to inform the choice and design of public policies for the
 environment but also to challenge those policies. Market and civil society actors are also
 relevant here as, for example, in evolving work on sustainable finance and the role of private
 sector institutions. A key strand of research links to concerns in mainstream empirical economics
 about identifying causal relationships to permit a richer understanding of how, for example,
 urban air pollution affects life prospects or environmental policy influences technological
 development. Research covers a range of geographic scales, with particular regional expertise
 in Latin America, the Middle East, and South, East, and Southeast Asia as well as substantial
 expertise in environmental and climate policy in the UK and Europe. Work is also conducted at
 several scales of governance. This includes understanding how people construct livelihoods,
 such as in urban communities in the context of global resource chains, or rural settings entailing
 community forest management or adaptation to climate change. It also includes how nations
 measure and evaluate long-term development and how development prospects are affected by
 how global resources are governed.

 The Urbanisation, Planning and Development (UPD) cluster works at the forefront of research
 on urbanisation, planning and development in the major world regions of Africa, Asia, Europe,
 and the Americas. UPD has strong links to the Latin America and Caribbean Centre (LACC), the
 Middle East Centre (MEC) and the Saw Swee Hock Southeast Asia Centre (SEAC). Research is
 both local and global in scope. One strand focuses on the social and spatial dimensions of
 urbanisation and geographically uneven development in cities of the Global South and North. A
 second strand focuses on the economics and politics of land use and planning. The research
 engages broad theoretical questions but also has a strong tradition of innovative, applied,
 international and comparative fieldwork as reflected in its contributions to major world- and
 regional-level policy platforms and discourse through institutions such as UN Habitat, UNDP, the
 World Bank, and UN Women. Our research takes seriously a place-based approach to research,
 which is foundational to the cluster’s contributions to human geography, urban planning and
 urban studies. Researchers are interested in global transformations and the human-level
 consequences associated with them in different places. Research uses qualitative and some
 quantitative methodologies to investigate the social, spatial, political and cultural dimensions of
 urbanisation and development with a particular focus on poverty, violence, infrastructure,
 housing, displacement, migration, risk and resilience, neighbourhood redevelopment and urban
 politics. Our research examines these issues, paying attention to dynamics of class, gender, age
 and race, in diverse cities across Africa, the Americas and Asia. Urban planning research
 engages with regulation as it impacts on and interacts with cities across the globe. It also
 provides a more in-depth understanding of how planning influences and is influenced by broader
 social, economic and environmental processes. We view planning as a cross-disciplinary pursuit
 involving collaboration with other departmental clusters and within wide ranging networks of
 scholars and practitioners. Our research continues to have policy impact based on research
 excellence and on links with policy-makers and regulators.

 Seminar series involve external and internal speakers, with some series run jointly between the
 Department and research centres:

    1. Economic Geography Work in Progress;

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Environment Research Seminar Series (Department and GRI);
    3. Environment Research Work in Progress (Department and GRI);
    4. The Forum (LACC);
    5. London Seminar Series;
    6. Middle East Centre Research Seminar Series (MEC);
    7. The Southeast Asia Discussion Series (SEAC);
    8. Social Life of Climate Change (Department, GRI and Sociology);
    9. Urban Economics Seminar (Department and CEP);
    10. Urbanisation, Planning and Development Research Seminar;
    11. Urban Planning Development Work in Progress;
    12. Writing the World;
    13. Writer Meets Reader.

 We also host ad-hoc and annual events, for example in 2019/20 and 2020/21:

    1.    Environmental Economics Conference (Department and GRI);
    2.    Environment Doctoral Students’ Conference;
    3.    Urban Economics Association Summer School (Department, CEP and WWG);
    4.    The Southeast Asia Forum (SEAC);
    5.    Workshop on Urbanisation, Foreign Investment and Real Estate (SEAC and National
          University of Singapore);
    6.    British Council Research Links workshop on Governance, Crime & International Security
          (LACC and Catholic University of Sao Paulo);
    7.    LSE Interamerican Development Bank conference (LACC);
    8.    Conflict Research Programme Iraq workshops (MEC);
    9.    Workshop on Syrian Refugee Crisis (MEC).

 The UoA nurtures a truly interdisciplinary atmosphere. Recent examples of interdisciplinary
 research include: Ahlfeldt (EG) and Holman (UPD) on conservation areas; Crescenzi (EG) and
 Holman (UPD) on migration; Gibbons (EG) and Mourato (EEP) on amenity value of nature;
 Hilber (EG) and Palmer (EEP) on urban development and air pollution and on the energy costs
 of historic preservation; Carozzi (EG) and Roth (EEP) on air pollution and urban density; and
 Paprocki (EEP) and Zeiderman (UPD) on climate change. Mercer (UPD), Paprocki (EEP) and
 Henderson (EG) have applied for research grants together, and Iammarino (EG) and Perkins
 (EEP) have applied for funding for a project on Conflict Afflicted and High-Risk Areas.
 Collaborative teaching and joint supervision of PhD students across clusters further support
 interdisciplinary work.

 Impact

 The importance of knowledge exchange and impact (KEI), including public engagement, is
 recognised across the UoA and many staff are actively involved in KEI. Consistent with our
 strategy there is a strong focus on influencing policy at local, regional, national and supra-
 national levels in the UK and internationally, especially in Europe. We aim to do this directly
 through engagement with local, regional, national and international policy-makers, as well as
 indirectly through work with legislators, NGOs, civil society organisations, and private sector
 organisations.

 The UoA embeds impact in its research strategy by developing research that addresses current
 public debates and policy needs; working with partners (including non-academic users) to co-
 produce and disseminate research; developing and maintaining networks of research users;
 creating forums and co-organising events to allow interaction between academics and research
 users; and ensuring that research findings are accessible (e.g. through open access) and
 effectively communicated. Research and reports by UoA staff attract significant media attention




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and contributing to media discourse is an important aspect of our approach to engaging non-
 academics with our research.

 The research centres, particularly GRI and WWG, have a strong impact remit – emphasising the
 need for research to inform responses to societal, economic and environmental problems as a
 core part of their missions – and play a central role in these activities. UoA staff also interact with
 research users through extensive consulting activities that provide expert advice by applying
 research-based insights and evidence to solve problems of organisations in both the public and
 private sectors. Working with LSE Consulting, UoA staff delivered over 100 projects during the
 REF period.

 The central elements of our KEI strategy – public engagement, partnership working, a strong
 focus on policy and a key role for our research centres – are evidenced by our submitted impact
 case studies which show how we have helped change the behaviour of public and private sector
 actors at local, national and supra-national levels.

 Open Access

 The UoA is committed to supporting Open Access to make the results of research freely
 available. This is, itself, an important strand of our approach to KEI.

    •     Data from LSE Research Online for UoA outputs for this REF period show a significant
          increase in availability: items including full-text: 54% (end 2014) | 80% (May 2020). Items
          with open access full-text: 51% (end 2014) | 61% (May 2020).
    •     Researchers use open access discussion paper series – run by the Department and by
          the research centres – to publish preliminary findings.
    •     UoA staff engage with the Library’s Open Access initiatives, e.g. Gibbons and Mourato
          have each had an article with a CC-BY license converted into a cartoon to demonstrate
          what is possible with creative commons licenses, and to make their research more
          accessible to a wider audience.
    •     UoA staff are encouraged to archive datasets. This is a requirement for research council
          funded projects (examples include deposits by Conway, Dietz, Sato and Stainforth)
    •     Researchers generating experimental data are encouraged to pre-register designs and to
          make data available (e.g. Gosnall and Tavoni via the Open Science Framework)
    •     Replicability datasets are regular added to the trusted data repository
          Harvard Dataverse, for example by Neumayer.
    •     UoA staff use the Library’s Data Management Plan review service which emphasizes
          open access including data archiving.
 Ethics

 The UoA expects all staff to perform their roles in accordance with the School’s Ethics Code.
 Staff are encouraged to undertake Ethics training, available through the School’s online training
 module, and built into the mandatory Academic Induction Programme.

 The UoA provides guidance and training on research ethics and risk assessment for staff and
 students, incorporating robust, mandatory procedures for approval for projects that raise ethical
 concerns. Additional support is provided by the School, for example, through the Research
 Ethics Toolkit.

 Undergraduate students receive research ethics training in their core second year methods
 courses. Taught Master’s students receive training via dissertation seminars and workshops.
 PhD students receive formal training in their first year from the Department. The LSE PhD
 Academy hosts a monthly series covering topical issues. All PhD students can access further
 training via the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network.

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research ethics forms are signed off by a supervisor, an ethics champion (Deputy Head
 Research or Research Centre equivalent) or the LSE’s Research Ethics Committee with the
 sign-off route determined by the ethical issues raised by the proposal.

 The UoA further supports research integrity by encouraging data archiving to allow for
 replication. Individual projects and activities also contribute, e.g. Gosnall’s 2018 and 2020
 workshops and masterclasses on transparency and reproducibility. Material from the workshops
 is available via the Open Science Framework.

 Section 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 Attracting, developing and retaining excellent staff is central to maintaining and enhancing
 research excellence. Our high-level strategy for achieving this objective is threefold. (i) We hire
 faculty who have the potential to produce research that is world-leading. (ii) We support them to
 reach their potential through a development process that provides advice and regular review to
 identify and address developmental needs. (iii) We require evidence of research excellence to
 pass Major Review and promotion.

 The Department’s and research centres’ strategic plans inform specific hiring decisions. The
 plans identify priority research areas that complement or strengthen existing expertise and
 reflect LSE’s strategic priorities.

 The UoA hires openly and globally – with new hires from Minnesota, Columbia, Wharton,
 CEMFI, Cornell, Royal Holloway, Berkley and Stanford during the REF period. Hiring is based
 on individual merit and the potential to produce research that is world-leading. Research
 excellence is the priority in appointments of Assistant, Associate or Full Professors. However, all
 Departmental faculty contribute to teaching so that teaching is research-led, and we actively
 encourage staff to maximise the impact of research. The research centres hire research-only
 staff (to the Research Staff Career Track): many of these have a strong impact remit, and a
 number contribute to teaching, for example through guest lectures or specialist courses.

 The UoA is committed to successful appointments of the highest quality faculty. Recruitment
 processes follow LSE’s core recruitment principles of inclusivity, equality and diversity,
 engagement with applicants and broad recruitment definition of posts. We further promote these
 principles through open hiring processes and through ensuring the selection committee reflects
 EDI considerations and diverse research. Where appropriate we offer all permanent staff access
 to candidate documentation and canvas widely on long-listing. Short-listed candidates meet with
 a representative selection of staff (e.g. different seniority, disciplines) and all staff are invited to
 their presentations.

 In addition to research-focussed hires, the UoA also recruits to LSE’s Educational Career Track
 (ECT) and Policy Career Track (PCT). Recruitment follows similar open and global hiring
 processes but with a focus on teaching (ECT) and impact (PCT) rather than research. For the
 Department, ECTs are a central part of our strategy for improving student experience and
 expanding teaching provision, while protecting research time. For the research centres, PCTs
 are a central part of the strategy for engaging with non-academic audiences and achieving
 impact. The largest team of PCTs are employed by the GRI undertaking work that emphasises
 user-focused and policy-oriented analysis.

 Pattern of Recruitment

 Since REF2014, the UoA has expanded significantly, in accordance with our strategic aim of
 creating world leading clusters of research excellence in our areas of specialism. The UoA has

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grown by more than 30% from 36.2 FTE staff (REF2014) to 47.1 FTE staff (REF2021). This
 included the recruitment of nine Assistant Professors in the Department and at all levels in the
 research centres.

 To some extent, new recruits filled research gaps created by departing staff. For the most part,
 however, these were net additions to strengthen research specialisms and increase critical
 mass. Recruitment at Assistant level is part of a strategy to foster the development of junior into
 senior staff: more than half of the Department’s Professors were originally hired as Assistants.

 In the Department of Geography & Environment, staff are overwhelmingly permanent
 appointments. Some staff in the research centres are recruited on open-ended contracts but
 subject to funding constraints.

 Staff Development

 We support and adhere to the key principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers including in (i) our approach to recruitment, selection and
 retention; (ii) our aim to support and integrate all staff into the UoA’s research culture; (iii) our
 staff development strategy; and (iv) our commitment to promoting diversity and equality.

 In line with LSE policy, all junior staff have a mentor – a senior member of staff with relevant
 research interests who can provide informal advice and support – with whom they meet at least
 once per term. All non-Professorial staff also have annual career development meetings with the
 Head of Department or research centre Director. These assess research, teaching, ‘citizenship’
 and contributions to KEI. The combination of informal and formal mechanisms is intended to
 provide appropriate advice to help staff achieve their potential.

 Training and other support needs are identified through the review process and staff are
 provided with critical but constructive feedback on performance relative to expectations at their
 stage of career development. Staff are actively encouraged to attend Research Information
 Sessions (RISe) - LSE’s research development programme. This is designed to support faculty
 in managing their career and research, from developing ideas into successful grant proposals
 and managing awards, through to communicating their findings and strengthening KEI.

 The Department uses a workload model to help balance administrative, teaching and student
 related activities to ensure research-active staff have ample time for research. ECRs (all
 academic staff pre-Major Review) enjoy a lower Departmental workload and a larger research
 funding allocation.

 Except for two Leverhulme Fellows, post-docs are employed in the research centres. Many of
 them work on specific projects with more senior staff or are supported by a supervisor if funded
 for their own research (e.g. through a post-doc grant). Co-authoring is strongly encouraged and
 expected when post-docs make substantive contributions. Research centres provide research
 and conference funds to post-docs. Those centres that run discussion paper series encourage
 submissions from post-docs and support impact activities related to their work. Centres also run
 seminars at which post-docs present and organise events that support ECRs across the School
 and wider academic community – e.g. SEAC’s ECR Network.

 Post-docs are supported in career development through mentoring and regular career
 development meetings in the same way as other research staff. At a minimum they would be
 expected to engage with the broader research of the centre through participation in regular
 seminars and other meetings and events. They may also be asked to contribute to research
 funding applications. The larger research centres also assign them to research groups, which
 provide an intellectual structure and support based on shared thematic interests or disciplinary
 focus.


                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supporting and Rewarding Research and Impact

 Staff are provided ample support to reach their full research potential. The Department’s annual
 research and conference fund allocations are currently £3,200 for Assistant Professors, and
 £2,800 for Associate and Full Professors. Research Centres make their own arrangements for
 their staff and help affiliated faculty access additional resources to fund research assistants,
 conferences and other activities.

 All research-active staff nominate a ‘research day’ each week that is free from teaching. In line
 with LSE policy, all departmental faculty benefit from generous sabbatical leave entitlement,
 currently one term for every eight terms of service; or 21 terms (instead of 24) if staff take a full
 year of sabbatical leave. Enhanced leave is given for major administrative jobs (e.g. Head of
 Department, various School roles). Part time staff are treated on a pro-rata basis. Additional
 research leave of one term is given to those returning after 18 weeks or more of maternity,
 shared parental leave or similar. Research centre staff do not teach and so are not entitled to
 research or sabbatical leave.

 The Department’s research policy governs arrangements for sabbatical and buyout. Sabbatical
 leave requests have always been agreed during this REF period. A total of 18.5 FTE staff have
 been on sabbatical or other research leave during the REF period for a total 38 terms. Although
 research buy-out could be refused in exceptional circumstances, all funded buyout requests –
 amounting to just over 29 FTE years – have been agreed during this REF period. Workloads
 take account of sabbatical or buyout to ensure that leave translates into additional time for
 research.

 Excellence in research and impact is identified through annual review and rewarded through
 expedited promotion and contribution pay awards. Impact is the key criteria for promotion and
 pay award for the Policy Career Track.

 Members of staff who successfully obtain research funding are rewarded through the School’s
 RIIF and PFR policies which allow for the remittance of a proportion of overheads to the
 department or research centre for use on research activities (RIIF) and for personal rewards that
 can take the form of buy-out, personal research accounts or additional salary (PFR).

 The Department and research centres provide extensive support for KEI. In the Department, KEI
 is overseen by the Research Committee, Deputy Head Research and REF Impact Coordinator.
 The Deputy Department Manager coordinates with LSE’s KEI Integrated Service and assists
 faculty with KEI plans, offering advice on grant applications, on methods and activities, and on
 metrics for tracking impact. KEI is also supported by our communications and events team (1.8
 FTE) who work with faculty to increase the visibility and accessibility of research among non-
 academic users. Research Centres have impact, communications and events teams and staff
 with specific impact remits (e.g. GRI employs four comms staff and a research policy team of 14;
 What Works Growth employ two comms and a policy team of six).

 Exchanges between academia and business, industry, public or third sector bodies

 Such exchanges occur in the research centres and are supported when they fit with the
 research, engagement and impact strategy of the centre. Staff seconded into the UoA are
 integrated into the research culture in the same way as ECRs and post-docs, as described
 above. Exchanges of more senior staff are rarer, and arrangements would be adjusted
 appropriately. The LSE’s visiting fellow programme would usually be used to formalise their
 relationship with the School allowing them full access to facilities and activities. For UoA staff
 seconded out, consideration would be given to how the exchange fits with career development
 plans. For Departmental staff it is unlikely that secondments would fit with the emphasis on
 research excellence in Major Review and promotion procedures. Instead, we actively support
 staff to engage with business, industry and public or third sector bodies through our wider impact

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategy. However, requests for direct exchanges would be considered on a case-by-case basis
 and granted other than in exceptional circumstances.

 PhD Students

 PhD students are an integral part of our research community. They benefit from, and contribute
 to, our wider research environment through participating in and helping organise the seminar
 series and other events. PhD students receive general training via the PhD Academy alongside
 more intensive, specialist support from the Department. They often meet external speakers for
 one-to-one discussion or as part of a mixed faculty-student group over dinner. They are the main
 speakers in our work-in-progress seminars, attended by the relevant PhD cohort, post-docs and
 UoA staff. Students are involved in many of the UoA’s major funded research projects – often as
 paid research assistants – leading to frequent co-authorship with faculty. A significant proportion
 is affiliated to one of the research centres and participate in centre projects and activities.

 The PhD cohort, currently 78 students, is the second largest at LSE. We recruit around 18
 students annually. 49% percent of our current cohort are women, and 92% from outside the UK
 (38% EU, 54% international).

 We have a track record in acquiring scholarships - around 80% of students are funded (80%
 through LSE scholarships of £18k per year for four years; 20% through external bodies).

 Recruitment processes focus on academic background, research proposal and supervisory fit.
 Applications are screened by programme directors and circulated to faculty. Short-listed
 candidates are interviewed. We admit around 5-10% of applicants. Our four-year completion rate
 is a healthy 85%.

 In Year 1, students undertake subject-specific and methods training. Students are encouraged to
 attend RISe training sessions which provides support throughout the lifecycle of their research
 from developing proposals through to KEI. The PhD Academy provide workshops and training
 sessions throughout the year.

 We support the timely completion of high-quality PhDs through:
   • five tailored programmes, associated with clusters, allowing students to undertake
      appropriate training given research specialism;
   • compulsory work-in-progress seminars which provide feedback from faculty and peers;
   • an annual workshop bringing together students and faculty to provide a forum for
      interdisciplinary feedback and discussion;
   • opportunities to teach, and processes to support teaching development;
   • funding for a student organised research conference;
   • student organised study groups including on China Reading / Reading China; Economic
      Geography; Applied Environmental and Urban Economics;
   • ad hoc training, such as a 2018 ‘replicability masterclass’;
   • joint supervision by two or more faculty members combined with effective monitoring and
      support mechanisms;
   • a ring-fenced fund for project-based research costs including travel;
   • ensuring students adhere to the LSE research ethics policy.

 We encourage students to gain teaching experience with us during their second and third years.
 Students with an LSE scholarship are expected to teach.

 Students and supervisors have flexibility to develop effective working practices. However, in line
 with LSE regulations, we:
     • monitor seminar attendance;



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    • enforce requirements for three supervision meetings per term in first year, two thereafter,
      monitored using a compulsory log;
    • implement annual progress reviews in years 1 to 3 and a separate upgrade process which
      must take place by the end of year 2;
    • have a Director of Postgraduate Studies to provide oversight.

 The overall quality of our programmes is evidenced through our students’ success in:
    • regularly participating in international academic conferences;
    • winning prizes and awards for research excellence;
    • obtaining employment in research informed careers at world leading academic, policy,
       advocacy and governmental institutions.

 Students discuss career plans with supervisors at third-year progress review. Additional career
 support is provided via a Director of Placement including: sessions on the job market and
 academic careers; job market presentation rehearsals; mock interviews; advice on written
 materials; and a dedicated job market page. Examples of post-doctoral or tenure track
 placements include UC Berkeley, Harvard, UC San Diego, University of Virginia, Bologna,
 Stockholm School of Economics, Lund, Humboldt, Cambridge, Oxford, Imperial and UCL.
 According to the most recent LSE destinations survey close to 100% of graduating PhD students
 are employed one year after leaving.

 Equity Diversity and Inclusion

 The UoA is committed to the School’s EDI agenda and aims to improve EDI through its
 research, policies and processes.

 UoA staff actively participate in the Decolonising LSE collective and organised events during the
 Decolonising LSE weeks in 2019 and 2020 including events organised by SEAC and MEC.
 Many colleagues research on topics broadly related to social injustice, equality and diversity.

 The UoA seeks to alleviate concerns relating to EDI, including the extent of gender and ethnicity
 under-representation in staff and students; gender-bias in retention cases; and differences in
 salary, and career progression across faculty. The Department’s EDI representative ensures that
 EDI issues are championed and advanced effectively.

 The UoA submission is characterised by diversity on several dimensions. 33% of submitted staff
 are female, an achievement given the large share coming originally from economics where
 women are, regrettably, under-represented; a similar percentage of submitted staff are non-
 British. We have three members of staff who have declared a BME background, and while they
 are well represented in our submission, we recognise that this leaves room for greater ethnic
 diversity, which presents us with a welcome challenge for future recruitment. There is a good
 mix of submitted staff by career stage: 23% are Assistant Professors, 21% Associate
 Professors, 46% Full Professors; the remainder are research fellows in the Department or
 research centres.

 The UoA follows the principles of EDI in recruitment processes for staff and PhDs (see above).

 The UoA pursues a policy of equal opportunities for career progression. An annual workload
 calculation ensures that the teaching and administrative load are fairly distributed (accounting for
 research leave and buy-outs). A lower load is given to ECRs.

 Our mentoring system has been revised and updated to address EDI issues and confront the
 challenges of increasing competition and promotion requirements. Clear and explicit promotion
 criteria and guidelines are communicated to staff. The Professoriate annually considers all staff
 for potential promotion. Staff can self-sponsor promotion if they fail to gain department
 sponsorship, although this has not happened during the REF period. During the REF period, five

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues passed Major Review and were promoted to Associate Professor, 6 were promoted
 to Professor.

 Since 2013, 10 women were appointed to new Assistant Professor roles (including three
 appointments in GRI), with three leaving. Four of these are economists, where women are
 particularly underrepresented. One woman was promoted to Full Professor, bringing the number
 of female professors to three.

 A comprehensive pay equity review undertaken in 2017 culminated in adjustments to address
 equity of pay across the UoA. The Head of Department and research centre directors monitor
 pay equity.

 Staff are encouraged to undertake EDI training made available through LSE’s online training
 module and built into the Academic Induction Programme, attended by all new academics and
 researchers. EDI events are held throughout the academic year. LSE’s formal staff networks
 provide the opportunity to discuss issues.

 LSE offers accessible flexible working policies to staff who are returning to work from parental
 leave or reducing hours of work due to carers’ responsibilities, ill-health, etc. Career and
 mentoring schemes are offered to staff who have had an interruption from academia. Such
 requests are infrequent, and most staff work full-time, but all requests have been
 accommodated. LSE has generous provisions for sick leave and parental leave, with additional
 research leave following long-term absence.

 A UoA statement for the review of REF 2021 outputs was approved by Departmental Meeting in
 2019. The UoA adheres to the School's expectations for how the assessment exercise will be
 conducted. The principles are in line with those set out in the REF Guidance on Submissions
 and promote a) Equity: the fair and equal assessment of all types of research and forms of
 research output – outputs submitted were anonymously reviewed by at least two colleagues, b)
 Equality: promoting equality and diversity in all aspects of the assessment and c) Transparency:
 the clear and open process through which decisions are made and information about the
 assessment is shared. Decisions on REF outputs and ICS were taken by the Department’s REF
 panel, with oversight from the Department’s Research Committee. The UoA’s EDI Champion
 was a member of the REF panel and monitored EDI issues.

 The School’s REF code of practice, the UoA’s REF statement and REF Strategy Committee’s
 feedback on the output portfolio helped ensure that the distribution of outputs reflects EDI
 considerations.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 In the REF period the UoA received 174 grants, providing income of just under £34m. The
 largest shares of income were for the Department (40 grants, £3m), GRI (73 grants, £22.4m),
 LACC (13 grants, £0.5m) WWG (6 grants, £3m). The remaining income is spread across our
 research centres or other LSE UoA. In total, 24 of these awards are for research teams working
 across LSE UoAs, highlighting the interdisciplinary nature of our funding. Many of the other
 grants also support interdisciplinary work with collaborators at other HEIs.

 Funding is from a diverse range of bodies including domestic and international research
 councils (e.g. French National Research Agency, AHRC, BBSRC, ESRC, EPSRC, European
 Commission, ERC, GCRF, International Development Research Centre, NERC); grant-making
 organisations (e.g. British Academy, British Council, Europlace Institute of Finance, Gordon
 and Betty Moore Foundation, Kuwait Foundation, Leverhulme Trust); public bodies (e.g.
 Committee on Climate Change, Department for International Development, Environment

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Agency, Environmental Protection Agency, European Investment Bank, Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office, Nacional Financiera); private and not-for-profit grant-making
 organisations (e.g. Abbey/Grupo Santander Travel Fund, AXA, Emirates Foundation, European
 Climate Foundation, Flagship Housing Group, Friends Provident Foundation, Generation
 Foundation, Grantham Foundation, HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds TSB Foundation, Overseas
 Development Institute, Principles for Responsible Investment, Statkraft, Trust for London, Zurich
 Foundation). Many projects receive income from domestic and international HEIs that are the
 project lead (e.g. Imperial College, Graduate Institute Geneva, Norwegian School of Economics,
 Universities of Bern, Birmingham, Essex, Liverpool).

 While all research funding is increasingly competitive, the following represent major and
 prestigious competitively awarded research grants awarded or extended during the REF period:
    • GRI core funding (£14m 2008-24, extended 2017; Grantham Foundation)
    • The WWG (£5.7m 2013-20; £3.8m 2020-23, competition 2013; ESRC / government
        departments).
    • Henderson’s grants for Urbanisation in Developing Countries (£3.2m 2014-18,
        competition 2014; World Bank / DfID).
    • The GRI ‘network plus’ (£3m 2019-23, PCAN competition 2018; ESRC funded).
    • GRI’s project on Pathways to Resilience in Semi-Arid Economies (£1.4m 2014-18;
        International Development Research Centre).
    • The Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy (£1.1m 2018-23, phase 3 funding
        following competition 2008; ESRC).
    • Crescenzi’s grant for 'Multinationals, Institutions and Innovation in Europe' (£980k, 2015-
        21, competition 2014; ERC Starting Grant)
    • GRI’s project on Uncertainty Reduction in Models for Understanding Development
        Applications (£860k, 2015-21; NERC)
    • Iammarino’s grant for Policies for Smart Specialisation (£490k, 2019-23, European
        Commission)
    • Jones’ grant for Slum Tourism in the Americas (£450k, 2014-18; ESRC)

 This external financial support has been matched with significant support from the School
 through its contribution to Full Economic Costs on UKRI research; through its Research
 Infrastructure and Investment Fund (RIIF; which returns a percentage of overheads on grants)
 and through direct financial support to GRI.

 RIIF funds, totalling £1.09m during the REF period, are used to support the indirect costs of
 research associated with administering grants (including employment of support staff); to help
 extend contracts for staff (in the research centres); to support impact activities; to develop seed
 funding for new projects, including buy-out for those developing large, complex grant
 applications; to provide match funding for grant applications where required; and additionally to
 support unbudgeted research expenditure (e.g. the development of research staff careers, such
 as the unfunded promotion of soft-funded staff, career-break costs, and bridging funds).

 Funds are administered by the Department’s Research Committee or research centre
 equivalent. These committees also support staff, particularly ECRs, in developing grant
 proposals. This would involve, for example, matching proposal writers with more senior
 academic mentors with experience of winning funds, to comment on drafts and provide guidance
 on content, costing, appropriate funder, and possible support from RIIF funds. The grant-writing
 mentor scheme has the dual benefit of sharing expertise among faculty and increasing the
 likelihood of successful bids. PhD students are also encouraged to bid for research funding,
 supported by their supervisory team.

 The UoA is active in applying to external funding bodies for ECR positions and the research
 centres hire large numbers of post-doc researchers. The Department was successful in 2019 in
 obtaining funds for a 36-month Leverhulme Early Career Research Fellowship (Ramesh) and a
 12-month ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowship (Whitten). Additionally, LACC has won funding for two

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 36-month Leverhulme Postdoctoral Fellows (Abello-Colak and Richmond) and a 36-month
 British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship (Ryburn).

 External research funding has resulted in a large volume of high-quality research output, both in
 terms of publications and in terms of impact. A substantial share of submitted research outputs
 to REF2021 have been partly or wholly supported by externally funded research. All the UoA’s
 impact case studies are underpinned by externally funded research via SERC, WWG, CCCEP
 or the GRI.

 Infrastructure and Operational Support for Research and Impact

 School facilities are detailed in the institutional-level environment statement. Staff in the UoA
 make extensive use of these facilities, for example, frequently publishing in the School-
 supported blogs as a way of increasing visibility and impact, conducting projects in the
 Behavioural Research Lab (eight projects over the REF period) and using the High-Performance
 Computing facilities (30k of CPU time over the REF period).

 The research centres have benefited from the general expansion of research facilities. For
 example, WWG is housed in 32 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, allowing staff, post-docs and PhD students
 to access the excellent facilities that this building provides. Similarly, the GRI is in the LSE’s
 Research Centres Hub, a large, lateral office space spread across three buildings, housing most
 of the LSE’s research centres. These spaces include offices with hot desks for academics,
 researchers, visitors and professional services staff and common rooms for meetings, receiving
 guests and holding research seminars.

 Our research centres offer additional support for both research and impact. For example, WWG
 benefits from a large administrative pool funded jointly with the Centre for Economic
 Performance. In addition to administrative assistance, this provides specialised communications,
 meeting and IT support that underpin the research and impact activities of the centre and
 associated UoA staff. GRI employs a dedicated nine-strong policy team who specialise in
 producing policy-relevant research and translating academic research into impactful outputs.
 They maintain close relationships with stakeholder networks in international organisations,
 national governments, business and society, and their expertise plays directly into several REF
 ICS, as well as supporting much wider impacts.

 The UoA has driven its KEI agenda with help from competitive central KEI funds (drawn down
 from the School’s HEIF allocation), totalling £880k during the REF period. Access to KEI
 opportunities made possible by these funds has been taken up widely by the UoA – examples
 are in Section 4. The Department has also used funding from LSE’s KEI Strategy Group (£10k
 annually since 2017/18) for public engagement projects to engage with communities outside of
 academia. This has particularly been used to support small grass-roots projects or innovative
 engagement methodologies. For example, this funding paid for membership of “Time for
 Geography”, who produce and host educational films for school students. It also supported
 development of a film based on research by Smith, which was disseminated to their schools
 network. Further examples include the creation of graphic novels to make research on
 community land trusts accessible to a wider audience.

 Finally, the UoA used LSE’s REF Environment Fund (£36k) to fund four sets of events that were
 organised by, or targeting, ECRs or that piloted innovative formats (the Social Life of Climate
 change; Writer meets Reader; doctoral students’ conference; Environmental Economics
 workshop).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations and interdisciplinary research



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As detailed in Section 3, a large amount of collaborative research is funded through the grants
 that we receive.

 Many of our associated research centres have affiliates in other HEIs, fostering national and
 international collaboration. With respect to more formal collaboration, the GRI has a partner
 institution at Imperial College, which is more focused on science and engineering aspects of
 climate change and the CCCEP has Leeds University as a partner. The What Works Centre
 involves a collaboration between LSE, a think tank (Centre for Cities) and, until February 2020, a
 private sector consultancy (Arup).

 LACC, MEC and SEAC all have programmes supporting collaborative work. For example,
 LACC’s ‘Traffic In The Americas’ project (funded by the Canadian Social Science Research
 Council) brings together LSE, UCLA, Uniandes and the University of Toronto. LACC’s British
 Academy funded ‘Engineering Food’ project is a collaboration with Insper (São Paulo). Their
 ‘Violence, Security and Peacebuilding’ network draws together LACC with the German Institute
 for Global and Area Studies, the Geneva Graduate Institute, and the University of São Paulo.
 The MEC supports collaboration and research capacity building between LSE academics and
 Arab researchers on policy challenges in the Middle East through external funding from the
 Kuwait Foundation for the Advancement of Sciences (KFAS) and the Emirates Foundation. Both
 collaboration programmes have full-time administrators in the MEC. During the REF period,
 there were five collaboration projects with UoA Principal Investigators (four from the Department,
 one from GRI).
 The Department and research centres also run extensive visitor programmes which further
 support collaboration. For example, since 2019 SEAC has run a stipendiary visiting appointment
 scheme to attract promising researchers to the LSE. These aim to promote collaboration with
 LSE-based faculty and for participants to remain part of SEAC’s global network upon return to
 their home institutions. So far, SEAC has awarded six stipendiary visiting fellowships to
 awardees based in Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, the US, and Australia.

 As stated in our research strategy, we regard geography as an integrative discipline and
 interdisciplinary collaboration is key. Section 1 gave examples of interdisciplinary research inside
 the UoA. Going beyond the UoA, collaborative interdisciplinary research on an individual level
 has been undertaken with anthropologists, architects and planners, natural scientists,
 philosophers, political scientists, sociologists, statisticians; business, finance and marketing
 scholars; and specialists in development, gender, and social policy.

 As detailed in Section 3, we undertake many funded interdisciplinary research projects, with
 examples including GRI’s Pathways to resilience in semi-arid economies (PRISE) and
 Uncertainty reduction in models for understanding development (UMFULA).

 The shares of submitted outputs that are co-authored with authors from outside the UoA or with
 authors from other disciplines are indicative of our strong collaborative and interdisciplinary links.

 Interactions with Research Users and wider contributions to the economy and society

 As outlined in Section 1, our primary research users are local, regional, national and
 international policy-makers, NGOs, civil society and private sector organisations. Consistent with
 our impact strategy, we encourage staff to engage with these research users via a range of
 audience-appropriate activities, including joint research projects, co-organised events and
 networks and the provision of expert advice or evidence. Some examples of how this strategy
 works in practice include:
     • UoA staff run LSE London – a specialist research group focusing on analysis of the
         London economy and broader metropolitan issues – that provides a key conduit for
         engagement with local authorities, central government officials, planners and urban
         academics in London, elsewhere in the UK and abroad. LSE London has benefited from
         four LSE KEI grants this REF period, funding major engagement projects on ‘Housing in

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        London’ (including work on the housing crisis, alternative housing, producing more
        homes and addressing the Mayor’s Housing objectives); Tensions in the London Plan;
        and the Mayoral election. Local authorities and other public bodies regularly commission
        research from LSE London to inform their policy decisions. Recent funders include the
        Greater London Authority (looking at overseas buyers and the market for new London
        homes), the London Borough of Camden (experience of families living in temporary
        accommodation) and the MHCLG (costs of homelessness; whether living in community-
        led housing reduces loneliness). Their activities have created a large network of more
        than 400 national, regional and local policy practitioners, academics, private sector
        actors, and community advocates. They have supported the appointment of UoA staff to
        prominent policy advisory bodies including: the House of Lords Economic Affairs
        Committee on building more homes (Whitehead); the Housing Communities and Local
        Government Select Committee on high streets, private renting land value capture,
        affordable housing, homelessness, local government finance and the Planning Bill
        (Whitehead); the Letwin Review (Whitehead); the London Transformation Commission
        (Holman); the UKIC UK innovation corridor (Mace).
    •   Mace, Gordon, Scanlon and Blanc used LSE KEI funds in a nine-month project on green
        belt reform, drawing on research showing green belt to be a significant supply-side
        constraint on housing delivery in and around London. They brought experts from across
        the Department together with practitioner partners to consider how reform might be made
        more politically acceptable. The project included contributions from Transport for London
        and the Royal Town Planning Institute. The launch of its report led to TV and radio
        interviews and to further work on green belt with architects Levitt Bernstein and a
        partnership with the London Stansted Cambridge Consortium.
    •   WWG used LSE KEI funds in work on ‘Supporting Devolution Deals’. Researchers
        worked in partnership with 11 Combined or Local Authorities to help them use What
        Works evidence to improve policy effectiveness and to co-ordinate a common approach
        to ex-post evaluation. The centre advised all 11 places on their Devolution Deal
        monitoring and evaluation strategy – either directly or via feedback provided through
        central government. A second LSE-funded project on Local Economic Growth after Brexit
        involved collaborative work with ten places interested in understanding the impact of
        Brexit and thinking about policy responses. The project went considerably beyond this
        initial remit, delivering on its initial objectives, but also generating a report on local
        impacts that received widespread national and local media impact.
    •   GRI engages with decision-makers on many fronts, including internationally on the
        implementation of the Paris Agreement and climate governance more broadly; nationally
        on clean growth and the implementation of the 5th carbon budget; and with development
        finance institutions, investors and regulators on sustainable investment and finance.
    •   GRI’s work with global asset owners on the Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI) is
        described in Dietz’ ICS. As of October 2019, TPI’s list of official supporters includes over
        60 investors with more than £8 trillion assets under management.
    •   The GRI’s climate legislation database, Climate Change Laws of the World, now covers
        197 countries, regions and territories. It is the most visited page on the GRI website and
        is the basis for a growing number of engagements with policy-makers. Its development
        and expansion, funded by the LSE KEI Fund, makes it easier for international policy-
        makers, NGOs and other organisations to interpret, engage with and make use of the
        data it provides. This helps to meet a growing demand from these audiences for high-
        quality, structured and accessible legislative data. The database is now co-sponsored by
        the Sabin Center at Columbia Law School and features almost 1,500 climate laws and
        nearly 300 cases of climate change litigation outside the US. The collaboration with
        Sabin was launched at the May 2017 Bonn UNFCCC meetings, with UNFCCC Executive
        Secretary Patricia Espinosa and the Chairman of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, Marting
        Chungong. In 2019, Averchenkova undertook an extensive outreach tour on climate
        change governance, with presentations to high-level policy-makers in Chile, Thailand,
        Spain and Russia. Her Moscow presentation fed directly into a process that led to Russia
        acceding to the Paris Agreement in September.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For some projects working with users, the emphasis is on joint research. Examples include:
    • Palmer’s long-running relationship (2013 onwards) with a major US environmental NGO,
        the Environmental Defense Fund, to undertake joint work on incentivising the private
        sector to conserve forests and manage climate risks.
    • Henderson’s World Bank-DFID funded project providing reports and seminars to the
        World Bank and involving meetings with officials in Kenya, Tanzania, and Ghana on
        various policy issues.
    • Crescenzi’s work with the OECD to produce a policy report on how EU regions can
        ‘Build, Embed and Reshape’ Global Value Chains with their innovation policies.
    • Henderson’s World Bank-funded research with Chinese co-authors to deliver a report on
        misallocation in capital and land markets to the Development Research Centre of the
        State Council, the key policymaking body in China.
    • Fankhauser’s research collaboration with Statkraft, the Norwegian power company from
        2015 – 2017 on EU carbon policy.
    • Gosnell’s collaborations with Good Energy, a renewable energy company, on incentives
        for renewable energy consumption.
    • Gosnell’s collaboration with Virgin Atlantic on the energy efficiency behaviour of airline
        pilots.
    • Sato’s collaboration with FTSE Russell on measuring the green economy.
    • Dietz, Fankhauser and Surmanski’s regular collaborations with Vivid Economics, an
        economics consultancy.

 In other instances, co-organised events and networks are central. Examples include:
     • A 2018 GRI project built on research by the Institute’s ‘Financing a Just Transition’
         initiative, which explores the role of finance in connecting action on climate change with
         inclusive development. Six research-based workshops, held in cities around the UK,
         were used to introduce non-academic participants – primarily from the finance
         community, government and civil society – to the ‘just transition’ agenda, and to help
         them think through ideas to implement in their own organisations. Feedback from
         attendees particularly emphasised the value to them of meeting and building networks
         with other relevant stakeholders.
     • WWG’s project on Local Industrial Strategies (LIS) which ran four themed events around
         the country, organised jointly with the government’s cities and local growth team to
         highlight findings from their report on Developing an Effective LIS.
     • The launch of GRI’s policy brief on ‘The climate impact of quantitative easing’, through
         presentations at workshops with the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, and
         the Dutch National Bank, as well as roundtables organised by NGOs and academics.
     • GRI’s Place-based Climate Action Network which supports sub-national decision-makers
         in the UK (especially Belfast, Edinburgh and Leeds) in their efforts to move towards a
         low-carbon economy.
     • LACC and GRI’s 3-year programme, with the Mexican Green Development Bank, to
         provide technical training for officials on green financing, climate risk exposure, shadow
         carbon pricing, and governance.

 Many staff are appointed to prominent advisory bodies or provide evidence and expert
 testimonial to relevant committees. Examples of staff serving in advisory functions for UK local
 and national government and third-sector organisations include Department for Business,
 Energy and Industrial Strategy, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs; Greater
 London Authority Expert Panel for Local Industrial Strategy; Joseph Rowntree Foundation Cities,
 Growth and Poverty Programme; Manchester Combined Authority Independent Prosperity
 Review; Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government; National Infrastructure
 Commission; Natural Capital Committee; Non-Met Commission on Economic Growth and the
 Future of Public Services; Office for National Statistics; Royal Society of the Arts Inclusive
 Growth Commission, Department for Transport, Department for International Development, UK
 Committee on Climate Change). Staff have offered evidence to UK government committees
 (Cheshire: Lords Economic Affairs, HoC Select Committee on Scottish Affairs; Fankhauser:

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Development Select Committee; Hilber: Lords Intergenerational Fairness and
 Provision, Treasury Select Committee; Overman: Cabinet Sub-Committee on Local Economic
 Growth, Lord’s Economic Affairs, Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Select
 Committee, Treasury Select Committee; Silva: Education Select Committee;). Membership of
 policy bodies is also an important aspect of our interactions with research users in international
 organisations. Examples include: Asian Development Bank; African Development Bank; CERN
 European Organization for Nuclear Research; EU-OECD joint committee on urbanization;
 European Commission Directorate General for Regional Policy; Inter-American Development
 Bank; Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Directorate General of
 Research and Innovation; the World Bank; UN Principles for Responsible Investment;
 Institutional Investor Group on Climate Change; UN-HABITAT; European Investment Bank; UN
 Environment Programme; International Labour Organisation; Network of Central Banks and
 Supervisors for Greening the Financial System; UN Development Programme; the World
 Economic Forum.

 Beyond our target research users, we seek to extend the reach and impact from our research by
 engaging with broad public audiences in the UK and elsewhere. During the REF period, the
 UoA organised a total of 44 LSE public lectures, attended by over 12,000 people, often in
 collaboration with other UoAs including Sociology, Anthropology and Development Studies.
 Many other public lectures and events were organised outside of the formal public lecture
 programme, including 8 events at the annual LSE Festival of Ideas. We also support
 innovative activities intended to maximise the non-academic reach of our research. In 2019, for
 example, the GRI used LSE KEI funds for a project piloting support for the development of the
 network of ‘climate ambassadors’ among Women’s Institutes (WIs). WI climate ambassadors
 were provided with training on how to engage members about the impacts of climate change in
 the UK.

 The UoA’s extensive contributions to the economy and society are further evidenced in our
 Impact Case Studies.

 Contributions to the discipline

 We make a significant contribution to the discipline:

 by organising conferences, including the Bellagio workshop on Municipal Responses to
 Humanitarian Crises; the CEPR’s Conference on Urban and Regional Economics; of the
 European, North American, and Pacific Regional Science Association; of the Urban Economics
 Association; or by organising sessions within conferences including of the Royal Geographical
 Society.

 by delivering keynote or distinguished memorial lectures and lecture series, including the
 Annual Howard Adelman lecture 2017 (Sanyal); at the Chile Architecture Biennale 2017 (Jones);
 at the Conference of the Spanish-Portuguese Association of Natural and Environmental
 Resources Economics 2018 (Atkinson); at the European Regional Science Association 2014
 conference (Storper); at Geography of Innovation 2020 (Lee);at the Museum der Kulturen Basel,
 Space, Memory and Conflict in Colombia Conference 2018 (Austin); at the NIESR/RICS/CaCHE
 2018 Conference on The Broken Housing Market (Cheshire); at the SMARTER Conference on
 Smart Specialisation and Territorial Development 2018 (Iammarino); the TCPA Osborn Memorial
 Lecture 2016 (Whitehead) at the Urban Age Conference 2018 in Addis Abba on Building
 Productive and Liveable Cities (Henderson), at University of Copenhagen, Rurban Africa 2016
 (Mercer).

 through our editorial work including Ahlfeldt as editor of Regional Science and Urban
 Economics, associate editor of Journal of Regional Sciences and guest editor of German
 Journal of Real Estate Research; Atkinson as associate editor, Journal of Environmental
 Economics and Policy; Centner as International Associate Editor for City & Community; Chant
 as Associate Editor of Feminist Economics and Series editor of Elgar Handbooks on Gender;

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cheshire as Associate Editor Journal of Property Research and guest editor (with Hilber) of
 Journal Housing Economics; Crescenzi as Associate Editor Regional Studies, Regional Science
 and guest editor Environment and Planning C; Gibbons as Associate editor of the Journal of the
 Royal Statistical Society Series A; Henderson as the editor of the Handbook of Urban and
 Regional Science and the Co-Editor of Journal of Urban Economics; Iammarino as Associate
 Editor of Journal of Industrial and Business Economics; Jones as Editor of the Journal of Latin
 American Studies, Co-editor of European Review of Latin American and Caribbean Studies,
 guest-editor for Ethnography, and for Space and Culture; Mercer as contributing editor for
 Review of African Political Economy and guest-editor for Africa: Journal of the International
 African Institute; Overman as Editor of Economica; Sanyal as guest-editor for Geoforum; Shin as
 editor for the International Journal of Urban and Regional Research and guest editor for Urban
 Studies, Urban Geography and CITY; Rodriguez-Pose as Editor-in-chief of the Journal of
 Geographical Systems, editor of Economic Geography, associate editor of the Journal of
 Regional Science and guest editor of Cambridge Journal of Regions, Economy and Society,
 Growth and Change and Applied Geography.

 through our presence on editorial boards including Antipode; Cambridge Journal of Regions,
 Economy and Society; CITY: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, action; Critical African
 Studies; Environment and Planning A and D; Geography COMPASS; Growth and Change;
 Habitat International; International Journal of Urban and Regional Research; International
 Organization; Journal of Economic Geography; Journal of Economic Growth; Journal of
 International Business Policy; Journal of International Business Studies; Journal of Latin
 American Studies, Journal of Regional Science; Journal of Urban Economics; Papers in
 Regional Science; Regional Science and Urban Economics; Regional Studies, Regional
 Science; Review of Regional Research; Urban Geography; Another indication of the broad
 global reach of the UoA is membership of its staff in editorial boards or international scientific
 boards of national journals outside the UK/North America, namely in Chile, China, France,
 Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Poland, Romania, South Korea, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine.

 through our support for discussion and working paper series including the Department’s
 discussion paper series, and the GRI, MEC and LACC working paper series.

 through our support for collaborative PhD and early careers initiatives including the
 Autumn Forum, Zurich; the International Inequalities Institutes Doctoral Programme; the
 Knowledge Frontiers Symposium on Urban Violence; the LSE-Southeast Asia Early Career
 Researcher (ECR) Network; the MPhil/PhD Regional and Urban Planning Erasmus programme
 with the Planning Department of Politecnico di Milano; the Policy for Smart Specialisation
 Innovative Training Network; the Urban Economics Association Summer Schools.

 through our active participation in professional bodies as members of grant assessment
 bodies including for ESRC, GCRF, Power to Change, Swiss National Science Foundation; and
 as members of executive committees including the Council of the European Association of
 Environmental and Resource Economists (Dietz), Member of Executive Committee of Center for
 Urban and Real Estate Management (Hilber), Member of the Executive Committee of the Urban
 Land Institute (Cheshire), Member of the Regional Studies Association Publication and
 Research Committees (Iammarino).

 through our senior external roles in academia, including Rodriguez-Pose as President of the
 Regional Science Association International, Vice-President of the RSAI and Vice-President of
 ERSA, Lee as Chair of the Policy Committee and Trustee Regional Studies Association

 Research excellence and policy expertise has been externally recognised with members of
 staff elected to national or international academic societies and receiving notable awards
 and prizes. Examples include:
     • CBE (Cheshire, in 2017, for services to housing and to economics)
     • European Award for Researchers in Environmental Economics under the Age of
         Forty 2018 (Dietz)

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   GRI’s TPI Team, Finance for the Future Award 2018 in the category Driving Change
        Through Education, Training & Academia
    •   Founders’ Royal Gold Medal, Royal Geographical Society 2016 (Storper)
    •   ERSA European Prize in Regional Science 2018 (Rodríguez-Pose)
    •   Distinguished Scholarship Honors, American Association of Geographers 2017 (Storper)
    •   Econometric Society Frisch Medal 2018 (Ahlfeldt)
    •   Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (Chant, Cheshire, Iammarino, Overman,
        Rodríguez-Pose, Storper, Whitehead)
    •   Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society (Mercer, Shin)
    •   The Nick Tyrell Prize (Carozzi and Hilber for their paper The Economic Impacts of Help
        to Buy)
    •   2019 Doctor Honoris Causa, University of Utrecht (Rodríguez-Pose)
    •   Doctor Honoris Causa, Jonkoping University (Rodríguez-Pose)
    •   Fellow of the Regional Science Association International (Rodríguez-Pose)




                                                                                       Page 19
