Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Aston University

 Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 1.1 Context and Structure
 Aston was founded in 1895 to support business, local industry and the community, with science
 and engineering at its core (Institutional Level Environment Statement ILES1.1). Inclusion and
 impact are two strong themes running within Aston’s strategy and our successes in these areas
 were recognised in 2020 by several national awards including the “University of the Year”
 accolade from The Guardian and the “Entrepreneurial University of the Year” award from The
 Times Higher Education (ILES1.2).
 The College of Engineering and Physical Sciences (EPS) maintains a high-quality collaborative
 research environment with focused investment in areas where we can demonstrate international
 leading research with significant impact. Over the REF period we have enhanced our agile and
 supportive environment to enable staff to win international, national and regional funding leading
 to impactful research. Examples of this include applications of bioenergy to reduce open field straw
 burning in the Philippines and India, and collaborative research on high-speed optical
 communications with global telecommunication systems providers.
 The EPS structure, see Figure 1, results from the wider re-organization within the University in
 2020 (ILES2.1). EPS comprises three Schools, each of cognate disciplines: Engineering and
 Technology; Informatics and Digital Engineering; and Infrastructure and Sustainable Engineering.
 ASTUTE, EBRI and AIPT, described below, are our overarching Research Institutes. This
 structure supports an interdisciplinary approach to research and impact, as well as addressing a
 growing requirement for multi-disciplinary skills for scientists and engineers at all levels (ILES2.9).




             Figure 1: College structure showing Schools, Departments and Research
                        Institutes and related impact case study (ICS) areas


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Knowledge Exchange, underpinned by our research expertise, is fundamental to the College ethos
 and aligns with Aston’s strategy that emphasises the importance of impact by structuring thinking
 directly around Aston’s beneficiaries: its students, businesses, and the West Midlands region and
 society (ILES1.1). Our research contributes significantly to the regional economy where we have
 strong collaborations with large companies and SMEs (ILES1.4). Aston is a leading university for
 consultancy and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) – reflecting our strong links with SMEs
 – and this enables us to identify trends within sectors and identify opportunities for more in-depth
 interactions and value-added partnerships.

 Research Institutes
 Since 2014, our priority has been to develop more cohesion between subject-specific research
 areas. We have addressed this by the formation of three multi-faceted, collaborative Research
 Institutes. Aston Institute of Photonic Technologies (AIPT) and the Energy and Bioproducts
 Research Institute (EBRI) were two of the four initial University Research Institutes (URIs) created
 in 2019 (ILES2.5). Each URI represents an area of critical mass undertaking excellent research
 with impact. The Aston Institute for Urban Technologies and the Environment (ASTUTE) was
 established as a third College Institute in 2018. ASTUTE consolidates interdisciplinary research
 activities in informatics, materials and logistics to respond to the strategic research challenges in
 developing low-carbon and sustainable urban environments. Our aspiration is for ASTUTE to
 obtain URI status in the next REF period.
 Researchers aligned with AIPT and EBRI have predominantly been submitted to UoA12; ASTUTE
 researchers are split between UoA11 and UoA12. The research activities of each of the Institutes
 are as follows:
    •   The Aston Institute of Photonic Technologies (AIPT) is one of the largest photonics
        research centres in the UK. AIPT has over 100 staff carrying out world-leading research
        focused on integrating blue-sky and applied research in photonics. Education and
        innovation are priorities, as is the translation of scientific breakthroughs into technology
        that has industrial, economic, and societal impact. Founded by industrial researchers (from
        BT and Plessey), AIPT maintains close contact with industry, with over half of its
        academics having industrial experience.
        Areas of research excellence include optical communications (where ~20% of publications
        are co-authored with industrial partners), nonlinear photonics, fibre devices including fibre
        lasers, nanophotonics, biomedical photonics, applications of machine learning in
        photonics, and industrial applications. AIPT has over 60 live projects worth more than
        £30m and the largest portfolio of EPSRC projects at Aston. AIPT’s industrial and
        international collaborations have resulted in more than 800 joint papers since 2014,
        including highly cited research papers published in the top journals, such as Nature
        Photonics, Optica, Nature Communications and others, all demonstrating excellence in the
        field. Since 2014, AIPT has published with over 450 other organisations.
        In 2018, Doran and his team were recognised in the MadeAtUni “UK’s Best Breakthroughs”
        list of the last century for their pioneering work in long-distance optical communications
        which has been fundamental to enabling the vast growth in data transmission via the
        internet. Since 2014, Doran, Ellis and Zhang have been elected as Optical Society of
        America Fellows (joining previously elected Turitsyn, Sumetsky and Rafailov), whilst AIPT
        investigators have been recognised by awards including the Royal Society “Wolfson
        Research Merit Award” (Sumetsky, 2014) and EPSRC Fellowships (Ellis, 2014; Forysiak,
        2015). AIPT provides an outstanding environment for training of researchers, coordinating
        ten Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Innovative Training Networks (MSCA-ITNs) since
        2014. Since 2014, AIPT has hosted 30 individual MSCA Fellows confirming its status as
        an attractor for training in photonics for talented Early Career Researchers (ECRs) around
        the world. In the past five years, three AIPT researchers (two female) have won prestigious
        Royal Academy of Engineering (RAEng) Fellowships and one has won a UKRI Future
        Leaders Fellowship.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The Energy and Bioproducts Research Institute (EBRI) carries out world-leading
        research into new and innovative ways of converting biomass into sources of sustainable
        energy, using thermochemical, biological and catalytic processes. Achieving an
        affordable, resilient and low-carbon energy future is essential, and we aim to use
        sustainable resources to make this a reality. The processes developed will contribute to
        making a net-zero carbon economy possible, while allowing traditional manufacturing
        sources of fuels, chemicals and materials to be replaced with cleaner and safer
        alternatives. EBRI members engage with colleagues nationally and internationally on
        supply chains, business models, policy, regulation and system performance. As the world
        strives to meet ambitious targets for reducing carbon emissions and combating climate
        change, EBRI is        exploring     the   science      behind      new,     more      efficient
        thermochemical, biological and catalytic means of converting biomass and waste
        feedstocks into valuable products. EBRI leads the £5.2m national EPSRC/BBSRC-funded
        centre of excellence in bioenergy (the Supergen Bioenergy Hub). Its staff are international
        leaders in their fields – e.g., Thornley was the recipient of an international “Atlas Award” in
        2015 for “research that could significantly impact people’s lives” and Chair of the advisory
        board for the Committee on Climate Change’s 2019 "Biomass in a Low Carbon Economy”
        report. Recent prizes include the “Innovation in V2G Award” and the “Electric Vehicle
        Innovation & Excellence Award” for the ViGiL (Vehicle-to-Grid Intelligent Control) project.
        In the REF period, EBRI staff have created two spin-out companies: award-winning Grid
        Edge in 2016 (see ICSGridEdge) who are using cloud-based artificial intelligence software
        tools to allow building operators to predict, optimise and control their buildings’ energy
        profiles, reducing carbon emissions and costs, and improving user comfort. In India,
        award-winning A2P was created to work on the supply chain challenges of gathering rice
        straw to make into fuel as opposed to burning it in open fields (see ICSEnergyHarvest).
        They are now working with World Wildlife Fund India to extend the business model they
        have developed.
    •   The Aston Institute for Urban Technologies and the Environment (ASTUTE) brings
        together a broad range of technologies and capabilities that are key to enabling
        sustainable living in the cities of the future. At the heart of the Institute’s vision is the idea
        that technologies should be developed for the benefit of the urban citizen, contributing to
        an improved quality of life by enhancing mobility; creating a greener, more sustainable
        environment, and extracting the maximum benefit from the vast quantities of data
        generated by modern pervasive computing systems. ASTUTE enhances the relationship
        between researchers from different but complementary fields such as logistics, data
        analytics and machine learning, enabling them to tackle the major interdisciplinary
        challenges facing the modern city under the pillars of Digital Engineering, Mobility, Health
        and Energy.
        ASTUTE staff won Innovate UK’s “Best of the Best” KTP award in 2020 for their work
        developing the Computer Science Industry Club to support Knowledge Exchange. Industry
        Club member, Majestic, won the “Princess Royal Award for Training Award” in 2018 for
        their work in a partnership with Aston to develop a placement year for gifted students.

 1.2 Research Strategy
 Aston’s strategy (ILES2.3) is to prioritise impactful, collaborative, excellent and financially
 sustainable research. Over the REF period, EPS’s strategy has evolved to align with the UK
 Government’s Industrial Strategy Grand Challenges and UN Sustainable Development Goals,
 which enables us to tackle some of the big societal challenges in an impactful way. This is
 illustrated by our impact case studies:
    •   Sustainable cities and communities – see ICS: (UoA12) Grid Edge – changing the way
        we use and store energy and (UoA11) Digital Twins for Complex System Engineering.
    •   Good health and wellbeing – see ICS: (UoA12) ECG-derived biosignals for improved
        healthcare outcomes and a Real-time Adaptive Predictive Indicator of Deterioration

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          (RAPID); (UoA12) Endoscope-i – new products and medical diagnostic practices; (UoA12)
          Advances and commercialisation in the field of optical coherence tomography; and
          (UoA11) The Galatean Risk and Safety Technology, GRiST.
      •   Affordable and clean energy – see ICS: (UoA12) Bioenergy Policy and (UoA12) EBRI –
          business development in bioenergy and sustainable supply chain.
      •   Life on land – see ICS: (UoA12) Energy Harvest – reducing pollution from open field
          burning of rice straw; (UoA12) Seawater Greenhouse – impact on sustainable food
          production in arid climate; and (UoA11) Development and application of the Digital
          Observatory for Protected Areas.

 The key strategic aims of EPS are:

 Excellence – Strengthening our research environment
 This strategic strand is led by the Executive Dean (PVC-ED) and the Heads of Institutes (HoIs).
 The key areas of priority are:
  •       Strengthen AIPT and EBRI’s position as centres of excellence by investing in their
          facilities and infrastructure. This has resulted in significant investment for AIPT of £7.7m
          in estates, £1.4m in equipment and £500k in research funding to ensure state-of-the-art
          facilities. Similarly, EBRI has received investment of £1.5m in estates, £1m in equipment
          and £1.5m in research funding. We have also implemented a programme of office
          refurbishment to bring staff and PhD students in connected areas into higher-grade spaces
          with communal areas to encourage team support and cross-fertilisation of ideas.
  •       Create a vibrant research community. To address this, we have built on the
          interdisciplinary research (IDR) approach to capitalise on connected staff (ILES2.9 and
          2.10). To increase research networking, various IDR activities have been instigated such
          as “show-and-tell” and workshop events for researchers and external visitors in areas such
          as Digital Engineering, Photonics and Sustainable Engineering (2019-20). We also pump-
          prime the development of international collaborations, which has enabled us to increase
          the numbers of MSCA-ITNs, RISE and British Council funding, e.g., Thornley won a
          successful British Council SASAC PhD programme grant after such support. This allows
          us to both host international researchers and undertake collaborative research at their
          location.
  •       Strengthen the interaction between related research activities in informatics,
          logistics and materials. This has been achieved by aligning existing areas of activity to
          strategic research priorities on infrastructure and urban systems. This led to the formation
          of ASTUTE, supported by strategic appointments in Civil Engineering. By grouping staff
          thematically, we have created a more supportive and effective research environment with
          growing IDR links, e.g., Saad (ASTUTE) is an investigator on the £6m TRANSNET
          programme grant, where he is applying machine learning techniques to optical
          communications with AIPT.
 We will continue to support the development of the Institutes, for example, by further strengthening
 the high-quality research environment (increased peer mentoring and reviewing for papers and
 grants), impact (newly launched innovation weeks), business development activities and
 increasing support for Knowledge Exchange activities. We continue to horizon-scan and nurture
 emerging areas, for example, we are currently developing activities in circular economy and health
 engineering. In addition, we will increase the involvement of social scientists critical to
 understanding how rapidly developing technologies, such as driverless electric cars and artificial
 intelligence, can best be made socially acceptable. These issues align closely with the Living with
 Technology and Data and Infrastructure focus of ESRC’s plan.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Excellence – Strengthening our people
 This strategic strand is led by the PVC-ED, Associate Dean for Research (ADR) and HoIs. The
 key areas of priority are:
  •     Grow the number of active researchers in the College and increase the numbers of
        researchers working within the Institutes. The number of REF Category A staff has
        grown to 103.85FTE (from 47.63 for UoA13 and UoA15 combined in REF2014). This
        growth is due to recruitment of new staff on Teaching and Research contracts, plus the
        change to submission of 100% eligible staff. In addition, we have used strategic senior
        appointments to strengthen and consolidate specific research areas, e.g., Professors
        Thornley in Bioenergy, Clark in Multi-agent Systems, Rahman in Civil Engineering and
        Meglinski in Biomedical Engineering. Future growth areas for EPS are sustainable
        engineering and digital engineering.
  •     Develop our future research leaders. Mentoring (ILES3.9) and training have been
        effective, e.g., in the last five years, three ECRs in AIPT have been awarded RAEng
        Fellowships (Sorokina, Perego and Chernysheva); their success was enabled by
        encouraging individuals to take leadership of areas of research that they have developed,
        organising workshops, and including them in large collaborative proposals.
  •     Strengthen the diversity and inclusivity of our research community. This is an
        ongoing project where we are making significant progress (see section 2). EPS has moved
        from Athena Swan Bronze to Silver in this REF period and will apply for Gold in 2021.
  •     Improve the PhD experience. Alongside the work led by the Aston Graduate School
        (ILES3.15-3.19), we developed a comprehensive PGR training programme with an annual
        cohort of 15-30 PhD students. Funding secured from the EPSRC Doctoral Training
        Programme (DTP) and MSCA-ITNs, as well as College investments is underpinning this
        initiative. Our current intake across UoA12 is 54% female and 57% BAME (home/EU),
        indicating that we are on track to meet our 2025 diversity targets (section 2). Recent
        student successes include Sirovica (supervisor: Martin) who was the first winner from the
        UK to win the prestigious “The ADM Paffenbarger Award” that recognises the best student
        research paper in the field of dental materials (2016) and Islam (supervisor: Granollers-
        Mesa) who won “best poster” at the UK Catalysis Conference (2021).

 Impact Strategy
 This strategic strand is led by the Deputy Dean for Enterprise and International (DDEI) working
 closely with the HoIs. The key areas of priority are:
  •     To increase the amount of industry-driven research and commercial activity.
        Support from professional services colleagues in Research and Knowledge Exchange
        (RKE) (ILES1.3, 3.10 and 4.5) has facilitated a threefold increase in the annual awards
        from Industry sources over the REF period with a further twofold increase in annual awards
        from ERDF projects focused on Knowledge Exchange.
  •     Promoting links to regional companies: ERDF funding has been used to work directly
        across all Institutes to support over 500 SMEs over the REF period. For example, EBRI is
        working collaboratively with businesses and professions to help deploy the sustainable
        supply chains, technical knowledge and financial advice needed to make renewable
        biofuels that will benefit everybody. Also, a series of intersectoral seminars has been
        established to bring together companies in a particular sector with relevant academics,
        e.g., a workshop on Digital Engineering (10/2019) had speakers from MTC, Rolls-Royce
        and Arcadis, and attendees from JLR, Renishaw, Arup, BM3 and regional universities. In
        addition, Business Development Managers in RKE (ILES4.4) have been proactive in
        seeking out opportunities for KTP projects, with 19 currently in EPS (ILES2.6).
  •     Supporting impact through investment and flexible contracts. In some instances, we
        have used secondments to support academics in accelerating impact which has resulted

                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        in impact case studies. For example, a secondment agreed in 2020 (0.4FTE with the
        company) allowed Prince to continue work on Covid-related safety equipment with
        Endoscope-i whilst still having the support of the university infrastructure and equipment.
        This resulted in a new PPE device being designed, manufactured, tested and distributed
        within nine months. Three founding directors of Grid Edge used flexible contracts (0.5FTE)
        and RKE support to establish the company in 2016 and secure initial investment. Grid
        Edge has gone on to secure £2.9m of funding and a further £1.3m in R&D competitions.
 Through our Institutes and related business development support activities (ILES4.13) we robustly
 monitor our impact pipeline and support activities at different stages of maturity with financial
 support, appropriate networking and marketing. An annual programme of Innovation Weeks is
 being used for team building and to train staff and PhD students who can move technology further
 along the technology readiness levels and address some of the skills gaps we see in SMEs. To
 encourage staff in this area we have developed impact as a key element of Aston’s research
 strategy and impact is explicitly considered in promotion applications (ILES3.3).

 Collaboration Strategy
 This strategic strand is led by the ADR with the HoIs and DDEI. The key areas of priority are:
  •     Increase international collaborations for staff and students using both internal funding
        (for example, the International Collaboration Fund (ILES2.9)) and more applications to
        organisations including the Leverhulme Trust, Royal Society, EU RISE and the Daiwa
        Foundation. 59.9% of UoA12 publications were a result of international collaborations.
  •     Continue to build and support our industry collaborations. Over the REF period we
        have developed a portfolio of regional projects to support SMEs, increased our KTP
        portfolio, secured two Industrial Fellowships and one Manufacturing Fellowship. We also
        launched the award-winning Industry Club in Computer Science and then rolled out the
        model across the College. Business development projects have been sharing best practice
        and will continue to do so to optimise effectiveness. For UoA12, SciVal shows 9.2% of
        publications resulted from academic-corporate collaboration and we would expect this to
        continue to rise over the next REF period driven by the increased number of industrial
        research collaborations.
  •     Helping to cement Aston’s position as a Civic University. For example, EBRI works
        with national and regional energy policy makers to support knowledge-based decisions.
        We are positioning ASTUTE as the go-to place for regional bodies seeking solutions to the
        challenges that lie in the way of Birmingham transitioning to a zero-carbon future. This has
        required us to establish good relationships with the West Midlands Combined Authority,
        the Local Enterprise Partnerships and Transport for West Midlands and we are planning
        knowledge-sharing sessions and “learning-lunches” with the Digital team within
        Birmingham City Council. As leaders of the Greater Birmingham and Solihull Institute of
        Technology (GBSIoT) Applied Research stream we are organising joint industry-academia
        hot-topic-based workshops and case studies to encourage increased collaborative funding
        applications.

 Sustainability Strategy
 This strategic strand is led by the ADR with the HoIs. The key areas of priority are:
  •     Broaden the portfolio of funders and increase the amount of UKRI and commercial
        funding. We work with professional services departments to ensure the financial
        sustainability of EPS research. Colleagues from the funding teams of RKE and Finance
        (ILES4.4) work closely with the ADR, HoIs and Departmental Research Directors to share
        intelligence about the funding landscape and strategically plan our response, pooling
        resources and contacts appropriately. The core professional services team meet monthly
        to ensure that information about funding opportunities is shared effectively, and that the
        necessary resources are put in place to support the pipeline of bidding activity. The
        Strategic Funding Manager and International Funding Manager work with individuals and

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Research Institutes to plan grant capture strategies and refine grant applications. EPS has
        increasingly adopted a cohort-based approach to support groups of individuals who are
        preparing bids to the same type of call, for example, the EPSRC New Horizons call where
        we had two successful awards, one from an ECR. Similarly, colleagues in RKE run an
        annual Grant Writing Programme to support a group of researchers who are applying for
        their first Research Council grants (ILES4.5). All bids go through the University’s internal
        Peer Review process prior to submission, with the objective of supporting researchers to
        improve the quality of bids submitted. Due diligence checks, match-funding decisions and
        sign-off of bids also go through a clearly defined process designed to improve the
        University’s management of our institutional commitments and to ensure financial probity
        and sustainability (ILES2.8).
  •     Increase the proportion of staff actively seeking and winning funding by improving
        support for early-stage researchers. All ECRs now complete a Career Development
        Plan and it is one of the ways we operationalise the Concordat to Support the Career
        Development of Researchers (ILES3.13). The Career Development Plan is a framework
        that brings together all the help available internally supporting ECRs to plot their own
        professional development pathway. At Aston, the ECRs participate in the “ECR Forum”
        (ILES3.14) to enhance their ability to work across disciplines, build effective networks and
        provide focused developmental opportunities.
 The success of our College strategy is reflected in EPS being in a much stronger position than in
 2014. In UoA12 our combined research income and income-in-kind for this REF period is £52m,
 rising from £19m for UoA13 and UoA15 combined in REF2014. EPS has contributed just over half
 of the University’s annual research awards over the REF period. The Research Institutes are
 providing support for staff and students with the critical mass needed to further strengthen external
 recognition and momentum.

 2. People

 2.1 Overview
 The leadership and governance of EPS has been strengthened significantly since REF2014.
 Changes include the appointment in 2017 of Professor Sarah Hainsworth OBE FREng, as Pro-
 Vice-Chancellor and Executive Dean, and the appointment of Professors Tony Clark and Kate
 Sugden as Deputy Deans in 2018. All three have strong track records in impactful research and
 understand the challenges of balancing teaching and research commitments. Research
 Leadership was further strengthened by Professor Patricia Thornley taking over as Associate
 Dean for Research (ADR) from Professor David Webb in 2019, ensuring a continuation of strong
 and effective research leadership. Our Research Institutes are headed by Professors Sergei
 Turitsyn (AIPT), Webb (ASTUTE) and Thornley (EBRI). The ADR works with the Director of
 Research Degree Programmes (Dr Aniko Ekart) and PGR Tutor (Professor Wen Cao). These two
 roles exist to specifically support research students within the College and share the administrative
 load, a move that has turned out to be highly beneficial in the pandemic.

 2.2 Staffing Strategy
 Significant work has been undertaken over the REF period to ensure that EPS operates in an
 efficient, cohesive and inclusive manner that allows people to develop their research careers in a
 supportive environment. The EPS staffing strategy has been split between (a) the appointment of
 external staff in areas that needed stronger leadership and/or to build critical mass and (b) the
 development and support of the existing team to create future research leaders.
 Since REF2014 we have increased the number of staff in the College to reduce a high student-
 staff ratio and ensure that the staff have time for research (Figure 2). For this REF return, Aston
 committed to a 100% submission of eligible staff. In UoA12, this has resulted in more than double
 the number of staff being submitted to REF2021 (103.85FTE, 91 of whom are employed on
 Teaching and Research contracts (including 14 ECRs) and 14 of whom are independent


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers (including five ECRs)), compared to REF2014 (47.63FTE in UoA13 and UoA15
 combined). At the same time, the research-only staff population of EPS has also seen significant
 growth of 46.6% from 61.97FTE to 90.86FTE, providing a vibrant research environment for early-
 career researchers (ECRs).
 New academic appointments are made where there is clear alignment between the appointees’
 expertise, our existing research activity and our beneficiaries-led research strategy. This has
 enabled us to build a genuinely collaborative and interdisciplinary research environment. For
 example, the recent appointment of Alexakis in Civil Engineering not only brings research
 expertise in structural monitoring to that Department, but he also contributes to optical sensing in
 AIPT and machine learning in ASTUTE.




                         Figure 2: Staffing Levels for EPS (UoA11 and 12)


 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Strategy
 Aston is committed to EDI in recruitment, promotion and access to education (ILES3.4-3.6). EPS
 (UoA11 and 12) has been a leader within the University in this area (for example, it was the first
 College to achieve Athena Swan Bronze and Silver awards) with significant activity across gender,
 race and inclusion. The driving philosophy behind our work in this area is that the creation of an
 inclusive environment is a pre-requisite for the promotion of equality and diversity, and this
 requires activity against different strands:
  •     Diversity in Leadership – The EPS Senior Management team (07/2020) was 43.5%
        female and 56.5% male which is exceptional for an engineering-and-science-focused
        College. In terms of ethnicity the split is 77.3% white, 22.7% BAME – above the sector
        average, but would benefit from further diversity to reflect our region and student
        population.
  •     EPS has been at the forefront of Aston’s Athena Swan initiatives obtaining Silver in
        2014 - Prior to the Covid pandemic we were planning to submit a Gold application in
        autumn 2020 (lead by Röder), but this is now delayed until 2021. Our Athena Swan activity
        in EPS has led to an improvement in data analytics in all areas of EDI across the
        University. Actions put in place in EPS in the REF period included: selected training,
        mentoring and wide advertising of vacant roles within the College to allow staff the
        opportunity to gain experience. As part of the Athena Swan initiative, we have developed
        a teaching load model that looks more broadly at the time contribution for student-facing
        activities, as well as standard lecturing time, to reach a more equitable distribution of load
        and ensure all T&R staff have time for research. From 2017 to 2020, we were delighted to
        host a funded RAEng Visiting Professor in Inclusive Engineering (Dawn Bonfield MBE).
        Bonfield worked with staff across EPS to integrate inclusive Engineering into our teaching.



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •    Race Equality – EPS’s Director of Operations (Gill-Knobbs) leads on Aston’s Race
       Equality Charter which Aston signed up to in 2019, supported by the Associate PVC for
       EDI. The University-wide Group (ILES3.5, Figure 4) is currently working through the results
       of the Race Equality Charter Survey and this will result in targeted activities to support staff
       and students. The Group also instigated the process for Aston to join the BBSTEM Alliance
       (Black British Professions in STEM) to further support our Black research students where
       numbers are low. The motivation for this came from a working group set up specifically for
       Black staff and students following the BLM movement early in 2020. BBSTEM was founded
       by EPS graduate Kayisha Payne and provides support in terms of industrial mentors and
       corporate insight days which students can access for free. There is also support for PhD
       students through an online community. A BAME staff network has been established and
       includes research staff. The network will be running research-focused events and providing
       support for researchers.
  •    LGBT+ – Sugden chairs Aston’s Working Group on LGBT+ staff (2019-20) (ILES3.5,
       Figure 4). This also contributes to the open and inclusive culture of the School and wider
       University. During the first year, the Group developed and launched the Aston LGBT+ Staff
       and Student Charter.
  •    Gender Pay Gap – The University aims to eliminate its Gender Pay Gap of 19.5% (2017)
       by 2025 by focusing on consistency of starting salary and pay parity on promotion and
       within professorial bands (ILES3.6). EPS has a significantly smaller pay gap than
       elsewhere in the University; over the REF period, EPS has decreased its pay
       gap from 5.5% (2013) to 2.4% (2020). This has resulted from more consistent mentoring
       around promotions and more openness in advertising available roles,
       responsibilities and training programmes – changes brought in as part of Athena Swan.
  •    External Diversity Activities – EPS staff have also shown significant contribution in this
       area. For example, Hainsworth is Chair of the RAEng Diversity and Inclusion Committee
       (09/2019-present) and was Deputy Chair for two years before that. Through this
       Committee, she has made a significant contribution to the development of
       the RAEng Fellowship ‘Fit for the Future’ campaign and the delivery of the new Diversity
       and Inclusion Framework. Sugden was elected the Diversity Champion for IET Council
       (2018-19), and is currently on the Board of Trustees for Foothold
       https://www.myfoothold.org/, a charity supporting engineers and their families with
       unexpected life challenges. Bonfield's work supported the addition of “inclusive
       engineering design” into accreditation by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) as well as
       similar revision of the Engineering Accreditation guidelines, AHEP.
  •    Widening Participation – Mindful of the development of our future researchers we have
       twice hosted the transformative RAEng Graduate Engineering Engagement Programme to
       increase the transition of engineering graduates from diverse backgrounds into the
       engineering sector. We have also encouraged Research Institutes to provide paid
       internships for students to experience working in a research environment. We supported
       the formation of the WEST (Women in Engineering, Science and Technology) society in
       2017, and Bonfield proactively mentored these students, who rapidly gained confidence
       and experience. In 2020, WEST progressed from a student affiliated group to a newly
       formed social enterprise, and engaged in a funded project in Nigeria, all with the help and
       advice of Bonfield. This work also inspired an exceptional talk by AIPT PhD student, and
       WEST founder, Gabriella Gardosi, at TEDxYouth@Brum entitled Don’t belong in STEM?
       That’s a good thing. Through WEST we have sponsored students to attend the annual
       Women’s Engineering Society conference.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4 Support for Staff

 Research Culture
 In EPS we promote a positive research culture to support our academics and researchers
 throughout the research lifecycle, including:
  •     Opportunities to discuss and formulate ideas for research proposals through mentoring;
        staff networks and line management; an active seminar series led by the Research
        Institutes; and publicising of relevant upcoming funding opportunities by RKE.
  •     Research proposal development, focused on ECRs (including coaching, writing cohorts
        and formative peer review), with strong support from EPS staff and RKE (ILES4.4-4.5).
  •     Support for all aspects of research integrity and ethics including support for ethical approval
        (ILES2.11-2.12).
  •     Support for the dissemination of outcomes of research that transcends traditional
        publication routes (Aston Open Data Policy (ILES2.14) and Open Access Policy
        (ILES2.15)) and includes dedicated staff in RKE proactively providing links to potential
        partners in business, government and industry to translate the outcomes of research into
        impact (ILES4.12).
  •     Aston is a participant in TALENT, a £3m Research England funded project to lead and
        influence change to advance status and opportunity for technical skills, roles and careers
        and recognise their important role in research. TALENT is led by the Midlands Innovation
        (MI, ILES1.5) in collaboration with key stakeholder and industry partners. It is funded by
        Research England, the eight MI universities and several collaborating organisations.
        Hainsworth leads on the initiative for Aston as part of the TALENT Management Board.
  •     To highlight the importance of research in our strategy, EPS introduced protected weeks
        within the annual timetable when staff can focus on research activities.

 Training and Support for ECRs and Postdoctoral Researchers (PDRs)
 We are fully committed to implementing the key principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, and, indeed, Aston has held the “HR Excellence in Research
 Award” since 2010 (ILES3.13). The University-wide ECR Forum includes the ECR Development
 Programme (ILES3.14), which includes a range of training courses and workshops run by two
 specialist members of staff. New research staff receive a Welcome Pack that gathers in one place
 all the information and documents they will need relating to university services and career
 development. The activities run by the ECR Forum provide an opportunity for PDRs and ECRs to
 meet potential collaborators and friends from across the University and develop a mutually
 supportive network; this includes the Annual ECR Interdisciplinary Conference.
 As part of their induction, academic ECRs are assigned a dedicated research mentor: a colleague
 who sits outside their line management structure, has a strong research track record, and who
 acts as a confidential, independent, critical friend. New female appointments are given the option
 of a female mentor. Additionally, the University facilitates cross-College mentoring relationships
 (ILES 3.9).
 The Institutes provide vibrant “homes” for new researchers, so that they can experience
 interdisciplinary interactions beyond their departmental affiliation, engage in constructive research
 development and knowledge exchange, and meet with research users in the industrial, business
 and policy communities, via our regular seminars and workshops.

 Staff Training
 In addition to University-wide training provision (ILES1.5iv, 2.10, 2.12, 3.10, 3.14, 3.16, 4.13) we
 have introduced a series of initiatives within EPS, which we continue to adapt as the research
 landscape changes. Recent examples are set out in Table 1.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 1: EPS Staff Training Provision

  Training for PhD           Alongside the extensive Aston Graduate School introductory
  students and PDRs          programme there is also: An Introduction to Research in EPS,
                             Support for Fellowship applications

  Training for ECRs          Introduction to Research in EPS, Building a Track Record, Working
                             with EPSRC, Working with Industry, Working with the EU, Research
                             Support, Introduction to REF, Supervising Postdocs and PGRs,
                             Impact and How to Generate It, Publishing Considerations, Planning
                             for Future Promotion Based on Research, Early Career Fellowships

  Training for all staff     Health and Safety Awareness, Equality and Diversity*, GDPR*,
                             Cyber Security*, Research Student Supervision*, Introduction to
                             Unconscious Bias*, Recruitment within the Equalities Framework -
                             *compulsory

 Staff Grades and Promotions
 The annually monitored data shown in Figure 3 gives the distribution of staff in EPS split by gender.
 Grade 7 is Teaching Assistant level. Grades 8 and 9 are Lecturers. Grade 10+ are Senior
 Lecturers and above.




                           Figure 3: Gender split of T&R and R staff for EPS

 EPS manages promotions in a fair and equitable way. Over the REF period, 130 applications
 for promotion were received by the College. Of these, 15 were promoted directly (grade 7 to 9
 promotions) and 63 (for higher grades) went forward to the University Promotions Board. The
 overall success rate there was 85.7%, 89% for female staff and 90% for BAME staff compared to
 84% for male staff and 83.3% for white staff. Overall, there is no significant statistical difference in
 success rates between the protected groups observed.

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Selection of Outputs
 Section D of our Code of Practice sets out the process for selecting outputs, with the peer review
 process for outputs set out in Appendix 6. Two workshops were run for EPS staff to explain these
 processes, and those involved in reviewing and selecting outputs also participated in a
 comprehensive EDI training session which was developed in conjunction with Advance HE. A
 further workshop was run for ECR staff to introduce them to the REF process.
 Our REF Individual Circumstances process (Code of Practice, Appendices 7 and 8) was run
 independently by RKE. In line with our commitment to an inclusive return, all employees who
 submitted a declaration of individual circumstances were invited to indicate if they would like to be
 contacted by an HR Business Partner to discuss their circumstances, and any support that they
 may have required.
 As part of our REF preparation, we conducted three Equality Impact Assessments of output
 attributions. Colleagues in RKE and HR have compared outputs attributed to all Category A staff
 (using FTE, not headcount) with those outputs attributed to those with protected characteristics
 (gender, age, disability and ethnicity). The inclusive nature of our return is reflected in our final
 Equality Impact Assessment (conducted 01/2021).
 UoA12 proposed 767 outputs in total, of which 229 are attributed against an FTE of 104 Category
 A staff against an attribution target 260. The UoA12 selection displays a consistent percentage of
 attributions (mean 36%) across all protected characteristics where small sample sizes explain any
 differences. Figure 4 below highlights approximate alignment between the percentage of FTE and
 attributions across the categories.




                  Figure 4: Percentage FTE and output attributions by protected
                                        characteristics




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.5 Strategy for Training and Supervision of PGR Students
 Aston’s Graduate School was established in 2010 to provide a supportive environment for all
 research students across the University (ILES3.15-3.18). Integrated with this central provision is
 subject-specific postgraduate training and development provided within EPS that provides a
 strong local research environment, where PhD students are supported in their development
 towards becoming independent researchers. In this REF period, 138.78 PhD degrees were
 awarded from UoA12 (compared to 82 from UoA13 and UoA15 combined in REF2014).
 Since 2014, the following significant changes have been made in terms of how we recruit and
 manage PhD students, in order to achieve and develop a vibrant research environment:
 Recruitment – A rigorous student recruitment process is in place to ensure that PGRs have the
 best possible chance of successfully completing their PhD on time. All interview teams must
 include an independent senior academic with a track record of successful PhD supervision who is
 able to advise on the suitability of the candidate. Stringent checks are placed on the language
 competence of international students, with English Language training offered to students for whom
 English is not their first language (ILES3.19). Typically, 15-30 fully-funded studentships are
 allocated annually via a highly competitive call, in which both the quality and strategic fit of the
 project and the suitability of the proposed student are assessed by an experienced
 panel. Students are increasingly recruited to related cohorts, either within the College, or
 externally via ITNs, to provide peer support. Strategic priority for these studentships has shifted
 from an initial focus on co-funding studentships with industry (aligned with our industry-focused
 research strategy) to a focus on pump-priming the research careers of our new lecturers, following
 a significant expansion of new academic staff in EPS. All staff with supervision responsibility are
 required to complete mandatory supervision training, which must be updated every three years,
 regardless of career stage (ILES3.16).
 Arrival – Following each quarterly start date, there is a comprehensive welcome and induction
 session provided by the Director of Research Degree Programmes, where students are guided
 through all the relevant documentation, development opportunities and the expectations placed
 on them. In consultation with the supervisor, the student undergoes a training needs analysis to
 identify the development needed to support both their PhD work and their future career goals.
 During the PhD – Aston Graduate School provides comprehensive PGR support for all students
 (ILES3.15-3.19). A formal quarterly and annual monitoring process is in place to ensure students
 are making sufficient progress and are well supported by their academic supervisors. In addition,
 international students are invited to networking events for international students and staff, to help
 them feel included in the research community and make links with others who may have similar
 experiences.
 In response to data from the 2017 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), several
 new EPS initiatives were instigated including:
  •     Increased contribution of up to £1500 towards attending a conference to present a paper
        or poster. This is available to all students who have completed their qualifying examination.
  •     A Postgraduate Student-Staff Liaison Committee to provide a direct link between PGR
        students and senior management via the Aston Graduate School Management Committee
        (ILES3.15). In addition, student representatives meet with the ADR and Director of
        Research Degree Programmes to discuss any College-level issues they may be having.
        As an example, reports of issues with aging computers led to a College policy whereby all
        incoming PGRs are given a new PC on arrival.
  •     We introduced an EPS PGR Conference in 2018, organised by postgraduate student
        representatives of the Liaison Committee. This was much appreciated by the students and
        the idea has been taken up by Aston Graduate School, which now also facilitates
        University-wide weekly events such as the Interdisciplinary Seminar Series (ILES2.10).
 Student networks – Our PGR students are integrated into the research community and relevant
 networks to provide peer support. Our office spaces have been redeveloped to ensure that

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students sit within their academic groups and share communal spaces. They are supported in
 forming special interest groups, e.g., the SPIE/Optical Society of America student chapter within
 AIPT which organises visiting speaker talks and monthly workshops where PGR students and
 ECRs present on research topics; it has also developed links to six US universities which resulted
 in 16 online shared seminars last year. The Women in Science and Technology (WEST)
 group provides networking support across all student groups and regularly hosts visiting speakers
 from industry. Students also benefit from strong links to the Professional Engineering Institutions
 at regional and national level. EBRI and ASTUTE hold monthly research seminars for staff to
 expand their interdisciplinary knowledge, networking capability and impact-related links.
 Researchers are enabled and supported to take the initiative in organising these, developing
 management and organisational skills, as well as raising their individual profiles.
 Graduate Outcomes – The latest Graduate Outcomes survey available for the assessment period
 (27 EPS responses) showed that 96% of EPS PGR graduates found graduate-level positions.
 30% of EPS PGRs took up Postdoctoral Research Assistant positions, 15% secured academic
 positions, 18% continued in further education, and the remaining 33% went into professional-level
 work in industry.
 Diversity of PGR student body – For UoA12, 61% of our current PGR student population is
 BAME (40% for home students) and 41% female – this exceeds our objective for 2025 of 40%
 female PhD students. Our 2020 intake was a very positive 54% female and 57% BAME (home).
 This improvement stems from targeted interventions, such as: (a) involving our own UG students
 more in projects related to research, (b) supporting student networks that cross over the PG/UG
 divide so that there are appropriate role models, (c) more widespread advertising of opportunities,
 and (d) interview practices including mixed panels.




               Figure 5: UoA12 diversity data – for PGR students registered in 19/20
                 (left) all students by gender and (right) for home students by race

 3. Income, Infrastructure, and Facilities
 Since 2014, the overall aim of EPS has been to build the strength of our teams, infrastructure, and
 facilities in areas where we can deliver impact on an international scale and use this to drive growth
 in research activity.
 The move towards URIs, and the increasing focus of our research into related disciplines, allowed
 us to invest in infrastructure to benefit large groups of individual researchers. This approach has
 allowed us to bring together research teams to create a more dynamic, interactive and supportive
 environment. This has included £5.1m investment in new clustered staff offices which co-locate
 academic staff, researchers and research students from cognate disciplines. Where appropriate,
 researchers are encouraged to belong to, and access, more than one Research Institute to
 encourage interdisciplinary interactions, for example, there are Civil and Biomedical Engineers
 from ASTUTE who use lab space in AIPT, Electronic Engineers working in ASTUTE, and
 Mechanical Engineers working in EBRI and ASTUTE. The total capital expenditure over the REF
 period on EPS research was £16.6m.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.1 Research Income and Awards
 The UoA12 income and income in kind for REF2021 is £52,234,768 (£49,871,813 income plus
 £2,362,955 income in kind) compared to a combined UoA13 and 15 total of £18,554,046 for the
 previous REF period, demonstrating significant growth. Figure 6 shows research income split by
 funder.




                                Figure 6: UoA12 Research Income

 A particular success has been the significant increase of the amount of EU and international
 funding in EPS including: 13 EU collaborative research grants, four EU FET, ten EU ITN and 13
 EU RISE. In addition, there were also 16 Newton grants, seven GCRF and at least 40 other
 international funded collaborations (examples are included in section 4.2 on Collaborative
 Networks).
 The in-kind income component is predominantly from access to STFC’s Diamond Light Source,
 the Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL), the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF, including
 the EPSRC’s X-ray Materials Science Facility, XMaS) and the ISIS Neutron and Muon Source.
 For example, this supported Topham’s research group in producing superhydrophobic materials
 from a single, simple commercial polymer by controlling its nanoscale and microscale morphology.
 This work subsequently led to the creation of the superhydrophobic fabric which was used in
 collaboration with a research partner for a new wound dressing. Synchrotron access also allowed
 Topham to collaboratively develop new materials to increase the stability of Organic Solar Cells
 by developing new triggerable materials that changed their properties on heating. Furthermore, it
 enabled Martin to carry out diffraction studies of glasses, for which he was awarded the “Gottardi
 Prize” in 2016; this prize is awarded annually to young people with outstanding achievements in
 the field of glass in research and development, teaching, writing, management or commerce.
 UoA12 has grown its annual research awards substantially from £7.8m in 2013/14 to an average
 of £13.2m/year in the last three years of this REF period, see Figure 7. The 2019/20 data was
 somewhat affected by Brexit uncertainties and Covid, where some contracts were delayed. This
 underpinning research award growth will drive an increase in research income in the next REF
 period. The number of successful research award applicants has increased from 29 in 2013/14 to
 49 in 2018/19 and 40 in 2019/20 indicating that work to increase research activity across the
 College is having an impact.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                 Figure 7: UoA12 Research Awards

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities Pertaining to Research and Impact
 Our investment in infrastructure and facilities has underpinned the growth in income and awards
 and these will be discussed in this section. It is important to note that these activities take place
 within a larger support framework. Specialist centralised research support is led by the PVC
 Research and the Executive Director of Business Engagement (ILES4.4). EPS benefits from a
 high-performing team who generate fruitful industrial connections, support large collaborative
 grant applications and project manage large projects. This has resulted in EPS’s strong position
 in KTP grants where we are a sector leader and have substantial EU research funding.
 Furthermore, there exists a critical mass of colleagues with experience in successful knowledge
 exchange who act as impact champions and mentors. All our Institutes have embedded business
 engagement teams that use ERDF funding to provide the infrastructure and support collaboration
 with regional businesses which is matched by funding from the University. The facilities and
 infrastructure for each of the Research Institutes is summarised below.

 Aston Institute of Photonic Technologies
 AIPT has outstanding facilities and infrastructure enhanced by recent major strategic
 investment by Aston University. This includes a £7.3m investment in 2017 into a new, 1200 square
 metre, state-of-the-art suite of 30 laboratories for the Institute, including optical communication,
 fibre device fabrication, laser, medical and biophotonics laboratories. In parallel, Aston invested
 around £5m into equipment, with a further £3m invested in equipment after AIPT was awarded
 University Research Institute status in 2019. Facilities in these laboratories include:
    •   An extensive optical communication laboratory equipped with multiple high speed
        electronic waveform synthesis and test equipment systems (up to 256Gb/s), optical test
        equipment, WDM laser sources (covering S, C and L bands), a wide variety of optical
        transmission fibres (SMF-28, LEAF, Truwave transmission fibres) and a 512Gb/s optical
        recirculating loop test bed.
    •   The Wolfson Centre for Photonics for Food and Agri-Tech (co-funded with £500k by the
        Wolfson Foundation) focusing on spectrometry and hyperspectral imaging for various food
        safety and agri-tech applications, including: food packaging; mid-IR /near-IR fibre optical
        sensors for measuring nutrients within foods; optical fibre sensors with coated
        nanomaterials capable of measuring glucose concentrations; and developing new
        technologies to monitor the concentration of micro and nano plastics in water.
    •   The SNAP laboratory, where researchers are working on the design and fabrication of
        novel ultralow-loss optical microdevices, having potential applications in optical
        communications; quantum technology; and ultraprecise sensing.
    •   Five state-of-the-art fibre laser laboratories using UV and femtosecond lasers for materials
        processing, micromachining, inscription and the development of fibre lasers.

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   A free-space photonics lab working on the detection and manipulation of laser beams for
        defence applications.
    •   Industrial research laboratories dedicated to bringing industry and AIPT researchers
        together.
    •   A nanophotonics lab for research on carbon nanotubes, graphene and 2D materials, nano-
        diamond and zinc oxide, synthetic fluorescence and laser dyes, natural pigments and
        polymer composites.
    •   A bio- and medical-photonics laboratory focused on improving diagnostic and sensing
        technologies in healthcare, plus a shared biophotonics laboratory that accommodates
        colleagues from AIPT and the College of Health and Life Sciences, to support
        interdisciplinary research in this area.
 All laboratories are used for research, collaborations with industry in international, national and
 regional projects, and the training of UG students (through internships and final year projects) and
 PG students (through projects). The range and capability of the lab spaces and equipment makes
 AIPT a partner of choice for many businesses and universities giving AIPT an impressive reach.
 This includes a portfolio of industrial and international collaborations (section 4), 60 patents, and
 five spinout companies. AIPT’s global status is further confirmed by the coordination (as a single
 beneficiary) of a major €3m Marie S. Curie COFUND MULTIPLY Photonics Training Programme,
 with 50 world leading partners, from MIT to the Max Planck institute for the Science of
 Light. Through the Agri-tech Growth and Resources for Innovation (AGRI) project (with regional
 partner Harper Adams University and ASTUTE), AIPT assists Marches-LEP based SMEs to
 innovate and develop new products and services in order to exploit growing market opportunities;
 particularly in agri-tech, food and drink manufacture and specialist food and drink logistics. Having
 met its initial output targets the AGRI project has been successfully extended and will now be
 completed in 10/2022, supporting 173 SMEs in the region over five years. The extension support
 from 03/2020 covers the Shropshire, Telford and Wrekin transitional area of the Marches-LEP
 region, and to date, has worked with 102 companies, helping 32 of them to introduce new products
 or services. Additionally, the project has delivered seven specialist workshops: covering areas
 such as precision agriculture, logistics, innovation in food and drink production and measuring and
 sensing in food processing using photonics.
 The AIPT team includes: Professors (Turitsyn (Head of Institute, FOSA), Doran (FIET, FOSA),
 Ellis (FOSA), Forysiak, Meglinski, Rafailov (FOSA), Sugden, Sumetsky (FOSA), Webb; Zhang
 (Emeritus, FOSA)) and further six academic staff: Harper, Lutsyk, Rozhin, Turitsyna, Williams
 (FIET), Yurkevich. AIPT also includes 12 independent researchers (Benton, Chinnambedu
 Murugesan, da Silva, Hill, Perego (ECR), Prilepsky (ECR), Sergeyev (ECR), Sokolovski, Sorokina,
 Sygletos, Zhou), 65 Research Associates and PhD students, and 13 Professional Services staff.
 * FOSA: Fellow of the Optical Society of America, FIET: Fellow of the Institution of Engineering
 and Technology

 Energy and Bioproducts Research Institute
 EBRI’s dedicated building incorporates unique, state-of-the-art laboratories, collaborative office
 space, dedicated meeting/engagement rooms, and social facilities to support its academic and
 industry facing teams in accelerating the commercial development of low-carbon energy and
 products. The facilities are the result of a £20m investment to support the development of a
 regional bioenergy supply chain and to promote the adoption of innovative new bioenergy
 technologies across the West Midlands region. These include:
    •   Outstanding experimental, analytic facilities for biomass and biofuel elemental analysis,
        and thermochemical characterisation (including Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA)).
    •   Slow, intermediate and fast pyrolysis reactors for waste and biomass thermal processing
        with different bio-liquids quenching systems and on-line analysis of gaseous products.



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   High-pressure, high-temperature autoclave systems for hydrothermal processing of
        biomass and catalytic upgrading of bio-liquids towards biofuels and value-added
        chemicals.
    •   Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC), Pyrolysis-GC-MS (Py-GC-MS), ICP-OES for
        metal analysis and spectroscopic characterisation (FTIR, UV-VIS).
    •   Surface morphology and crystallographic characterisation (SEM, EDX, SPX, XRD) and
        chromatography (Gas Chromatography (GC), Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry
        (GC-MS) and High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC)).
    •   A 1MWth fluidised bed gasification pilot plant connected to a 400kW combined heat and
        power generator that can provide the heat, electricity, and cooling needs of the EBRI
        building and other parts of the University campus. This is the only large-scale gasification
        pilot plant for R&D in the UK, comprising 1000 instruments, 80 pieces of equipment and
        eight control panels.
    •   A microgrid demonstrator, incorporating a 10kW smart bi-directional charger, which was
        the UK’s first vehicle-to-grid charger, supporting development of demand-side
        management approaches to support low-carbon networks.
 These facilities allow EBRI researchers to carry out laboratory-scale investigations of the
 fundamental science around feedstock conversion, facilitating feedstock, intermediate and
 product characterisation across thermochemical, biological and catalytic conversion pathways.
 The research-focused laboratories offer high-quality facilities for our cutting-edge research
 projects as well as attracting international collaborators and visitors, who access our facilities via
 Marie Curie Fellowships (two confirmed for 2021); schemes such as the transnational access
 programme BRISK2 (where EBRI is the only UK participant); and research visits from national
 Supergen collaborators. EBRI is also part of an equipment sharing scheme for researchers and
 technicians across the Midlands via the Energy Research Accelerator (ERA). The opportunity to
 access these high-quality facilities is available to our UG students via internships and final year
 projects, as well as a unique IChemE-accredited training course that allows our students, staff and
 others to gain experience on a full-scale process plant.
 Our analytical and scale-up facilities underpins our work with 387 businesses through the Low
 Carbon project and 211 companies attending EBRI’s highly acclaimed (97% rated “Excellent” or
 “Very Good”) two-day ‘Value from Waste’ Masterclass. In an independent evaluation (*EBRI
 Interim Evaluation Reports published 06/2015 and 04/2019), 100% of businesses felt that the
 support received from EBRI had had a positive impact on their company, of which 47% said EBRI
 improved their competitiveness; 28% increased their investment in Research, Development and
 Innovation. In accordance with the HM Treasury "Green Book" methodologies, the economic
 impact of EBRI’s support for businesses included:
    •   Creation of 234 new jobs in the region
    •   Increase of over £28.9m in Gross Value Added (GVA) through business support
    •   Increase in RD&I spend of over £1.97m after businesses partnered with EBRI
 Success of these programmes is communicated widely through the website and booklets, e.g.,
 the Fusion Guide which has played an important role in supporting regional businesses to develop
 low-carbon solutions. Andy Street, West Midlands Mayor, said “With Energy-from-Waste and
 Bioproduct supply chains expanding rapidly, businesses need to be made aware of the wide
 variety of specialisms that our region has to offer. The Fusion Guide does a brilliant job of making
 this process easier for businesses."
 EBRI’s research extends from fundamental science through engineering challenges, social
 responses to technologies, economic context and policy development. It leads the £6m national
 flagship EPSRC/BBSRC-funded Supergen Bioenergy Hub research centre of excellence which
 works with academia, industry, government and societal stakeholders to develop sustainable



                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bioenergy systems that support the UK’s transition to an affordable, resilient, low-carbon energy
 future.
 The EBRI team from UoA12 includes: Professors Thornley (Head of Institute), Bridgwater
 (FIChemE, FIE) and Tighe who work alongside: Blanco Sanchez, Chong, Fratini, Granollers,
 Griffiths, Hossain, Najdanovic, Nowakowski, Onwudili, Röder (independent researcher, ECR) and
 ECRs: Amiri, Fernandez-Castane, Yuan and Rezk. A further 16 individuals from UoA12 are
 members of both EBRI and ASTUTE: Alaswad (ECR), Derry (ECR), Evans, Holderbaum, Jia,
 Junaid, Li, Mahomed (ECR), Park, Rahman, Swadener, Sweeney (Professor, FCILT, FCMI,
 FInstLM), Theodosiou, Tota-Maharaj (FICE, FIoWater), van Koningsbruggen and Whitehead. In
 addition, there are nine Research Associates, 13 PhD students, six knowledge-exchange and
 eight Professional Services staff including the EBRI Director of Engagement (Miller).
 *FIChemE: Fellow of the Institution of Chemical Engineers; FIE Fellow of the Institution of
 Engineers; FCILT: Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport; FCMI: Fellow of
 the Chartered Management Institute; FInstLM: Fellow of the Institute of Leadership and
 Management; FICE: Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers; FIoWater: Fellow of the Institute
 of Water.

 Aston Institute for Urban Technologies and the Environment
 ASTUTE provides a range of facilities to support the variety of research activities in the Institute.
    •   The Aston Laboratory for Immersive Virtual Environments was created in 2015 as a result
        of a £3.9m investment. It provides motion capture, room-scale virtual reality and EEG
        recording equipment, enabling research into visual perception, social cognition, and social
        vision.
    •   The Aston Interactive Media Lab is dedicated to research into human-computer interaction,
        primarily applied to mobile technologies.
    •   The Aston Robotics, Vision and Intelligent Systems lab houses a variety of predominantly
        social robots and aims to improve mankind’s quality of life by enabling intelligent robots,
        virtual agents and autonomous systems with perceptual and cognitive capabilities.
    •   Investment from GBS Institute of Technology has enabled the creation of laboratories
        dedicated to research in cyber security, rapid prototyping and digital manufacturing.
    •   Significant research activity in data analytics and AI is supported by a range of computing
        facilities, including: individual GPU-based workstations; a new shared server (8GPU, 20
        core, 512GB, £50k); cloud-based processing (e.g., Amazon Web Services); and the Tier 2
        High Performance Computing Plus facility of Midlands Innovation (ILES 1.5).
    •   Supporting research on future transport, we have a wide range of facilities for testing high-
        performance electrical machines, power converters and EV batteries to enable bespoke
        design.
 Since the formation of ASTUTE in 2018, the number of KTP projects in the Institute has increased
 from five to 17. In terms of fundamental research, Aston’s two successes in the recent EPSRC
 New Horizons call were both from ASTUTE members.
 ERDF projects continue to deliver measurable benefit to our regional beneficiaries. The Think
 Beyond Data project enables SMEs to make better use of their data, to develop new services and
 products, to leverage large public datasets, and to develop a workforce that is highly skilled in
 leading-edge analytical techniques. An evaluation report by Hatch Regeneris (2020) noted that
 the team supported 60 companies, with estimated additional GVA expected to reach almost £4m,
 providing £6.45 GVA for every £1 of ERDF funding invested. The findings demonstrate that the
 project represents good value for money and this project has since been extended.
 A second project, Smarterials – Promoting Functional Materials in SMEs, sits between ASTUTE
 and EBRI. This project commenced in 09/2018 and will run until 08/2021. It is designed to help 66
 SMEs develop their use of functional materials and grow their business through a partnership with

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aston University built on research, testing and expertise in materials science. The collaborations
 with industry have been diverse: from working with a fuel additive manufacturer to verify the
 performance and efficiency that it brings to an engine, to working with a wind turbine developer to
 create prototype designs with optimum materials.
 The ASTUTE team returned under UoA12 includes: Professors Webb (Head of Institute), Al-
 Malaika, Cao, Hainsworth (FREng), Topham (FRSC) and Xu working alongside Alexakis, Ankrah,
 Chattopadhyay, Claussen (ECR), Fratini, Generalis, Geoghegan (ECR), Herzallah, Jabran (ECR),
 Jones, Kasim (ECR), Laurie, Leslie, Liu, Ma (FIMechE), Marinov, Martin, Matopoulos, Mehravar
 (ECR), Morrison, Nerukh (FRSC), Nock, de Souza (independent researcher, ECR), Peters, Price,
 Prince, Sabri (ECR), Sutherland, Tang, Thomson, Wong, Worral (ECR), Wu and Zhang. Within
 UoA12, a further 16 individuals are members of both EBRI and ASTUTE: Alaswad (ECR), Derry
 (ECR), Evans, Holderbaum, Jia, Junaid, Li, Mahomed (ECR), Park, Rahman, Swadener, Sweeney
 (Professor), Theodosiou, Tota-Maharaj, van Koningsbruggen and Whitehead. In UoA11 there are
 a further 34FTE ASTUTE academic staff including six ECRs. ASTUTE also hosts 11
 professional support staff (project managers, business development managers and
 administrators).
 *FREng: Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering; FRSC: Fellow of the Royal Society of
 Chemistry; FIMechE: Fellow of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 4.1 Introduction
 EPS values collaboration with academic, industry and policy partners. Examples of our leadership
 internationally include Thornley, who is coordinating the UKRI Supergen Hub’s input at COP26,
 and Turitsyn’s COFUND MULTIPLY project. We also have strong involvement in networks such
 as MSCA-ITNs, which have resulted in the College being well connected internationally. In
 addition, wide-ranging activities in Knowledge Exchange such as KTP and business-focused
 ERDF funding have generated strong links to industry – especially in the technical SME
 community.

 4.2 Research Networks
 Our Research Institutes collaborate with high-performing institutions and industry partners around
 the world, allowing regular exchange of people and ideas. This creates a vibrant, high-quality
 research environment, facilitating the generation of collaborative funding proposals from our
 international and connected community. Exemplars include:
 •     H2020-MSCA-ITNs: AIPT now coordinates the highest number of MSCA-ITNs in the UK
       (eight), and the fifth highest in Europe (with only three fewer awards than the French
       National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS), which covers all of France). The eight ITN
       projects we have equate to £19m, with £5.6m going to Aston. These networks, with industrial
       partners including IBM, Orange Labs, Telecom Italia, Thales, Nokia Bell Labs and other
       technology leaders, will train 69 ECRs with 12 forming the Aston cohort, illustrating the
       strength of our industry and academic networks, scientific ideas and excellence in training
       the next generation of researchers.
 •     Erasmus Mundus Joint Masters Programme (EMJMs): EPS leads one EMJMs and is a
       partner in three. The total value of these projects is £3m. Combined, the projects fund the
       training of more than 100 Masters students from across the world to undertake split-stay
       Masters programmes focused on optical communications technology for smart cities,
       electronics and micro-engineering. Each programme brings together leading academic
       groups in Europe with international leaders in industrial research, such as Airbus, Thales,
       STMicroelectronics, Ericsson and BT.
 •     H2020-MSCA Research and Innovation Staff Exchange (RISE): Since 2014, EPS has
       received funding for 18 RISE projects, as lead and partner, equal to £9m to support

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         collaborative research, networking and training with industry and academia across the
         world. They have enabled collaboration with academics from 40 countries on applied and
         theoretical projects, ranging from extending theories on plastic deformation through
         harnessing techniques in fluid turbulence, to novel wound dressings from natural
         compounds.
 •       H2020-Future Emerging Technology (EU-FET) programme: Aston is in the top ten UK
         recipients for the highly competitive FET programme. The projects that Aston leads are
         excellent examples of multi-disciplinary research, generated by an Aston team from AIPT
         and the Aston Institute of Health and Neurodevelopment (IHN), bringing together
         biophotonics experts and neuroscience researchers:
            o   Custom architecturally defined 3D stem cell derived functional human neural
                networks for transformative progress in neuroscience and medicine
                (MESO_BRAIN). Prof Rafailov (AIPT), Dr Parri (IHN), €3.5m (€1m to Aston),
                Partners: Axol Bioscience (UK), Laser Centrum Hannover (Germany), Institute for
                Photonics Science (Italy) and University of Barcelona (Spain)
            o   Non-invasive dynamic neural control by laser-based technology (NEUROPA).
                Prof Rafailov (AIPT), Dr Parri (IHN), €4m (€1m to Aston). Partners: Sorbonne
                University (France), Bayreuth University (Germany), University of Barcelona
                (Spain), Oulu University (Finland) and Pharmacoidea (Hungary)
 •       Partner Institutions: The Aston-Novosibirsk State University International Centre for
         Photonics, established in 2013, led to more than 90 publications in the leading international
         journals (including Nature Photonics, Nature Communications and Physical Review
         Letters).
 •       Overseas Development Assistance (ODA) funding: Aston has a diverse portfolio of
         research and knowledge exchange projects with ODA recipient countries, attracting funding
         for six GCRF and 16 Newton projects to tackle UN Sustainable Development Goals aligned
         economic development and social welfare challenges, such as plastic waste (Turkey);
         renewable, naturally-derived wound healing (Vietnam); and reducing post-harvest loss
         (Sub-Saharan Africa).

 4.3 Academic Outputs
 Our networking strategy has produced a significant impact on international and corporate
 collaborative outputs. From the Category A staff submitted in UoA12, there were 3168 published
 outputs, 59.9% were the result of international collaboration and 9.2% were the result of academic
 corporate collaboration (SciVal report based on Category A staff submitted). Of the collaborative
 papers, 45% of the authors were from partners within Europe, 24% from Asia Pacific, 18% from
 North America, 6% Middle East and 3% from Africa. Within the UK, the most significant
 collaborators for Engineering were the University of Birmingham, University College London,
 University of Warwick and University of Manchester. Outside of the UK the largest collaborators
 in each region are:
     •    Western Europe: CNRS (The French National Centre for Scientific Research), CSIC –
          Institute of Optics Daza de Valdés (Spain), University of Oulu (Finland), Technical
          University of Denmark
     •    Australia: Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, University of New South Wales
     •    USA: Harvard
     •    Eastern Europe: Novosibirsk State University (Russia), RAS – Federal Research Centre
          for Information and Computational Technologies, Siberian Branch
     •    China: Huazhong University of Science and Technology and the Chinese Academy of
          Science


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our top corporate collaborators are dominated by the large global telecommunications companies
 such as Lucent, Orange Labs and Huawei Technologies, but stretched to 149 in total from global
 companies (e.g., GlaxoSmithKline, BELECTRIC Solar & Battery GmbH, Airbus) to SMEs
 (Optimec, Arden Photonics).

 4.4 Research Community
 In addition to our funded networks, EPS strongly encourages colleagues to contribute to the wider
 research community. This includes:
  •     Journal editing: Editor in Chief (2019-present) of Biomass and Bioenergy (Thornley);
        Editorial Board (2019-present) for Science of the Total Environment (Alaswad); Guest
        Editor (2020) for special issue of the Journal of Materials Research, on The Science and
        Technology of Vapor Phase Processing and Modification of Surfaces (Hainsworth);
        Associate Editor (2009-2015) of Optics Express (Ellis); Associate Editor (2019-2022) of
        Urban Rail Transit URRT (Marinov); Chief Editor (2018-present) of the International
        Journal for the History of Engineering & Technology (Price); Editorial Board (2014-present)
        of Optics Letters (OSA) (Sumetsky); Editorial Board (2019-present) Optica (OSA),
        (Sumetsky); Editorial Board (2017-present) Journal of Chemical Technology and
        Biotechnology (Theodosiou); Associate Editor (2015-2016) RSC Advances Royal Society
        of Chemistry Journal (Topham); Associate Editor (2019-present) of the IEEE Journal of
        Lightwave Technology (Turitsyn), Co-Editor (2016-present) Journal of the European
        Optical Society (Turitsyn), Editorial Board (2015-present) Nature Publishing Group
        Scientific Reports (Turitsyn); Guest Editor (2020-present) Applied Sciences (Worrall).
  •     Contribution to conference organisation: Chair of Technical Programme Committee of
        the European Conference on Optical Communications (ECOC 2019, Dublin, Ellis); OFC
        D4 Subcommittee Chair (San Francisco 2019, previously Committee Member 2016-18,
        Forysiak); Organiser and Chair of the Royal Society International Scientific Seminar on
        Orbital Angular Momentum in Optical Fibre Communications (Chicheley Hall, 2016,
        Forysiak); Chair (2014) and Co-Chair (2015-2016) of the Committee for Optical Micro/Nano
        Resonators and Devices (IEEE Photonics Conference, Sumetsky); Co-organiser of the
        Royal Society meeting on Communication Networks Beyond the Capacity Crunch
        (London, 2015, Ellis, Saad & Payne (Southampton)); Organiser and Chair of the
        symposium Advances on Biofuels: Materials, Characterisation, Processing and Testing at
        the XVI International Materials Research Congress (IMRC) (Mexico, 2017, Sodre); Fuel
        Cell Session Chair and Conference Committee for Sustainable Energy and Environmental
        Protection (UAE 2109, Alaswad); Committee Member for the 11th International
        Conference on Environmental Engineering (2020, Toto-Maharaj); Member-at-Large, CDIO
        International Council, (2018-2022, Junaid); Program Section Co-Chair (2017) and Chair
        (2018), American Academy of Forensic Sciences (Hainsworth).
  •     Conference and technical meetings at Aston: We have also encouraged staff to host
        conferences and international meetings on campus to expand our network. This has
        included: IoP Photon 2018, ~400 attendees (Forysiak); 14th International Conference on
        Materials Chemistry MC14 (2019), 600 attendees (Topham); POF 2016: 25th International
        Conference on Plastic Optical Fibres (Webb); UK and Ireland / European Annual Meeting
        of the CDIO initiative 2020 (Junaid); Watef Network Conference 2020 – Moving towards
        water resilient communities (Tota-Maharaj); 6th international conference on Material
        Science and Smart Materials (2019, Martin); New Frontiers in Raman-assisted fibre
        technologies (2017, Sergeyev); Non-linear Fourier Transform NFT-Workshop (2020,
        Doering-Saad).

 4.5 Knowledge Exchange
 Within EPS we have a variety of platforms to engage with industrial partners, government and
 Professional Engineering Institutions, which work together to support knowledge exchange and
 present a coherent pathway for company-university interactions. These include:

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •    European Regional Development Funding (ERDF) – This allows each Research
       Institute a platform for regional knowledge exchange, with six projects running in 2020
       (AgriTech, Smarterials, UK Centric Supply Chains, Think Beyond Data (UoA11), Low
       Carbon SMEs and ETICC). In 2020 alone, 200 enterprises were supported by EPS by
       these projects. All ERDF-funded business support programmes are independently
       evaluated upon completion. Analysis from these evaluations show participating companies
       benefit from faster growth, sustainable job creation, graduates retained in the region and
       increased GVA.
  •    Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) – We have grown our KTP activity, with strong
       centralised support and referrals from the ERDF projects and the Industry Clubs. Aston is
       currently the most successful University regionally with the eighth largest portfolio in the
       UK and the portfolio is dominated by EPS projects. There have been 32 KTP projects over
       the REF period, with EPS as either PI or CI totalling £6,374,896 in funding (13 of these in
       UoA12 since 2018). Analysis of KTP reports showed Aston generated on average 1107%
       return-on-investment (ILES1.4). We host a high profile annual KTP poster event which
       allows our beneficiaries and research teams to network and understand the benefits of
       knowledge exchange and promote wider Knowledge Exchange opportunities. Recent KTP
       success includes the 2019 “Future Innovators Award” for KTP associate Gallo working with
       Sarissa Biomedical.
  •    Industry Clubs (ICs) – EPS has developed a model of ICs that has generated significant
       benefit to both students and researchers. The first IC was launched in Computer Science
       (CS) to harness cutting-edge industry expertise to generate high-level graduate
       opportunities, enhance the skills of students and develop new research opportunities. The
       CS IC brings together students, academic members of staff and local technology
       businesses who provide both financial and in-kind support. It has supported >80
       placements and graduate roles, guest lectures, company input into student projects and
       curriculum. It helped establish 15 KTP projects and secure joint funding for three PhD
       studentships (Geospatial Insight, Beazley and Arcadis) and a £586.5k EPSRC project
       (EP/T017627/1). Innovate UK recognised Aston’s success in this area at their national
       “Best of the Best” KTP Awards 2020. The IC model is being rolled out across the College.
       For example, the Chemical Engineering IC currently has six subscribing companies and
       has already resulted in 50% sponsorship of a PhD studentship, and there is a KTP
       application in preparation.
  •    Collaborative Research Grants – A natural progression from ERDF is collaborative
       Innovate UK research projects, e.g., a Photonics ERDF project awarded in 2013 created
       a link to Gas Data Ltd who then went on to collaborate further with AIPT on a project to
       develop a range of gas monitoring solutions, utilising optical fibre technologies, for difficult-
       to-detect gases that would function in challenging and hazardous environments. In addition
       to its Impact Case Study, Energy Harvest, EBRI has won three Energy Catalyst grant
       awards from Innovate UK during the period in Ethiopia (Onwudili, ECR) and the Philippines
       (Röder, Independent Researcher, ECR), supporting UK companies in developing
       sustainable energy solutions for communities in developing countries and underpinning
       our leading international impact. This is in addition to industrial collaborations with
       innovative companies such as Nova Pangaea (biofuels/products), Future Energy (biochar)
       and SHV (low-carbon propane).
  •    Informing government policy – In areas such as energy it is important to be working at
       a governmental level to generate impact. Through Supergen, Aston staff had 55 meetings
       in 2020 with representatives from seven relevant governmental departments and agencies
       (e.g., BEIS, DfT and OfGEM). These meetings help government employees to fill
       knowledge gaps and inform policy development and deployment. EBRI staff are
       representatives on several energy policy committees including the Birmingham City
       Council Route to Zero Taskforce, ERA Energy for Waste Policy Commission and NFU
       Scientific Advisory Panel on Net Zero. They (Thornley, Röder and Chong) also contributed
       to the Renewable Energy Association’s biomass strategy (see ICS Bioenergy Policy). Ellis

                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          has engaged with policy makers influencing the transition to full-fibre networks through
          workshops (2015 and 2017), Parliamentary engagement (2013 to 2016) and generating
          extensive media coverage.

 4.6 Wider Contribution to Society
 The Aston Strategy 2018-23 has our beneficiaries' approach at its core (ILES1.1), and EPS has a
 strong history of outreach and Masterclasses to engage the wider community with our research
 activities; these activities drive our student diversity and our strong links to business and the
 region. Outreach is explicitly written into many of our grant applications. Examples of our higher-
 profile events, where a strong link between science and the arts boosts accessibility include:
      •   Lightfest (2015) was a flagship UK initiative for the UNESCO International Year of Light
          celebrations. This day-long event took place at the newly opened Library of Birmingham.
          It was funded as a European Commission Researchers Night activity and attracted 12,500
          visitors. 100 researchers and 33 additional Aston volunteers participated. It included
          lectures about light science and technology including Professor Andrew Ellis (AIPT) who
          explained how optical fibres connect us all together and Dr Maggie Aderin-Pocock, from
          BBC's the Sky at Night programme, who showcased photographs taken by the Hubble
          Space Telescope. Alongside there were educational workshops, technology
          demonstrations and art installations all commissioned for the event. After the event,
          various exhibits travelled to Manchester’s Light Festival 2016 in the Museum of Science
          and Industry, and the IET’s EngTech 2017 and 2019.
      •   EPS was invited to participate in a high-profile event in Hong Kong, SPARK: The Science
          and Art of Creativity (2019), which was organised by the British Council. The Aston stand
          concentrated on smart cities and how technology, data and logistics linked together. The
          event was featured in China Daily Hong Kong.
      •   Thornley addressed Climate Assembly UK on bioenergy’s role in the UK 2050 climate
          targets in 2020 and EBRI staff have made regular appearances on radio programmes
          nationally and internationally to explain climate change and energy-related issues
      •   Aston staff constituted four of the eleven contributors to the Supergen Bioenergy comic, a
          successful engagement and research dissemination tool for younger audiences. 3000
          copies were distributed globally at the request of research and education agencies
          worldwide.
      •   EPS has been an active contributor to The Big Bang Fair, e.g., our STEM Superhero stand
          in 2019 involved 67 staff and student volunteers explaining seven different research-
          related activities. We engaged with over 3,500 young people who spent an average of 20
          minutes at the stand and generated 15,900 social media impressions. Colleagues have
          also regularly contributed to activities such as Pint of Science and Café Scientifique, e.g.,
          “Contemporary logistics and supply chain management - the key to economic and societal
          well-being” (Sweeney).
 Broader Public Engagement – EPS have encouraged (and trained) staff to write for The
 Conversation (https://theconversation.com/uk) to engage the wider public with STEM. Articles
 include: The design tricks that made the Nokia 3310 world-beating (Mallaband, 2017); A full fibre
 network is the only way to future-proof Britain's digital economy (Ellis & Turitsyn, 2015); What is
 needed to tackle the climate emergency, and who is responsible? (Thornley, 2020); How to fix
 India's burning issue: turn unwanted straw into bio-energy pellets (Berry, 2017); No-deal Brexit
 scenario would create serious traffic congestion and supply chain chaos (Sweeney, 2019); Rice
 growing produces tonnes of excess straw – can we turn it into 'bioenergy'? (Röder, 2019).
 Media training and marketing support has also been offered as part of our public engagement
 strategy. Recent examples include:
  •       In 2019, Hainsworth was featured on Channel 4’s World’s Most Extreme series and was
          interviewed by BBC WM on her research into forensics and knife crime. Sweeney was

                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        featured in The Telegraph talking about the future of Blockchain. Martin was widely
        covered talking about stained antimicrobial glasses and how they can protect against
        hospital superbugs (Midlands Today, BBC News, Reuters, MedicalNewsToday.com, The
        Daily Mail, Nursing Times). EBRI gained coverage (RenewablesNow, Electronicsweekly,
        Raconteur, E&T) for their Vehicle-to-Grid/Building (V2G/V2B) systems and distribution
        networks collaboration with ByteSnap Design, Grid Edge and Nortech Management.
        Whitehead was featured by Bioscience Today about how we can add value to waste plastic
        bottles and how these can be turned into essential products for the developing world. This
        story was also covered by BBC Midlands Today, ITV News Central and BBC West
        Midlands.
  •     In 2020 Sweeney featured on BBC Radio WM, ITV News Central and 20+ BBC local radio
        stations, talking about the logistical rollout of the Covid-19 vaccines. Prince’s SNAP device,
        designed to stop Covid-19 spread during routine throat cancer tests featured in BBC News
        and BBC Midlands Today and widely in related clinical press. Thornley's work on bioenergy
        featured on BBC Radio 4’s Farming Today and a BBC World Service – World Business
        Report on Turning Waste into Energy. A project from the Think Beyond Data ERDF project
        on route optimisation for transport was picked up by 25 websites including The Engineer.
        Chattopadhyay’s Nature Communications proposal for a new way to use machine learning
        to define what poverty really means in different contexts was featured in ZME Science.
 Looking to the future – Aston's College of EPS will build on existing partnerships and forge new
 links at local, national and international level. By investing in our research infrastructures and the
 staff and doctoral students who make up our research community, EPS will continue to produce
 excellent, impactful and sustainable research for the benefit of society and the advancement of
 science and engineering.




                                                                                               Page 25
