Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: SOAS University of London

 Unit of Assessment: Area Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context
 Area Studies at SOAS date back to its earliest days; much of our current interdisciplinary enquiry
 is still strongly inflected with a regional character, and the School continues to be organised in
 such a way as to foreground our broader contribution to Area Studies. Drawing lessons from
 feedback from REF2014, in which our Area Studies submission was described as having a
 ‘diverse and complicated structure’, we have elected to take a strategic focus in our Area
 Studies submission on our scholarship on one area: East Asia. This comprises the People’s
 Republic of China (including Hong Kong), Japan, Korea (both North and South), and Taiwan.

 1.2 Structure
 This UoA comprises 10 FTE staff, all being full-time permanent members of staff, plus one
 retired staff member: three professors (Fuehrer, Gerstle [retired] & Tsang), three readers (Fell,
 Kong & Liu), three senior lecturers (Caldwell, Karlsson, & Macnaughtan), and two lecturers
 (Kobayashi & Mou [the latter being an Early Career Researcher]). One staff (Liu) was on
 maternity leave for one year until November 2020. Members of this UoA are drawn from across
 SOAS, from the Departments of Politics and International Relations and East Asian Languages
 and Culture, the Schools of Law and Finance and Management, and the Centre for Gender
 Studies.

 SOAS’ interdisciplinary area studies research is facilitated through our Centres and Institutes:
 the SOAS China Institute, the Japan Research Centre, the Centre of Korean Studies and the
 Centre of Taiwan Studies. With the exception of the academic leadership of the SOAS China
 Institute, academics are located in departments. Implicit in this arrangement is a division of
 labour in which the academic departments are primarily responsible for staff recruitment,
 mentoring and pastoral care. By contrast, regional centres play a leading role in convening
 research, partnerships, external events and other forms of engagement, and are tasked with
 reaching out to governments and diplomatic corps, the corporate sector, civil society and the
 media by ensuring that findings from cutting-edge research are made available to them in a
 timely and relevant fashion. In this way, our strategy seeks to maximise the impact of area
 studies research at SOAS.

 The SOAS China Institute was officially launched in 2014. It is designated ‘the overarching
 institute for promoting the study of China at SOAS and engagement with greater China and the
 wider world’ and is ‘responsible for reaching out to other academic institutions, the business
 communities, the media, the public sector and the general public’ in order ‘to assist in delivering
 impact for research’ (SOAS China Institute, ‘China Strategy 2017’). Its establishment includes a
 Director (Tsang), a Deputy Director (Liu), a part-time Executive Officer and a part-time
 administrative assistant. It receives from SOAS an annual allocation of £40,000 towards
 operational expenses. In addition, it raises substantial external funding (§3.2) to help fulfil its
 mission. In light of the rise of China and its increasing influence in Asia, the Institute is the
 designated unit for coordinating cross-country research in East Asia and for delivering
 impact for Area Studies as a whole.

 The Japan Research Centre, established in 1978, promotes and coordinates academic
 research and learning on Japan across the School, hosting a weekly seminar series in term-
 time, and organising regular lectures, workshops, symposia and conferences. It is the
 institutional host for the British Association for Japanese Studies and provides the editorial team
 for the Association’s official journal, Japan Forum. Thanks to the generosity of various funding
 bodies, it generates an average annual income of £60,000, which is used to fund postgraduate
 studentships in Japanese Studies, provide small research grants for staff, and support regular


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research events and activities. Its part-time chair (Macnaughtan) is supported by the SOAS
 Centres and Institutes Office.

 The Centre of Korean Studies was created in 1987, and benefits from financial support from
 the Korea Foundation and the Academy of Korean Studies. As the leading academic centre of
 its kind in the UK, it coordinates and supports research on Korea in the School, and offers expert
 knowledge and advice, as needed, to external constituencies. Its average annual income of
 £20,000 supports research on Korea at SOAS. Its part-time chair (Karlsson) is backed up by the
 SOAS Centres and Institutes Office.

 The Centre of Taiwan Studies came into existence in 1999 and is funded by a rolling three-
 year grant of £290,000 from the government of Taiwan. It is widely recognized as the leading
 centre for Taiwan Studies in the world. In 2008 it was awarded the French Taiwan Culture Prize
 for its contribution to the development of European Taiwan Studies. In 2015 it hosted the
 Second World Congress in Taiwan Studies, the largest Taiwan Studies academic conference
 ever held in Europe. Its income is used to support teaching and research on Taiwan. Its part-
 time director (Fell) has the assistance of a Senior Teaching Fellow and a part-time administrator.

 1.3 Research objectives and strategy: 2014-2020
 1.3.1 Research goals
 Our goal is to nurture and support research which focuses on both individual countries and their
 cultures, as well as on cross-country and regional interactions. While disciplinary excellence is
 the starting point, this UoA encourages and supports inter-disciplinary and country-focused
 studies as the basis of multi-disciplinary and multi-country collaborative work.

 A major objective is to maximise the impact of research sponsored by this unit. Another is to
 establish an environment that nurtures research excellence and the delivery of impact. Our
 research objectives are in line with SOAS’s historical emphasis on supporting multi-faceted
 study of Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, and reflect the priority goals of the research strategy:
 to maximise the impact of research, enable interdisciplinarity, and advance international
 partnerships (see §1.3.4, 4.1, IES §2).

 Our objectives have been met. In terms of impact, the China Institute, for example, has become
 a global hub in sharing its research findings and insights with governments, the corporate sector
 (through its Corporate Membership scheme), and the media, enabling them to refine their
 engagement with and reporting on China (§4.5). As to the nurturing objective, colleagues have
 been supported to secure major research grants and publish prize-winning scholarship. Liu, for
 example, won an ERC grant of £1,180,000 to work on the important subject of family and gender
 in Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan (§3.1). Mou, an early career researcher, was
 supported to publish a book, The Construction of Guilt in China: An Empirical Account of Routine
 Chinese Injustice, which received the Peter Birks Prize for Outstanding Legal Scholarship
 (2020). Both Liu and Mou are female and BAME. We have also supported inter-disciplinary work
 in our projects and formed strong partnerships with universities in China, Hong Kong, South
 Korea and Taiwan (§4.1).

 1.3.2 Current strategy
 Our Area Studies research strategy was devised to enable the regional centres to work
 complementarily with academic departments to deliver excellent research and impact. To do so,
 this strategy also seeks:
     • to build partnerships with academic and non-academic stakeholders;
     • to secure external funding for research and other research-related purposes (e.g.,
          conferences, seminars and lectures); and
     • to make the findings of our research available via the media and other means to both
          public and private sectors.
 Within this conceptual framework, real impact is delivered when our research outputs and
 expertise help to shape the views of external constituencies as they address issues that require
 an informed understanding of the East Asia region or one of its constituent parts.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.3.3 Implementing our current research strategy
 In order to implement this strategy, research is co-ordinated with and supported by both the
 disciplinary departments from which most staff included in this UoA are drawn and the relevant
 Regional Centres and Institutes of which they are members. An important part of the
 responsibilities of these regional centres is to make available resources to support Area Studies
 research projects. Thus, the China Institute provided seed-corn funding as well as a fitting
 research environment which enabled Liu to secure a major ERC grant (‘Doing Intimacy: A Multi-
 sited Ethnography of Modern Chinese Family Life’). It supported Tsang in his research to
 formulate a framework to explain China’s foreign policy making, which underpins the impact he
 has delivered to governments, the media and the corporate sector (details in the China Institute
 Impact Case Study).

 Individually, a regional centre supports disciplinary-based country-focused research, working in
 conjunction with the appropriate disciplinary department. For example, the Korea Centre
 partners with the East Asian Languages and Culture Department in enabling Jaehoon Yeon to
 research on Korean linguistics. Likewise, the Taiwan Centre coordinates with the Politics
 Department in supporting Fell’s project on Taiwan political parties and social movements.
 Collectively, the centres work together to support projects that cut across disciplinary boundaries
 and their respective country remits. With the emergence of China as the dominant power in East
 Asia, an important goal is to promote research and understanding of how China’s rise affects the
 region. As the designated anchor in coordinating this strategy, the China Institute works in
 partnership with the Taiwan Centre to study relations between the People’s Republic of China
 and Taiwan; with the Japan Centre to investigate the evolving relationship between Japan and
 China; and with the Korea Centre to explore China’s relations with the two Koreas. In 2016 all
 four centres were co-hosts of a Joint East Asian Studies Conference.

 Unit-level research support and internal peer-review are conducted in association with the
 Research and Enterprise Office (REO) at the School level. The REO’s pre-award support for
 grants has been substantially upgraded since REF2014, and now focuses especially on
 developing pathways to impact, formulating data management plans, and ensuring high
 standards of research ethics and compliance with current legislation on data (cf. IES). These
 processes have been integrated into the Worktribe platform, with face-to-face feedback tailored
 to individual projects in order to improve our capacity to generate high-quality research
 applications. Prior to their submission, all research proposals are peer reviewed to ensure that
 they fulfil requirements of intellectual rigour and other criteria.

 In support of cutting-edge and innovative research, SOAS seed-corn funding is available for
 exploratory pilot projects and network-building. In addition, the four regional centres/institute
 provide support for other exploratory and collaborative research (§3.1). They also work together
 to take advantage of the SOAS institutional research environment, particularly the Doctoral
 School, the Research and Enterprise Office (for research grant applications and impact) and the
 Communications Department (for engagement with the media and enhancing the profile of our
 research).

 1.3.4 Interdisciplinarity
 This UoA embodies the work of discipline-based academic departments in support of disciplinary
 driven research, and that of the regional centres designed to promote inter-disciplinary
 research. Interdisciplinarity is threaded through our research programmes. For example, work
 on China’s Belt and Road Initiative (to build an international economic and political nexus
 centred on China) involves not only colleagues trained in a variety of disciplines, but also those
 with expertise across all the regions within the geographical remit of SOAS.

 1.4 Impact strategy
 The impact score in Area Studies awarded to SOAS in REF2014 was disappointing. In the
 intervening years the feedback from the panel has been extensively and critically discussed
 within the School, and careful independent investigations have been undertaken in an effort to

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enhance the future delivery of impact. Making Area Studies research relevant and useful to
 interested parties outside academia has been embraced as a driver of research.

 The impact element of the research strategy designates the regional centres/institute as the
 primary instruments for engaging with the wider world and thereby delivering impact. Under this
 strategy, the regional centres and disciplinary departments focus on fulfilling their various and
 varied objectives and work complementarily to generate synergy. As the main drivers in
 supporting and promoting impact delivery, the focus of the regional centres—in particular, the
 China Institute—on outreach enables them to gain a good sense of which elements of Area
 Studies research at SOAS non-academic stakeholders will find most relevant and useful. This is
 an important step towards securing future support from such stakeholders for on-going research
 on East Asia at SOAS.

 As a means of institutionalising the delivery of impact the China Institute has launched two
 initiatives. The first was the inauguration in 2017 of a Corporate Membership scheme (§3.2,
 4.5), designed to engage proactively with the corporate sector and make the Institute’s research
 insights available to them in a systematic and sustained way. The second is to leverage the
 high media profile (§4.5) enjoyed by the China Institute (ranging from 150 to over 300 media
 ‘bites’ per year since 2017) in order to highlight the scope and depth of expertise offered by
 SOAS to governments, NGOs and documentary producers.

 The China Institute Impact Case Study reflects the centre-focused approach in this strategy.
 On the basis of his work at the Nottingham China Policy Institute for REF2014, in 2016 Tsang
 was headhunted from the University of Nottingham to lead the Institute and to deliver this
 approach to impact, research on the politics and foreign policy of China, and secure wide
 recognition beyond academia in order to deliver impact to governments, the corporate world, the
 public sector and the media (cf. the Impact Case Study Statement).

 The second impact case study, Andrew Gerstle’s work on Shunga (erotic art in Japan) was
 largely based on his personal research. Nonetheless, the Japan Research Centre gave him
 helpful administrative support, and the School allocated two Impact Acceleration Grants totalling
 £2,100 to strengthen his research focus and host events that assisted in delivering impact.

 1.5 Future strategic plan
 Building on the new strategy and institutional framework for research on East Asia, this unit
 seeks to nurture country-specific and region-wide collaborative research, including submitting
 major research project applications to research councils, as well as organising conferences and
 workshops to brainstorm on East Asia. This is being achieved by sustaining cooperation among
 regional centres as well as supporting individual initiatives. A key research theme is China’s
 global strategy and its influence in East Asia. Another addresses the comparative trans-national
 development experiences of the constituent countries in East Asia. A third theme is to build on
 previous research on sport in Japan to investigate the significance and implications of the
 postponement of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics for Japan and East Asia more
 generally.

 To encourage and support the publication of cutting-edge scholarship, particularly if they take an
 interdisciplinary approach, this unit plan to maximise the use of regional centres resources.
 Seed-corn funding will be made available to encourage new cross-disciplinary research projects.

 Moving forward, this UoA will continue to promote the development of research that puts impact
 at the centre of its conceptualisation. The China Institute will build on its Corporate Membership
 and outreach schemes to strengthen its impact on the corporate and public sectors. It will also
 use its expanding corporate network to support other regional centres to disseminate and
 enhance the usefulness of their cutting-edge research to non-academic stakeholders. In line with
 the School-wide strategy (IES §2) the four regional centres plan to work together and with
 colleagues from East Asia to develop collaborative research and make their research findings
 relevant to users both in the UK and in East Asia.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.6 Open Access and Research Integrity
 Area Studies at SOAS has progressed well towards the creation of an open access research
 environment, strongly supported by the School’s Library and Information Service. We meet the
 REF’s requirement for uploading full-text versions of journal articles, and nearly all post-2016
 full-text book chapters submitted to the REF are available on the institutional repository, ‘SOAS
 Research Online’. Liu and Tsang have published two Gold Access articles, which constitute over
 8% of REF returnable outputs.

 The unit works with the School Research Ethics Committee in ensuring that all relevant staff
 receive training and updates on guidelines on research ethics. It also works with the Doctoral
 School in conducting systematic review procedures, training and understanding of matters
 relating to academic integrity and misconduct by research students.

 In line with School policy, Area Studies staff receive support/advice from the SOAS Scholarly
 Communications Manager in the Library on general research data management and best
 practice at project design stage, and from the Digital Library Project Office for support with
 SOAS Digital Collections. The Information Compliance Manager and Research Ethics Panel
 review and support our research projects and their Data Management Plans. We have invested
 significantly in engagement and training in Open Research for researchers and research data
 managers, and in increasing their awareness of Open Research best practice.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The Area Studies UoA’s primary goal in staffing is to guarantee for its members a congenial and
 supportive environment that will ensure research excellence and delivery of impact. It seeks to
 fulfil this goal by building on the School’s wider research environment. The unit, as such, is not a
 single academic department, but works with academic departments to establish appropriate and
 effective methods of recruitment and support for staff. However, employment of two members of
 this UoA is based at one of the regional centres, the China Institute. The prioritised
 responsibilities of them are: to engage in cutting-edge research on a strategic subject (Liu,
 through her work on gender and family in Greater China); and to assume a leadership role in
 enhancing the research environment and delivering impact (Tsang). Support has been put in
 place to ensure that staff have the means of focusing on their research interests and engaging
 with others to explore collaborative research across disciplines and across countries within East
 Asia. For example, Liu was given seed-corn funding to formulate and prepare her application to
 the ERC for a major project (which she secured). She was subsequently relieved of
 administrative and teaching duties to enable her to focus full-time on the project.

 As part of the wider School research environment, academic staff in this UoA enjoy support from
 a School-wide Mentoring Scheme (IES §3.1), now enhanced to ensure fulfilment of
 benchmarks, goals and delivery of support matched to individual researcher needs. The only
 early career researcher (Mou) in this unit was given teaching relief and mentoring in line with
 School-wide policy, which enabled her to publish a prize-winning book. The Mentoring Scheme
 also includes an annual performance and development review, with emphasis on the latter in
 order to identify areas where support can be most effectively utilised. A priority focus of attention
 is research planning, including formulation of high-quality funding applications (which all staff are
 expected to undertake). Staff proposals for training tailored to meet individual needs are
 actively encouraged (e.g., research-related linguistic or other skills training), as is participation in
 a wide range of training programmes organised each year by the Research & Enterprise Office
 and the Staff Learning and Development team.

 SOAS has a generous research leave policy (IES §3.1). Two out of ten staff in this unit have
 taken advantage of this on three occasions in the current REF cycle, viz., Caldwell (post
 probation leave, one year 2015-16); and Fell (one term during 2014-15, and one in 2019-20).

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 This unit has employed five postdoctoral researchers (PDRs) as members of research
 programmes, which have supported them to present the results of their research elsewhere,
 conduct joint research leading to publications, and advance their career. Olivia Cheung (DPhil,
 Oxon) has been employed as a Post-Doctoral Research Fellow since April 2020 to work, under
 the direction of Tsang, on a project on ‘The Political Thought of Xi Jinping’. She has since been
 included in an application for a new major research grant and has just published a journal article
 co-authored with Tsang, within twelve months of her appointment. Under the auspices of the-
 ERC funded project, ‘Doing Intimacy: A multi-sited ethnography on modern Chinese family life’,
 four Post-Doctoral Fellows were employed and mentored by Liu. They are: Jiayu Zhang (PhD,
 Chinese university of Hong Kong, 2015-16), Eona Bell (PhD, LSE, 2015-16), Yung-Chen Yuan
 (PhD Bristol, 2017-18), and Olivia Cheung (PhD Royal Holloway, January-July 2017). Liu’s
 mentorship has helped Bell secure a Lectureship at Cambridge University and Yuan a research
 position at Academia Sinica (Taiwan’s premier research institute). Tsang also mentored another
 PDR (Jerome Doyon, PhD Columbia University and Sciences Po) funded by the Chiang Ching-
 kuo Foundation in the autumn of 2018, although after less than one term it was necessary to
 return the grant, following Doyon’s appointment by Oxford University to a Lectureship.

 Additionally, the four regional centres have hosted for varying lengths of time a large number of
 scholars whose research complements that of members of staff. Their attachment enriches and
 stimulates discourse and enables intellectual cross-fertilisation beyond the core staff of this unit.
 These visitors include 75 long-term Research Associates and 164 shorter term Visiting
 Scholars, drawn from institutions elsewhere in the UK, as well as from Canada, China (including
 Hong Kong), the EU, India, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Russia, Switzerland, and Taiwan.
 Their attachment enables permanent members of staff to access a much wider pool of
 scholarship to the benefit of their own research.

 2.2 Research students
 In the current REF cycle there are 166 PhD students who have worked or are working on
 research projects related to East Asia. 66 are from the UK and the EU, and 100 are from the rest
 of the world, with 58% from BAME background. In terms of gender, 38% are male, and 62% are
 female. 3% have declared disabilities. Among them 39 have already completed and been
 awarded a PhD degree. The average number of completions per staff (FTE) is 3.9.

 In addition to AHRC and ESRC scholarships, Area Studies students at SOAS have benefited
 from the availability of the following scholarships: Bloomsbury Colleges PhD Studentships, the
 SOAS Centre of Korean Studies Scholarship, JRC Fuwaku Scholarships, Meiji Jingu Japanese
 Studies Research Scholarships, Sasakawa Japanese Studies Postgraduate Studentships, and
 SOAS Research Studentships.

 2.3 Pathways for PhD research on East Asia
 This UoA works closely with the Doctoral School and academic departments in laying down a
 clear pathway for research students to pursue PhD research. All students working towards a
 PhD on a topic related to East Asia are supported by the annual Training Needs Analysis (via
 PhD Manager). This engages doctoral researchers with their respective lead supervisors at the
 beginning of each academic year in order to identify skills areas in which further development is
 required, and to make prioritised action plans for that year. Through this consultation training in
 methodology, language, conducting field work, research ethics or any other area deemed
 appropriate is made available. To guarantee its effectiveness, such training is delivered by the
 academic department deemed most suitable for the purpose (which may not necessarily be the
 student’s home department). In line with general SOAS policy (IES §3.2) an annual review is
 held towards the end of the academic year to support and reassure students that they are
 making appropriate progress. In order to provide a forum for the expression of doctoral
 researchers’ views, the Research Students Association is represented at the Doctoral School
 Management Group.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A supervisory committee, comprising two or three members of staff, is appointed to oversee the
 progress of all new PhD students. The lead supervisor is a member of the student’s home
 department, while the second and/or third supervisor(s) may be drawn from another department
 particularly if a student is engaged in inter-disciplinary research. In the first year, a student is
 required to meet the lead supervisor on a bi-weekly basis, or more frequently if required.
 Meetings with the second and/or third supervisor(s), or with the entire supervisory committee,
 are arranged, as necessary. PhD researchers are further supported by the departmental PhD
 Co-ordinator, whose role is to help resolve any supervisory issues that may arise.

 All new PhD students receive methodological and/or language training and support to refine the
 research plan (including for field work) in the first year. Given the nature of Area Studies, the
 overwhelming majority of students in this unit conduct field research in one or more of the East
 Asian countries in year two. Funding for field work is available via the Doctoral School, the
 Elisabeth Croll Scholarship for fieldwork in China and the CSJR Postgraduate Student Bursary.
 Additional funding is available by the regional centres (for example, the Sino-British Fellowship
 Trust grants [§3.1] administered by the China Institute).

 As part of their PhD planning, students are encouraged to devote year three to writing their
 thesis. However, all students are made aware of the option of extending their research for a
 fourth year, and all of them are eligible for financial support to enable them to complete their
 thesis within four years. The regional centres also provide assistance to PhD students to
 organise research events, build networks to facilitate launching personal academic initiatives,
 and attend conferences in East Asia. In May 2018, for instance, the China Institute helped
 facilitate the creation of a China Academic Network on Gender and the associated organisation
 of a workshop on ‘Articulating Gender in Modern China: Retro Prospective Encounters’.
 Likewise, the Taiwan Centre, for instance, provides conference funding and helps students
 planning to conduct fieldwork in Taiwan secure academic affiliation and supervision there.

 2.4 Equality and diversity
 The unit’s equality and diversity goals complement the School’s EDI strategy and commitments,
 including the Athena Swan Charter commitment to gender equality. Fulfilment of these goals is
 implicit in our research commitment to raising awareness on issues of equality and diversity.

 This unit of 10 FTE is an inclusive group in terms of gender, ethnicity and disciplines. In gender
 terms six are male and four female. Fifty percent are ethnic minorities, from Chinese (both
 Mainland China and Hong Kong) and Japanese backgrounds.

 The unit regularly works with academic departments to support staff with caring responsibilities
 and/or facing specific challenges. Such support extends to helping those returning from periods
 of leave (including parental leave), facing short-term or chronic ill health, or with caring
 responsibilities. Provision of flexible timetabling, research leave and travel and/or of flexible or
 remote working conditions is included in arrangements designed to offer a supportive
 environment. For example, it was agreed that Liu’s maternity leave should be extended to one
 year to enable her to maintain an acceptable balance between work and family commitments.
 Her request to defer the completion of her ERC research project until after her returning from
 maternity leave was likewise met. Academic support also embraces facilitating adjustments to
 doctoral candidates’ research schedules.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income
 The total value of research grants awarded during the period of REF2021 is £1,972,176. Of
 this the largest grant was one of £1,180,952 (€1,487,505) from the European Research Council
 (ERC). This was awarded to Liu for a six-year period (including one year of maternity leave). The
 title of the research project is ‘Doing Intimacy: A Multi-sited Ethnography of Modern Chinese
 Family Life’, and is a comparative analysis of family life in Mainland China, Hong Kong and

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Taiwan. Among the other grants, £44,230 was received from the ESRC (for Gerstle to work on a
 project on aesthetic salons in 18th-19th century Japan) and the British Academy (for Fuehrer to
 research on a new interpretation of the Book of Songs).

 The other grants are:
    • two successive grants of £171,478 and £171,229 from Taiwan’s Ministry of Foreign
        Affairs for Fell to lead research on Taiwan;
    • £85,000 from the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Gerteis to study blue collar
        youth and radical politics in post-war Japan;
    • £48,270 from the Hamad Bin Kahlifa University for Kobayashi to examine the future of
        Muslims in East Asia;
    • £42,000 from Humboldt University for Gerteis to conduct research there as a visiting
        fellow;
    • £34,600 from the British Council for Tan to study the health and wellbeing of Indonesian
        migrant workers and their families;
    • £30,960 from the Tokyo University of Foreign Studies for Dodd to conduct research there
        as a Special Visiting Scholar;
    • £28,125 from Humboldt University for Fuehrer to research on diaspora, migration and the
        mapping of the history of Chinese Art;
    • two grants of £26,400 and £12,064 from the Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation for Tan to
        work on classical Chinese literature;
    • three awards totalling £27,000 from the Academy of Korean Studies in Seoul for Kong to
        work on four projects, viz. the evolution of North Korean political economy under Kim
        Jong-Un; contemporary Korea; the tripartite agreement and the transition to ‘income led
        growth;
    • £10,000 from the British Association of Japanese Studies for Gerteis to work on
        translation in Japanese Studies;
    • £7,000 from the Academy of Korean Studies for Lee to research on visual exoticism or its
        reversal in opera and film;
    • £5,200 from the Taipei Representative Office in the UK for Fell to work on Taiwan
        writings;
    • and a further 14 smaller grants totalling £35,356 supporting a wide range of research
        projects.

 In addition, Fell received two other grants: one for £54,000 from the Taiwan Council for
 Indigenous Affairs (2013-15) to facilitate completion of a project on ‘British Historical Records on
 Taiwan’s Indigenous Peoples’; the second for £64,000 from the Shung-ye Museum of Formosan
 Aborigines of Taiwan (2017-20) for a project on ‘Contemporary Taiwanese Indigenous People’.
 Macnaughtan secured from the Toshiba International Foundation £27,000 for three projects, on
 Gender, Equality and Employment in Japan, on ‘Gagaku & Budo: Japanese Court Music and
 Martial Arts’, and for a Japan Centre Sports Symposia. Caldwell also received a small grant of
 £4,800 from Taiwan’s National Central Library (2016) to conduct research on ‘Evolution of the
 ROC constitution with specific reference to the Control Yuan’.

 The SOAS China Institute also receives an annual grant (subject to review) of up to £15,000
 from the Sino-British Fellowship Trust for the support of research on China conducted by
 members of SOAS and collaborative research projects involving colleagues based in Chinese
 institutions. Between 2014 and 2020, it supported 41 projects, each involving a grant usually up
 to £2,000. One such grant enabled, for example, Emily Dawes to spend a month conducting
 research at the Shanghai Municipal Archives and the Xujiahui Library to examine the way that
 Protestant missionaries interacted with Chinese Muslims in China during the late nineteenth
 century as part of her PhD project. During the same period, from its own resources the Japan
 Centre has awarded small research grants totalling £6,000 to four colleagues to facilitate their
 work on Japan-focused projects. It has further secured a total of £11,000 from the Meiji Jingu
 Intercultural Research Institute to enable 15 colleagues in the Centre to conduct Japan-focused
 research.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In 2019 the China Institute was also successful in raising £26,000 from the Silkroad Economic
 Development Research Centre of Hong Kong as seed-corn funding for a multi-disciplinary and
 multi-country research project on the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). As a first step towards
 formulating a major project application for external funding, these funds were used to bring
 scholars from potential international partners to brainstorm with SOAS staff the impact of the BRI
 in recipient countries. Building on this pilot, the Institute is at the time of writing exploring with
 colleagues within and beyond the Institute how a major grant application can be most effectively
 expedited.

 3.2 Additional income supporting research
 Through its introduction of a Corporate Membership scheme, the China Institute has generated
 an annual income (£41,800 for 2017-18, £51,625 for 2018-19, £58,033 for 2019-20), which has
 been used to complement other research income in support of research. Supplemented by
 £92,000 of other donations, the Institute used this income to appoint a Research Fellow
 (Cheung) in 2020 to work under Tsang on a project, ‘The Political Thought of Xi Jinping’, which
 has major implications for East Asia (and beyond). During the current REF cycle the Korea
 Centre and the Japan Centre each received donations totalling £17,000 and £98,000,
 respectively.

 In line with the research strategy, this UoA will sustain these multiple sources of income by
 proactively supporting grant applications and securing corporate income and donations in the
 future. Apart from applications to regular research councils, we have secured financial support
 for research from other institutions. In addition, we have generated income from our own fund-
 raising and other activities to sustain collaborative and other research projects.

 3.3 Library-based research facilities
 SOAS houses one of the finest research libraries on East Asia in Europe, both in terms of books,
 electronic resources and special archival materials. The SOAS Library is one of five National
 Research Libraries in the UK, with a special remit for Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Its
 specialist East Asia-focused collections enable researchers in this unit to conduct desktop
 research effectively and is an essential resource in their preparations for field research in East
 Asia.

 The Library’s printed collection on China consists of 200,000 volumes, the majority of which
 are Chinese-language publications. In addition, there are 20,000 pamphlets and 6,000
 Japanese-language works relating to China. It also holds 2,000 Chinese periodical and
 newspaper titles, over 500 of which are current, as well as some 120 atlases. The collection
 embraces vernacular languages, modern literature and language, politics and government,
 foreign relations, anthropology and ethnic minorities, business, finance and economics, law,
 military studies, overseas Chinese, the media, women’s studies and the Chinese Communist
 Party. It is reinforced by online subscriptions to Chinese language sources, such as leading
 newspapers (for example, Renmin Ribao), China Academic Journals, other journals via the
 Apabi Digital Library and the Dacheng Old Journal full-text database, China Statistical
 Yearbooks Database, GTA China for stock market data, Doctoral/Masters Dissertations, E-
 books via CNKI and Duxiu, the Siku Quanshu, Westlaw China, and pkulaw.

 This world-class collection is complemented by a separate dedicated Hong Kong collection,
 which houses 800 volumes on Hong Kong and 228,000 pages of newspaper cuttings on
 microfiche. These are supplemented by electronic databases, such as Hong Kong Journals
 Online and Hong Kong and Macau Periodicals Network. Collectively, they form a valuable
 resource for research on the history, politics, economics and the people of Hong Kong.

 The Japan section of the SOAS Library holds 100,000 items and is strongest in history,
 literature, religious studies, film studies and Japanese linguistics. Online-accessed resources
 include CiNii for Japanese language journals; major newspapers dating from the late nineteenth


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 century, such as Yomiuri, Asahi, Mainichi and Nihon Keizai Shimbun; and Zassaku Plus for
 Japanese magazine and periodicals since the Meiji era.

 The SOAS Library’s Korea component consists of 40,000 items and is the largest collection in
 Europe. It supports research on history, literature, music, Korean linguistics, and North Korea. It
 also has the largest subscription of Korean E-resources in the UK. These include major
 databases, such as DBpia, KISS, Scholar and Korean scholar; and, since 1920, the leading
 newspaper Chosun Ilbo.

 Since the inauguration of a partnership with Taiwan’s National Central Library in late 2013, the
 Library has been actively strengthening its Taiwan Collection. It now houses nearly 1,400
 volumes on the social and political sciences, economics, literature, language, film and the arts.
 In terms of electronic resources, the Library provides access to an important news database,
 udn.com, as well as journals (via Taiwan Electronic Periodical Services) and E-books (via Airiti
 and Taiwan Academic Classics).

 Archival collections on East Asia include those of John Swire and Sons Ltd, the China
 Association, the Council for World Mission (previously the London Missionary Society),
 Methodist Missionary Society, and China Inland Mission; the Robert Morrison Collection, the
 William Marsden Collection, and the Reginald Johnston Collection; the Yongle dadian; and the
 papers of individuals such as William Sewell (all these having a strong China focus, and some of
 interest to researchers on Taiwan). The Japan section of archives includes the Ukiyo-e
 Collection of woodblock prints, the Hosoban album of Kabuki Actors, and the Kokin waka-shu of
 poetry. The Korean archives include the Chosen shisetsu gyoretsu zukan handscrolls, the
 Kyomjae hwach’op lbum, the Ttakjibon collection, and the artworks of Kim Kich’ang.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research partnerships and collaboration
 The regional centres are the main instrument this UoA uses to promote collaboration, both
 domestic and international. In response to the UK Government’s elevation of its relations with
 China into the ‘Golden Era’ early in this REF cycle, the China Institute was designated the pivot
 in support of East Asian-related research at SOAS.

 In line with the research strategy on international partnership, the China Institute has built
 strategic partnerships with Zhejiang University and Beijing Normal University in China. It hosted
 colleagues from and sent postgraduate students to Zhejiang University. It also jointly organised
 a research workshop on ‘The modernization of modern governance: New trends and new
 responses’ with Beijing Normal University (2017).The Taiwan Centre has joined Academia
 Sinica in Taiwan to host the International Journal of Taiwan Studies (edited by the Taiwan
 Centre Research Associate Ming-yeh Rawnsley), and to organise the Second World Congress
 of Taiwan Studies (2015).

 However, our research collaborations with institutions in East Asia go beyond the universities
 that are our formal partners. As an inter-centres operation, Tsang (China Institute) and Fell
 (Taiwan Centre) worked with Wu Yongping (Tsinghua University) on a project on ‘Cross-Strait
 Relations in the Xi Jinping Era: Drivers and Prospects’. In addition, Mou (China Institute)
 collaborated with Wu Hongyao (China University of Political Science and Law) on criminal legal
 aid, as well as on professional training of defence lawyers. Meanwhile, Karlsson (Korea Centre)
 works with colleagues at the Institute of Japanese Studies at Dankook University (South Korea)
 on a research project ‘The Transition of Knowledge and Power and East Asian Humanities:
 Con/Divergence of Korea-China-Japan Knowledge Production and Distribution’.

 4.2 Contribution to discipline
 The recent trend in the USA for its universities to focus on subject disciplines at the expense of
 Area Studies has made SOAS stand out in its dedication to and support for interdisciplinary

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research in Area Studies. Taking advantage of its central location in London, SOAS serves as a
 global hub for Area Studies scholars, while extending vital support to established scholars
 and research students in East Asian Studies. Their presence at SOAS enables them to fulfil
 roles as researchers, speakers, participants in academic events and users of our world class
 East Asian Library. Thus, in the current REF cycle, the four centres have hosted a total of 239
 Visiting Scholars and Research Associates from North America, Asia, Australia, and Europe.

 SOAS academics in this unit contribute to the general field of Area Studies through membership
 of editorial boards on journals and as editorial advisers to academic publishers. They also serve
 on management or advisory boards of institutions, review research grant applications, evaluate
 promotions, and act as external examiners and assessors in other academic institutions.

 The following is a summary of the involvement of members of regional centres in journal and
 other academic publication activities, as well as external examination support:
    • Editorship:
         Associate Editor, Comparative Legal History (Caldwell);
         Associate Editor, Palgrave Communications (Tsang);
         Associate Editor, International Journal for Taiwan Studies (Caldwell).

    •   Membership of Editorial (Advisory) Boards of academic journals:
        The China Quarterly (Caldwell, Fell, Liu);
        East Asia (Tsang);
        International Journal of Korean History (Karlsson);
        International Journal of Taiwan Studies (Fell, Tsang);
        Issues and Studies (Fell);
        Journal of Contemporary China (Tsang);
        Journal of Current Chinse Affairs (Tsang);
        Korea Journal (Karlsoon);
        Korea Observer (Kong);
        Palgrave Communications (Tsang);
        Sociology (Liu);
        St Antony’s International Review (Tsang);
        Sungkyun Journal of East Asian Studies (Karlsson);
        Taiwan Journal of Political Science (Tsang);
        American Asian Review (Tsang).

    •   Academic publishing:
        Series Editor, Routledge ‘Research on Taiwan Series’ (Fell);
        Advisory Board member, Palgrave series, ‘Gender, Sexualities and Culture in Asia’ (Liu);
        Editor, Palgrave ‘Nottingham China Policy Series’ (Tsang);
        Advisory Board member, Routledge ‘Research on Politics and Sociology of China’
        (Tsang).

    •   Examiners/assessors of degree programmes:
        External examiner, BA Chinese Studies, University of Nottingham (Liu);
        External examiner, BA in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies (Korean Studies elements),
        Cambridge University (Karlsson).

    •   External examiners of PhDs:
        Chinese University of Hong Kong (Liu);
        Edinburgh University (Liu);
        University of Kent (Fell);
        King’s College London (Ash, Kobayashi & Kong);
        London School of Economics (Fell & Tsang);
        Oxford University (Caldwell);
        Warwick University (Fell);
        University of York (Liu).

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In terms of service to research councils, Liu assesses research grants applications for ESRC
 and the ESRC-National Science Foundation of China. Tsang fulfils the same role on behalf of
 the Leverhulme Trust, the University Grants Council of Hong Kong and the Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft (German Research Foundation).

 As to other academic administrative contributions to other universities, Tsang has reviewed
 applications for academic promotion at the University of Nottingham, the Baptist University of
 Hong Kong, and Nanyang Technological University in Singapore. He has also served as a
 member of The Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications.

 Members of this unit assisted other academic institutions in various advisory capacities. These
 include membership of the following academic bodies:
     • the Executive Council, Universities China Committee of London, 2014-17 (Tsang);
     • University of Sussex, Sussex Asia Centre (Liu);
     • University of Zurich, Asia Studies Programme (Tsang);
     • National institute of Korean History, Advisory Panel for the English translation of the
        Veritable Records of the Choson Dynasty (Karlsson).

 Members of this unit are active members of a significant number of learned societies. These
 include:
     • Association of Asian Studies (Karlsson, Tsang);
     • Association of Korean Studies in Europe (Karlsson);
     • British Association of Chinese Studies (Tsang);
     • British Sociological Association (Liu);
     • European Association of Taiwan Studies (Fell & Tsang);
     • Political Studies Association (Tsang).

 4.3 Esteem
 The scholarship and academic achievements of members of regional centres have also been
 honoured by the award of fellowships, prizes and invitations to give keynote speeches. Tsang is
 an Associate Fellow of the Asia Pacific Programme at Chatham House, an Emeritus Fellow of St
 Antony’s College at Oxford, and a Guest Professor at Tongji University in Shanghai (2016-19).
 Liu is an Elected Trustee of the British Sociological Association. Kobayashi was appointed by
 the WTO as a Visiting Scholar and is a member of the Advisory Board for Stiftung Asienhaus
 (Asian House Foundation of Germany). Mou was appointed an advisory expert by the Great
 Britain China Centre in 2019 and has heavily engaged in its Criminal Justice Reform Projects.

 4.4 Prestigious lectures
 At two public events at the University of Asia and the Pacific (Manila) Karlsson delivered two
 Distinguished Lectures on ‘Education and the Modernization of Korea’ and ‘Confucianism
 and Korean Legal Culture’ (2015). He also delivered the keynote lecture, ‘Ignoring the Public
 Transcript: Defiance and Popular Agency in late Joseon Korea’ at a conference on ‘Power
 and Dissent: Understanding Korea’s Past and Present Challenges through Korean Studies’ at
 Seoul National University (2016).

 Tsang gave the keynote lecture on ‘Emergence of an independence push in Hong Kong:
 identity politics and the China factor' at the University of Zurich conference on ‘Civil Society
 versus the State? Emergent Trajectories of Civic Agency in East Asia in Comparative and
 Transnational Perspective’ (September 2017). He also spoke at the plenary session ‘Is a New
 World War Approaching? – the New US Security Strategy towards Russia and China’ at
 the Warsaw Security Forum (2018); on ‘The Taiwan Strait: The Key to Stability in the Indo-
 Pacific’ at the Ketagalan Forum (2019); and at the opening plenary, ‘Revolutions of Our Time:
 Freedom Without US’, at the Halifax Security Forum (2019).




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The research vibrancy of this unit has enabled it to attract support (£10,000 per lecture, not
 counted in research income) from the WSD Handa Foundation to create the WSD Foundation
 Distinguished Lectures. It has so far hosted three annual lectures:
     • 2017-18: Sir John Key (Prime Minister of New Zealand, 2008-16): ‘Engaging with China:
        A view from the neighbourhood’;
     • 2018-19: Professor Thomas Christensen (Columbia University): ‘Sources of Tension in
        US-China Relations’; and
     • 2019-20: Mr Tony Abbott (Prime Minister of Australia, 2013-15): ‘Australia’s Engagement
        with China: An Australian perspective’.

 4.5 User engagement, research impact and public engagement
 The regional centres, particularly the China Institute, are the key instruments for public
 engagement and impact for this UoA.

 Indeed, the SCI proactively engages with the business world through its Corporate
 Membership scheme. This scheme makes available insights gained from research to the
 corporate sector partly by holding periodic roundtables to members under the Chatham House
 rule, and partly by providing bespoke advice. The insights Tsang shared with, for example, the
 political risk and senior management teams at HSBC ‘helped to shape the bank’s risk
 management profile’ (letter from Cameron Mitchell, Global Head of Geopolitical Risk, HSBC: 11-
 02-2020). The sharing of research findings with the governments of Australia, Canada, the UK
 and New Zealand have also helped to inform and shape their policies vis-à-vis China (details in
 China Institute Impact Case Study).

 All the regional centres host regular seminars and public lectures that are attended by
 government officials, journalists, corporate analysts, and the general public in addition to
 academic colleagues and students. The China Institute’s weekly research seminars are public
 events that generally attract an audience in excess of 40. In addition, the Institute hosts an
 annual ‘China Debate’ (attendance: 160-290 for each event), the WSD Handa Distinguished
 Lecture (attendance: 110-200), and the A.C. Graham Lecture in Sinology (attendance: around
 75). Similarly, the Japan Centre holds a weekly seminar, which attracts, on average, 50
 attendees from both within SOAS and the general public. It also hosts two major Annual
 Lectures—the Annual Meiji Jingu Lecture and the Annual W.G. Beasley Lecture. Each of these
 draws an audience of 150-250 persons. A similar number attends the Sports Symposia Series,
 organised jointly with the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy. For its part, the Centre
 of Taiwan Studies organises between 60 to 70 public events per year. They include the annual
 Taiwan Film Week in February, the Taiwan Summer School in June, the Annual Taiwan Lecture,
 and an international workshop with a Taiwan-based research partner.

 The involvement of the wider public ensures that our seminars, public lectures and panel
 discussions engage with the subject matter not only from the perspective of academic experts,
 but also that of general users of such knowledge and insights. Feedback from non-academic
 constituencies and the wider public is helpful in highlighting which of our research themes and
 findings non-academic end users find particularly valuable.

 This UoA has also channelled insights from research to NGOs in support of their
 engagement with East Asia. As part of the China Institute, Tsang advised the Environmental
 Investigation Agency, the Royal Society and the Halifax Security Forum on their policies towards
 China. Mou contributed as a criminal justice expert to the Great Britain China Centre in its work
 on the reform of China’s criminal justice system. Working within the framework of the Taiwan
 Centre, Fell helped the Native Spirit Foundation and the Shungye Museum (both of Taiwan) to
 improve understanding of Taiwan’s Indigenous Peoples. Liu led the curation of an exhibition on
 Chinese families in London’s China Town, which became a film ‘British or Chinese: Stories of
 Migration, Family and Identity’.

 The China Institute plays a central role in engaging with the media. On average, Tsang and
 other members of this unit made 150-300 appearances each year in national and international

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 media. These include the BBC (Today, World at One, PM, World Tonight, Newshour, News at
 Ten, Newsnight, The Briefing Room, The Inquiry, Woman’s Hour, Costing the Earth, Beyond 100
 Days, & World News), ITN, Channel 4 News, Channel 5 News, Sky News, Al Jazeera, France
 24, Deutsche Welle, Monocle 24, LBC, The Financial Times, The Times, The Guardian, The
 Daily Telegraph, The Independent, The Evening Standard, The Express, Wall Street Journal,
 New York Times, Project Syndicate, The Globe and Mail, Strait Times, South China Morning
 Post, Japan Times, Taipei Times, Reuters, AP, AFP, and Bloomberg. Through such media
 engagement, the SCI projects the research strength of SOAS Area Studies. Liu served as a
 consultant on Chinese family practices for the BBC in producing Episode 3 of Season 7 of the
 drama ‘Call the Midwife’ (2018). In addition, Tsang advises various media organisations in the
 production of documentaries on China, and helps shape the making of such programmes. They
 include documentaries or factual programmes for the BBC (for example, ‘China: A new World
 Order’, 2019), Channel 4 (‘Britain’s Forgotten Army’, 2017), and Al Jazeera (‘The Big Picture:
 The China Complex’, 2019).




                                                                                        Page 14
