Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Leeds Trinity University

 Unit of Assessment:
 33: Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 At the first mention, researchers are named by title, forename, and last name. Thereafter, they are
 referred to by last name only. Category A submitted staff in bold. Non-Category A staff employed
 on the census date in italics. Other staff employed during the census period but not on the census
 date in normal text.
 1.1. Media, Film and Culture and UoA33

 Research being submitted as part of UoA33 focuses on immigration, integration, digital
 environment, and film and media theory and practice, and has emerged from a strategic aim set
 out in REF2014 to establish a Research Centre with a core focus on interactive storytelling,
 utilising the expertise of staff within media and film but with a tactical mission to reach beyond
 subject boundaries and work across disciplines, to take a transdisciplinary approach to projects
 and outputs. The establishment of this Centre – the International Research Centre for Interactive
 Storytelling - (IRIS), along with the recruitment of eight PhD students across the period of this
 audit, evidences a long-term commitment to providing a sustainable framework for research in this
 area and establishing a healthy and developmental research culture. The Unit is actively involved
 in a number of national and international collaborations, both academic and in the industry (see
 Section 4). The focus on practice-based research helps to bridge the gap between academic
 research and the general public, especially in relation to the potential development of community
 based and socially engaged projects (as described in our impact case studies).

 For REF2021, UoA33 consists of three 1.0fte staff members: Dr Kostas Maronitis, Dr Stefano
 Odorico, Dr Robbie McAllister and one 0.6fte staff member, Dr Jason Scott, within the subject
 area of Media, Film and Culture (hereafter MFC) at Leeds Trinity University (LTU). MFC is a
 distinct academic team within the Department of Communication, which is part of the School of
 Communication, Business and Law led by Professor Catherine O’Connor.

 In REF2014, staff in MFC submitted in UoA34 (Communication, Cultural and Media Studies,
 Library and Information Management), along with staff from Journalism. However, a strategic
 decision was taken to focus on the new UoA33 for REF2021 because of the substantial film and
 screen studies focus of staff. The substance in this area is evidenced by a significant increase in
 the number of research outputs generated by staff members in UoA33 since 2014 (from seven to
 14), a selection of which are presented in the current REF submission. In REF2014 it was
 recognised, in terms of research and impact, that film was the strongest area of the MFC team
 (representing 20% of outputs meeting the standard for 4*). Alongside the recruitment in the area
 of a new full-time staff member, McAllister, since the 2014 audit a significant volume of work has
 been undertaken in the field of film and screen media, including the introduction of practice-based
 research at undergraduate and postgraduate level, the setting up of a Research Centre, the
 implementation of mentoring for practitioners moving into research and the development of
 transdisciplinary projects.

 The MFC team has moved from a position of not having any postgraduate researchers (PhD) to
 having eight PhDs registered in the field of Media, Film and Screen studies starting from 2016: Liz
 Cable, Dr Amir Husak (GTA), Thomas Pollard (GTA), Dionne Saville, David Thompson, Alex Vann,
 Dr Ilaria Vecchi and Kelly Zarins-Brown. While no doctorates were completed in the census
 period, since then the unit has awarded two to date: Husak (2021) and Vecchi (2020). This
 increase is aligned with the University’s Research Strategy 2018-21 and aims to create a thriving
 Postgraduate Research (PGR) community, which was commended in the January 2017 Periodic
 Review by the accrediting body, the University of Leeds (UoL). Through its PGR community,
 UoA33 is contributing to LTU’s aim of achieving Full Degree Awarding Powers, through
 determination of the right to award Research Degrees in the next cycle by demonstrating

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appropriate vitality and sustainability in the research environment at institutional and external
 disciplinary levels.

 Work of the UoA has been developed both within the context of University structures and School-
 level structures. At University level, the Research Office provides administrative support for the
 institution and the Postgraduate Research Tutor and Deputy Postgraduate Research Tutor
 provide support, guidance, promote access training and work to develop a thriving culture for PhD
 students. The institution’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee has oversight of
 strategy and all aspects of activity feed in through this governance structure. The connection to
 this at School-level is via the School Board, which has reports on local research activity at all its
 meetings. In addition, the Head of School O’Connor meets monthly with the Director of IRIS
 Odorico and the Department of Communication’s Research Lead Maronitis to discuss progress
 of objectives and projects. The School of Communication Business and Law also has its own
 Research Ethics and Integrity sub-Committee with 12 members from all subject areas represented
 in the School, which reports to School Board and to the University Research Ethics and Integrity
 Sub-Committee. More broadly, the discussion of research activity and objectives is a central part
 of the annual Performing and Development Reviews undertaken by all staff. These reviews
 provide an opportunity to capture and reflect on research activity and outputs in the previous year
 and plan activity for the year ahead.

 With clear institutional and School-level frameworks, a healthy PhD community and a healthy
 Research Centre, a vibrant research environment has developed since the previous REF, with
 activity informed by and aligned to the University’s Research Strategy. A key local-level strategic
 aim following the establishment of IRIS was to increase its membership. The membership of the
 Centre has increased from 12 members of staff in 2016 to 26 members of staff at the time of this
 REF2021 submission. This increased membership has had a positive impact on the research
 environment, with regular (normally monthly) research seminars taking place and one member of
 staff, Cable, registering for a PhD. There is also a more collective approach to the development
 of research projects, an increase in publications (traditional and by practice) and organisation of
 more research events. An example of this is the international research day focussing on research
 by practice that the Centre is organising for the beginning of June 2021.

 In summary, the UoA is able to evidence that its activity has supported the meeting of aims set
 out in REF2014, as well as a major institutional strategic aim with regard to the establishment of
 a Research Centre, as follows:

    •   An increase in the number of research active staff and PGR researchers (mentioned
        above),
    •   An increase in the number of publications (up from seven to 14)
    •   The establishment of a stronger research culture (research seminars, postgraduate
        researchers and support for staff PhDs)
    •   Through IRIS, the creation and subsequent development of a subject area Centre for
        learning and teaching, research, and partnerships with a focus on media production and
        media culture.

 1.2. The International Research Centre for Interactive Storytelling (IRIS):

 The School of Communication, Business and Law has successfully established the International
 Research Centre for Interactive Storytelling (IRIS) as part of the research plan and strategy
 submitted in 2014. IRIS, currently directed by Odorico and Emeritus Prof. Graham Roberts, was
 established in late 2016, and launched with a successful symposium: IRIS Symposium Showcase
 (9 June 2016) that brought together international practitioners and scholars in the field of
 interactive documentaries, including Valerio Muscella, Kate Nash and Amir Husak. Furthermore,
 as part of a long-term strategy, LTU supported the Centre with an initial investment of £17,897 for
 a digital lab and the latest equipment for the creation of contemporary audio-visual productions,
 including: 360 cameras, VR equipment and large screens. Furthermore, the Research Centre is
 fully involved in the School's major annual event: Journalism and Media Week, which has

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 established a national reputation over the last 12 years for bringing some of the key figures in the
 industry to Leeds Trinity, giving an opportunity to the audience to listen to, work with, network and
 learn from a wide range of professionals in Journalism and Media. Every year IRIS organises a
 research workshop within this event and this academic year the focus was on: "How we tell stories"
 (November 5th, 2020).

 In summary, the International Research Centre for Interactive Storytelling focusses on the
 following Aims:

    a. Nurturing a research culture within the field of film and media through mentoring staff
       members, supporting PG research, organising events, and developing projects.
    b. Creating a platform for development and peer reviewing support for publications and bid
       applications.
    c. Strengthening the relationship between University, industry, and society in general, hence
       increasing research impact.
    d. Pushing the boundaries of interactive storytelling through a variety of audio-visual forms.
    e. Developing theories, concepts, and practices in the field of practice-based research in film
       and media from a transdisciplinary perspective.
    f. Using an approach centred on equality and diversity, evidenced by projects developed
       within the Centre (see below and Impact Case Study 1) and the PhD programme in
       Interactive Documentary and Marginalised Communities launched in 2016.

 The work of the Centre responds directly to LTU’s Strategy 2018-2021, on five key Objectives:

    1. Providing our students with training and education in research that is not only relevant to
       their areas of study but also equips them with lifelong learning skills and provides them
       with research-led educational and vocational opportunities and experiences that help them
       achieve their potential and flourish in graduate employment or postgraduate research.

    2. Recruiting, developing and retaining talented academic staff who generate original
       research of high impact in their fields of study through external funding and/or applying it
       through research informed teaching and in a range of real-world contexts, including
       professional practice, to the benefit of society.

    3. Securing a vibrant and sustainable research community for our students and staff,
       focussed on the delivery of the University’s strategic plan, thereby enhancing the
       reputation of the University for excellent, ethical and impactful research across the
       institution, including research to evaluate and improve the student experience and
       pedagogical practices.

    4. Engaging in research that is true to our mission, vision and values in collaboration and
       partnership with other Universities, organisations, professional communities and
       individuals that seek to make a positive impact in society locally, regionally, nationally and
       internationally

    5. Organising events (workshops, “sandpits”, etc.) to develop transdisciplinary research
       themes in line with current expertise and the funding landscape, and to enhance skills
       development for research active staff.

 The Centre is overseen by a Steering Committee, of which both Odorico and Maronitis are
 members. Through mentoring (see Section 1.3), research support, research seminars and project
 development, the Centre has significantly improved the research culture and environment within
 the Unit of assessment and the wider MFC team. This activity addresses Centre Aims (a) and (b)
 above, and the University-level Objectives specified. The majority of MFC staff are members of
 the Centre (c. 80% - 12 out of 15) and all the staff submitting for UoA33 are currently members of
 the Centre. Academic programmes at Leeds Trinity have a significant focus on professional
 practice, particularly in the School of Communication, Business and Law and the Research Centre

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supports existing staff at any stage of their research career. Importantly, it has greatly contributed
 to postgraduate research culture by welcoming the involvement and contributions of PhD students
 and nurturing their research outputs through mentoring, peer reviewing, PGR training (especially
 on technical skills) and technical support through Trinity Vision, our in-house production company
 and our Media Centre (see Section 3). This approach to supporting staff at all stages is seen as
 crucial in terms of the long-term sustainability of the activity of the Centre and of contributions to
 the UoA and is intrinsic to the way IRIS was established.

 IRIS was formed to explore new and emerging methods of storytelling through new media and
 technology (items (d) and (e) in the Centre’s Aims above). The Centre’s activities involve both film
 production and academic research, hence promoting and facilitating dialogue between creative
 practice and theoretical knowledge. The Research Centre, which focusses on a versatile and
 innovative type of new media, brings together a transdisciplinary network of researchers,
 practitioners, and students in order to foster creative conversations around ground-breaking
 interactive practice. We believe that such a context and research environment provide the
 conditions for the development of a wide range of transdisciplinary research projects. The Centre
 also collaborates in synergy with the other LTU Research Centre, the Leeds Centre for Victorian
 Studies (LCVS), in a variety of ways, such as the organisation of joint research events. As Director
 of IRIS, Odorico is also a member of the LCVS Management Committee. An example of IRIS’s
 transdisciplinary methodological approach, and its external and internal reach, is the co-
 organisation of the annual conference of the national British Association for the Study of Religions
 (BASR) in 2019, which was co-organised with Dr Suzanne Owen from Theology and Religious
 Studies (TRS), who is also a current member of IRIS, at Leeds Trinity, and associated with LCVS.
 The event included contributions from other IRIS members: Odorico, Roberts, Tom Pollard and
 Vecchi. This transdisciplinary work is facilitated by the organisational structures and institutional
 strategies that put particular weight and emphasis on collaborative research at Leeds Trinity. More
 information on this event is included in UoA31’s environment statement.

 At the time of REF2014, practice-based research was not firmly established within the School or
 the institution. It is therefore a significant achievement regarding practice-based research in
 screen media that the majority of the IRIS and MFC postgraduate researchers (PGR) registered
 and completed are currently working on practice-based research projects. The ‘practice’ currently
 developed within the PhDs spans a large variety of forms, including films, exhibitions, interactive
 platforms and linear documentaries, links with the Centre’s impact, and was enabled through the
 selection of focused themes, aligned to the Centre’s Aims and University Mission, that would
 particularly benefit from and be enhanced by practice-based work. In addressing themes of
 immigration and integration, the researchers in the Unit have been able to enhance and refine
 their practice-based methodologies, and address issues core to equality, diversity, and inclusion,
 supporting the vision and values of Leeds Trinity. In particular, they have been able to deliver
 Centre Aim (f) and University research strategy Objective (4), outlined above. This approach also
 enhances the Centre’s impact (e.g., see Impact Case Study ‘Socio-political, cultural, creative and
 educational popularisation of key theories and concepts on immigration and BAME communities’).




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1: Position and reach of IRIS within Leeds Trinity University

 Figure 1 above shows how the work of IRIS emanates from expertise within the MFC team but
 also draws in wider expertise from the School and organises its work so that there is collaboration
 and connection broadly within the School but also in the University community more widely. This
 reach and connectivity fosters a vibrant culture and a sustainable approach to developing the work
 of the Centre further.

 1.3. Research, practice-based research, mentoring and future plans

 Within the subject area of MFC there are a number of film and screen practitioners, current or
 former media professionals whose teaching is informed by their knowledge and experience of the
 industry and sector, some of whom are emerging researchers. Building on this foundation, since
 the REF2014 submission, a strong focus on research-by-practice has been developed. This
 approach has been adopted by staff members and successfully applied to undergraduate and
 postgraduate programmes. An example is the implementation of practice led PhD and Masters
 by research as well as final year’s dissertations by practice (since 2017 we have offered students
 the option of submitting dissertations by practice comprising of a practical artefact and a 2,000-
 word written statement). Currently four PhDs are conducting research by practice: Pollard, Saville,
 Thompson and Alex Vann; and two completed their projects by practice in academic year 2020/21:
 Vecchi and Husak.

 This responds to the University’s research strategy objective to apply research-informed teaching,
 including: Research-led – where students are taught research findings in their field of study;
 Research-oriented – where students learn research processes and methodologies; Research-
 tutored – where students learn through critique and discussion between themselves and staff; and
 Research-based – where students learn as researchers. This is especially relevant to practice-
 based courses based on lecturers’ research and research expertise. One of the impact case
 studies (‘contemporary documentary practices’) has a focus on research by practice and includes

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practice-based outputs. The most significant development in this regard has been a change to our
 undergraduate final year dissertation projects where students can now choose to carry out
 research by practice rather than submit a traditional dissertation.

 In order to improve engagement with research, as part of the University’s research and impact
 strategy, mentoring schemes are in place and a number of research outputs from practitioners are
 already in preparation. Evidence of the success of the mentoring approach is the staff member
 currently taking a PhD programme mentioned above, the inclusion of Barker’s film in one of the
 impact case studies, the larger number of outputs being summitted to this REF, and more external
 grant applications submitted compared to the previous REF review (increased from one to six).

 Mentoring within the Unit is led by more experienced staff members such as Odorico, Maronitis
 and Scott, and focuses on the translation of practice into research (and vice-versa) through a
 strategy that includes supporting ongoing evaluation and assessments of research, effectively
 integrating research into practice, and disseminating information about evidence-based and
 research-informed practices.

 Mentoring is composed of individual meetings (once a month at least) and planning, workshops,
 training, and seminars. At the beginning of the process and through regular reviews, the mentor(s)
 provide a plan for the development of a specific research project. The general aim of the Unit’s
 mentoring approach is to build bridges between research and practice. The practice component
 at Leeds Trinity brings together practitioners to connect theory and research to practice and
 addresses how this could be expanded to become an integral part of the University’s research
 culture, as well as supporting impactful outputs. The mentoring approach is collegial, and this is
 integral to the collaborative and co-creative ethos of the Unit itself.

 Barker’s mentoring support is a clear example of this process in action. Barker is a film and screen
 practitioner whose teaching is informed by their knowledge and experience of industry and who,
 through mentoring, has embraced research and created an output that will be included in the next
 REF cycle.

 Over the next five years, the UoA will align with LTU’s current strategy 2018-21 (and subsequent
 iterations) and work towards the following:

    •   Increasing the number of active researchers among our staff through recruitment and
        through providing mentoring via IRIS to practitioners and early career researchers and
        connecting staff with training provided by the University.
    •   Working with research active staff and those new to research to develop long-term
        publication strategies which target highly impactful peer-reviewed journals to increase the
        percentage of internationally excellent research.
    •   Successfully bidding for external research funding (one significant bid per year).
    •   Increasing external partnerships to develop research and impact.

 Central to these plans is the further development of IRIS. By continuing and increasing the activity
 of the Research Centre nationally and internationally, expanding the number of members focusing
 on a transdisciplinary approach, planning, and developing research bid applications, strengthening
 and expanding current relationships and partnerships with the industry. The Centre will aim to
 become the platform where the majority of the Unit’s ‘environment’ is facilitated, enabling impact /
 interdisciplinarity / transdisciplinarity / integrity for Unit itself.

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development

 A small group of staff are researching film and screen media and are producing outputs relevant
 to UoA33. They provide a nexus for a thriving, collaborative and inclusive research culture which
 provides support for staff appointed from practitioner backgrounds to receive support to transition

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 into research activities and ensures PGRs are part of research culture and activity. The focus on
 practice-based research has also filtered through to the design of our programmes in MFC on the
 30-credit framework now being used by Leeds Trinity.

 There have been some staffing changes within UoA33 during the reporting period. One staff
 member, McAllister, increased his contract from 0.6fte to 1.0fte, Dr Nick Redfern left the team
 before the census date and Prof Roberts retired before the census date but was appointed as
 Emeritus Professor at LTU. In this position, Roberts remains a member of IRIS and is continuing
 with the supervision of six postgraduate researchers (PhD) across the University. Furthermore,
 one member of the UoA, Odorico, was promoted to Reader during the reporting period (in
 September 2017) under the University’s published promotions scheme and specifically on the
 research pathway.

 The University has a clear and rounded approach to staff development overall and within the
 context of research in particular. The central component of this approach is the annual
 Performance and Development Review which includes research as a key item for discussion,
 allowing staff space to reflect on outputs, progress and achievement in the previous year and plan
 ahead to develop projects and outputs in the coming year. This process connects into workload
 planning discussions so that time is appropriately allocated for research activities. The School of
 Communication, Business and Law uses these processes to ensure that research activities are
 central to overall planning and to support staff in achieving their own personal research aims and
 that these aims connect with School objectives and institutional strategy.

 To support staff progression, the University has introduced new promotion processes during the
 reporting period and an Academic Pathways framework to support staff in planning their career
 progression. The Academic Pathways framework articulates expectations at Grade 7 and Grade
 8 through core strands of activity for all staff (Learning, Teaching and Student Development and
 Collegial Working and Leadership) and encourages staff to plan specialist activity through at least
 one of the following (or a combination of them) – Research, Knowledge Exchange, Pedagogic
 Practice or Professional Practice. These pathways then connect into our Grade 9/Reader and
 Grade 10/Professor promotion criteria. This development framework has also recently been
 enhanced through the introduction of a process for accelerated progression from Grade 7 to Grade
 8 and one member of staff in UoA33 has been successful in this process during the reporting
 period, with research activity and outputs utilised as part of the application for progression.

 A range of formal training and development activities are available to staff to support development
 as researchers. Some of these are run through the Leeds Trinity Research KE Office and there is
 also access to training programmes run by the UoL. There are also a range of informal activities
 for staff to engage with, including regular research seminars which are organised and run at
 School-level for staff and PGRs by Maronitis one of the members of staff submitting in UoA33
 who is the Department of Communication’s, Research Lead. These seminars such as: 'How to
 write a book proposal' and 'How to publish in an academic journal', are designed for early career
 researchers but can be beneficial to all staff working on research projects. Furthermore, they have
 a direct impact on the researchers' careers due to their focus on how to get published in academia.

 Staff within this UoA have been successful in applying to the University’s research support scheme
 for both financial support and research leave. There is recognition at School-level that competition
 for funds from the central research support scheme may mean that not all staff applications are
 successful. The School has, where appropriate and achievable, utilised its local staff development
 budget top-up conference funding awards or to provide support for staff to attend events and
 conferences which would develop them as researchers.

 2.2. Research Leave:

 During the period of this review Odorico and Scott have obtained funds to support their research.
 Furthermore, Odorico was supported by the University in undertaking research leave of three


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 years (while maintaining his position) in order to develop a research project in another international
 institution (University of Bremen, Germany) in collaboration with Leeds Trinity.

 2.3. Research Students

 Since REF2014 the UoA33 has registered six PGRs, accounting for 75% of the total number of
 PGR memberships within the MFC team, two of whom have successfully completed their PhDs in
 2020/21. This meets a key objective set out in REF2014 to increase the number of PGR
 completions. All of the staff submitting in UoA33 for REF2021 are involved in PhD supervision.
 This is a significant development from REF2014 when the Unit did not have any PhD supervisors.
 Supervisors from UoA33 have undertaken Supervisor and Internal Examiner training workshops
 at the UoL to expand our capacity in these areas of work and as new supervisors come on board,
 they receive mentoring from those more experienced, with the consistent and invaluable support
 of staff in the Leeds Trinity Research KE Office and, in particular, the Director of PGR Martin
 Barwood.

 Full-time PhD candidates have to meet their supervisors a minimum of ten times a year; for part-
 time students this is six times a year. Formal records are kept of these meetings and submitted to
 the Research KE Office to ensure there is a consistent and central record for all PhD students. As
 part of their supervision, PhD students can attend training courses organised by LTU, the UoL or
 externally and can attend all the School of Communication, Business and Law research activities,
 such as Research Centre seminars. PGRs also have access to training provided by the University
 of East Anglia through a subscription to GuildHE and CREST. There is a page on the virtual
 learning environment (Moodle) dedicated to PGR training, which includes a guide to
 recommended and required training at each stage of the programme, and includes links to all of
 these sources of training and support as well as training videos such as guides to using the library.
 PGRs are also made aware of ad hoc training events through announcements via Moodle and
 Microsoft Teams. This culture of structured development and inclusion in School and University
 activities helps to develop confidence and four PhD students in this UoA have already presented
 papers at major conferences in their field and published in international journals: Husak, Vecchi,
 Pollard and Zarins-Brown.

 Our PhD students also have strong connections with their peers through an active PGR community
 (currently active online via Teams and Facebook), through which PGRs offer each other support
 throughout the whole postgraduate research study process. PGRs also have access to the full
 range of support services available to undergraduate students and these include the Learning
 Hub, which provides study-skills support through one-to-one advice sessions, mental health
 support including access to the counselling service and Mental Health First Aiders, and online
 guides and services such as Togetherall; and financial and housing advice through the Student
 Services Department and Student Union. Furthermore, one of the major benefits of working in a
 small institution like LTU is that PGRs have the opportunity to become closely involved in the work
 of the Department and Research Centre. This gives them the benefit of full involvement with the
 subject, immediate support and personalised training, e.g., Vann edits the LCVS research blog,
 and sits as PGR Representative on the School Research Ethics and Integrity Committee.

 2.4. PGR publications:

 PGR researchers are encouraged and supported to get their research published. Several PGRs
 have had their work published in peer-reviewed journals and collections before completing their
 theses. For example, Vecchi published ‘Itako on the Screen: The Use of Visual Ethnography for
 Understanding How These Japanese Shamans Adapting to Modern Japan’, Journal of British
 Association for the Study of Religions, September 2019. Husak also published an article:
 ‘Exercising Radical Democracy: The Crisis of Representation and Interactive Documentary as an
 Agent of Change.’ Alphaville: Journal of Film and Screen Media, no. 15, Summer 2018, pp. 16–
 32 and a chapter in a collection: In Search of a Thirdspace (in Bosnian), Revizor, Contributing
 author, Revizor Foundation, Bihać: 2018. Cited work featured in: Larisa Kurtović (2019) ‘An
 archive to build a future: The recovery and rediscovery of the history of socialist associations’ in

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contemporary Bosnia-Herzegovina, History and Anthropology, 30:1, 20-46. Furthermore, Vecchi
 published two practice-based research projects (documentaries):

    •   Nativity Scene in Naples, October 2018, Horniman Museum and Gardens
    •   Mamuthones, October 2018, Horniman Museum and Gardens.

 2.5. Open Access/Source

 Members of UoA33 recognise the importance of creating an Open Access research environment
 and they have done so by disseminating their research online. For example, all practice-based
 projects are hosted online on websites and platforms. Public exhibitions like Robert's Man with the
 Movie Camera (included in one of the impact case studies) have also been converted into a
 website - widely accessible - output. All Robert's practical outputs submitted are Open Access.
 Furthermore, publications such as Odorico's article: ‘The Poetics and Politics of Polyphony:
 Towards a Research Method for Interactive Documentary’ (included in the submitted outputs) was
 published ‘golden open access’ in the online Journal, Alphaville Journal of Film and Screen Media,
 which adopts a creative commons license.

 All members of UoA33, as required by LTU, maintain their personal profiles on the PURE CRIS
 system, uploading documents and links where copyright agreements allow.

 2.6. Equality and Diversity

 Some of the UoA33 members are also actively involved in LTU’s Staff Equality Networks for
 women; staff with disabilities; international; BAME and LGBT+ staff. As per LTU’s Code of
 Practice, all staff involved in the Unit’s decision making for REF2021 have completed REF-specific
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion training. In addition, all Leeds Trinity staff are required to carry
 out mandatory Equality, Diversity and Inclusion training every two years.

 Promoting and practicing inclusion is part of the Mission of the University and underpins its
 approach to research and impact activities. The Unit’s efforts in equality and diversity practices,
 including the decolonialisation of research and curriculum, have helped LTU achieve the Race
 Equality Charter Bronze Award in 2020 (https://www.leedstrinity.ac.uk/news/archive/2020/leeds-
 trinity-university-receives-race-equality-charter-bronze-award.php).

 With regards to this achievement, Barkers’ film Re:Tension (2019) included in one of the impact
 case studies, played an important role in achieving the REC Bronze award, as referred to by the
 awarding Equality Challenge Unit’s feedback report and it is part of the Aftermath Toolkit.
 Re:Tension addresses the topic of institutional racism and the issue of retention amongst ethnic
 minority students within British universities. The film’s research is grounded in statistical data that
 highlights the unexplained dropout rate of BAME students.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 All staff and postgraduate researchers have full access to media production facilities and
 equipment through the Media Centre at LTU. The Media Centre houses industry-leading
 production spaces and equipment to support researchers to produce high-quality professional
 work across all media platforms including web, newspapers, magazines, television and radio.
 Researchers can benefit from free equipment hire, bespoke media training, and help and support
 from the Media Loans and Helpdesk team. Our significant collection of industry-standard
 production equipment, including Sony FS5, Canon 5D mk4 and Black Magic Cinema Camera. The
 Media Centre also boasts a Radio Studio, three photography studios and darkroom and a TV
 studio. Furthermore, there are four editing rooms located throughout the Media Centre that provide
 staff and students with a choice of individual or shared space. All computers are connected to the
 central EditShare 48TB video server to give access to AVID, Final Cut and Adobe Premiere video
 editing packages. Some equipment, 360 cameras, VR headsets and professional cameras such
 as a Canon EOS C100 are exclusively available for PGR researchers and members of IRIS.

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research by practice productions are supported by the institution's in-house production
 company, Trinity Vision, which is also part of the School of Communication, Business and Law.
 Trinity Vision is a professional media production company operating from within LTU. Comprising
 industry professionals and experienced student crew, the production company collaborates with
 IRIS, local businesses, organisations, charities and schools to create interesting visual content
 and build long-lasting relationships within the local community. The majority of research by
 practice mentioned in the impact case studies was produced in collaboration with Trinity Vision.
 This has had secondary impacts on the charitable organisations that Trinity Vision works with.
 This service is provided to such organisations for free or at minimum cost and is supported by
 Trinity Vision’s work with for-profit companies. In every stage of the production process of
 multimedia products, Trinity Vision utilises the Unit’s research findings and outputs on theorising
 and reflecting on practice in Film and Media. This approach has resulted in a more rigorous and
 self-reflexive style of production, production management and relations with external clients
 https://trinityvision.uk/.

 To enhance this provision when IRIS was established the University invested £17,897 (as
 mentioned above) in providing a digital lab and the latest equipment for the creation of
 contemporary audio-visual productions. The physical space dedicated to this was as important as
 the equipment as it provided a hub to bring researchers, practitioners and PGR students together,
 a space which is used to facilitate formal project discussions and an informal sharing of ideas and
 practice. This space has proved a vital part of developing a vibrant and collaborative research
 culture.

 As described in REF5a, the University has a fund to support colleagues in presenting their work
 at conferences, which all the UoA’s members have applied to and successfully obtained support
 from in the period of this review (totalling ~£7,800 during the census period). Furthermore, LTU
 has an internal research fund support scheme that staff can apply for to pump-prime research at
 its early stages (totalling ~£5,800 during the census period).

 The University has invested in research on the UoA through PhD studentships. Within the Unit
 currently three PGR researchers received a full studentship (which includes fee waiver) and two
 are on fee waiver.

 Furthermore, staff and students have access to the LTU library as well as the opportunity to access
 further material via inter-library loans, and researchers can use the UoL Libraries by special
 agreement. The Leeds Trinity library includes an audio-visual section and audio-visual archives
 are accessible for free by researchers (on site or remotely). Each subject area has a designated
 Liaison Librarian, who can provide specialist advice on sourcing specific materials, and PGR
 training.

 In general, for research conferences and seminars, LTU provides free use of rooms, free IT
 facilities and technical support, as well as support from the Events Co-ordinator, Press Officer and
 marketing team allowing the research events to reach a wider audience and to have visibility
 outside the University.

 Increasing the research income is a key priority for the Unit. It will utilise administrative support
 and training within LTU to develop funding and grants bids, with the aim of one significant bid per
 year per research active staff member. In line with the institutional Research Strategy and to
 increase the number of successful bids.

 During the census period the Unit successfully secured £30,000 (in kind - 2019), through IRIS and
 Odorico, LTU is HE partner of the Screen Industries Growth Network (SIGN). Furthermore, for
 her practice-based research Ilaria Vecchi was awarded £3,000 by the Great Britain Sasakawa
 Foundation to conduct field research in Japan in 2019.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research in immigration, integration, and film and media theory and practice within this UoA
 aligns with the 2018/21 University Research Strategy’s objective to make a contribution to society
 as follows: “We will engage in research that is true to our mission, vision and values in
 collaboration and partnership with other Universities, organisations, professional communities and
 individuals that seek to make a positive impact in society locally, regionally, nationally and
 internationally”. The four staff submitting as part of this Unit are involved in a range of activity
 covering national and international collaborations, peer reviewing, journal editing and public
 events. Through this work, they make original contributions to the field and their work impacts on
 policy and perceptions of significant societal issues in the region and beyond.

 4.1. Research collaborations and partners

 Working with researchers embedded in external academic institutions and/or professional
 organisations supports our impact and knowledge exchange strategy and allows the creation of
 strong networks working in common areas of interest. Furthermore, the Unit’s international
 collaborations have strategically contributed to the vitality of the research culture at the University
 and enhanced the reputation of the University and the School, which in turn can attract increased
 research investment.

 Odorico is currently working with Dr Judith Aston (UWE Bristol) on a project that attempts to
 define a theoretical model for polyphonic documentary and to analyse the impact of multi-
 perspectival thinking within a practice context. Their collaboration brings together international
 academics and practitioners in the field of interactive documentaries. Their work was published in
 Alphaville: Journal of Film and Screen Media, no. 15, Summer 2018 – I-Docs as Intervention: the
 Poetics and Politics of Polyphony, which is included in one of the impact case studies and in the
 outputs of this Unit. The work group created by Odorico and Aston as part of their collaborative
 research meets regularly and is composed of currently 70 people coming from all over the world.

 Odorico is currently working, with Vecchi, on a practice-based research project focussing on the
 city of Leeds. The researchers are developing an interactive portrait of Leeds that will help to
 reflect on the extent to which these artefacts could hamper or facilitate the movement of individuals
 through urban space – the aim is have this project included as a main output in the next REF in
 order to evidence the Unit and Research Centre’s continuing focus on research by practice.

 Odorico, through IRIS, is member of the Screen Industries Growth Network (SIGN). SIGN is a
 business-facing research project led by the University of York with the aim of trying to enhance
 the competitiveness of and future-proof the screen-related industries (film, television, games, XR
 and other digital media) in Yorkshire through a collaborative industry-higher education partnership.

 Furthermore, Odorico was visiting research fellow at the University of Bremen from 2014 to 2019.

 Scott was in the primary research team for the World Star Wars Project led by Dr William Proctor
 (Bournemouth University). The World Star Wars Project is a five-year study of the franchise from
 multiple perspectives which will culminates with a multilingual, mixed methods global online
 questionnaire. The first phase of the project, 'The Force Re-Awakens,' attracted over 1800
 responses in December 2015 prior to the release of Star Wars Episode VII.

 Scott has actively contributed to theoretical debates on the Disney franchise with two research
 pieces published in the very popular inMediaRes, which is a media commons project dedicated to
 experimenting with collaborative, multi-modal forms of online scholarship. The goal of the platform
 is to promote an online dialogue amongst scholars and the public about contemporary approaches
 to studying media. Titles of Scott’s contributions are: Disney+: It all adds up and Expanding Star
 Wars on Disney+.



                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2. Public events

 Over the years the Unit has organised a number of events in order to promote research, enlarge
 the network of partners and enhance the reputation of LTU nationally and internationally.

 In 2016 Maronitis was invited to contribute to the exhibition catalogue of the international art
 exhibition Documenta. Documenta und Museum Fridericianum is a non-profit organisation
 supported and funded by the city of Kassel, the State of Hesse, and by the German Federal
 Cultural Foundation. Documenta 14 opened in Athens in April 2017 and in Kassel in June 2017.
 The title of the fourteenth Documenta exhibition (Documenta 14) is “Learning from Athens” due to
 Greece’s geographic identity and current immigration experience. Maronitis was invited as an
 expert of immigration and Greek politics and contributed a piece on culture, race and national
 identity translated into German and Greek.

 From 2015 up until 2016 Maronitis worked as a guest columnist for the official radio station of the
 City of Athens contributing with three articles on EU politics, immigration and nationalism:
 Immigration and the Question of European Citizenship; The Debate between Eurosceptics and
 Europhiles is over; and Public Opinion and the Political Reform of Europe.

 Odorico co-organised the International Bremen Film Symposium in 2014 and 2017 in
 collaboration with the University of Bremen and a local cinema: City 46. Odorico also organised
 an international workshop in interactive documentaries as a research method in collaboration with
 the University of Bremen, also in 2017, inviting guest speakers who are among the most renowned
 academics and practitioners in the field.

 IRIS has organised several events over the years, including:

    •   IRIS Symposium #/Showcase (9 June 2016)
    •   Some 7s Clash (June 2017)
    •   Punk/DIY Aesthetics workshop (July 2017)
    •   MWMC (several events 2017 – 2019)
    •   Visualising Cultures: Media, Technology and Religion, conference (September 2019)
    •   Research seminar: The Medium is not the Message - Technology and Theory in Creative
        Practice Research – Dr Michael Schofield (June 2020)

 4.3. Policy

 UoA33 staff contribute to society in terms of policy and informing professional practice. A clear
 example of this is the following:

 In 2020 Maronitis was acknowledged as an expert contributor by the Parliamentary Office for
 Science and Technology (POST) for submitting questions to the House of Commons and House
 of Lords around the themes of the future of work and the pandemic; immigrant workers and no
 recourse to public funds; welfare, public health and workers’ rights – the two questions were asked
 on June 30, 2020 and October 8, 2020. In 2019, he co-organised and took part in 2nd Generation:
 Music, National Culture and the integration of Young Immigrants to Greek Society, an event
 funded by the bank of Greece and the Greek Ministry of Culture and Sport, that included academic
 talks and audio-visual installations.

 4.4. Editorial roles and committees

 Staff in UoA33, as mentioned above and in the impact case studies, possess a wealth of expertise
 across a broad range of research areas in the field of film and screen media. Recognition of this
 expertise is evidenced through guest editorships, peer reviewing (for books, journals and research
 funding bodies) and membership of editorial boards.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Odorico was elected in 2019 as vice-chair of MeCCSA Practice Network. The network champions
 practice within the Media Communications and Cultural Studies Association (MeCCSA), ensuring
 that those that teach, and research practice have a strong voice within the subject association and
 beyond. It supports and publicises events at which media practice is presented, particularly those
 in which the contexts of practice research, practice pedagogy and professional practice are
 foregrounded. All members of this Unit of assessment are also members of MeCCSA. An outline
 of Odorico’s current research into theoretical aspects of polyphony applied to interactive
 documentary practices was published in Three-D, MeCCSA’s newsletter, in August 2020 (co-
 authored with Dr Judith Aston, UWE – work equally split between the two authors).

 Odorico recently curated a journal issue: Catalan Journal of Communication & Cultural Studies,
 Issue 12.2, 202 – ‘Documentary Film Mutations: New Opportunities for Social Change’ (with Dr
 Fernando Canet from the Universitat Politecnica de Valencia) entirely dedicated to contemporary
 documentary practices.

 Odorico is an elected member of the MINA steering committee and jury member. MINA is the
 world leading organisation and film festival for mobile creativity and innovation based at Swinburne
 University of Technology, Melbourne, Australia. He was also invited as a keynote speaker at a
 MINA conference in 2016. Odorico is currently working on a network project with Dr Judith Aston
 (UWE, Bristol) on Polyphonic Documentaries that.

 In 2019 Maronitis was invited to join the editorial board of the Journal of Political Communication
 (Frontiers) based on his expertise as well as his “excellent publication record”. He also reviews
 article submissions for the British Journal of Politics and International Relations (Sage/Political
 Studies Association) and the Journal of Postcolonial Studies (Taylor and Francis). Furthermore,
 he has reviewed research funding applications submitted to the ERSC and the Icelandic Research
 Fund.

 Odorico is a Member of the Editorial Board and Co-founder of Alphaville: Journal of Film and
 Screen Media and he is a peer reviewer for the journal: Studies in Documentary Film (Taylor &
 Francis).

 Scott has peer-reviewed for:

    •   Special Section of Participations on ‘Exploring Worlds’ for Volume 13:1, May 2016.
    •   Images. The International Journal of European Film, Performing Arts and Audiovisual
        Communication (Polish journal) between 2015-2018.
    •   Catalan Journal of Communication and Cultural Studies 7(1) 2015.
    •   MeCCSA Networking Knowledge – from 2013 (mentioned in Environment statement for
        last REF) to 2019.

 4.5. PG Researchers

 PGRs in the Unit have secured academic positions in a number of institutions while continuing to
 maintain a research partnership with the Unit as members of IRIS. This enhances the impact that
 the Centre has outside LTU and creates a research legacy associated with the Centre.

 Two of our successfully completed postgraduate researchers (PhD) have obtained academic
 positions: Vecchi is full-time lecturer at LTU and Husak is Director of Graduate Certificate in
 Documentary Media Studies & Assistant Professor of Media Studies at the New School (NYC,
 US).

 They both still collaborate with the MFC team and, in particular, with IRIS. Furthermore, another
 two current PhDs have already been successful in obtaining a University position: Pollard is
 technician within the Media Services team at LTU and Thompson is Senior Lecturer in Filmmaking
 at Manchester Metropolitan University.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.6 Concluding statement

 The strategy of UoA33 during this census period has been to increase our number of research
 active staff members, to create and develop our research centre and to strengthen the existing
 research activity and culture within the Unit. We have seen opportunities for external and
 interdisciplinary collaboration increase as our research community expands and develops.
 Through stakeholder engagement, continued knowledge exchange and targeted application of
 research funding, our strategy going forward seeks to build on these achievements and further
 strengthen our profile externally. The strong foundation of impactful research we have detailed in
 our impact case studies will be the bedrock on which we continue to develop and explore new
 possibilities for wide ranging and meaningful impact in the world of academia as well as in the
 wider community.




                                                                                           Page 14
