Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln.

 Unit of Assessment: UOA10 Mathematical Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
  A) Overview. The Mathematics UoA of the School of Mathematics and Physics is part of the
 College of Science at the University of Lincoln. The UoA has 4 members: Prof. Evgeny Khukhro,
 Dr Sandro Mattarei, Dr Simon Smith and Dr Anitha Thillaisundaram. The School of Mathematics
 and Physics was opened in 2014, and in 2015 the Algebra Research Group was formed,
 consisting initially of Prof. Khukhro and Dr Mattarei. It was a strategic decision to focus on
 algebra, and to build up this small but excellent group. The choice of algebra as the first
 mathematical direction in the newly opened school was largely due to two factors: 1) this
 direction could make a substantial contribution to mathematics even being a naturally small
 group in a new school, and 2) historical connection of the city of Lincoln to algebraic research via
 first works by George Boole. The School of Mathematics and Physics also has two applied
 mathematicians, employed in late 2019, who make up part of the Physics UoA. In 2018, the
 Algebra Research Group was transformed into the Charlotte Scott Algebra Research Centre,
 which focusses on group theory and closely related topics, such as Lie algebras and number
 theory. The Algebra Research Centre members have unique expertise in nilpotent groups,
 automorphism groups, profinite groups, totally disconnected locally compact (tdlc) groups,
 permutation groups, branch groups, and thin Lie algebras; all of which are of fundamental
 importance for the development of algebraic studies. Our researchers are regularly invited to
 speak at prestigious international conferences, and our researchers are members of
 professional bodies, editorial boards, grant committees, and organising committees of
 conferences.

 B) Research and Impact Strategy. This is the first REF submission of the Mathematics UoA in
 Lincoln; therefore, in this section we describe the strategy that has been followed during the
 current census period. Our research mission is to conduct cutting-edge research in algebra and
 its related areas at a leading international level, to disseminate the results in leading
 international journals at national and international conferences, to provide a highly invigorating
 local research environment, exemplified by top quality staff, PhD students, visitors, international
 collaborations, and to strive to attract a diverse portfolio of research grants. Our impact strategy
 consists of two parts: firstly, to engage with the public and to raise awareness of the importance
 of mathematics via outreach activities, such as public lectures and activities for school children,
 and secondly, to contribute to postgraduate-level education by transferring our research into
 educational material such as textbooks.

 With regards to our research strategy, the UoA’s aims are to concentrate research within
 important areas of algebra (specifically group theory, the theory of Lie algebras, and polynomial
 algebra), to support the research in these areas and to ensure that the UoA will develop further
 its international reputation and leading position in these knowledge areas as these subjects
 advance. The UoA aims to make use of the synergies between areas that promise fruitful
 interactions, as between groups and Lie algebras, and locally compact groups and permutation
 groups, and furthermore concerning applications of group theory such as cryptography.

 A core part of our strategy is to work collaboratively with expert international algebra groups,
 such as the groups in Brasilia (Brazil), Bilbao (Spain), Düsseldorf (Germany), Milan (Italy), and
 Newcastle (Australia). Such synergies, interactions and collaborations have recently produced
 important contributions to the theory of algebra. Examples include further development and
 application of Khukhro’s method of generalised centralisers in groups and Lie rings, which made
 it possible to obtain, in collaboration with Makarenko (Mulhouse, France) and Shumyatsky
 (Brasilia), new results on almost fixed-point-free automorphisms, as well as on groups with
 Frobenius groups of automorphisms. Smith discovered a new type of product of infinite
 permutation groups, which enabled him to solve a high-profile problem on tdlc groups. This
 product led to the development of a deep structure theory for infinite primitive permutation
 groups with various finiteness properties which has further consequences for topological groups

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and for graph theory. Thillaisundaram’s collaboration with Klopsch (Düsseldorf) enabled them to
 obtain results on maximal subgroups of multi-edge spinal groups generalising the famous
 Gupta–Sidki groups, and recently a new collaboration has produced results concerning the
 Hausdorff dimension of pro-p groups which has answered long-standing open questions.
 Mattarei carries on fruitful collaborations with Italian mathematicians on diverse topics: Lie
 algebras with Avitabile (Milan), special polynomials in finite fields with Pizzato (Trento), and
 congruences for combinatorial sums with Tauraso (Rome). Of the total outputs produced during
 the current census period, 87% of the publications are with international collaborators. For
 instance, Khukhro has 18 publications with his Brazilian and French collaborators, Mattarei has
 6 publications with his Italian collaborators, Smith has 4 publications with his international
 collaborators, and Thillaisundaram has 5 publications on joint work with the Düsseldorf group
 and 3 publications with the Bilbao group.

 All of the unit's research outputs are disseminated in high-ranking journals, such as the Journal
 of Algebra, the Journal of Group Theory, Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society, the
 Israel Journal of Mathematics and the Duke Mathematical Journal. As mentioned in the
 overview, the members of the unit have been invited to give research talks at prestigious
 conferences. For instance, Smith was a morning speaker at the British Mathematical Colloquium
 2018, Mattarei was invited to speak at the algebra workshop at the British Mathematical
 Colloquium 2019, Khukhro was an invited speaker at the Ischia Group Theory Conference 2018,
 and Thillaisundaram was invited to speak at the Ischia Online Group Theory Conference 2020.

 We strive to provide an invigorating research environment, to attract PhD students and
 postdoctoral researchers, by conducting fortnightly Algebra Research Seminars, as well as
 hosting reading groups and informal seminars, and by inviting external academics to Lincoln for
 research collaborations. More details of our seminars are given in Section 4. These seminars
 are also open to our undergraduate and postgraduate students. In addition to seminar speakers,
 over the past four years we have had ten academic research visits, ranging from a week to a
 month. Half of these visits were supported by London Mathematical Society (LMS) research
 grants.

 The School of Mathematics and Physics and the University of Lincoln provide a very supportive
 environment for encouraging high-quality grant applications. The University's Research and
 Enterprise Office regularly hosts grant-writing workshops and grant panel discussions, and the
 School of Mathematics and Physics has a grant assistance funding scheme for our members to
 undertake research visits and to attend conferences, in order to boost our research
 collaborations and to expand on our research ideas and pursuits. As well as making more than
 thirty bids over the past 4 years, the unit has successfully obtained many conference grants
 (such as the LMS Celebrating New Appointments Grant and the LMS Regional Meeting Grant)
 and other research grants (such as the EPSRC Overseas Travel Grant and the Düsseldorf
 University Alumni Research Grant).

 Regarding our impact strategy, all members of the unit are part of extensive outreach activities
 such as mathematical challenges and masterclasses for school children, the Newton Academy
 mathematics events for schoolgirls and the Engineering Development Trust Headstart event for
 16-17 year-old school pupils. All of these events have been well received and positive feedback
 has been obtained. More information on our outreach activities is given in Section 4. In addition
 to public engagement, postgraduate courses on totally disconnected locally compact groups,
 which include Smith's work, have taken place at the University of Binghamton, USA in 2017 and
 at the University of Oxford in 2018, a postgraduate course on Lie ring methods in group theory,
 which includes Khukhro's work, was held at the University of Brasilia in 2018. More details on
 these, and on the book “New directions in Locally Compact Groups” which was published in
 2018 and includes an entire chapter on Smith's work, are given in our Impact Case Studies.

 C). Research and Impact Strategy for the Future. The development of mathematics research
 in Lincoln is based on the current strengths of the existing staff, and the increase in staff
 numbers depends on prospective increases in undergraduate intake and research funding.

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Planning for the directions of research and its organization is conducted with the help of
 consultations with the School’s External Advisory Board, which includes 16 leading figures both
 in pure mathematics (such as a Fields laureate Efim Zelmanov) and applied mathematics (for
 example, Prof. Natasha Maurits), as well as from industry, from the UK, the USA, the
 Netherlands, Brazil, Spain, Japan and Norway.

 Our research strategy for the immediate future is to further develop our UoA into a small but
 internationally distinct and well-recognised centre of research excellence in Algebra. Further
 research is planned, individually and in collaboration, to advance the methods and approaches
 in the above areas of algebra and number theory, as well as exploring other possible
 applications. Already there have been recent new collaborations in group theory with the
 University of Cambridge, University of Valencia, University of Kurdistan, École Normale
 Supérieure de Lyon, Ohio State University and City University of New York; and there is an
 interdisciplinary collaboration in cryptography in the pipeline. The highly topical area of tdlc
 groups attracts collaborations for Smith with researchers in the UK, Austria, USA and Australia,
 as exemplified by the recent mini-conferences in Lincoln in 2017 and 2018. The joint work of
 Khukhro with the Brazilian researchers aims at generalizations of the Wilson–Zelmanov theorem
 on Engel groups. The study of profinite groups from various viewpoints is one of the current
 trends in group theory, which is pursued in the work of Thillaisundaram and her collaborators, as
 well as of Khukhro. The research of the members of the UoA is also a basis for posing
 challenging problems to PhD students. Another research aim is to produce over 30 research
 outputs in highly-ranked international journals over the next 5 years, and where possible, we aim
 to disseminate our results in open access journals.

 Organisationally, the development of the UoA is to be achieved through the following three aims.
 Firstly, we aim to recruit 2 more academics, 4 more postdoctoral researchers active in algebraic
 or algebraic-related research and 2 more PhD students over the next five years. The new
 academics will include applied mathematicians or statisticians, which will increase the diversity
 of our research portfolio. Our approach to attracting postdoctoral researchers and PhD students
 is via networking at conferences and ensuring that Lincoln provides an active, appealing and
 supportive research environment. For attracting PhD students from amongst the Lincoln
 graduates, the third- and fourth-year individual projects, the Lincoln Undergraduate Research
 Opportunities Scheme, provide an excellent opportunity for keen students to get involved in
 research, and especially in the research closely linked to the members of the UoA. Secondly, we
 aim to secure at least £500k of research income over the next REF census period by applying
 for EPSRC, London Mathematical Society, Royal Society, and Leverhulme research grants.
 Certainly, this research income, and the addition of postdoctoral researchers and PhD students,
 will enable more cutting-edge research to be conducted. The School of Mathematics and
 Physics has an internal peer review process for every grant application, which will help to
 increase the number of successful bids. Our strategy for securing larger research grants also
 include continuing to build a track record of smaller research grants, which enables new
 collaborations to be formed with other excellent mathematicians, which will thus strengthen the
 research proposals for larger grant applications. Thirdly, we aim to continue organising and
 attending national and international conferences, as well as further disseminating research
 outputs in leading international open access journals and at conferences. Organising and
 attending conferences will also aid us towards our goal of recruiting more postdoctoral
 researchers and PhD students, and towards our goal of increasing the number of our national
 and international collaborations, which will also help to increase our research income.

 Our impact strategy for the future is to expand our outreach activities and continue to promote
 the transfer of our research into educational material. Impact through public engagement is not
 easy for pure mathematics, since our research is very abstract and technical. However, much of
 our research has a geometric aspect to it and can be depicted pictorially (such as with tree
 diagrams and fractals), which is an excellent way of conveying our research ideas to the public.
 For the aspects of our research that is less geometric, simpler examples and analogies can be
 used equally successfully. We will continue to maintain contact with local schools in Lincolnshire,
 and to organise algebra public lectures at the University of Lincoln and wider afield. Our strategy

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has been to focus on local public engagement. We are very pleased to receive compliments
 from the public for our outreach work. A strategy for the future is to broaden our public
 engagement activities outside Lincolnshire to a more international level. This has already been
 done by Khukhro, in his public lectures in Brazil and Russia, in 2016 and 2017 respectively.
 Further details of these lectures are given in the Impact Case Study on outreach.


 2. People
 Strategy and development. Our strategy is to recruit staff active in algebraic research, whose
 expertise complement and diversify the existing areas of the UoA's research. Khukhro, an
 experienced expert in nilpotent groups and profinite groups, was the founding member of the
 UoA, and he was strategically appointed in 2014 to attract other high-profile algebraists to
 Lincoln. Mattarei, a long-established expert in thin Lie algebras with a broad expertise ranging
 from pro-p groups to number theory, was appointed in 2015. Smith and Thillaisundaram were
 simultaneously appointed in 2016, bringing in expertise in permutation groups and branch
 groups, respectively. Each appointment was due to the expertise and diversity in algebra of that
 member, which harmonised well with the existing group members. Khukhro was promoted to a
 professorship in pure mathematics in 2018 and Smith became a senior lecturer in 2017.

 With the future growth of the school and its research income we envision future academic
 recruitment in the emerging areas linked to our current strengths, such as the subject of analytic
 groups, combinatorics of non-abelian groups and more applied areas. Our growth directions are
 always discussed with the aforementioned External Advisory Board, which helps us to be at the
 forefront of mathematics developments in the world. Additionally, new recruitment is planned
 also by recruiting more members of staff active in algebraic-related research via postdoctoral
 grants, such as EPSRC, Royal Society, and Leverhulme grants. In terms of development for
 existing staff, members of the UoA also have the opportunity to apply for academic leave to
 enhance and promote their research. The School's research assistance fund also enables staff
 members to attend conferences and undertake collaborative research visits. In addition, the
 Lincoln Institute of Advanced Studies regularly awards mobility grants to academic staff;
 Thillaisundaram obtained mobility grants to undertake a research visit to the University of the
 Basque Country and to invite a postdoctoral researcher from École Normale Supérieure de Lyon
 to Lincoln. Both research visits were on topics in branch groups and altogether resulted in 6
 papers.

 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion. The name of the research centre was chosen to highlight
 an important role model: Charlotte Scott was a highly regarded mathematician who was born in
 Lincoln and was the first British woman to receive a doctorate. She was influential in developing
 the mathematical education of women and their participation in mathematical research.

 The Algebra Research Centre has a diverse background, with origins from Italy, Malaysia,
 Russia, and the UK. One of our staff is female and of a minority ethnic origin. The School and
 the University have many support schemes in place, such as childcare schemes and regular
 female and BAME scientists networking events.

 Special attention is given to inviting female researchers, as well as early career researchers, to
 conferences and seminars conducted by Algebra Research Centre. The proportion of female
 speakers at the algebra research seminar in Lincoln is 30%, and the proportion of early career
 speakers is 43%. Our algebra research seminar usually takes place at 2-3pm, which is
 compatible with scientists with childcare responsibilities.

 In addition the School and Algebra Centre supported Thillaisundaram in giving a talk “Hausdorff
 dimension of pro-p groups – history and open problems” at the “Women in Mathematics”
 conference at the Isaac Newton Institute, University of Cambridge in 2018, and her presentation
 on the same topic at “STEM for Britain 2019” in the House of Commons. One of the UoA's PhD
 students is female, Valentina Iusa (at that time 50% of our PhD cohort), who has successfully
 obtained her PhD in 2019, with the full support of the Algebra group in her studies and research,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 having also published a research paper in Monatshefte für Mathematik. Another completed PhD
 was in applied mathematics in 2016 by Roberta Dessi, who was supervised by members of staff
 from the physics UoA.

 Post-graduate support. Currently our PhD student is in year 4 of his part-time studies, while
 our former PhD student successfully completed her thesis and prepared two research papers
 containing interesting results on groups and Lie algebras admitting Frobenius groups of
 automorphisms, which, in particular, solve a problem posed by Khukhro et al. in 2010. There are
 currently 3 more PhD students in applied mathematics, who are supervised by members of staff
 from the physics UoA. Whilst we support pure mathematics students in our UoA, there is also
 support to applied mathematics students, and we view this as a positive role the UoA and its
 staff play for the benefit of research and studies in the School. The PhD students benefit from
 regular research seminars and LARA (Lincoln Algebra Research Afternoons) study group
 meetings, as well as from conferences conducted in Lincoln. Being such a small group, the
 students receive a more personalised experience as they are fully integrated with the UoA. The
 PhD students also take part in conferences both in the UK and abroad, with the partial financial
 support from the School. The School also provides opportunities for PhD students to become
 teaching assistants for undergraduate students providing valuable work experience.
 Furthermore, the School invites PhD students to present their research to third-year
 undergraduate mathematics students in a seminar series as part of the Advanced Topics of
 Mathematics module. The University's Doctoral School offers lots of support and transferable
 skills training, and every PhD student has two supervisors plus an academic mentor. All
 supervisors and academic mentors in the Algebra Research Centre have undergone PGR
 supervisor training.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Current research income. The UoA has benefited from London Mathematical Society (LMS)
 grants (£1000) secured by Thillaisundaram to support one-day algebraic research meetings at
 University of Lincoln in 2017 and in 2018. These meetings were attended by academics from
 overseas as well as leading UK institutions (Cambridge, Oxford, Leeds). Thillaisundaram, jointly
 with algebraists from Lancaster, Royal Holloway and Cambridge, secured a further LMS grant
 (£3000) to support research visitors to the University of Lincoln, and to organise a research
 meeting on Words in Finite and Profinite Groups at the University of Lincoln in 2019, and a
 meeting on Linear Groups in 2020. In 2019, Thillaisundaram obtained an EPSRC grant (£10
 610) for a research project on “Hausdorff dimensions of p-adic analytic groups”. Several
 overseas research visiting grants supported collaborative research of members of the Algebra
 Centre with researchers in Brazil (Khukhro in 2014–2016, 2018, 2019), Germany
 (Thillaisundaram, 2018; ca. £1800), Russia (Khukhro, 2014–18; ca. £5400), and USA (Smith,
 2017). An LMS grant (£1400) secured by Smith in 2017 supported a research visit to Lincoln by
 a leading US-based researcher Wesolek to give a series of lectures in the UK on his research at
 the University of Lincoln, the University of Leeds and the University of St Andrews, as well as to
 collaborate with Lincoln researchers on totally disconnected locally compact groups and related
 topics. Another LMS grant (£1200) secured by Smith supported a research visit by a leading
 Australia-based researcher, Reid, to work collaboratively with members of the Algebra Research
 Centre. Similarly, Thillaisundaram obtained an LMS grant (£1500) in 2019 to support the visit of
 US-based mathematician Skipper to deliver a series of talks at the Universities of St. Andrews,
 Oxford, Lincoln and Cambridge. In 2019 and 2020, Thillaisundaram was awarded LMS grants
 (£2000) to support the visit of a promising new mathematician Francoeur, to work collaboratively
 with members of the Algebra Research Centre. Furthermore, the Algebra Research Centre has
 been awarded an LMS Regional Meeting and Workshop grant (£5000) to host a 3-day meeting
 in Lincoln in 2021, on topics including profinite groups and their related aspects, as well as
 broader topics such as cryptography and mathematics in education.

 Future research income. The Algebra Centre is always striving to attract a diverse portfolio of
 research grants from the EPSRC, the LMS, the Royal Society, and the Leverhulme Foundation.
 For example, last year Smith has submitted an EPSRC Standard Grant proposal on permutation

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 groups, totally disconnected locally compact groups and the local isomorphism relation; Khukhro
 has recently submitted a Heilbronn Focused Research Grant; Mattarei will soon be submitting an
 EPSRC Standard Grant proposal on classifying thin Lie algebras; and likewise Thillaisundaram
 is in the process of submitting an EPSRC New Investigator Award proposal on maximal
 subgroups of branch groups. As mentioned in Section 1, the School of Mathematics and Physics
 also has an internal peer reviewing process for grant proposals, to maximise the quality of grant
 applications. In the current REF census period, over forty grant bids have been made with a
 38% success rate, and this high level is expected to be sustained in the future.

 Infrastructure and facilities. As part of the School of Mathematics and Physics, the Algebra
 Centre is housed in the new Isaac Newton Building (since 2017), with excellent environment for
 research in pure mathematics. All members of staff have individual offices, which provide the
 essential quiet and undisturbed atmosphere for academics to conduct research in pure
 mathematics. The PhD students have a shared office, which promotes friendly informal
 discussions, and a supportive environment, which is key for postgraduate research in
 mathematics. The mathematics research room is well-equipped for supporting seminars, small
 conferences, and other activities. All staff are provided with computers, printing facilities and
 university-supported software. The Library is well stocked with algebraic monographs, and an
 unlimited university allowance for inter-library loans allows access to journal papers.

 Given the nature of algebraic research, the infrastructure required is relatively modest, however
 time is an important research aid. The Algebra Centre is very supportive towards its members,
 making sure that the members meet regularly at seminars or more informally, to enable and
 encourage the exchange of research ideas and to discuss research problems.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Algebra Research Seminar attracts visitors both from the UK and overseas. Over the last four
 years more than 50 external speakers visited Lincoln with talks at the seminar on topical issues
 of algebraic research, including 15 overseas speakers. Some of the most prestigious speakers
 include Prof. George Willis, Prof. Dan Segal and the Fields Medallist Prof. Efim Zelmanov. As
 mentioned before, special attention is given to inviting early career researchers to speak at our
 seminar. This opportunity and experience are valuable for the career progression of young
 researchers.

 Interdisciplinary research for the algebra group means primarily interactions between various
 parts of mathematics. One of the strong points is development and application of Lie ring
 methods for solving group-theoretic problems. An important development in the theory of totally
 disconnected locally compact groups has arisen in connection with the theory of permutation
 groups. Furthermore, interactions between various parts of algebra play significant role in the
 study of Hausdorff dimensions of pro-p groups.

 National and international collaboration. The Algebra Centre fosters and encourages a range
 of collaborations, which are supported by grants or School funding:
     • Khukhro collaborates with Brazilian mathematicians (Shumyatsky and Acciarri) on the
         study of profinite and compact groups, as well as of length parameters of finite groups;
         this collaboration also involves Traustason (Bath, UK).
     • Khukhro was a member of a research team (of 25 researchers) at Sobolev Inst. of
         Mathematics, Novosibirsk, Russia, in the project 14-21-00065 "Study of the structure of
         groups and algebras; algorithmic problems in groups and algebras and their applications"
         supported by a ca. £1,400,000 grant of the Russian Science Foundation in 2014–19.
     • Khukhro was a member of a research team (of ca. 50 researchers) at the Sobolev
         Institute of Mathematics, Novosibirsk, Russia, in the newly formed “Mathematical Centre
         in Akademgorodok” supported by a ca. £4,000,000 grant of the Russian Government in
         2019–20.
     • Khukhro is one of the organisers of the international online seminar "Kourovka Forum"
         devoted to current trends and unsolved problems in group theory.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Mattarei collaborates with Italian mathematicians (Avitabile, Pizzato and Tauraso) on
        topics in Lie algebras, on special polynomial in finite fields, and on congruences for
        combinatorial sums.
    •   Smith collaborates with mathematicians in Australia (Praeger, Reid and Giudici), Iceland
        (Möller), Austria (Imrich), USA (Wesolek) and the UK (Macpherson) on the study of
        permutations groups and totally disconnected locally compact groups.
    •   Thillaisundaram collaborates with German mathematician (Klopsch), Spanish
        mathematician (Fernández-Alcober), and Italian mathematicians (Noce and Di
        Domenico) on the study of generalisations of Grigorchuk–Gupta–Sidki groups and
        Hausdorff dimensions of pro-p groups.

 Esteem indicators. All members of the UoA regularly peer-review articles for many highly
 ranked mathematical journals. Below is a more detailed account of esteem indicators for each
 member of the Algebra Centre.

 Khukhro is a managing editor of Journal of Group Theory (de Gruyter), and of the Kourovka
 Notebook, which is the world-famous collection of unsolved problems in group theory. Khukhro
 is a member of the editorial board of Journal of Algebra (Elsevier). A conference was organised
 and conducted in Lincoln in 2016 in honour of Khukhro’s 60th birthday, which attracted
 participants from 10 countries. Furthermore, Khukhro was bestowed the title of Professor
 Honoris Causa by the University of Brasilia in 2017.

 Mattarei is a full member of the EPSRC Peer Review College. In April 2017, Mattarei was invited
 as a Visiting Professor by the University of Milano-Bicocca. Additionally, Mattarei was an invited
 speaker at the British Mathematics Colloquium in 2019, the largest pure mathematics
 conference held annually in the UK.

 Smith was invited in 2018 to be a prestigious Morning Speaker at the British Mathematics
 Colloquium, the largest pure mathematics conference to be held annually in the UK. In 2019 two
 textbooks were published that prominently featured results of Smith. The first, Permutation
 groups and Cartesian decompositions by Praeger and Schneider (London Lecture Notes Series,
 vol. 449), featured Smith’s work on infinite primitive permutation groups, while the second, New
 Directions on locally compact groups (London Lecture Notes Series, vol. 447), has a whole
 chapter devoted to Smith’s work on totally disconnected locally compact groups.

 Thillaisundaram is a member of the London Mathematical Society Early Career Research
 Committee and is a reviewer for the University of Lincoln's Undergraduate Research Opportunity
 Scheme. Additionally, Thillaisundaram was a STEM for Britain 2019 finalist in the House of
 Commons.

 Invited lectures at conferences. All staff of the Algebra Centre regularly give plenary lectures
 at seminars and colloquia in the UK and abroad, as well as at international and national
 conferences. These include:
     • Khukhro gave invited plenary lectures at international conferences in Belgium (2017),
        France (2015), Germany (2018), Italy (2014, 2016, 2018, 2021), Russia (2014), Spain
        (2020), Turkey (2016), UK (2016, 2019).
     • Mattarei gave an invited talk at a conference Topics on Groups and Their
        Representations in Italy in 2017, and in 2018 at a Workshop Non-Associative Algebras
        and Applications in Lancaster; he was an invited speaker at the British Mathematics
        Colloquium in 2019.
     • Smith gave invited plenary lectures at the ICMS in Edinburgh (2018) and the BIRS in
        Canada (2016), as well as at international conferences in Germany (2018), Lincoln
        (2017, 2018), Paris (2016) and Australia (2014). He was a Morning Speaker at the British
        Mathematics Colloquium in 2018.
     • Thillaisundaram gave an invited talk at the 4th Biennial International Group Theory
        Conference in Malaysia (2017), and at NordDeutsches Mathematisches Kolloquium in
        Germany (2017). She spoke at the Women in Mathematics meeting in Cambridge

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (2018); she gave an invited talk at the Functor Categories for Groups meeting on
        Hausdorff dimension in London (2018). She was an invited speaker at the LMS
        Prospects in Mathematics Conference in Lancaster (2019), at the Group Algebras,
        Representations and Computations conference in Bangalore, India (2019), at Groups in
        Galway (2020) and at the Ischia Online Group Theory Conference (2020).

 Outreach activities. Staff of the Algebra Centre are involved in extensive outreach activities
 aimed at raising the public awareness of the importance and beauty of mathematics, attracting
 school children to studying mathematics at all levels, changing the perception of mathematics
 and mathematicians in the society. These activities include:
     • Mathematics Challenges for school children are conducted every year by staff of the
        Algebra Centre. The challenges attract school children of ages 15–17 with a wide
        geographic distribution, although with participants from the neighbouring counties. The
        winners attend prize-giving ceremonies in Lincoln, greeted by the leading academics,
        including visitors-lecturers in the Distinguished Mathematics and Physics Public Lectures
        series.
     • Public lectures for the general public are organised by members of the Algebra Centre.
        For example, Khukhro’s lectures on George Boole in Lincoln (2015), in Russia (2016),
        and in Brazil (2017) included references to recent research outputs as examples of
        applications of Mathematical Logic in “normal” mathematics. These lectures are
        documented on websites and are currently being re-worked into a paper in De Morgan
        Journal in collaboration with Borovik. Another example is Khukhro’s inaugural
        professorial lecture in 2018.
 There are established annual mathematics public lecture series: George Boole public lectures in
 mathematics, and Charlotte Scott public lectures in mathematics. The lecturers in these series
 are given by distinguished mathematicians such as presidents of the learned societies (London
 Maths Soc., Edinburgh Maths Soc., Operational Research Soc.) and attract enthusiastic
 audiences from various walks of life, including young people, university lecturers, school
 teachers and pensioners.
     • Lectures/workshops for school children are organised and conducted by members of the
        Algebra Centre. For example, the masterclass lectures of Khukhro in 2015 for school
        children attracted very positive feedback, which was documented by means of a
        questionnaire. These lectures on group theory were written to inspire school children to
        see mathematics as a vibrant and dynamic subject. This was achieved by including in the
        lecture recent results published by members of the Charlotte Scott Algebra Research
        Centre. Another example is the Engineering Development Trust (EDT) Headstart
        workshops in 2017, 2018, and 2019 with similar lectures, documented with very positive
        feedback in questionnaires. Thillaisundaram also spoke on “Hausdorff dimensions in
        group theory” at the Girls in Mathematics Day at the Bishop Grosseteste University in
        2019.

 Impact of research on teaching and learning. The research of the members of Algebra
 Centre influenced the design and delivery of curriculums at universities in the UK, USA and
 Brazil. For instance, recent research by Khukhro has been incorporated into the syllabus of an
 advanced course on group theory in University of Brasilia (Brazil), and recent research by Smith
 has been incorporated into the syllabus of advanced courses on group theory at several
 universities, including Binghamton University (USA) and the University of Oxford (UK). Smith’s
 research also features prominently in an LMS Lecture Note Series textbook that has been used
 as an integral part of a course on totally disconnected locally compact groups at ETH Zürich.
 Furthermore, Smith’s research has also been incorporated into the undergraduate course at the
 University of Lincoln.




                                                                                           Page 8
