Institution: The University of Glasgow (UofG)

Unit of Assessment: 23 Education

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
The School of Education is one of five schools within the College of Social Sciences (CoSS).

Committed to social justice in education, we aim to be world leaders in research addressing the
pressing education issues of our times, making a difference for society’s most vulnerable and
educationally disadvantaged.

Founded in 1999 through the merger of a Catholic Teachers College with two small University
departments, we have evolved from our near-exclusive focus on undergraduate teacher education
to become a broad-based, research-intensive unit with a large community of international PGT
and doctoral students. In the most recent third of the School’s history – the REF2021 period –
almost every facet of our research activity has recorded exponential growth.

The School has 56 (48.6FTE) Category A (CatA) staff organised within four Research and
Teaching Groups. RTGs have line-management functions but more fundamentally lead academic
work in key knowledge domains: Culture, Literacies, Inclusion & Pedagogy (CLIP, led by Arizpe);
Educational Leadership & Policy (ELP, led by Hermannsson); Pedagogy, Praxis & Faith (PPF,
led by McKinney); and People, Place & Social Change (PPSC, led by Gormally).

RTG research awards and outputs during the REF2021 period are characterised by five thematic
areas: migration and refugee education; collaborative schooling for change; ethics, religion and
values in education; urban and place-based learning; and adult learning and youth transitions.
Each highlights aspects of our commitment to social justice in education.

The figure below illustrates how RTG research is represented within these themes; concentrated
in some (solid lines) but also evident in others (broken lines). The themes are indicative rather
than prescriptive of our research.




Migration and Refugee Education is ground-breaking research at intersections between culture,
literacies, inclusion and pedagogy, notably in regions of conflict, with a focus on the arts, children's
literature and literacies. Collaborative Schooling for Change advances research with policymakers
and practitioners, aimed at enabling all children to achieve their potential irrespective of
background. Ethics, Religion and Values in Education is philosophical/theological research on
educational ideas and theory building applied to contemporary issues of social justice in education,
underpinning the School’s approach to innovative and cross-disciplinary pedagogies. Urban and
Place-based Learning research examines relations between place and educational disadvantage,
particularly in the Global South. Adult Learning and Youth Transitions highlights research on the
impact of learning opportunities on the life courses of young and older adults, including those most
vulnerable in labour markets and at risk of social exclusion.

                                                                                                  Page 1
1.1 School structures and groups
Our four RTGs are supported by a Research Committee, led by the Director of Research
(Osborne) and including four RTG Leaders, Deputy Director of Research (Boeren, supporting
grant capture), Publications Lead (Enslin, supporting publications development), Impact
Champion (Livingston, supporting pathways to impact) and Director of Postgraduate Research
students (Sutherland, responsible for doctoral student recruitment, progression, completion). The
Committee oversees group seminars, visiting scholar programmes, access to resources, research
progress, staff and doctoral student development.

RTGs are groups of research and teaching staff, reflecting synergies between these dual
responsibilities. As well as crucibles for teaching, they are collegial, collaborative forums for
incubating research ideas, for peer review and validation, for celebrating achievements. They also
house research centres and networks with distinctive concentrations.

Research awards/outputs generated by RTG Culture, Literacies, Inclusion and Pedagogy
(CLIP) broadly fall within the theme Migration and Refugee Education, which typifies the Group’s
research on:
 • children’s literature, literacies, critical literacy analysis;
 • intercultural education, cultural identity, linguistic diversity and arts-based practices;
 • language-informed pedagogies, effective/collaborative pedagogy models.

CLIP houses one of Europe’s largest research concentrations on children’s literature in education.

Some CLIP research also falls within Collaborative Schooling for Change, specifically culturally-
relevant assessment that supports learning. CLIP leads the International Educational Assessment
Network of Small Nations and States (IEAN, led by Hayward, a strand within ROC; see below),
bringing together international researchers and policymakers in dialogue: e.g., with Scottish and
Welsh governments, on pupil assessment in senior grades during COVID-19, foregrounding new
approaches to senior pupil assessment in 2021. Other examples are in the impact case study:
Shaping Educational Assessment Policy in Small Nations and States (Hayward).

CLIP staff have won multiple AHRC and GCRF awards (Section 3). Eight have a migration focus,
including the UNESCO Chair in Refugee Integration through Languages and the Arts (Phipps;
the only UNESCO Chair with a specific remit for refugees). CLIP also leads the Glasgow Refugee
Asylum and Migration Network (GRAMNet) of likeminded researchers, practitioners and
policymakers throughout Scotland. These awards and networks facilitate pathways to research
impact. Examples are in the impact case study: The Mediator Toolkit: supporting mediators
working with children using picturebooks in contexts of displacement (Arizpe).

Research awards/outputs generated by RTG Educational Leadership and Policy (ELP) broadly
fall within the theme Collaborative Schooling for Change, which characterises the Group’s
research on:
     • comparative and international education;
     • educational improvement and system change;
     • governance and policy in education;
     • capacity building and leadership development.

Some ELP research also falls within Urban and Place-Based Learning, with large-scale Scottish
Government-funded research (Children’s Neighbourhoods) focused on multisector approaches
within ‘place’. Section 3 highlights ELP grants, including projects focused on school systems
development in Scotland, Wales, Chile, India and Vietnam.

ELP hosts the Robert Owen Centre for Educational Change (ROC, led by Davis), promoting
equitable education systems through theory-informed, applied research. ELP also leads Policy
Scotland (led by Chapman), brokering collaborations between researchers and national

                                                                                            Page 2
policymakers, creating pathways to impact. An example of ELP’s centres working closely with
policymakers and practitioners is in the impact case study: Supporting collaboration and
partnership to improve educational attainment in Scotland (Chapman).

Research awards/outputs generated by RTG Pedagogy, Praxis and Faith (PPF) broadly fall
within the theme Ethics, Religion and Values in Education. This reflects the Group’s research on
pedagogic processes by which different philosophies of education are enacted, across subject
areas within primary and secondary education. Emphasis is on pedagogical innovation and
interdisciplinarity, informing our research-led teaching in initial teacher education programmes.
The focus of many staff in this RTG is on teacher preparation, enabling research-based
innovations and ideas to be shared with and tested by experienced professionals.

PPF co-hosts the Centre for Computing Science Education (a collaboration between computer
and social scientists, led by the School of Computing Science), which leads action research
engaging a nationwide teachers’ network evaluating novel teaching approaches, providing
opportunities for research to impact practice and vice versa. Examples of researching closely with
teachers are in the impact case study: Developing and supporting teachers as learners
(Livingston). Section 3 features awards secured by PPF.

Research awards/outputs generated by RTG People, Place and Social Change (PPSC) broadly
fall within the themes Urban and Place-Based Learning and Adult Learning and Youth Transitions.
These epitomise the Group’s research on how education in urban and post-compulsory settings
is experienced and shaped by youth/adult learners in diverse contexts. Investigations are across
three areas:
 • connections between people, places, communities;
 • obstacles and facilitators of lifelong education;
 • transitions in education and to employment.

PPSC houses one of Europe’s largest research concentrations on adult education.

PPSC staff have won multiple awards (Section 3) from the ESRC, EPSRC, AHRC, MRC, the
British Academy and European Commission. Most notable is the Education component of the
ESRC-funded Urban Big Data Centre. PPSC also hosts the Centre for Research and
Development in Adult and Lifelong Learning (led by Osborne).

PPSC leads two international networks: the PASCAL Observatory (led by Osborne), a global
alliance of academics working collaboratively with city and regional leaders, and Sustainable
Futures in Africa (led by Perry), an interdisciplinary network of researchers and practitioners.
These create opportunities for researchers to interact with leaders and practitioners internationally,
creating pathways to impact policy and practice.

1.2 Objectives and progress
Following REF2014, we made five observations about our research contributions:
 1. Income was low relative to our ambition, its availability from government declined sharply and
     only 34% came from research councils;
 2. Reliance on research drawing primarily from within the discipline limited opportunities to
     research education problems in new and innovative ways;
 3. While 71% of CatA staff were submitted to REF2014, there was potential for further staff
     development;
 4. The strategy (from 2010) to reconfigure the School with RTGs at its centre, was beginning to
     deliver concentrations in research/er expertise and development opportunities;
 5. Doctoral student numbers were low relative to our capacity and completion rates were below
     our aspirations, both limiting our contribution to sustaining the discipline.

In response we established the following objectives. Objectives 1, 2 and 5 focus on researcher
development; 2, 3 and 4 focus on research, including impact.


                                                                                                Page 3
Objective 1: Create a supportive environment in which researchers thrive, working closely with
doctoral students within a cohesive organisational structure.

We consolidated RTGs from five to four, strengthening research and teaching in each, and aligned
centres/networks with specific RTGs to achieve greater clarity and coherence across research
activities. Our reconfigured RTGs bring colleagues together in collectives with similar research
interests and a range of expertise. They provide support for researcher development, including
doctoral students (Section 2). Senior researchers mentor grant writing, impact activities and
publication development.

RTGs include all research and teaching staff and doctoral students, enabling research to be
foregrounded in all School activities. We attribute much of our success in increasing grant income
(Section 3.1) and improving doctoral student completion rates (Section 2.3.4) to this collaborative
approach. Interactions within RTGs led to success in winning funding for four (one per RTG)
prestigious Erasmus Mundus International Masters programmes directly informed by our
research. The Programmes also produce high-quality graduates flowing through to doctoral
student enrolments. We have the most Erasmus Mundus programmes of any School in Europe,
regardless of subject.

Objective 2: Increase proportion of researchers holding awards, expand research income in size
and range, maximise the quality of research outputs.

Our strategy is elaborated in Section 2.1; Section 3 documents our success. In brief:

Research income by spend increased 98% from £4.31m (REF2014) to £8.54m (REF2021). Many
CatA staff hold awards, increasingly from UKRI. As a proxy for quality, our field-weighted
publication citations increased from 15% above average (REF2014) to 56% above average
(REF2021). International regard for the quality of our research is also reflected in our entry (in
2019) into the top 50 on the QS World University subject rankings and our steady rise in the THE
World University subject rankings, just outside the top 100 (at 109th ).

Objective 3: Undertake interdisciplinary research addressing major global challenges

We actively support participation in large research projects, collaborating with others across the
University and beyond (Section 3.2). We aim to integrate discipline-specific knowledge and
methods, tackling the educational challenges faced inter/nationally, particularly in the Global South
(Sections 3.1&3.2). During REF2021 we secured 21 interdisciplinary GCRF projects (Section 3.1)
focused on addressing global challenges. We provide complementary expertise to other fields,
working closely with the University’s Schools of Computing Science, Engineering, Humanities, and
Social and Political Science, with the Institute of Health and Wellbeing and the Hunterian Museum.

Objective 4: Support translation of research into demonstrable social and environmental impacts,
through collaborative engagement with policymakers and users.

Fostering societal impact is central to our research efforts and commitment to social justice. Our
Impact Champion provides regular training to CatA staff and doctoral students to develop capacity
to deliver impact, including Personal Impact Plans with 3-year targets (Section 2.1.2). Staff also
access funding from ESRC, ESRC/EPSRC and EPSRC/GCRF Impact Acceleration Awards
(Section 3.3) to progress their impact plans.

Our four impact case studies were selected from a shortlist of eight across all RTGs. They reflect
longstanding impact inter/nationally. Impact pathways are further created through our research-
led teaching, facilitated by RTGs that foster interactions between research and teaching staff.

Objective 5: Build a thriving doctoral cohort with increasing completion rates


                                                                                               Page 4
Doctoral student numbers in 2019/2020 were over 2.5 times 2013/2014, while completions
increased threefold. The average number of doctoral students per CatA staff is 4.75 (Section 2).

We made substantial progress on each objective, exceeding our expectations for most. In the
process, we have secured a position among the leading research-intensive schools of education
(SoEs) in the UK and beyond.

1.3 Open research environment and integrity
We are committed to an open research environment. The University’s leadership and policies
supporting research integrity are recognised by the Royal Society, Universities UK and DORA,
and are a UK Research Integrity Office case study. The University invests £800k+ annually to
ensure researchers and doctoral students have access to expertise for designing and sharing
research, training in good practice and data storage, editorial support for developing publications,
and tools for analysing their citation-based performance. As part of the approach, we provide
mandatory integrity training to all first-year doctoral students and new academic staff, including
online modules, webinars (accommodating students based off-campus or with limited
accessibility) and discipline-specific content. Research involving human participants, material or
data must be approved by the CoSS Ethics Committee with advice available from the School
Ethics Officer (Read).

We also make significant contributions to research ethics in the University, chairing both the
University Ethics Committee and CoSS Ethics Committee (Houston).

The University Library manages compliance with open access (OA) requirements, with £1m UKRI
and Charity annual budgets used exclusively to make publications OA. In 2015-2018 Leiden
Rankings for Social Science and Humanities (including Education), the University ranked 9th in
the world and 8th for green OA (both up from 25th in 2011-14). In 2020, 61.5% of our publications
were open access (15.1% in 2014) and 96.43% of staff are ORCID registered.

1.4 Future objectives
We anticipate our research will continue to be inspired by our commitment to social justice in
education, making significant contributions to UKRI-identified societal challenges. Our RTGs will
provide the organizational structure to support this research (Obj1) and their constituent
centres/networks will support engagement with and involvement of policymakers and users; a
proven strategy in creating pathways to impact (Obj4). Objs2&5 will continue our commitment to
developing researchers, particularly ECRs and doctoral students, with actions adapted to a
developing staff profile and changing political and sociocultural contexts.

Obj3 will see the most targeted adjustment, articulating a more fine-grained set of objectives in
relation to industry, interdisciplinarity and international development. We plan to:
 • Exploit opportunities to more fully engage with Industry, sourcing funds from the Industrial
     Strategy Challenge Fund particularly under the challenge areas of Aging Society and AI and
     Data Economy. We see opportunities to build on PPSC’s urban big data research and
     collaborations with the University’s Institute of Health and Wellbeing, to create new ways of
     working with industry partners. We will continue to pursue industry partnerships with
     government departments responsible for education, skills and business.
 • Expand our Interdisciplinary research, taking advantage of our location within CoSS. School
     researchers are already members of the leadership teams of five recently developed
     interdisciplinary research themes spanning the College.
 • Extend our influence in International development research. The University recently
     established a University-wide Advanced Research Centre (ARC), devoted to nurturing
     thematic research at scale, crossing traditional boundaries and established ways of working.
     We will lead one of the Centre’s six themes (i.e., International Development) and bring
     together the work of 70+ academics.




                                                                                              Page 5
2. People
Inspiring People is at the heart of the University’s strategic plan and informs our approach to
recruiting and developing inspirational researchers. Our aim is to have as high a proportion of
colleagues as possible working as independent researchers engaged in attracting external
funding, supervising doctoral students and regularly producing outputs of world-leading quality.
We support this with an environment foregrounding inclusion, diversity and collegiality, promoting
continuity of service and transition to permanent positions.

2.1 Staffing strategy and development
Research is at the forefront of our staffing strategies (Section 1.2, Obj1), guided by two principles:
 • In new appointment decisions, applicant capability to contribute to our research is equally
     important as their capability to meet our teaching requirements;
 • Development activities include all staff, regardless of personal characteristics.

Our strategy is to:

2.1.1 Appoint new staff
 • Who contribute critical mass, collegiality and balance across RTGs;
 • Who are positively disposed towards collaborative research and, particularly at senior levels,
    committed to investing in the research development of others;
 • At all career levels, allowing opportunities for stage-appropriate leadership and promotion for
    existing and new staff;
 • In ways that promote inclusion and diversity among our staff.

During REF2021 we employed 25 new CatA staff, distributed evenly across RTGs, all contributing
to sustaining the discipline’s future. Ten are ECRs compared with three in our REF2014
submission. We typically employ 20+ postdoctoral researchers, including two permanent non-
independent RFs. Our eight new professorial appointments are active in leadership, doctoral
student recruitment and development. Some are RTG or centre/network leaders: others form part
of our succession planning strategy (e.g., Deputy Director of Research appointed to succeed
Director). Staff who are women, have a disability, are BAME or LGBTQ+, feature among the
School’s key leaders, giving voice to diverse views in research priorities and decision making.

New staff contribute to increased research achievements and inspire others: e.g., our increased
UKRI awards and publication quality (Sections 3.1 & 3.2) are attributable to both new and
continuing researchers. Our appointment strategy is influential in advancing research-led
teaching, contributing to the School being ranked first in the UK for Education in every year of the
REF2021 period; in one or more of the Complete University Guide, the Times Good University
Guide and National Student Survey.

2.1.2 Develop research capabilities
 • Within RTGs, foregrounding research in all activities (Section 1.2, Obj1);
 • Making the most of University and CoSS development opportunities (Section 2.2);
 • Through School-based research development activities (Section 1.2, Obj2).

The University is one of the first in the UK to receive the HR Excellence in Research Award (2010),
which it retains. It follows the Concordat for Career Development of Researchers and has
developed a four-year improvement strategy, ensuring Glasgow remains a welcoming place in
which to do research. A Code of Practice for the Management of Research Staff identifies roles,
responsibilities and expectations.

The School has a history of inclusivity in developing its researchers, evident in 71% of CatA staff
submitted to REF2014. Our inclusive, supportive research culture enabled all CatA staff to become
research active during REF2021. We designed a targeted development approach, focused on:
common areas for all staff; common areas for specific groups; and individual researcher needs.


                                                                                                Page 6
Target Area 1: all staff, common development areas
• Research Matters Weeks: initiated in 2016, biannual, organised by the Director of Research
    and RTG Leaders, purposefully scheduled in teaching-free weeks to facilitate attendance.
    The conference-like structure includes plenary sessions, panels, concurrent seminars and
    workshops, drawing on internal and external expertise including journal editors, former REF
    panellists and end-users. Focused on research/er development and management, topics
    cover: funding opportunities, grant writing, academic publication, research impact, social
    media profiles, as well as equality and diversity issues e.g., transgender researchers speaking
    on language use in research, including gender-neutral pronouns.

•   Grant Writing Workshops: offered regularly, linked to specific calls and internal funding up to
    £3000 to develop proposals (Section 1.2, Obj3). In parallel, we provide individual support in
    grant writing for all applicants (Targets2&3).

Target Area 2: specific staff groups, common development areas
 • Early Career Researchers: Our ECRs undertake the University’s Early Career Development
    Programme, which aims to develop high performing academics. Overseen by the CoSS ECR
    Champion (Schweisfurth, also a professor in the School), it includes development
    opportunities in all aspects of academic work, assisting ECRs to meet criteria for promotion
    to the next Grade (from 7-to-8 or 8-to-9) within 3-5 years of appointment. As part of our
    commitment we provide each ECR an experienced mentor – where appropriate, matched on
    personal characteristics – who gives independent advice, including on career progression,
    internal/external CPD opportunities and courses. Six ECRs appointed during REF2021 have
    completed the programme. Five have already achieved promotion. We also involve ECRs as
    Co-Is on large grants (e.g., Borkowska, Fassetta, Hirsu, Maitra), who bring their substantive
    and methodological expertise to bear while enabling learning from experienced teams. ECRs
    are also encouraged to develop impact pathways using the ESRC IAA scheme.

•   Research Retreats: initiated during REF2021; led by the Publications Lead, Deputy Director
    of Research, invited professors; triannual, 3-4 days each retreat (off-campus day-attendance
    and residential), 10-12 researchers each retreat; focused on writing publications and
    proposals. During REF2021: 10 early/mid-career researcher retreats, nurturing a significant
    increase in high quality outputs and grant proposals. 18% of publications submitted for
    REF2021 are by ECRs.

•   Future Leaders: We encourage all CatA staff to undertake research-relevant leadership
    training, commensurate with needs and career aspirations, including: Research Team
    Leadership Training, Emerging Leaders Programme, Aspiring Leaders Programme and the
    University Leadership Programme. We particularly encourage leadership training for women.
    Since 2016, four have completed Aurora: Advance HE’s leadership course, aimed at
    addressing female under-representation in HE leadership. Several have since been promoted
    to professor/senior positions (Sections 2.2 & 2.4.1). In August 2019, the School’s first female
    Head of School was appointed from within the staff, having previously been sponsored to
    complete Advance HE’s Transition to Leadership Programme.

Target Area 3: individual researchers, individualised development areas
• Publication and Proposal Reviews: organised by the Publications Lead and Deputy Director
    of Research: systematic pre-submission review/feedback on individuals’ publications
    (voluntary) and grant applications (compulsory).

•   Performance and Development Reviews: annual individual reviews, setting new and reflecting
    on previous objectives. Includes plans for research development and internal/external
    training.

•   Training specific to individual needs. Mandatory courses: Introduction to GDPR; Information
    Security Awareness; Equity and Diversity; Research Integrity. Other options include:

                                                                                             Page 7
    Managing Research Data; Research Impact; Managing Research Teams; Understanding
    Unconscious Bias; Recruitment and Selection.

We also encourage career development opportunities through involvement in research councils,
journal editorial boards, learned societies/associations and inter/national bodies (Section 4).

Our targeted approach helped us secure 187 live awards (including 139 new grants), with 77% of
CatA staff as investigators on externally-funded projects, one of few Schools above the
University’s 65% target. Our high volume of awards also contributed to increased publication
quality, with 20% of publications published during REF2021 in the top 10% of field-weighted
citations.

2.2 Staff support

We support staff through:

Conference attendance: CatA staff have access to £1000 annually to attend conferences, on
condition of paper presentation acceptance, supplemented for those with externally-funded
awards through a formula based on contribution to the School’s core costs.

Study leave and secondments: We encourage periods of leave (3-6months) to enable CatA staff
to further research ambitions or gain new professional experience. Leave is available to all whether
part-time or full-time, including short-term contracted researchers (subject to funder regulations).
Leave is granted based on proposal robustness and contribution to our strategic objectives. We
encourage shorter periods of leave (1-2months) to develop research grant applications and high-
quality publications, and secondments aligned with our strategic objectives, which present
opportunities to influence policy development (Sections 4.1.3 & 4.2).

Workload: Our workload model for CatA staff provides 33% minimum allocation for research and
additional hours for activities including: grant application preparation; journal editorships; major
conference organisation; membership of UKRI committees, panels and reviews. Staff also receive
additional research workload hours in proportion to recouped salary from funded research and
development. Workloads are open to negotiation with RTG leaders, allowing adjustments to
accommodate individual differences/needs.

Promotion: We encourage staff to seek promotion or professorial re-zoning and provide advice
in individual and group sessions. During REF2021, there were 24 promotions (19 female, 5 male;
comprised of nine Grade 7-to-8, eleven Grade 8-to-9, four Grade 9-to-professor).

College support: The CoSS Research Support Office supports CatA staff developing competitive
research proposals, relationships with external organisations and pathways to impact (Section
3.3). It provides regular research information workshops, providing guidance/advice on all aspects
of the research cycle, from the funding landscape, through managing data, to building
relationships with user organisations. Eleven staff accessed seedcorn funding (up to £5000 each
application) from the CoSS Strategic Research Fund, to support preparation of ambitious and
transformative external research applications.

Informal support: A social group encourages less-formal opportunities for researcher interaction
including Walks in the Park to discuss research, a book club and physical activity classes. These
are held in core work hours with adjustments made for those with disabilities or with other barriers
to access, such as family/caring responsibilities.

2.3 Doctoral students
Doctoral students are supported by the PGR Director and membership of their principal
supervisor’s RTG. Each RTG has a PGR Convener supporting student wellbeing and organising
research seminars. We hold to three principles: we value doctoral students’ differences as a


                                                                                              Page 8
resource/asset; we have high expectations for their achievements; we privilege collaboration and
teamwork.

Our reputation for support has grown during REF2021, particularly among international doctoral
students. The graphs below show significant increases (2013/14-to-2019/20) in doctoral students,
in the number of our international doctoral students (from 53 countries) and in the ratio of doctoral
students per CatA staff (upper quartile of research-intensive SoEs).




Many of our doctoral students are active in University life, in current roles such as the University’s
Students Representative Council PGR Convenor and the President of the University PhD Society.

2.3.1 Recruitment
We seek doctoral students who bring considerable experience and apposite knowledge of the
subject area on which to build. Applicants are subject to stringent application processes. We aim
for students to be funded through competitively-won studentships from the University, the Scottish
Graduate School of Social Sciences’ Doctoral Training Programme (DTP), national agencies and
overseas research councils.

During REF2021, our doctoral students were financially supported by the ESRC, AHRC, EPSRC,
MRC, European Commission, Scottish Government, Tetfund (Nigeria), Saudi Arabian
Government, World Bank, Conacyt (Mexico), Malaysian Government and the China Scholarship
Council. We also provided studentships linked to major ESRC awards.


2.3.2 Supervision and training
Doctoral student supervisors undergo training, renewed every five years. In the interim, they have
access to a comprehensive suite of supervisor support resources, workshops and events. Less
experienced staff are paired with experienced supervisors, who provide students with
complementary expertise. During REF2021, 88% of staff supervised at least one doctoral student.
Students meet with their supervisors at four-weekly intervals. Supervision sessions discuss the
research, set objectives, report progress, provide feedback on drafts and support career
development.

The CoSS Graduate School’s Research Training Programme provides doctoral students with
courses in: Research Design; Qualitative Methods; Quantitative Data Analysis; Introduction to
Social Theory for Researchers; Applied Qualitative Methods; Generalised Linear Models. The
Graduate School also provides first-year doctoral students with compulsory courses on: Research
Integrity; Research Data Management; Equality and Diversity; Information Security Awareness;
and guidance on planning longer-term professional development.




                                                                                                Page 9
In line with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, the University’s Research and
Innovation Service (RIS) provides doctoral students with courses on transferable skills relevant to
careers in academic and non-academic sectors, also offered online during COVID-19. We also
encourage students to access training offered by the Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences.

2.3.3 Additional doctoral student support
We also provide doctoral students with:
 • Discipline-specific seminars on topics such as writing literature reviews, participatory
    methodologies, theoretical frameworks and policy analysis;
 • Opportunities to attend Research and Teaching Weeks and seminars;
 • £800 for conference attendance and participation: twice for PhDs; once in year 4or5 for EdDs;
 • Writing awaydays and support in publishing during latter stages of candidature;
 • Monthly seminars, led by doctoral students for doctoral students and staff;
 • A doctoral student Blogging Club;
 • Dedicated prayer rooms and prayer-preparation washrooms across the University;
 • Advice on Tier4 visa regulations and preparing for the viva;
 • 27 funded internships;
 • Teaching assistant opportunities.

Doctoral student health, wellbeing and cultural diversity are supported/celebrated through informal
events including Hogmanay, Burns Nights, Ceilidhs, St Andrew’s Day, Chinese New Year,
Ramadan and Diwali. During COVID-19, support activities moved online and adapted to include
a film club and quizzes, among others.

2.3.4 Progression and completion
The PGR Director monitors doctoral students throughout the year and senior staff conduct Annual
Progress Reviews. If concerns are raised through these processes, identified students participate
in additional meetings with the Director and are offered targeted support. Our support strategies
have made an impressive difference to student progression and completions. The graphs below
show significant increases (REF2014-to-REF2021) in doctoral awards, over the period and
annually, and in the ratio of doctoral students per CatA staff.




During REF2021, our international doctoral graduates (84.8FTE) originated from 30 countries,
evidence of the international attraction of our doctoral programme.

2.3.5 Destinations
We work to ensure that doctoral research and skills development prepare students for future
careers. Our post-REF2014 alumni hold positions around the world: in schools, colleges,
government, agencies, hospitals, museums, galleries and other cultural institutions; e.g. UNESCO
(Hamburg); Chief of Party, USAID Partnership for Education (Ghana); Deputy Minister of
Comprehensive Healthcare (Ecuador). Others are among a new cadre of ECR academics at
                                                                                            Page 10
universities across the globe, including the UK: Cardiff Metropolitan; Durham; Glasgow; Glasgow
Caledonian; Liverpool Hope; Northumbria; Portsmouth; Stirling; Strathclyde; UCL; UHI.

The figure below shows their occupational destinations and the country destinations of those who
are appointed to academic positions (dark grey). They illustrate the international reach of our
considerable contributions to sustaining the discipline.




2.4 Equality and diversity
Social justice is a central aim of the School, inspiring our five research areas (Section 1). It also
informs our operations. We seek to raise awareness of equality and diversity e.g., all staff receive
training in equality and diversity, and unconscious bias. To this end we utilise expertise of the
University’s equality champions (for: age, disability, gender, LGBT+, race, religion, refugees,
mental health), including their participation in dedicated Research Matters Week sessions (Section
2.1.2, Target1). Section 2.4.2 illustrates the influence of our approach on fostering inclusivity. This
disposition also informs our institutional practices. For example, in keeping with the University’s
code of practice, publication and ICS selections for submission to REF2021 were determined by
an internal review process based strictly on the work’s merits, without reference to author
characteristics, independent of line-management and HR processes.

During REF2021, we specifically sought to diversify our research environment by advancing
gender equality and ethnic diversity (using nationality as proxy) among research staff and,
informed by our research, similarly diversifying the student body and curricula.

2.4.1 Promoting equality and diversity among staff
In measures employed to facilitate inclusivity: (1) RTG meetings are held in family friendly hours;
(2) writing retreats cater for day attendance by staff with caring responsibilities; (3) flexibility is
promoted in the use of conference funds, and in moves to part-time or flexible working; (4) carers
leave is available to all staff and an academic returner’s scheme provides staff returning from
parental leave with up to £10,000 to re-start their research.

While the discipline attracts a high proportion of women, this is not always reflected at professorial
and senior levels. During REF2021, we actively supported women in advancing their careers to
reach senior positions, through mentoring and training opportunities (Section 2.1.2, Target2). Now
female professors are all but proportionally representative of the number of all female researchers.
With increasing numbers of international students (many BAME), we similarly sought to
internationalise our staffing profile, making this a priority in staff recruitment strategies (Section
2.1.1). Non-UK staff now comprise 45% of all CatA staff. Strategies supporting female and
disabled staff are also utilised with our international (particularly BAME) staff. For example, we
made adjustments to workload schedules to allow staff to attend Friday afternoon prayers at the
local mosque.


                                                                                                Page 11
While gender equality and ethnic diversity were major foci during REF2021, we work more
generally to ensure the research environment is inclusive of all. For example, working with our
School-based disability champion, our ongoing approach to supporting staff with disabilities
includes: (1) workload adjustments, providing more time to conduct research; (2) physical
environment adjustments e.g., office space near exits, elevators, meeting rooms, social spaces;
(3) equipment purchases e.g., bespoke desks, chairs, speech recognition software; (4) process
adjustments. Our building also has full disabled access and events are universally accessible. Our
website is designed according to the four WCAG2.1 digital accessibility principles: perceivable;
operable; understandable; robust. Content can be interpreted reliably by assistive technologies.
We also provide text for images, contrast ratios, audio descriptions and captioning for video.

The graphs/chart below show the current staff composition by gender, UK/non-UK nationality and
Grade level.




2.4.2 Promoting equality and diversity among students and the curricula
A common feature of Initial Teacher Education (ITE) programmes is the under-representation of
male students who are ultimately under-represented in the teaching workforce. During REF2021,
we drew on our research on gender in education (Hedge, Lido, Read) to develop strategies to
increase the number of males enrolled in ITE (at Glasgow but also other Scottish universities).
Our strategies contributed to the University’s Gender Action Plan and led to the best male:female
ratio in our PGDE programmes in Scotland. They were also cited as exemplars in the Scottish
Funding Council’s first Gender Action Plan.

The University has a history of profiting from the slave trade, which it is addressing by adopting
recommendations from its commissioned report on Slavery, Abolition and the University of
Glasgow (actions recognised by the THE Awards with University of the Year 2020). As part of the
University’s resulting Decolonising Glasgow agenda, our research (Maitra, Perry, Phipps)
informed three curriculum initiatives:
• An ITE module “Beyond School Walls”, featuring culturally responsive pedagogies;
• A Masters course “Local and Global Theories and Perspectives on Learning in Different
    Contexts”, featuring Global South theorists/theories;
• A University-wide seminar series – featuring the renowned Boaventura de Sousa Santos – for
    doctoral students and their supervisors on “Decolonising Education: schools, power and
    inclusion” questioning the hegemony of Eurocentric epistemologies and models.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
During REF2021, we significantly increased our research income and the quality of our funding
sources (Obj2), increasing our capacity to conduct world-leading research (Obj3), to develop the
discipline and impact policy and practice (Section 4). Our approach involved:
 • Collaborating with others, within and beyond the discipline, in teams with different levels of
     researcher expertise/experience, including ECRs as Co-Is on proposals (Obj2);


                                                                                           Page 12
•   Cultivating interdisciplinarity, to conceive of education problems in new ways and access new
    funding streams (Obj2&3);
•   Extending our reach, within inter/national contexts of policy/practice as well as our global
    presence (Obj3&4);
•   Exploiting our location, within a research-intensive university benefiting from its infrastructure
    and facilities (Obj3).

In parallel, we enhanced our organisational (Obj1), development (Section 2.1.2) and support
(Section 2.2) structures. Combined, these actions contributed to a cultural shift: from small
numbers of CatA staff successful in securing external funding during REF2014, to grant success
with highly-selective funders now considered the norm for most CatA staff.

3.1 Income and awards
From REF2014 to REF2021 our total research-spend increased 98% from £4.31m to £8.54m.
Average annual spend per CatA staff FTE increased from £17k to £25k; 2018-19 (£32.1k) was
above the median of research-intensive SoEs.

The graph below shows the breakdown across HESA funding categories, with increases
(REF2014-to-REF2021) in almost every category.




The graph below shows the number and distribution of new awards received from major funders,
notably UKRI but also Government (the discipline’s conventional industry partner).




During REF2021, 77% of staff held new grants as PIs/Co-Is, supporting their world-leading
research. 74% of women held awards, 100% of ECRs.

                                                                                               Page 13
The 139 new grants we won (approximately 20 p.a.) attracted £12.84m (approximately £1.8m
p.a.); £8.56m from BIS Research Councils. With more than £4.5m of external funding available
for research in years beyond 2019/20, we have created a considerable foundation to ensure
research sustainability.

During REF2021 we were particularly successful in winning UKRI/BA grants under the aegis of
the Global Challenges Research Fund. The GCRF is well suited to our research aim to make a
difference for society’s most vulnerable and educationally disadvantaged.

With 21 awards (15 PIs, 6 Co-Is), we are the UK’s largest beneficiary of the GCRF – by award
number and HESA-spend – in the field of Education, having won:
   • 20% (10/50) of all UKRI GCRF awards in the field of Education, as PI;
   • A further 11 UKRI GCRF awards (9 UKRI, 2 BA) in other categories, as PI/Co-I.

Thirteen of our PIs/Co-Is holding a GCRF award were female (proportionally representative of all
female staff), 5 were ECRs (i.e., 50% of our ECRs). Our GCRF success among ECRs (4 from 7
applications) was underpinned by funds from the University’s allocation of Scottish Funding
Council Global Challenges, which supported 20 small-scale incubator projects, some led by ECRs
who then won GCRF funding (e.g., Maitra).

With our global challenges and other funding successes, we have built a strong reputation for
international development research, recognised in our future leadership in the University’s new
ARC (Section 1.4).

3.2 Highlighted awards and publications
As per Section 1, five themes characterised our REF2021 research. The examples below illustrate
its depth and breadth, in projects and publications. The projects are funded by a broad range of
highly-selective funders and greatly enhanced our capacity to engage in world-leading research.
Amounts cited below are attributable to the Unit and, where applicable, to the University.

Migration and refugee education
Four exemplar projects illustrative of intersections between culture, literacies, inclusion and
pedagogy, notably in regions of conflict:
 • Researching Multilingually at Borders (Phipps, AHRC, £620k of £1.24m awarded to
    University, 2014-2017): international comparative research on translation and interpretation
    at different kinds of borders; developed theory, ethical research practices and methodologies
    for multilingual research;
 • South-South Migration, Inequality and Development Hub (Phipps, AHRC, £746k, 2020-
    2024): researching understandings of multidimensional relationships between South-South
    migration, inequality and development, including closing gaps in education, health and other
    outcomes for migrants and their families. Led by University of Coventry, partners include 20
    universities and numerous NGOs/IGOs in 12 Global South countries including International
    Organisation for Migration, International Labour Organisation, OECD and UN agencies;
 • Educational Peace Building in Acapulco and Medellin (Arizpe, Gormally, GCRF through
    British Academy, £356k, 2020-2021): creating understandings of the infrastructure,
    engagement, resources, policies required to educationally transform a community to
    contribute to reducing negative impacts of drug-related violence/crime;
 • Culture for Sustainable and Inclusive Peace Network+ (Phipps, Arizpe, Fassetta, McAdam,
    GCRF through AHRC, £1.3m, 2020-2023): focused on intercultural language- and practice-
    led arts pedagogies; strengthening arts and cultural organisations in low-to-medium income
    countries, as reference points for identification and transformation of social conflict.

Example publication:
 • They are bombing now (Phipps 2014); in top 5% of field-weighted publication citations.


                                                                                          Page 14
Collaborative schooling for change
Three exemplar projects illustrative of collaborative research with policymakers and practitioners,
aimed at enabling all children to achieve their full potential:
 • CAMAU project: Progression and Assessment in the Curriculum for Wales (Hayward,
    Livingston, Makara-Fuller, Morrison-Love, WelshGov, £400k, 2017-2019): produced
    evidence for policy/practice addressing pupil progression in secondary education;
 • Developing pedagogies that work for Pre-Service and Early Career Teachers (Doherty,
    ScotGov, £175k, 2018-2021): researching how to prepare pre-service and early-career
    teachers to improve literacy and numeracy attainment and health and wellbeing outcomes in
    schools serving pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds. Led and co-ordinated by the
    School, partnering with other Scottish SoEs;
 • Children’s Neighbourhoods (Chapman, ScotGov, £1.59m of £2.27m awarded to University,
    2019-2022): researching localised approaches to improving outcomes for children, young
    people and communities in Scottish cities.

Example publications:
 • Does school-to-school collaboration promote school improvement? (Chapman 2014); in top
   5% of field-weighted publication citations.
 • Educating for futures in marginalised regions (Gale 2015); in top 1% of field-weighted
   publication citations.

Urban and place-based learning
Three exemplar projects illustrative of researching relationships between place and educational
disadvantage in Glasgow City Region and regions in the Global South:
 • Urban Big Data Centre (Osborne, Lido, Houston, 5 ESRC grants, £1.1m of £9.48m awarded
    to University, 2014-2024): Established 2014, continued in 2019, as part of the UK’s national
    data infrastructure, developing big data resources and urban analytics methods for potential
    applications and users, including place-based approaches in Education;
 • Global Centre for Sustainable, Healthy, Learning Cities and Neighbourhoods (Schweisfurth,
    Osborne, GCRF through UKRI, £1m of £4.2m awarded to University, 2016-2021):
    comparative study of formation and neighbourhood differentiation in cities, addressing
    challenges of urbanisation and large-scale rural-to-urban migration;
 • Strengthening Urban Engagement of Universities in Asia and Africa (Osborne, Borkowska,
    Hirsu, Houston, GCRF through British Academy, £298k, 2017-2019): assessed extent to
    which universities in six countries responded to societal demands and, through dialogue with
    city stakeholders, how this can be enhanced and impact policy.

Example publication:
 • Transnational connections, competencies and identities (Schweisfurth 2015); in top 5% of
   field-weighted publication citations.

Adult learning and youth transitions
Three exemplar projects illustrative of research into impact of learning opportunities on the life
courses of young and older adults, including those most vulnerable in labour markets and at risk
of social exclusion:
 • Young Adulllt (Valiente, Chapman, Doyle, Hermmansson, Schweisfurth, H2020, £275k,
     2016-2019): Led by University of Münster, analysed developments of lifelong learning policies
     in select European countries and implications for young people’s life trajectories;
 • VisNET: Virtual in situ networking to reinvent rules of international collaborations and reduce
     gender differences in academic careers (Hedge, Lido, EPSRC, £86k of £344k awarded to
     University, 2019-2021): Focused on barriers to international collaboration for female
     engineering academics; designing and demonstrating interventions and practices in
     networking and collaborations;




                                                                                            Page 15
 •   Can dual apprenticeships create better and more equitable social and economic outcomes
     for young people? (Valiente, Maitra, GCRF through ESRC, £424k, 2019-2022): comparative
     study of India and Mexico.

Example publication:
 • Navigating Change (Parker 2014); in top 1% of field-weighted publication citations.

Ethics, Religion and Values in Education
We received smaller but still competitive awards that contributed to this theme, as well as to others,
from: the Australian Research Council (Gale), Big Lottery (Gormally), British Council (Livingston,
Doherty, Gale, Lido, Parker), Head Foundation (Dimmock), Social Sciences and Humanities
Research Council, Canada (Perry), Templeton Foundation (Conroy), various Scottish regional
councils (Chapman, Livingston), and the UK Council for International Student Affairs (Elliot).

Example publications:
 • Socially inclusive teaching (Gale 2017); in top 5% of field-weighted publication citations.
 • Authority, autonomy and automation (Lundie 2016); in top 25% of field-weighted publication
   citations.

3.3 Support, infrastructure and facilities

3.3.1 Administrative and professional support
During REF2021 we made significant investments at College and School levels to support all
aspects of the research process, including impact.

The University initiative Transforming Research Management supports all research management
from pre-award to post-award. This includes the CoSS Research Development Team matching
CatA staff with funders and creating early awareness of relevant opportunities. During application
development, PIs are also supported in budgeting (via a designated Project Co-ordinator) and in
technical development of content, including pathways to impact (via a Research Impact Officer).
This is complemented by the School’s Deputy/Director of Research alerting academics to
opportunities relevant to their areas of expertise. Applications are reviewed (Section 2.1.2,
Target3) within the School and CoSS to ensure excellent applications are submitted. This process
is central to our success in constructing complex high-value applications involving multiple
partners. At the post-award stage, the CoSS Research Support Team monitors project progress
and supports PIs in interactions with funders. Administrative support for delivering projects is
provided by a dedicated School team.

3.3.2 Supporting impact
Research impact is facilitated by various CoSS-sponsored opportunities, funded through the
ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA). This includes:
 • Early engagement to scope activities with non-academic partners to co-design/co-develop
    projects with clear impact potential;
 • Follow-on funding to develop innovative and experimental forms of knowledge exchange
    arising from existing or ongoing quality research, not anticipated in the original project;
 • Appointment of Knowledge Exchange Associates, supporting research impact with external
    organisations.

Under IAA, we undertook 21 small projects totalling £209k. CoSS also provides CatA staff with
funding to hold events at the ESRC Festival of Social Science, bringing research to
practitioners/professionals and the general public. For example, in one event Lido and Reid
engaged children and parents at IKEA in generating and representing literacy data derived from
Urban Big Data Centre research, through novel tactile means (e.g., moving maps, digital quizzes,
personalised badges). The University’s Glasgow Knowledge Exchange Fund (GKET) supported
a further 5 knowledge exchange and impact generation projects with £37k.

                                                                                               Page 16
3.3.3 Infrastructure and facilities
CatA staff have single offices in a dedicated School building. As well as access to a range of non-
teaching spaces, there are three large seminar rooms under local control for research meetings
and externally-facing seminars.

Full-time doctoral students have their own desk and computer in 15 shared offices, including two
hot-desking facilities. To maximise interactions, these are located in a designated Research Zone
for doctoral students, Research Assistants, Research Administrators and Deputy/Director of
Research. Staff and doctoral students also have access to communal spaces with modern
catering facilities, designed to facilitate informal interactions across the research community and
provide spaces for organised activities such as reading groups and project meetings.

The global pandemic placed restrictions on access to some of our facilities. During this period, we
supported staff and doctoral students to work at home by relocating office equipment (e.g.,
computers and chairs), supplying additional equipment (e.g., wifi dongles with pre-loaded data
allowances, webcams and headsets) where needed and providing safe office space for those
(particularly doctoral students) whose circumstances made effective work at home difficult.

The University houses a world-class collection of books, journals and e-resources serving staff
and doctoral student research interests. University librarians and staff representatives liaise with
staff to enhance the collection, recommending new purchases each year: typically, we spend
£125k annually. Our extensive investment in online and open access resources proved invaluable
during the pandemic. We invest in specialist facilities to support aspects of our research including
a psychology laboratory and a dedicated space for a specialist collection of children’s literature
focused on migration/refugees.

We employ 4 specialist laboratory and computing technicians and a Communications Officer to
support web development and our social media presence. We provide RTGs and the Director of
Research with three administrators, to support core research activities such as purchasing, travel
and conference attendance. Further dedicated administrative support (12.5FTE) is embedded in
externally-funded projects.

With our interdisciplinary collaborations we have access to other University facilities including:
drama and media facilities, the Hunterian Museum collections, extensive exhibition spaces for
arts-based pedagogical research. We also have access to the Urban Studies’ National Safe Haven
with: high-powered computing services, specialist analytic software, secure environments to
process sensitive big data in GDPR compliant ways.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
During REF2021 we sought to retain and enhance our leadership role in national collaborations
and contributions while also expanding globally.

Our activities were facilitated by:
• Stimulus funding for collaborations (Sections 2.1.2 & 3.3);
• Workload models with time for discipline contributions: e.g., editorships, panel memberships,
    association boards;
• Promotion criteria emphasising collaboration, collegiality, user engagement, KE/impact,
    discipline contributions.

4.1 Collaborations with academic partners
During REF2021 we actively engaged in the University’s global networks (e.g., Universitas21, the
Guild of Research-Intensive Universities) and more specific bilateral MoUs. Through these we
established the European Centre for Advanced Studies (ECAS) in Luneburg (Director Conroy).
The Centre leads a new Scottish/Lower Saxony ECR scholarship programme funded by the Lower
Saxony Government.

                                                                                             Page 17
Our collaborations were enhanced by School-specific international networks (e.g., PASCAL
Observatory, IEAN and UNESCO Chair in Refugee Integration). We utilised University seed-
funding (e.g., SFC Global Challenges and IAAs) to maintain networks, develop others and
facilitate grant preparation with potential partners.

These collaborations resulted in:
• Partnerships in GCRF projects and school improvement research with U21 members and
   PASCAL Observatory partners (e.g., Tec de Monterrey, University of Johannesburg,
   Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile), and with universities in sub-Saharan Africa (e.g.,
   Botswana, Dar-es-Salaam, Malawi, Makere and Rwanda);
• Seed-funded networks (e.g., Strengthening Urban Engagement of Universities in Asia and
   Africa) which led to significant external funding (e.g., British Academy/GCRF and H2020
   Young Adulllt);
• 71 projects involving external partners, 39 from 37 Development Assistance Committee
   (DAC) countries;
• The Urban Big Data Centre (with UK and USA university collaborations) receiving a second
   5-year tranche of ESRC funding following completion of its first 5-year phase.

We value exchanging ideas with a diverse community of visiting scholars. During REF2021 we
awarded titles of Visiting/Honorary Professor/Fellow to 30+ collaborators and leading researchers
with international reputations; e.g., Professors Ball (UCL’s IOE), Donaldson (Scotland’s former
Chief HMI, architect of Scotland’s and Wales’ national curricula), Halse (Dean of Research,
Education University HK), Konvitz (former OECD Head of Division, Regulatory Policy), Loughran
(former Dean of Education, Monash University, Australia). We also hosted visits by 100+
academics from across the world. Visitors are fully integrated into the research environment, e.g.,
joining reading groups, giving public lectures, one-on-one meetings with doctoral students. Many
visited for sustained periods and used their time with us to benefit from our expertise.


4.2 Collaborations with non-academic partners
Our research is designed and conducted with end-users in mind (Section 1.2, Obj4). We ensure
voices of potential beneficiaries are heard by incorporating non-academic partners as co-
investigators or advisory group members for projects and research centres/networks. This ensures
our research is user-informed and more effectively disseminated. Along with our impact case
studies (referenced below), our website highlights additional research impact stories.

4.2.1 Research informed by users
We work collaboratively with end-users locally, nationally and internationally. Our research on
teachers’ professional learning provides good examples:
 • Collaborations with the City of Glasgow and other local authorities progressed through ROC
    and Policy Scotland. Several projects (e.g., School Improvement Partnership Programme,
    Network for Social & Educational Equity and Children’s Neighbourhoods) involve collaborative
    action research, marrying school improvement with other forms of public service improvement
    using consultative participatory methods. The impact on teachers, school leaders, local
    authority officers’ and civil servants’ practice and children’s outcomes, is detailed in
    Chapman’s Impact Case Study;
 • Our research significantly shaped teachers’ professional learning through partnerships with
    head/teachers in Scotland (e.g., Aberdeenshire, North Lanarkshire) and across Europe
    (Hungary, Denmark, Malta), detailed in Livingston’s Impact Case Study;
 • Arizpe’s Impact Case Study illustrates researchers working alongside teachers in Mexico,
    Chile and Egypt, supporting their professional learning to facilitate migrant/refugee students’
    learning and inclusion.

We also engage with end-users through our partnerships with academic colleagues in other
universities; e.g., in international projects focused on the Sustainable Development Goals, our


                                                                                            Page 18
success is intimately linked to co-working with academics and NGOs in the Global South to
address research challenges they identify and strengthen research capacity.

4.2.2 Public engagement with diverse audiences
RTGs and their constituent centres/networks seek to maximise research impact through direct
engagement with potential beneficiaries, employing traditional and innovative models.

An example is the PASCAL Observatory. Focused on placed-based learning, PASCAL engages
with 2000+ subscribed academics, policymakers and staff from NGOs and civil society, inviting
contributions/commentaries in a web2.0 environment. Publishing a daily online newspaper and a
weekly online digest, it has produced 30+ briefing papers for policymakers and practitioners and
organized 16 international conferences with partner universities from Catania to Taipei.

Other examples include:
• High-profile public lectures: e.g., Policy Scotland Series;
• Seminars/webinars in partnership with key global organisations: e.g., UNESCO Institute for
    Lifelong Learning; Participatory Research in Asia; Deutscher Volkshochschul-Verband (DVV)
    International;
• Podcasts allowing virtual interactions: e.g., Global Centre for Sustainable, Healthy, Learning
    Cities and Neighbourhoods podcast on participatory research methods;
• Web2.0 sites with subscribers outside the university, who engage with posted material and
    make their own contributions through blogs (e.g., GRAMnet guest blogs).

4.2.3 Influence with policymakers
We embrace opportunities to provide research evidence to inform policymakers and practitioners
(Section 1.2, Obj4). During COVID-19 we were particularly active in responding to Scottish
Government calls for evidence; e.g., Lundie and Law’s survey of teachers’ views on the impact
of school closures, with recommendations for planning.

We work collaboratively with other Scottish SoEs through membership of the Scottish Government
reference group: Research Strategy for Scottish Education. Our representative, Doherty, also co-
led the Scottish Council of Deans of Education Scottish Attainment Challenge research project,
reporting regularly to the Government’s Learning Analysis unit.

Other influential positions within Scotland include:
• Chair, Scottish Government review of Career Pathways for Scottish Teachers;
• Member, Deputy First Minister’s Task Group (Hayward, advising on pupil assessment,
    including alternatives to exams for senior school pupils in the COVID-19 context);
• Member, First Minister’s International Council of Education Advisors (Chapman);
• Senior Academic Advisor on Attainment Challenge, Scottish Government (Chapman,
    advising on Curriculum for Excellence development).

Within the UK and beyond, our influence with policymakers is pursued through engagements
such as:
• Advisory Group Member, UNESCO/IAU Study, Universities Contribution to LLL (Osborne);
• Chair, Greater Manchester Education and Employability Board (Ainscow);
• External Evaluator, Global Partnership for Education, Washington DC (Schweisfurth);
• International Expert Review Group UKPRP (UK Prevention Research Partnership) (Hedge);
• International Panel for Social Progress (Schweisfurth, lead on Education Panel);
• Member, European Commission’s Education and Training 2020 Working Group on Adult
   Learning and Vocational Education and Training (Boeren);
• Member, European Commission's Education and Training 2020 Working Group on Schools
   (Livingston);
• Member, Independent Advisory Committee to Welsh Government (Hayward, advising on a
   national assessment system and exam alternatives for senior school pupils in the COVID-19


                                                                                         Page 19
    context);
•   Member, International Evaluation Panel of Education Research, Norway (Livingston);
•   MoU between our PASCAL Observatory and UNESCO to provide research-informed support
    to cities aspiring to be part of their Global Network of Learning Cities (Osborne);
•   Senior Education Adviser to DfID (Schweisfurth).

4.3 Contributions to the discipline
We aim to be world leaders in research, making significant contributions to the discipline through:
editing peer-reviewed journals and book series; reviewing academic submissions (to journals,
book publishers, funding bodies); leading research associations and conferences; and doctoral
student training. Our inter/national contributions are illustrated below.

4.3.1 Editorships, editorial boards, publication reviews
We are active in supporting research quality through contributions as editors (several as lead
editor) of leading journals in the discipline.

 ACADEMIC JOURNALS                                              EDITORS during REF2021
 Adult Education Quarterly                                      Boeren (Lead Editor)
 British Journal of Religious Education                         Lundie
 Comparative Education                                          Schweisfurth
 Critical Studies in Education                                  Gale (Lead Editor), Doherty,
                                                                Parker
 Curriculum Journal                                             Hayward, Livingston
 Ethics and Education                                           Conroy, Davis
 European Journal of Teacher Education                          Livingston (Lead Editor)
 International Journal of Education in Mathematics, Science     Zembat
 and Technology
 International Journal of Lifelong Education                    Boeren
 Journal of Adult and Continuing Education                      Osborne (Lead Editor), Slade
 Journal of Interdisciplinary Academic Research                 Houston
 Journal of Philosophy of Education                             Davis (Lead Editor), Enslin
 Language and Intercultural Communication                       Phipps
 Political Theology                                             Clague
 School Leadership and Management                               Chapman
 Scottish Educational Review                                    McKinney

Our staff hold a further 80+ editorial board roles (including advisory board memberships, book
review editorships) and review manuscripts for 160+ journals.

From positions as lead editors, our staff often take developmental roles in the discipline. A notable
example is Critical Studies in Education (Gale, Lead Editor), a journal with the world’s second
highest SSCI impact factor (2.791) in the sociology of education. While maintaining quality, it
provides targeted support to submitting ECR authors, particularly those from the Global South. It
also offers a two-year editor internship to early- and mid-career researchers, providing mentoring
from a CSE editor and opportunities to see journal editorship ‘from the other side’. During the
REF2021 period, CSE supported 11 interns. The scheme has been adopted internationally by
other Education journals.

Our staff also make contributions to the discipline through prestigious book series editorships:
• Education Policy and Social Inequality (Gale, Springer);
• Policy and Practice in the Classroom (Read, Palgrave Macmillan);
• Social Theory and Methodology in Education Research (Murphy, Bloomsbury);
• Universities and LLL (Osborne, Manchester University Press).
• Global Report on Adult and Lifelong Learning (GRALE IV) (Boeren, UNESCO)


                                                                                              Page 20
Many staff are invited by leading publishing houses to review book proposals and manuscripts.

4.3.2 Grant proposal assessment
We contribute to upholding research quality through membership/chairing of UKRI panels, their
equivalents in other nations and/or other UK grant committees.

 REVIEW PANEL (UK)                                   PANEL MEMBER during REF2021
 AHRC                                                Phipps (GCRF Panel Chair)
 Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland     Livingston, Schweisfurth
 ESRC                                                Gale

 REVIEW PANEL (NON-UK)                               PANEL MEMBER during REF2021
 Education Research Funding Programme,               Chapman (Panel Chair)
 Singapore
 Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia,             McKinney
 Portugal
 Hong Kong Research Grants Council                   Phipps
 Irish Research Council, Ireland                     Conroy, Odena
 National Research Council of Canada                 Arizpe
 National Research Foundation in South Africa        Arizpe
 Templeton Foundation, USA                           Conroy, Livingston
 Nordforsk's Scientific Advisory Board for           Livingston (Chair)
 Education for Tomorrow Research Projects

Our staff are members of UK peer review colleges administered by: AHRC; EPSRC; ESRC; MRC;
Royal Society of Edinburgh; British Academy; Carnegie Trust; Leverhulme Trust; Newton Fund.

We are also members of non-UK peer review colleges administered by: Australian Research
Council; Austrian Science Fund; Central Finance and Contracting Agency (Latvia); Chilean
Commission of Science and Technology; Czech Science Foundation; Dutch Research Council;
European Science Foundation; Israel Science Foundation; National Science Centre (Poland);
National Research Foundation (South Africa); New Zealand Research Council; Norwegian
Research Council; Qatar Foundation; Riksbankens Jubiliemsfond (Sweden); Slovenia Research
Agency; Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (Canada); Trans-Atlantic Platform.


4.3.3 Associations, conferences
Many of our staff serve on association boards (some as presidents/chairs) and/or are involved in
conference organisation. In these positions we play key roles in shaping the Education discipline.
On average, the School hosts one international conference p.a., invigorating our research culture
and opening up dialogue between researchers, policymakers and practitioners.


 RESEARCH ASSOCIATIONS                                            EXECUTIVE MEMBER
                                                                  during REF2021
 Asia-Europe Meeting Lifelong Hub                                 Osborne (Network Convenor)
 Association of Catholic Institutes of Education                  Franchi
 Association of Educational Assessors Europe                      Hayward
 Administrative Council of the Association for Teacher            Livingston
 Education, Europe
 British Association for International and Comparative            Osborne, Schweisfurth,
 Education                                                        Valiente
 British Education Studies Association                            Murphy (Chair)
 BERA Academic Publications Committee                             Lundie


                                                                                           Page 21
 RESEARCH ASSOCIATIONS                                           EXECUTIVE MEMBER
                                                                 during REF2021
 Comparative Education Society in Europe                         Schweisfurth (Vice-President)
 European Council for High Ability                               Sutherland
 European Education Research Association                         McKinney
 European Society for Research on the Education of Adults        Maitra (Convenor)
 network on Migration, Transnationalism and Racism
 International Association for Language and Intercultural        Phipps
 Communication
 International Society for Music Education                       Odena (Co-Chair)
 International Congress for School Effectiveness and             Chapman (President)
 Improvement
 International Research Society for Children’s Literature        Arizpe (Chair)
 Journal of Moral Education Trust                                Conroy (Chair)
 Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain                Conroy (Chair), Davis
 Network for Researchers in Catholic Education                   McKinney
 Regional Science Association International                      Hermannsson (Secretary)
 Royal Society of Edinburgh (International Committee)            Phipps
 Scottish Educational Research Association                       McKinney (President),
                                                                 McAdam (Treasurer)
 Standing Council for University Teachers and Researchers in     Boeren (Chair), Slade (Chair)
 the Education of Adults
 UK Forum for International Education and Training               Schweisfurth (Chair)
 World Council for Gifted and Talented Children                  Sutherland (Treasurer)
 World Council for Comparative Education Societies               Schweisfurth (Research C’tee
                                                                 Chair)


 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES IN GLASGOW                            CONVENOR/ORGANISER
                                                                 during REF2021
 Asia Europe Meeting, Lifelong Learning Hub                      Osborne
 Association of Catholic Institutes of Education                 Franchi
 Association of Educational Assessors Europe                     Hayward
 Association for Teacher Education in Europe ATEE                Livingston
 Comparative Education Society of Europe                         Schweisfurth
 European Association for International Education                Conroy
 International Congress for School Effectiveness and             Chapman
 Improvement (600+ delegates, largest in Congress history)

The annual European Conference in Educational Research, planned to be held at the University
of Glasgow in 2020, was cancelled due to COVID-19. Gale and Schweisfurth were due to give
keynotes. With an anticipated 3000 attendees, it would have been the largest Education
conference ever held in the UK. The Association plans to hold a future conference in Glasgow.

4.3.4 Contributions to doctoral student training
Several staff are involved in Doctoral Student Training, including an average 25 p.a. visiting
international PhD students. Staff also collaborate with: the University of Edinburgh to establish
joint doctorates; the ESRC Doctoral Training Programme offered by the Scottish Graduate School
for Social Sciences (Hedge); a British Council funded doctoral training centre involving the
Universities of Johannesburg and Zululand, South Africa (Sutherland); an exchange scheme
funded under the University’s Erasmus+ Institutional Credit Mobility grant with Zimbabwe and Iraq
(Houston, Osborne) (an outcome of a British Academy GCRF project).

Staff also support the development of education researchers employed at less research-intense
universities, e.g. research development workshops were delivered at Sao Paolo State University,
Brazil (Conroy), Vilnius University, Lithuania and Eszterhazy University, Hungary (McKinney).

                                                                                          Page 22
4.4 Recognition by the discipline
Recognition of the importance of our research/ers is evident in invitations and awards received.
This is particularly evident internationally and reflects our ambition to increase our global footprint.
International platforms also serve to extend the influence of our research.

4.4.1 Keynote presentations
Below is a selection of invited keynotes delivered by staff during REF2021; the vast proportion
presented abroad.

 NATIONAL CONFERENCE                                                              KEYNOTE
 Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education Conference (2016)                  Gale
 Royal Philosophical Society (2019)                                               Phipps
 Scottish Educational Research Association (2015, 2016, 2017; 2018)               Chapman,
                                                                                  Hayward, Gale,
                                                                                  Schweisfurth

 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE                                                         KEYNOTE
 Asia Development Bank/Head Foundation (Singapore 2016)                           Dimmock
 Asia-Europe Foundation LLL Hub (Wurtzberg, 2018)                                 Doyle
 Association for Teacher Education in Europe (Porto 2014)                         Livingston
 Association of Educational Assessors Europe AEA Europe (Glasgow                  Hayward
 2015)
 Australian Council for Adult Literacy (Surfers Paradise 2014)                    Gale
 Australian Institute of Theological Education (Brisbane 2018)                    Franchi
 The Australian Sociological Association (Perth 2018)                             Phipps
 Bulgarian Comparative Education Society (Sofia 2017)                             Osborne
 China National Educational Management Association Conference                     Dimmock
 Comparative Education Society (Hong Kong 2015)                                   Schweisfurth
 Edmund Burke Lecture (Dublin 2019)                                               McAleese
 European Conference on Curriculum Studies (Porto 2015)                           Hayward
 International Conference of ASEAN Educators on School Reform (Hanoi              Dimmock
 2016)
 International Conference of Comparative Research on Social Studies/              Enslin
 Citizenship Education (Tokyo 2014)
 International Conference on Education Research (Seoul 2019)                      Osborne
 International Conference on Educational Measurement, Evaluation and              Hayward
 Assessment (Abu Dhabi 2019)
 International Conference on Inclusive Education (Lisbon 2019)                    Alves
 International Congresses of Philosophy of Education, (Valencia 2017)             Conroy
 International Forum on Teacher Education, Kazan Federal University,              Gale
 (Kazan 2016)
 International Practice-based Education Summit (Sydney 2015)                      Gale
 Royal Society Edinburgh/Ministry of Science & Technology (Taipei 2017)           Lido
 Malaysian Ministry for Education (Kuala Lumpur 2014)                             Murphy
 Teacher Education Policy in Europe (Krakow 2019)                                 Livingston
 World Council for Gifted and Talented Children (Odense 2015)                     Sutherland

4.4.2 Fellowships, prizes, honorary appointments
During REF2021, several staff were recognised through awards of fellowships, significant prizes
and honorary professorships. Again, this is a modest selection.




                                                                                                 Page 23
 FELLOWSHIP                                                                 FELLOW
 British Academy Fellowship (2017-2021)                                     Zancajo
 Elected Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, UK (2017)                Gale, Phipps
 Endeavour Research Fellowship, Australian Federal Department of            Parker
 Education (2016)
 Thomas J. Alexander Fellowship (2016/17)                                   Boeren


 PRIZE                                                                      WINNER
 Australian Educational Researcher Best Paper Award                         Doherty
 Alfons Auer Award in Theology and Ethics, University of Tubingen           McAlesse
 (2019)
 American Association for Adult and Continuing Education, Cyril O. Houle    Boeren
 Award for outstanding contribution to adult education literature (2017)
 Comparative & International Education Society Dissertation Award           Zancajo
 (2018)
 Honorary Life Vice President, Philosophy of Education Society of Great     Conroy
 Britain
 Paul Webley Award for Innovation in International Education (2019)         Elliot
 Regional Studies Association Best Paper Award in Regional Studies,         Hermannsson
 Regional Science (2019)
 Literacy Research Association, Edward B. Fry Book Award (2015)             Arizpe, McAdam
 Minerva Medal, Royal Philosophical Society (2019)                          Phipps
 Moss Madden Medal, Spatial Economic Analysis (2017)                        Hermannsson
 Silvius-Wolansky Award for Outstanding Scholarly Publication in            Morrison-Love
 Technology and Engineering Education (2019)
 Society of Educational Studies Research Monograph of the year (2014)       Conroy

 INTERNATIONAL HONORARY/VISITING PROFESSORSHIP
 Deakin University, Australia                                               Gale
 Education University of Hong Kong                                          Dimmock,
                                                                            Schweisfurth
 RMIT University, Australia                                                 Osborne
 University of Georgia, USA                                                 Conroy
 University of Otago, New Zealand, De Carle Distinguished Professorship     Phipps
 University of Tampere, Finland                                             Osborne

This service to the community and marks of esteem reflect the outstanding quality of the School’s
research, increasingly recognised internationally as a leader within the discipline.




                                                                                           Page 24
