Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: SOAS University of London

 Unit of Assessment: LAW

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context/Overview
 The SOAS School of Law (SoL) is unexampled in the UK in its research and teaching expertise
 on the legal systems of the former colonial world and the Global South. Although a
 relatively small law school, with 23.6 FTE submitted to the Law UoA, we command a formidable
 depth and breadth of critical, contextual and historical legal scholarship investigating those
 systems, enhanced by complementary research in international and transborder legal
 processes, frameworks and institutions, from trade and commerce to conflict, migration and
 climate change. Through a focus on people and infrastructure, our REF2021 strategy
 demonstrates the nexus between theoretical and real-world engagement that places our
 research as world-leading in its focus on global voices, global interactions and global
 governance (IES§1).

 The SOAS School of Law began the REF2021 period as one of five units in the SOAS Faculty of
 Law and Social Sciences, before institutional re-structuring in 2017 saw the establishment of a
 stand-alone SOAS School of Law. Subsequently, we have re-organised our internal
 management structure (§§1.2, 1.2.3), creating a new Research Directorate.

 We commenced the REF2021 with a renewed research strategy (§1.3) and conclude the
 assessment period with greater understanding of our shared interests and as a team of world-
 leading scholars that contribute distinctly to SOAS scholarship on law across academic,
 practitioner, institutional and civil society spaces. At the heart of our strategy are people—
 realised through a research driven recruitment and promotion agenda (§§2.1, 2.2) structural
 investment in early career research excellence (§2.3), enhanced funding opportunities, training
 and support (§2.4) and a thriving doctoral programme (§2.5), all underpinned by an embedded
 approach to EDI (§2.6). Our strategy is driven by a commitment to intellectually world-leading
 scholarship that is supported by infrastructure, global engagement/s and our research networks.

 1.2 Structure
 Our research excellence is championed by our research centres (§1.2.1) and our management
 design (§1.2.2). As a small academic unit, our structure interweaves across diverse but shared
 interests, from analysis of legal places and spaces to critical engagements with the
 construction of identity, difference and inequalities, across legal geographies of transaction,
 trade and development and colonial and postcolonial legalities through to the study of
 struggles, rights and justice in national, regional and transnational contexts.

 1.2.1 Research centres
 Guided by our approach to legal spaces and places, we have reorganised, reconceptualised
 and consolidated the SoL research centres described in REF2014, with the intention of making
 them the primary vehicles for securing funding for research and as the primary theatres
 for developing, conducting and disseminating research (and research-related teaching).

 The Centre of Islamic and Middle Eastern Law (CIMEL) is the longest established of the SoL
 centres, entering its third decade in 2020. CIMEL manifests the SoL’s distinctive integration of
 dichotomies: scholarship and engagement, the geographic and the thematic, transactions and
 rights, tradition and innovation, including in the highly prestigious work of colleagues on
 arbitration law.

 The Centre for Asian Legal Studies (CALS) has enlarged and fundamentally rechartered the
 former Centre for East Asian Law, uniting for the first time the SoL’s diverse research strengths
 in East Asia, South Asia and Eurasia. The CALS provides a platform for ongoing research on
 East Asian law and governance, Chinese legal history, Southeast and Central Asian

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 constitutionalism, South Asian constitutional and historical accommodation of difference (sexual,
 gender, ethnic and religious).

 The Centre for Human Rights Law (CHRL) focuses the geographically and thematically
 diverse human rights research and advocacy strengths of SoL scholars on urgent and timely
 initiatives, projects and interventions with academic and non-academic collaborators, reflected
 in Impact Case Study 2.

 The Law, Environment and Development Centre (LEDC) furnishes an excellent example of
 the SoL’s signature interdisciplinarity, enlarging the standing remit of environmental law to
 encompass development and sustainability, natural resource regulation, international political
 economy, North-South equity and social policy. The differential impact of the climate
 catastrophe on the structurally marginalised and populations of the Global South is becoming
 increasingly evident. As with the history of SoL work on water law, reflected in Impact Case
 Study 3, our researchers bring together deep theoretical work with real world change.

 The Centre for the Study of Colonialism, Empire and International Law (CCEIL) channels
 the research energies of SoL scholars exposing, exploring and elaborating the nexus between
 the development of the Westphalian interstate system and the parallel pursuit of overseas
 domination and control, across centuries and contexts (contemporary as well as historical).

 1.2.2 Management
 The SoL research strategy was previously led by the Departmental Research Committee
 (DRC), comprised of the DRC Chair, PhD Admissions Tutor, Research Student Tutor, REF Co-
 ordinators and nominated colleagues. In 2019/20, the SoL underwent a management
 reorganisation, which has installed a new Director of Research to assume strategic and
 operational responsibility for research development, co-ordination and training.

 The Research Director’s role is to lead and co-ordinate SoL-wide research strategy, while
 identifying individual research strengths. This structure is designed to facilitate a pro-active,
 strategy-driven, collaborative research approach with attentiveness to EDI constraints (§2.6).
 The Research Director is a member of the SoL Management Team and the SOAS-wide
 Research Director Network. The SoL Research Directorate is informed by a committee
 process that brings together the Research Director, the REF Co-ordinator/s, the Director of the
 Law Doctoral Programme, the PhD Research Seminar Lead, PhD Research Admissions Team
 and the Research Centre Chairs to lead on research matters.

 1.3 Research strategy 2014-20
 The period of assessment has been marked by a commitment to:
      (i) refining and then strengthening research across the intellectual structure, described
      above;
      (ii) the investment in early career development and the strengthening of opportunities for
      mid- and senior colleagues (particularly in relation to funding and impact);
      (iii) attention to equalities in terms of support and attention to pace of research rather than
      an obsession with quantity; and
      (iv) identifying and building a community of collegial and supportive scholars.

 In response to panel feedback on REF2014, which noted the limited mechanisms for research
 support, we have prioritised routes to world-leading research through research leave, funding
 and training provisions, as well as making the most of institutional commitment to early-
 career researchers (ECR). This has created an organic process of interlocking research
 development for experienced and new researchers. Post-2014, a combination of staff departures
 and new appointments have provided the opportunity for a consolidation of research strengths
 and intellectual growth built internally through increased research leave (previously every
 twelve terms), a commitment to generous post-probation leave, teaching relief for ECRs,
 mentors for ECRs and the use of institutional and SoL funds and opportunities to support
 access to research funding (§3.2) and the development of impact (§§1.4, 4.1).

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 This consolidation of research excellence is demonstrated via increased funding flowing into the
 department (§3.1), the success of our early career researchers (§2.3), our career development
 strategy and promotions successes (§2.4), our thriving doctoral programme (§2.5) and the
 capacity for the SoL to adapt and grow during tough economic periods in the sector (see, in
 particular, §1.3.3).

 1.3.1 Implementing our strategic goals
 The SoL has consolidated and refined the focus of its external-facing research structure
 through the reduction to five key research centres that provide a hub and network for research
 events, dissemination and collaboration.

 Investment in the research opportunities for mid-career and early-career staff members has
 been supplemented by appointments that have simultaneously underpinned existing research
 strengths and enlarged cross-thematic conversations and outputs. This has supported research
 funding and fellowships for a number of colleagues (Grady, Hamzić, Sultany, Suresh) and
 ensured entitlement for five colleagues to generous post-probation sabbaticals over the
 assessment period. The institutional commitment to enhanced EDI values meant one colleague
 also benefited from an additional term of research leave after a period of maternity leave.

 The SoL commitment to a research strategy driven by a desire to address inequalities
 across the team has been tested by staff departures, the high number of caring responsibilities
 across the staff cohort, wider sector change and the COVID-19 pandemic in the final year of
 review—all creating less than ideal conditions for the production of research for many
 colleagues. During 2020, despite sector-wide and institutional pressures, the SoL was able to
 secure and support research leave for a disabled staff member, as well as to maintain early
 career/post-probation research entitlements and extended research leave for colleagues who
 had taken on university-wide administrative posts. The pressures experienced in 2020 were
 mitigated by the legacy of the existing strategy through the period of assessment, including the
 management restructuring, support for ECRs and a collaborative model driven by comments to
 EDI goals.

 The process of identifying and building community has included the development of a SoL
 Research Seminar Series, investment and creation of the annual ‘SoL Inception Lecture’
 (paused in 2020 due to COVID-19) and the annual ‘Kay Everett Memorial Lecture’ (sponsored
 by Wilsons Solicitors LLP), as well as the inter-institutional annual ‘London Review of
 International Law lecture’. The SoL continued to support a number of key journals, including the
 Journal of African Law, the London Review of International Law, Yearbook of Islamic and Middle
 Eastern Law, Law, Environment and Development Journal and Feminist Review, as well as
 supporting the student-edited SOAS Law Journal that came to life during the current REF
 period.

 1.3.2 Future strategic plans
 During the 2020/21 academic year, the COVID-19 pandemic, alongside re-structuring internal to
 the institution, has necessitated the SoL develop its research strategy anew. Under the
 guidance of the Research Directorate (§1.2.2), this will be developed as follows.

 One-two-year priorities include:
    • a strategy for research leave that invests in research success and facilitates each
         colleague to develop their research at a pace that suits their individual circumstances,
         underpinned by the institutional Personal Research Plan model;
 Target: Personal Research Plans lead research leave strategy in a fair and equitable manner
 while rewarding research success;

     •   the re-appraisal of our five research centres to build in annual processes for centre
         away-days (rather than AGMs) and forward planning, that feed back into the SoL

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        research strategy in a dynamic fashion. Following the SOAS-wide Africa review, to
        draw together synergies from colleagues working on the continent to develop a sixth
        research centre and third geographically focused centre, inspired by existing excellence
        on African legal systems;
 Target: Centre for Africa Law by 2022;

    •   to expand the early-career mentoring programme so that all colleagues benefit from
        research mentoring, extended further to doctoral students;
 Target: 100% take up by staff in 2021, doctoral mentoring programme by 2022;

    •   new and renewed commitment to Personal Research Plans to be developed by
        individual staff members in partnership with the Research Director;
 Target: 100% take up by staff in 2021.

 Five-year priorities include:
     • the appointment of new staff across all career levels to build further expertise in
        environmental issues, human rights law, trade/commercial law and criminal
        justice/critical criminology while expanding and underpinning the excellence
        evidenced across research outputs, impact and the centres;
 Target: annually a minimum of two new research posts over next REF period, with a continued
 focus on early-career appointments (at least fifty percent of all new appointments);

    •   the development of research projects that cut across the synergies with external
        partners, on race, crime and policing in global contexts (Bano, Mou, Oette); on the global
        commons, oceans and beyond (Heathcote, Hamzić); and on the afterlives of slavery
        (Banda, Hamzić, Newton);
 Target: three new large-scope externally funded projects in place by 2024.

    •   to approach impact as an inter-generational conversation where current synergies
        and strengthens are used as mechanisms for internal conversations, training and the
        driver for new sites of impact;
 Target: fifty-percent increase in impact case studies developed through internal mentoring;

    •    to further strengthen research centres through linking executive learning, doctoral
         excellence and centre development in a wholistic manner that supports future funding,
         research and collaborations;
 Target: summer schools and executive courses to be doubled over next five years to build
 robust income model for the research centres;

    •   to use existing public platforms, including the annual Inception Lecture, the Kay Everett
        Lecture, the SoL Research Seminar Series and PhD Colloquium as templates for both
        online and on-campus research events series that bring our wider networks into
        ongoing conversations with existing SoL stakeholders and audiences, including through
        the creation of a School of Law conference to be hosted every two years;

    •   enhanced internal research funds (annually £1000, ECR £1500) supplemented by SoL
        funds awarded to colleagues for specific projects;
 Target: double internal law funding within five years.

 1.3.3 COVID-19 and research strategy
 The preparation of this document amidst the conditions of a global pandemic has identified
 important aspects of the SoL research environment. The reach and importance of our collective
 research endeavours has never been more urgent, as our existing focus on legal spaces and
 places has demonstrated the inequalities and vulnerabilities that have been exacerbated
 and compounded during 2020. SoL colleagues have published and organised a number of
 events that speak to and enjoin their existing research with the issues made prominent by the

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pandemic (see: Banda, Afterward in 2020; Hamzić and Bhandar event, ‘Race and Law in the
 Time of COVID-19’; Hamzić, SOAS Festival of Ideas, ‘Duress and Virality: The Endurance of
 Racial Capitalism’), as well as publishing responses to the pandemic (Kelsall and Heathcote,
 Oette, Bhandar, Cullet) while developing a space for further and ongoing dissemination of
 cutting-edge interventions on the School of Law website.

 1.4 Impact strategy
 In our REF2014 submission, we undertook to embed impact as ‘a systematic part of our
 research rather than simply a serendipitous outcome’. Guided by the REF2014 panel feedback,
 which identified our overall research impact as good, we considered strategies for excellence
 that included training, research support and guidance and enhanced skills sharing for
 REF2021. This was supplemented by the SOAS-wide dedicated impact team, training and
 workshops (IES§2). Our three submitted impact case studies demonstrate the scope of our
 external, in particular, our specialised regional knowledge and its role in shaping law
 reform and advancing governance structures. This reflects our commitment to supporting
 colleagues in strengthening the documentation of impact post-REF2014 and guidance on
 strengthening the links between research and impact that we incorporated as a key element of
 our REF2021 strategy on impact. The success evidenced in our impact case studies is but a
 small component of our larger stakeholder engagement and research collaborations (§§4.1, 4.3).

 ICS 1: Onyema’s multi-year research project ‘Creating a sustainable culture of arbitration as
 a mechanism for dispute resolution in African states’, in collaboration with a wide range of
 regional stakeholders, aims to transform the African dispute resolution landscape. It serves as a
 stellar example of the applied scholarship the SoL is uniquely positioned and equipped to carry
 out, redressing the comparative neglect of the Global South in mainstream legal research on a
 pivotal contemporary dispute resolution modality.

 ICS 2: Oette’s research has identified a series of shortcomings in respect of the assumptions,
 parameters and implementation of the partnership model pursued in the 2014 EU Horn of
 Africa Migration Initiative (Khartoum Process), applying a human rights perspective. It has
 influenced policy debate among a wide range of actors and prompted and informed NGO
 advocacy in 2017 and 2018. It has contributed to a shift in policy approaches at the UK and
 EU level, resulting in a stronger emphasis on protection, human rights, participation and
 transparency.

 ICS 3: Cullet’s research provided the basic conceptual framework for the development of
 India’s Groundwater Model Bill. He chaired the committee drafting the first version of the
 model legislation that was reviewed and circulated by the Government of India to State
 Governments in 2016. He has also worked with some States to convert the Model Bill into state
 law. Cullet’s ground-breaking research has analysed reforms taking place in water law in India
 since the 1990s.

 The next stage of the SoL impact strategy involves mentoring and co-ordination to bring
 together senior and early-career experiences in a two-way learning model linked through the
 SoL research centres. This underscores the intellectual journey of the past seven years, where
 comparative and international legal expertise has been consolidated as a distinctive SOAS SoL
 approach to global legal structures and ties the SoL’s collaborative, knowledge-sharing and
 co-ordinated impact strategy across individual academic trajectories towards a distinctive SoL
 impact. The global reach of our research impact is testament to recognition of excellence, our
 real-world engagement across multiple contexts and the prestige and esteem with which our
 researchers are held.

 1.5 Open research and research integrity
 Our strategy embodies a strong commitment to openness and integrity in research practice. This
 includes:



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   involving external stakeholders—NGO/civil society, legal practitioners, institutional
        partners—in designing and carrying out research where appropriate (§4.4);
    •   making research accessible through the institutional online repository SOAS Research
        Online, Academia, ResearchGate, etc.;
    •   publishing in, editing and reviewing for online Open Access journals, e.g.,
        feminists@law (Bano, Heathcote), AJIL Unbound (Banda), darkmatter journal (Bhandar),
        International Nuremberg Principles Academy -eBook (Baderin), The Law, Environment
        and Development Journal (LEAD) (Cullet);
    •   use of the SOAS Open Access fund to support Gold Open Access (for example,
        Ercanbrack, 2019);
    •   UKRI-funded publications to support Gold Open Access (for example, Craven, 2019).
 In line with SOAS policy, all staff and doctoral students are required to complete the Epigeum
 Research Integrity online course. All external funding applications are channelled through the
 institution’s Research and Enterprise Office, and internal ethical approval is mandatory, as it is
 also for PhD upgrade (IES§4.1).

 We also engage with professional bodies, including the Society of Legal Studies, which all staff
 are automatically members of when they join the SOAS SoL. Doctoral students also benefit from
 participation and access to the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Training Network (see further §2.5).

 2. People

 2.1 Staff
 Since REF2014, the SOAS SoL has seen the departure of a number of long-serving senior
 colleagues and the recruitment of early-career researchers trained—for the most part—in the
 new millennium: bringing novel approaches, theoretical commitments, empirical skills and
 geographic and thematic expertise, which have contributed significantly to our ongoing
 transformation. Among the new research avenues that have opened up via our range of new
 appointments, immediately prior to and during the REF2021 period, are:
      • Muslim family law and gender equality in the UK and Europe (Bano);
      • gender-variance and the law in contemporary and historical (Ottoman, Islamic, South
         Asian, West African and colonial American) contexts (Hamzić, Sharma);
      • African migration and refugee law and policy, African resource management and
         development (Lwabukuna, Oette);
      • psychoanalytic jurisprudence and image and architecture in the law (Sharma);
      • postcolonial theory of property and subjectivity, critical race theory and indigenous anti-
         capitalism (Bhandar); decolonial queer theory (Hamzić, Suresh);
      • critical constitutionalism (Sultany);
      • feminist critiques of IHL, the law on the use of force, collective security and international
         criminal law (Grady, Heathcote);
      • empirical and critical analyses of criminology and criminal law in China and South Asia
         (Mou, Suresh);
      • critique of human rights managerialism in both corporate and international institutional
         application (Staggs-Kelsall);
      • human rights in service of the globalised order and their Marxist reformulation in
         contestation of it (O’Connell).

 We concluded the review period with the equivalent of 23.6 FTE research active colleagues,
 however staff departures connected to appointments elsewhere (facilitating new hires and a
 commitment to ECR development, see §2.3), retirement and a university-wide voluntary
 severance scheme saw a period of substantial staff change during the period of assessment as
 a whole. Both recruitment and promotion processes have been an important element of the REF
 strategy, which has seen a commitment to research excellence and support through EDI
 initiatives.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Recruitment and promotion
 Most academic members of the department are on long-term research and teaching contracts
 (82%). The introduction of an education route by the university during the period of assessment
 has permitted some colleagues to ‘upgrade’ appointments as Senior Teaching Fellows into
 lectureships or to reduce research expectations in favour of recognition of teaching excellence.
 Research active staff are involved in a dynamic exchange with the Research Director,
 consolidated via Personal Research Plans, the availability of research mentors for all staff
 and intertwined with the Head of School’s leadership on staff development (§2.4).

 Since 2014, the SoL has made a full-time appointment of a formerly part-time colleague (Oette,
 entered in REF2014) and has recruited as lecturers promising early-career researchers
 (Suresh, Sharma, Mou, Kelsall, Lwabukuna) who have proven successful in securing grants and
 working within interdisciplinary and international research teams. Half of current research staff
 have been promoted during the REF period (Bano, Bhandar, Ercnabrack, Grady, Hamzić,
 Heathcote, Makeen, Newton, Oette, Onyema, Sultany, Suresh), over half of them new hires
 immediately prior to the current REF period, demonstrating good career progression. In keeping
 with the new SOAS-wide academic performance framework, research excellence is a
 prerequisite for SoL promotions (outstanding for Professorial promotions) and this incorporates
 compulsory research integrity training. An annual professorial reward schemes ensure parity and
 rewards for our senior colleagues, while all staff can apply for additional recognition via the
 SOAS-wide reward and recognition scheme.

 2.3 Early career support
 Early-career researchers (ECRs) on a first academic appointment have reduced teaching: 50%
 in year one, and 75% in year two; are allocated lesser administrative duties; and awarded an
 enhanced research budget. ECRs are assigned a departmental mentor, who meets with them
 at least once a term and assists the Head of School in setting targets and providing support. The
 Head of School reviews progress after nine months and then at regular intervals until the three-
 year probationary period is completed, at which point the appointee is offered two terms of
 sabbatical leave. Over the REF2021 period, the SoL appointed five ECRs with a substantial
 benefit to the research environment with regional expertise (South Asia, South East Asia, East
 Asia and Southern Africa) and disciplinary diversity (international law, business and human
 rights, law and development, legal histories and criminal justice). For one colleague, in the
 first instance an appointment on a teaching-only contract was supported through the
 identification of designated research funding. Subsequently the colleague was appointed as a
 permanent colleague on a teaching and research contract and benefited from the SOAS three-
 year probation support for ECR.

 A strategic decision was made during the assessment period to avoid the use of teaching-only
 contracts for research-active ECRs and two further appointments were made at lecturer-level,
 initially on two-year contracts and later confirmed as permanent appointments. Both colleagues
 benefited from the three-year probation period, with lower teaching commitments and an extra
 term of research leave on conclusion of the probationary period. For a fourth colleague, the ECR
 support facilitated the preparation of her doctoral thesis into a prize-winning book. In addition
 to our ECRs appointed during the current review period, four additional colleagues, appointed in
 the three years prior to REF2021, benefited from probation-period reduced teaching loads and
 the additional term of post-probation research leave as such. In total, the SoL supported eight
 ECRs (approximately 30% of colleagues) with lighter teaching loads and additional
 research leave entitlements.

 2.4 Career development
 The SoL follows the institutional Staff Development and Review Scheme (SDR) for all
 members of the department. The Head of Department and, when appropriate, senior colleagues
 meet with colleagues to discuss their research, teaching and other development needs, provide
 guidance and identify the need for action to be taken. For a small number of teaching and
 scholarship staff, the SoL has been able to provide a small grant each year to enable them to
 benefit from a conference in their field of expertise in order for them to keep abreast of relevant

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developments; other strategies include funds for training, appointment of mentors and guidance
 on promotion. Members of the department are encouraged to attend relevant Research and
 Enterprise Office (REO) trainings, such as REF-related workshops, and REO staff brief
 department meetings and individual colleagues. SoL trainings have been organised to promote
 research quality in 2014 and 2018.

 SoL Research Away Days have been held annually to brainstorm, plan new research directions
 and facilitate collaboration and fundraising. These have increasingly become platforms for
 presenting and sharing emerging research findings, supplementing the departmental research
 seminars, which showcase research in progress or at the pre-publication stage, as well as
 published research, and to drive a research agenda that reflects cross-unit interests and
 synergies.

 2.5 Research students
 The SoL concluded the period of assessment with 24 PGR students enrolled. 73 PhD degrees
 have been awarded since REF2014. The SoL offers dedicated training to first-year doctoral
 students, fieldwork opportunities in year two and bespoke funding, training and events
 for senior doctoral students. The Doctoral Studies Director oversees all aspects of the
 doctoral programme and is supported by a doctoral studies admissions team, while working
 closely with the Research Director and research student representatives. SoL research staff
 contribute to the doctoral programme in multiple ways, including admissions reviews, provision
 of skills training, research tutors, supervision, supporting the PhD colloquium (organised by PhD
 candidates) and regular evaluation of the PhD programme, particularly by members of the
 Department Research Committee (now Research Directorate).

 Doctoral students have benefited from internal and external funding sources, including:
 SOAS Research Studentships, SOAS Doctoral Scholarships, eFileready Scholarship,
 Bloomsbury Scholarships, ESRC UBEL Doctoral Training Programme (Gender and Sexuality
 Pathway) and the Universities of China Committee. In 2017, the SoL designed a new MRes in
 Law as a pathway to doctoral study and to open 1+3 funding opportunities. Institutionally,
 students are supported by fieldwork funding, conference funding and access to the prestigious
 Bloomsbury Postgraduate Training Network for the duration of their studies.

 PGR students are provided with a bespoke research methods training seminar in their first
 year, as well as a common core module provided by the SOAS Doctoral School (IES§3.2).
 Since 2019, on average one third of SoL members of staff have participated in the newly
 organised year-long Research Methods in Law Seminar, which provides a mixed-methods and
 interdisciplinary training opportunity that mirrors our expertise across theoretical and
 practical research modes. PGR students are required to complete a Research Ethics
 certificate in year one. All PGR students complete annual specific training needs analyses to
 identify additional, required or desirable measures.

 SoL PhD students regularly attend the SoL research seminars, and since 2017 participated in
 the SoL Research Away Day. In 2014, the SoL inaugurated an annual PhD colloquium at
 which post-upgrade PhD students present work in progress. The colloquium provides a forum for
 doctoral students to deliver conference papers on their doctoral work, with feedback and
 commentary by senior scholars in the SoL. Writing workshops have been organised for second-
 and third-year PGR students.

 SoL researchers have published jointly with PGR students, including:
    • P. Cullet and S. Koonan (eds), Water Law in India: An Introduction to Legal Instruments
        (OUP, New Delhi, 2nd edn, 2017);
    • P. Cullet and L. Bhullar (eds), Sanitation Law and Policy in India: An Introduction to
        Basic Instruments (OUP, New Delhi, 2015);
    • P. Cullet, L. Bhullar and S. Koonan, ‘Regulating the Interactions between Climate
        Change and Groundwater: Lessons from India’ Water International (2017), 42/6, 646-
        662;

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Heathcote and Zichi, ‘Feminist Methodologies’ in R. Deplano and N. Tsagourias, Elgar
         Handbook of Research Methods in International Law (Elgar, 2021);
     •   Bertotti, Heathcote, Jones and Labenski, The Law of War and Peace: A Gender
         Analysis Vol 1, (Zed Books, 2021).

 2.6 Diversity and equality
 Since REF2014, our community of scholars has steadily grown more diverse not just in
 research interests and expertise but commensurately in geographic and ethnic
 provenance. Our transformed research environment has come to be reflected in an equally
 transformed cast of researchers, with 5 new hires over the period, all BAME scholars, 4 women,
 and 3 having completed their formative schooling and/or research training in the Global South.

 Three of our staff are women of black African origin, one at lecturer level, and two professors,
 significantly higher than sector averages. The postcolonial anomaly of a research institution
 privileging Asian and African legal systems but staffed primarily by Europeans has been
 ameliorated, to the significant enhancement and enrichment of our environment: whereas once
 we were known for our legal ‘Asianists’ and ‘Africanists’, Asian and African academic lawyers
 themselves now comprise nearly half our staff. Our researchers bring culturally and
 geographically diverse perspectives and life experience to their research roles as well as
 specialised academic training and expertise.

 We remain particularly committed to maintaining equality in leadership, senior and decision-
 making roles and responsibilities, and in the organisation of the REF process. An African
 professor and an Asian woman professor have been among the heads of department in the past
 decade. An African woman professor led our doctoral programme during the REF period; a
 disabled woman professor has served as Head of School and subsequently chair of the
 research committee, as well as director of our clinical programmes. Our BAME depth at mid- and
 senior research positions allows us to provide targeted mentoring and diversity support for junior
 staff for purposes of the staff development review (SDR) process. The SoL also supported a
 vulnerable colleague, through a research fellowship funded by the Institute of International
 Education Scholars at Risks Fund over two academic years during the REF period.

 Similarly, we have structured our REF-related decision-making—in line with our broader human
 resource decision-making and support in relation to mentoring, probation, promotion, sabbatical
 leave, administrative workload—to ensure fully the substantial and procedural protection of
 prescribed characteristics. Our team of designated REF-reviewers has been inclusive of
 women of colour and colleagues across all academic grades. Furthermore, we are proud that
 our REF submission selection is inclusive and fully representative; our diversity is one of the
 chief sources of our research productivity and quality rather than merely a supplemental
 weighting factor.

 On the strength of the renewal of the SOAS-level Athena SWAN bronze award in December
 2019, led by a SoL academic colleague, the SoL is seeking a departmental bronze award. Our
 commitment to equality awareness, training and results is part of the bedrock of our collective
 identity: we are a department that has equality as a central research focus as well as a
 central staff recruitment, development and promotion goal. All members of the SoL
 complete equalities training for recruitment panels; we provide general equalities training as well.
 We are similarly committed to gender and sexuality equality. We provide scholarly equality
 expertise and guidance for the institution more generally, advising, for example, on trans,
 non-binary and gender non-conforming policy (Hamzić), gender inclusiveness (Heathcote) and
 on BAME and equalities training and policy (Bano).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 A key part of our REF2021 strategy centred on increasing income from external funding bodies.
 With a fifty percent increase in successful funding bids in comparison to the REF2014
 assessment period, we have seen considerable gains in this area of the SoL REF2021 strategy,
                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 alongside exceptional research with global reach and research impact driven by funding
 achievements. The REF2021 strategy centred on supporting colleagues to gain increased
 confidence in applying for grants. After introducing an income stream highlights and case studies
 (§3.1), as well as how the strategy was realised (§3.2), we provide below a summary of the
 intellectual (§3.3.1) and physical infrastructure that is central to that success (§3.3.2).

 3.1 Income
 The SoL committed itself to increasing both the number and scale of funding sought and the
 success rate achieved during the current assessment period. The number of awards increased
 by over fifty percent from the REF2014 period. Over the assessment period, SoL members
 made 63 applications, of which 24 resulted in awards, a success rate of 38%. Our total
 research income was £872,238, with research awards of £1,064,734 including partner costs,
 and with over 40% of income from BIS Research Councils, the British Academy or the
 Royal Society alongside significant income from open competitive calls at UK-based charities
 (e.g., Leverhulme Trust) and EU bodies. Annually, the average number of applications submitted
 indicates forty-percent of research active colleagues are submitting each year, with success
 rates of 60% in our most productive periods (2015/16, 2017/18). The link between research
 awards and impact is well demonstrated by Cullet’s success in four important funded projects
 over the assessment period:

        Cullet     Towards Brown Gold: Safe and sustainable       UK Research and
        2019/20    sanitation in the small towns of Asia and      Innovation Award
                   Africa                                         £38,473
        Cullet     Food Security and the governance of local      Australian Research
        2016/17    knowledge in India and Indonesia               Council
                                                                  £8,000
        Cullet     Sanitation in India: Understanding a           Leverhulme Trust
        2014/15    Complex and Controversial Human Right          £29,518

        Cullet     Climate Change and Groundwater                 British Council, UK India
        2013/14-   Management: An Indian Law and Society          and Education Research
        14/15      Comparative Study                              Initiative
                                                                  £27,500

 In addition, various colleagues were awarded prestigious fellowships:
     • Grady 2017-18: AHRC International Placement Scheme—Reappraising the Oil-For-
         Food Scandal;
     • Hamzić 2016-17: Residential Member (Fellow) at the Institute of Advanced Study,
         Princeton—Interruption: Muslim Subjectivities Beyond Law;
     • Heathcote 2014, 2015: oversaw the funding of a Scholar at Risk funded by the Institute
         of International Education on the The Politics of Sexuality in Iran;
     • Matthews 2015: Newton International Fellow jointly funded by the British Academy and
         the Royal Society researching International Criminal Law & the Cold War: Historical
         Narrative and the Construction of a Legal Field;
     • Sultany 2016-17: British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship—Revolution,
         Constitutionalism and Religion after the Arab Spring.

 Key projects generating major research income included:

        Baderin 2015/16     HURIME: Human Rights in the Post-Uprisings              £158,421
        EU/ European        Middle East: Emerging Discourses and
        Union               Practices in Egypt and Tunisia


        Bhandar 2015/16     The Architecture of Public Health Trusts in              £46,864
        Wellcome Trust      Colonial Bombay

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Craven 2016/19       International law and the Cold War                       £58,500
        AHRC

        Craven 2014-18       International law and the Cold War                 AUS$329,980
        ARC

        Hamzić 2015          Beyond Law                                               £34,700
        Institute for
        Advanced
        Study, Princeton

        Newton 2018/19       Designing effective anti-corruption                     £256,804
        British Academy      interventions by gauging the role of formal
        / DFID               legal frameworks in network-based
                             governance systems

        O’Connell 2014       Making Barbarism: Human Rights in the Global            £101,300
        British Academy      Order
        / Fulbright

 Here we give a sample of additional awards under £50,000:
    • Bhandar 2019-20: Independent Social Research Fund—From Acts of Dispossession to
       Practices of Commoning: Re-considering the Lifeworld of Property, £4,911;
    • Ercanbrack 2017-18: Qatar Financial Centre Authority—SOAS-QFC Islamic Finance
       Workshop, £50,871 (£10,000 annually over five years);
    • Newton 2018-19: European Union—Eurasian Insights: Strengthening Central Asian
       Studies in Europe, £37,807 (part of a larger consortium, see below);
    • Newton 2015-16: British Academy—Informal Governance and Corruption: tracking the
       Principal Agent and Collective Action Paradigms, £18,999 (part of a larger consortium,
       see below);
    • Oette 2016-17: Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research—Ensuring Policy
       Responds to the Realities of Trafficking and Smuggling of Mixed Migrants from Eritrea
       and Ethiopia, £4,052;
    • Onyema 2017-18: Broderick, Bozimo & Company—Survey on use of Arbitration in
       Africa, £4,983.

 Society of Legal Scholars funding (research income):
    • Ashiagbor (2014/15) Re-imagining Labour, £10,000;
    • Craven and Grady (2017/18) The Legal Legacies of the Iraq War, £15,000;
    • Heathcote (2019/20) Gender and the Law of the Sea, £2,500;
    • Sharma (2017/18) Comparative perspectives on regulating age of consent and child-
        marriage in the British Empire, 1880 to 1930, £2,204.

 3.2 Funding application support
 Each year the SoL distributes £10,000 to individual members of the department and the Centres
 to support research-related activities. Applications for funding are subject to detailed review by
 the Department Research Committee (DRC), particularly with reference to the research
 potential, and envisaged outputs resulting from proposed projects. SoL funded six colleagues to
 attend a workshop on research grant application writing, and a meeting of the Law Research
 Forum in the autumn was organised around feedback from these colleagues to the rest of the
 SoL.

 The Departmental Research Committee has throughout the period awarded funding to individual
 members of the department for research purposes, and £500 to centres for research-related



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 events. The SoL has awarded these funds for diverse research activities ranging from
 roundtables, workshops and conferences:
     • conference marking centenary of 1919 Paris Peace Conference, CCEIL with LSE,
         (Drew);
     • assistance in editing and preparing book and journal publications (Banda 2019,
         Heathcote 2018);
     • invited guest lectures, e.g., 2019 Carlos María Correa, Executive Director of the South
         Centre ‘Towards an international regime on the conservation and sustainable use of
         marine biological diversity’ (Cullet);
     • field research, e.g., expenses related to 2019 residential fellowship at Kluge Center
         Washington DC, researching Oil for Food Programme (Grady);
     • conference travel, e.g., Toronto 2018 panel on Law and Revolution (Sultany).

 The Department Research Committee (now Research Directorate) has continued to provide
 support to members of the department who consider applying for research funding and has
 invited the SOAS REO in 2018 to provide an in-depth briefing to potential funding applicants
 among SoL members.

 The SoL internal funding has been further supplemented by SOAS REO opportunities, including
 the establishment of Seedcorn Funding, which SoL colleagues have been successful recipients
 of, including:
      • Heathcote, Hamzić, Staggs-Kelsall: Oceans: An Interdisciplinary Inquiry (2018-20);
      • Sharma: Historic Construction of the Indian Mutiny of 1857 (2019-20);
      • Suresh: An Ethnography of Contemporary Witchcraft and Witch-hunting Trials (2018-
          19);
      • Welchman: Building Egalitarian Ethics of Marriage (2017-18).

 Seedcorn funding supports the early stages of research development and each case has led to
 research development that extends beyond the current assessment period (Sharma (AHRC),
 Suresh (BA Wolfson), Heathcote (Society of Legal Scholars)) and links in with our future
 research strategy for success in larger funding bids developed through early and mid-career
 support for colleagues.

 3.3 Infrastructure and facilities
 In 2016, midway through the REF period and in conjunction with the SOAS centenary, the entire
 SoL staff relocated to the newly and impressively renovated North Block of Senate House,
 now the Paul Webley Wing of SOAS, which also houses the SOAS student hub and atrium
 and has become the civic centre of the institution.

 Here we introduce our intellectual infrastructure through the scaffolding of the research centres
 and our physical facilities and infrastructure.

 3.3.1 Research dissemination
 The SoL geographic and thematic centres have served as the principal conduit for channelling
 SOAS research findings, analysis and expertise into public discourse and conveying them to a
 broad range of academic and non-academic constituencies.

 The Law, Environment and Development Centre (LEDC) has organised a rich and extensive
 series of research events, including a workshop on mining, law and equity, two workshops
 on groundwater law and climate change, a workshop on Sustainable Development Goals,
 poverty and environment and a panel at the IASC Regional Conference in Bern. The LEDC
 has developed particularly close and fruitful policy and research partnerships with Indian public
 agencies (Union and state) and academic institutions (UK-India Education and Research
 Initiative, UKIERI, with National Law University, Delhi), as evident in the project ‘Climate Change
 and Groundwater Management: An Indian Law and Society Comparative Study’, which
 generated critical advice and guidance for Indian policymakers.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Centre for Islamic and Middle Eastern Law (CIMELs) has been, for all of its existence,
 deeply engaged in research and advocacy directed toward struggles for historical and
 political justice and the redress of longstanding land/property, resource, social, cultural,
 identity and basic security/integrity grievances in Israel-Palestine, particularly in the
 Occupied Palestinian Territories and Gaza, as well as claims for gender equality and justice
 throughout the MENA region and the wider African and Asian Islamic world. CIMEL has
 developed an extensive collaboration, in the form of workshops, conferences, activities,
 advocacy support and training with Musawah, the global network of Islamic feminists and
 advocates for equality in the Muslim family, and has directly facilitated Musawah’s creative
 development of sharī‘a (again, with its prodigious hermeneutic repertoire and resources) in the
 service of building a singularly powerful and effective Islamic-feminist dimension in human
 rights discourse and practice.

 CIMEL has been working closely with the Qatar Financial Centre to conduct annual workshops
 on Islamic finance, bringing together Islamic bankers and other financial professionals,
 economists, regulators, lawyers and sharī‘a scholars from Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar, Malaysia,
 Indonesia, the USA and the UK to facilitate and extend the creative response of sharī‘a. The
 Islamic finance work under CIMEL pushes beyond a merely instrumentalist/utilitarian approach
 to explore the ethical and normative critique posed by sharī‘a of the globalised political economy,
 addressing inequalities, sustainability and climate change.

 The Centre for Human Rights Law (CHRL) scholarly contributions—articles, reports and policy
 submissions—in the context of institutional partnerships have, inter alia, informed debate on the
 EU Khartoum Process addressing migration/refugee policy in the Horn of Africa (2017 report
 ‘Tackling the Root Causes of Human Trafficking and Smuggling from Europe: The Need for an
 Empirically Grounded EU Policy on Migration in the Horn of Africa’, CHRL with IRRI and SIHA);
 have engaged constructively with the African human rights instruments, apparatus and process
 within the AU governance framework (Baderin, Oette, Banda); and have supported the UK
 Prohibition of Torture Network (founded by CHRL and UCL in November 2017) as platform for
 joint, interdisciplinary research and policy engagement, holding the UK context to the same
 exacting human rights examination as the African context (2019 major events relating to torture
 in the UK prison system and in immigration detention system).

 The decades-long history of rights struggles, conflict and systemic violations in the Sudan and
 South Sudan have been a particular focus of sustained CHRL engagement in conjunction
 with inter- and non-governmental organisations (Baderin, former UN Human Rights Council
 Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Sudan; Oette, Redress Trust Expert
 Group on Rule of Law, Human Rights and Justice in Sudan, Project on Institutional Reform in
 Sudan, Sudan Democracy First Group), and similarly African transitional Justice and post
 conflict reconstruction mechanisms and processes (Jenkins, South Africa; Kelsall, Sierra Leone;
 Lwabukuna, Kenya). Parallel UK-based and directed human rights studies and
 interventions by other CHRL colleagues (O’Connell, Bano) monitor and critique the
 enforcement of Human Rights Act provisions in respect of official actions and the protection of
 the social and economic, minority and religious, and criminal procedure rights of members of
 communities originating in the Global South but sojourning or settling in the Global North:
 migrants, immigrants, and refugees to the UK.

 The Centre for Asian Legal Studies (CALS) conducts annual seminars featuring domestic and
 overseas experts in East Asian law and attracting corporate and government representatives, as
 well as an annual conference on a dedicated topic, often leading to edited volumes and journal
 issues. CALS hosts visiting scholars from the region who have collaborated on significant
 research projects. Representative events have included: Researching Chinese Legal History
 in Europe: The State of the Field, June 2015, Asian Comparative Legal Studies Workshop,
 September 2014 and the Constitutional Systems of Central Asia and Thailand double
 launch event, March 2017. The CALS Thai Rule of Law project, launched in 2016, has hosted
 numerous seminars and workshops led by scholars from the UK, the USA and Thailand,

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilitating UK and Thai scholarly and government exchange, and promoting awareness in the
 UK of issues related to rule of law and democracy in Thailand.

 The Centre for the Study of Colonialism, Empire and International Law (CCEIL) (jointly with
 the LSE) edits the London Review of International Law, which is a showcase for CCEIL-related
 research. CCEIL has developed ongoing research relationships with other law schools,
 including:
     • the University of Sheffield (‘The Legal Legacies of the 2003 Iraq War’, convening legal
         academics, practitioners, policymakers and campaigners from the UK, Europe, the US
         and the Middle East);
     • Kent Law School Centre for Critical International Law (inter-centre Global Partners
         Project);
     • Sciences Po Law School, Paris (student research of reparations for historical crimes
         against Indigenous peoples for the CLINIC programme).
 CCEIL has a long history of student-led salons, workshops, masterclasses and events that bring
 together the student and academic community in dialogue with activists and scholars engaged in
 exploring the legal legacies of colonialism.

 3.3.2 The Paul Webley Wing at SOAS
 The SoL has traditionally been housed in the main SOAS building at Russell Square; however,
 with the dissolution of Faculties, the School of Law moved into the new Paul Webley Wing in
 the North Block of Senate House. The new quarters afford commodious, superbly equipped
 and comfortably furnished office and group space and adjacent, state-of-the-art classroom
 space, as well as a dedicated law reading room for students. All SoL colleagues are placed in
 working and social proximity, fostering a vibrant new intellectual commons that is conducive
 equally to concentration and collaboration, that is hospitable to students and visitors (including
 Research Associates and Fellows) and that both symbolises and materialises our research
 transformation.

 The SoL continues to benefit from the unrivalled SOAS Library collections in law specialising in
 holdings of primary and secondary legal materials relating to African and Asian
 jurisdictions. The SOAS Library has a dedicated Law Librarian who works closely with
 colleagues to identify planning needs and to provide bespoke training for colleagues and
 students.

 Our central London location and proximity to specialist law provisions, including the Institute
 of Advanced Legal Studies and the British Institute of International and Comparative Law,
 expand our networks and the legal resources that support our scholarship.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaboration
 Nationally, SoL staff have particularly strong and ongoing research collaboration with other UK
 law schools and HEIs; notable collaborations include: Birkbeck (Bhandar), Goldsmiths
 (Bhandar), Glasgow (Hamzić), SSEES (Newton), Sussex (Baderin, African Union Law Project),
 Queen Mary (Bhandar, Hamzić), LSE (Craven, Newton, Drew), Keele (Banda) and Warwick
 (Sharma).

 Beyond the UK, the SoL has active research partnerships with the National Law University of
 Delhi, Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi (Cullet), and the Nigerian Institute of Advanced
 Legal Studies, Lagos (Baderin), the Institute for International Law and the Humanities,
 Melbourne Law School (Craven) and SoL scholars have partnered for research activities with
 colleagues at multiple overseas institutions (e.g. Jenkins, Universities of Cape Town,
 Witwatersrand, Kwazulu-Natal, and Johannesburg).

 SoL colleagues have held prestigious overseas appointment and fellowships, including:


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Visiting Professor, Centre of Asian Legal Exchange, Nagoya University, Japan, January
        to March 2015 (Tan);
    •   Vermont Law School 2015 Distinguished International Environmental Law Scholar 2015
        (Cullet);
    •   Visiting Scholar at the Asia Pacific Centre for Military Law, School of Law, University of
        Melbourne, September-October 2016 (Grady);
    •   Annual Membership at the School of Social Science in the Institute of Advanced Study at
        Princeton, 2016-17 (Hamzić).

 A small sample of our keynote addresses and annual lectures:
    • Banda: Patrick Thornberry Lecture in Human Rights Keele University 2017,
        ‘Gender, Race and Human Rights: From Margin to Centre with Patrick Thornberry’;
    • Baderin: Annual Human Rights Lecture, University of Glasgow 2015, ‘The UN
        Human Rights Council’s Special Procedures Regime on the Sudan: Between Politics,
        Law and Power’;
    • Bhandar: Institute of Contemporary Arts, London 2020, ‘On the Separation of
        Interests: Legal Form and the Racial Materialities of Property’;
    • Ercanbrack: L'ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales 2016, ‘The
        Transformation of Islamic Law in Global Financial Markets’;
    • Heathcote: Transitional Justice Institute, Ulster University, 2017, ‘Gender Studies as
        Interdisciplinary, Transdisciplinary and Crossdisciplinary: Cyborgs, Non-humans and
        Feminist Utopias in Research Design’;
    • Suresh: School of Law, Governance and Citizenship, Ambedkar University, Delhi
        2017, ‘The Place of the Police: Intimacy, Terrorism and the Trial’.

 A particularly strong and productive research link has been established with Harvard Law
 School’s Institute for Global Law and Policy (IGLP) since its inception in 2010, with the SoL
 playing an integral role throughout and serving in organisational, planning, fundraising (Qatar
 Foundation), instructional and research dissemination capacities (Craven, Newton, Hamzić,
 Grady, Kelsall, Ashiagbor, Baderin). Grounded in legal scholarship but imbued with a stunningly
 broad interdisciplinary ethos, the IGLP through its workshops, colloquia and special events
 has assembled an unparalleled network in Asia, Africa, Europe and the Americas of
 institutions and researchers: doctoral students, post-doctoral scholars, and junior and senior
 research faculty for intensive collaboration, mentoring and cross-training (Hamzić, Grady,
 Staggs-Kelsall, Kula, Olakpe).

 Another IGLP-inspired project on authoritarian constitutionalism, organised by Sciences Po
 and Goethe University, included Sultany and Newton as participants and contributors (2 of 15)
 to the recently published volume (Elgar 2019) provocatively and imaginatively expanding
 contemporary constitutionalist discourse and analysis beyond its standard liberal framing.

 4.2 Interdisciplinary scholarship, collaboration and events
 Many SoL colleagues work closely with SOAS-wide interdisciplinary geographic and thematic
 centres and projects, several of us occupying or having occupied leading or significant roles, for
 example:
     • Bano, Bhandar, Hamzić, Heathcote, Suresh, Tan—Centre for Gender Studies;
     • Newton—Chair, Centre for Contemporary Caucasus and Central Asia;
     • Banda and Baderin—Chair, Centre of African Studies;
     • Hamzić—Advisory Board of the Centre for Ottoman Studies;
     • Drew, Muchlinski—Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy.

 Most staff are members of these and other SOAS-wide centres, including the London Middle
 East Institute, the Centre for Palestine Studies, the Centre for Gender Studies, Centre for African
 Studies, the China Institute and the South Asian Institute. The SoL’s emblematic pursuit of
 interdisciplinary research opportunities is evident in multiple other outputs, notably ongoing


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded interinstitutional and interdisciplinary research projects, joint conferences, workshops,
 and publications. Prominent examples include:
     • With leadership from Craven and ongoing participation from additional colleagues, the
        International Law and the Cold War Project was jointly administered by the SoL
        (Craven) with the LSE and Melbourne Law School and jointly funded by the Australian
        Research Council and the Arts and Humanities Research Council. Four workshops over
        three years at SOAS, LSE, Melbourne and Tbilisi brought together historians, political
        scientists, cultural theorists, STS scholars as well as international lawyers to produce a
        seminal, paradigm-transforming volume (Cambridge University Press 2019, with
        chapters by Craven, Newton and Hamzić), abundantly demonstrating through diverse
        granular analyses from multiple disciplines the fecundity and productivity of the Cold War
        for international law (against the received understanding as a period of stagnation and
        regression).
     • With leadership from Heathcote, alongside participation from Hamzić and Staggs-Kelsall,
        projects on the law of the sea, human rights and gender, in partnership with
        colleagues across SOAS departments. Forthcoming outputs include a dedicated issue of
        the journal Feminist Review on oceans and contributions to various edited collections on
        posthumanism, international law and feminist theory. The SoL hosted a 2019
        Symposium on Vulnerabilities at Sea, with practitioners and scholars working across
        human rights, environmental and economic issues at sea participating.

 4.3 Engagement with external stakeholders
 We work productively at the intersection of theory and application, enriching our advocacy with
 insights and arguments growing out of our research and enriching our research methodologically
 and substantively with the cumulative narrative and experiential wealth—and the developed
 practical reason—of our advocacy.

 We have briefed, given testimony before, consulted with or otherwise advised and assisted a
 broad array of actors in global society.

 Beyond our impact case studies, additional individual contributions, of particular note, include:

    •   Baderin’s long-term roles working with UN Human Rights Council, Muslim Association
        of Nigeria, Musawah (the Global Network for Justice and Equality in the Muslim Family)
        and the Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies;
    •   Banda’s ongoing institutional engagements with international institutions on the framing
        of women’s rights, including for World Bank Gender Unit’s production of the Women
        and Business reports, for UN DESA on family law (2015), UNESCO on discrimination,
        including post-Durban race review (2018), UN Women-UN Beijing (2014) and UN
        Women-SDGS (2016), as well as SIGI indicators for the OECD Gender Unit (2016);
    •   Bano’s participation in the Muslim Women’s Network, UK Home Office and UK Home
        Affairs Select Committee;
    •   Craven’s role as counsel representing Mauritius in the Chagos Islander Advisory Opinion
        before the International Court of Justice;
    •   Lau’s tenure as Dean of the School of Law of the Lahore University of Management
        Sciences 2016-18;
    •   Lwabukuna’s project on Decolonising (Access to) Legal Knowledge: Digitizing
        African Law and Legal Scholarship with University of Cape Town (UCT)—Africa Legal
        Information Institute (AFRICALII) Project (Legal education and inclusion in Africa),
        currently in early stages, but intends to make African laws and legal scholarship more
        accessible, whilst supporting and providing training for quality assurance and open
        access within African legal publishing, work with World Bank Gender Unit for Women and
        Business Report;
    •   Muchlinski’s multiple expert opinions to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
        and Development in 2019 and to the UK Joint Parliamentary Committee on Human
        Rights in 2017;


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Staggs-Kelsall’s leadership as founding co-director of Atlas Women, which links
        academic, policy and legal practitioners working on public international law,
        through the provision of support, networks, information and campaigns with reach to over
        8000 followers;
    •   Welchman’s continuing collaboration with Musawah (Global Network for Equality and
        Justice in the Muslim Family)—with their Knowledge Building team to develop a study
        of Trajectories of Reform in Muslim Family Laws.

 These engagements, across judicial and governance structures, civil society, regional
 organisations and practitioner networks, epitomise the role external stakeholders play in the
 knowledge exchange that is absolutely fundamental to the international scope and presence
 of the research outputs produced at the SOAS School of Law.




                                                                                         Page 17
