Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Liverpool



 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and Structure
 Since 2016, under its Strategy 2026, the University of Liverpool (UoL) has accelerated
 investment in an excellent research environment. In this context and under a new Dean, the
 University of Liverpool Management School (ULMS) has pursued a strategy designed to raise
 significantly the School’s growing reputation, with research capacity integral to this, building
 upon the success of REF2014. ULMS has invested substantially since 2016, attracting a critical
 mass of staff capable of fulfilling its world-class research ambition. ULMS has become a School
 of research talent, delivering its vision to be: a “globally connected School whose transformative
 research and teaching places it at the forefront of knowledge leadership, bringing us together
 with students, business and society in learning to make a difference.” ULMS now holds the
 triple-crown (EQUIS, AMBA and AACSB accreditations) and is an Athena SWAN Silver Award
 holder.


 Since its founding in 2002, ULMS has been on a growth trajectory. In RAE2008, ULMS was the
 highest-rated new entrant in its Unit of Assessment. In REF2014, its research profile was
 reinforced by a strong assessment of its Impact (100% at 4*/3*). At the heart of ULMS’ research
 vitality and sustainability are 132 research-active (i.e. Category A submitted) academics (129
 FTE), an increase of 54% from 2014. This growth has ensured a balance in research talent
 spanning the research career lifecycle. New professorial appointments (22), bringing a depth of
 expertise signified by field-leading publications, are balanced by investment in high-potential
 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) (36), and a focus on developing talent from within the School.
 Overall, 85 of the 132 have been recruited since 2016; 64% of those recruited prior to 2016 have
 been promoted or were already Chairs. This growth has led to a more balanced staff
 composition and one that ensures equality and diversity. The professoriate has grown by 3.75 to
 29.2 FTE, while ECRs have doubled in number. Women account for 34% of staff submitted and
 international faculty 62%, compared with 20% and 45% respectively in REF2014.


 To deliver managed, high-quality growth, the School has supported recruitment with change to
 its structure and investment in research capacity-building. It has moved from three broad-based
 Subject Groups to six that are focused on disciplinary excellence: Accounting & Finance;
 Economics; Marketing; Operations and Supply Chain Management; Strategy, International


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Business and Entrepreneurship; and Work, Organization and Management. Each has a Subject
 Group Head (SGH) with responsibility for recruitment sustaining existing contemporary and
 relevant School research agendas (such as Econometrics, Supply Chain, Entrepreneurship and
 Organization Theory) whilst simultaneously building forward-looking areas of research (including
 R&D and Innovation, Macroeconomics, Organizational Behaviour and Psychology). Quality and
 capacity-building investments have transformed the research environment; these include
 support for five newly-developing research centres and clusters, strong staff development
 processes, a research-focused workload model and enhanced research office, and research and
 impact support schemes. All these investments are detailed below.


 Investment in research capacity-building since 2014 exceeds £34M with an additional £14.44M
 in buildings to accommodate growth. The School’s annual research budget has increased by
 over 350% since 2014 to £822,250. Evidence of the effects of this investment can be seen in
 comparison with REF2014: for example, a portfolio of 111 Financial Times 50 (FT50)
 publications in this REF period among those staff submitted, compared with 11 for REF2014.
 Through the dual strategy of recruiting world-leading senior scholars, and a cohort of high
 potential ECRs supported in an enabled research environment, ULMS is now sustaining its
 research capacity, using investment to enable staff development at all levels. This is
 demonstrated in its commitment to support ECRs: 29% of ECRs have publications in the FT50
 and half of ECRs are on PhD student supervisory teams.


 ULMS’ research strategy retains a strong commitment to impact, evidenced through the
 development of interdisciplinary Research Centres and Clusters (Entrepreneurship; Supply
 Chain Research; Sports Business; Econometrics & Big Data; Organizational and Employee
 Wellbeing) that unite distinct disciplinary strengths across Subject Groups around shared
 empirical agendas relevant to contemporary business, social and economic issues (see section
 1.2.2.2). These areas of impact contribute to the University’s research focus on improving
 health, responsible enhancement of wealth and ensuring social justice globally and locally.


 1.2 Research & Impact Strategy


 1.2.1 Research and Impact Objectives and Strategy
 ULMS has demonstrated a strong commitment to its REF2014 aims of enhancing research
 quality, visibility and impact through developing disciplinary excellence and cross-cutting
 thematic research. A strategic review in 2016 led to a new vision, underpinned by our
 commitment to create a world-leading research and impact environment whilst retaining a
 collegial research culture. Our vision encompasses five strategic objectives to:



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        1. Develop a critical mass of research-active faculty in the core disciplines of the
               School, capable of researching and publishing at the highest levels to deliver
               disciplinary excellence and a world-leading reputation;
        2. Promote a collegiate and collaborative research culture that supports academics at
               all career stages, with a focus on ECRs and equality and diversity, in the
               development of excellent, innovative and distinctive research;
        3. Invest in ongoing excellence in impact and research relevance in relation to policy
               and practice, following ULMS’ strong REF2014 assessment of impact;
        4. Support interdisciplinarity through cross-cutting thematic research and encourage
               methodological diversity and expertise; and
        5. Strengthen support for postgraduate research students as a critical component of a
               vibrant research community.


 These objectives have driven research investments with an emphasis on sustainability and
 vitality. In line with the University’s Strategy 2026, these objectives will continue to drive
 investment. Supporting investment is detailed below.


 1.2.2 Building Sustainability: Research Leadership and Investment in Expertise
 The School has a matrix structure, with six Associate Deans who work across the six School
 Subject Groups, one of whom is the Associate Dean Research (ADR) (Prof Gatrell). Together
 with the Dean and the SGHs, they form the School’s Leadership team. Research and Impact are
 led by the ADR working with the Dean and the SGHs.


 1.2.2.1 Subject Groups: Building Disciplinary Leadership and Expertise
 The Subject Groups form disciplinary homes for both research and teaching, providing the
 infrastructure necessary to ensure a vital and sustainable research environment. Each has been
 developed though substantial investment in external recruitment and internal promotion. The
 SGHs are responsible for recruitment and development against identified core areas of group-
 level expertise, and in particular for delivery against Objectives 1 and 2, drawing on all the
 recruitment, support, incentive schemes and infrastructure available within ULMS, consistent
 with the policies and practices laid out below in Section 2: People. Each is supported by a
 Subject Group Director of Research (SGDoR), to provide strong group-level research
 leadership.


 Strategy, International Business and Entrepreneurship (SIBE)
 SIBE delivers world-leading research spanning Strategy, International Business, Innovation and
 Entrepreneurship, with 56 papers published in FT50 journals since 2014 (compared with two,

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2014). Of its 28 members, 10 are Professors and seven are ECRs. This is augmented with
 23 PhD students.


 Under the leadership of Prof Tom Elfring, investment in recruitment has enabled the Group to
 enhance its strength in Strategy and International Business (Profs Balogun, Cornelissen,
 Maitland, McNulty and Raggozino; Ganotakis, Kunst, Papageorgiadis, Procipiou, Wolf, Wu), to
 build a depth of expertise in Entrepreneurship (Profs. Blackburn, Elfring, Munoz and
 Jayawarana; Giordano, Smith, Southern, Venugopal) and to extend expertise in R&D and
 Innovation (Prof Sofka; Akbar, Borah, Brennecke, Ellwood, Speldekamp). McNulty’s reputation
 in Boards is recognized through his AHRC award (total value £278,000) to research business
 judgement and the courts. Balogun and Cornelissen are recognized for their expertise in
 strategy process and practice research. Elfring brings knowledge regarding corporate
 entrepreneurship and venturing, having previously received funding over €750,000 from bodies
 including the Science Foundation in the Netherlands, and as Chair of boards, including Syntens
 Rotterdam. In recognition for his research on the behaviour of small firms, Blackburn holds the
 Queen’s Award for Enterprise Promotion and works with the OECD on advice for agencies on
 inclusive entrepreneurship. Since 2016, Munoz has attracted £350,000 to support his research
 on sustainable entrepreneurship internationally, with a focus on Latin America. Sofka’s expertise
 in innovation is recognized through his involvement in commissioned reports on innovation for
 the European Commission.


 Work, Organization and Management (WOM)
 Research in WOM is concerned with understanding organizations, workers and society. Group
 members pursue research across organization studies, organizational behaviour and Human
 Resource Management (HRM) for the purpose of enhancing health and well-being among
 workers, and improving sustainability within management and organizational settings. With 29
 papers in FT50 Journals since 2014 (compared to eight in REF2014), WOM now has a strong
 track-record in institutional work studies, advancement of qualitative methodology, and research
 on work-life experiences, leadership, employee well-being, personality development and
 assessment, and inclusive and strategic human resource management practices. Of its 24
 faculty, there are six Professors and eight ECRs. The Group is augmented with 26 PhD
 students.


 Recruitment under the leadership of Prof Yves Guillaume has enabled the Group to deepen its
 strengths in Organization Studies and Theory (Profs Gatrell, Zundel and Suddaby; Belfrage,
 Cole, Liu, Nilsson, Marechal, Rowe), to build additional depth of expertise in Organizational
 Behaviour and Organizational Psychology (Profs Guillaume and Woods; Daher, Lyubovnikova,
 Miraglia, Radcliffe), and also in HRM with a focus on inclusive practices, cross-cultural and

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international HRM, high-performance work systems, psychological contract and employee voice
 (Prof Donnelly; Davies, Hughes, Li, Otaye, Pereira Costa, Raheem, Yang, Xu). Suddaby was
 named in Thompson Reuters "World's Most Influential Scientific Minds" in Business and
 Economics each year from 2014-2017. Gatrell is recognised for research on employee well-
 being, having won a Leverhulme Research Fellowship for research into fatherhood and
 employment (2018-2019). She is the 2020 winner of the British Academy of Management (BAM)
 Medal for Research. The appointment of Guillaume facilitated development of organizational
 behaviour research, particularly the relationships between leaders and followers, and its impact
 on the effectiveness of leadership approaches. Woods has a global research reputation in
 personality development and dynamics at work, having authored two of the three leading
 international review articles on the topic (2013 and 2019).


 Economics
 The Economics Group builds on a strong tradition at Liverpool stretching back to the 1930s and
 the work of Nobel prize winner, Ronald Coase. Economics undertakes theoretical and applied
 work in Macroeconomic Policy, Econometrics & Big Data, and Applied Microeconomics. Under
 the leadership of Prof Joep Konings, the Group has 23 members, with four Professors, four
 ECRs with additional recruitment underway, and 22 PhD students. Strategic research
 investment has re-established the Group’s global reputation with, for example, six FT50
 publications (compared with none in REF2014), and has created critical research mass in
 Macroeconomics with an emphasis on the future of macroeconomic policy (Profs Chu, de Groot
 and Konings; Han, Gorn, Kim, Liu, Marchesiano, Mitra, Murakozy), extending the traditional
 strength in Econometrics with an emphasis on AI and big data (Emeritus Prof McCabe; Bu, Rao,
 Li and Lui-Evans, Burn, Geng and Lonsky), and developing applied microeconomics with a focus
 on natural experiments and policy evaluation (Prof Forrest; Buraimo, Garikipati, Tena Horrillo).


 Group members make direct contributions to public policy making, including industrial policy in
 Europe and with the European Commission, OECD and World Bank (Murakozy; Konings);
 monetary policy at the European Central Bank, IMF and Bank of England (de Groot,
 Jackson, Konings); development policy in India (Garikipati) and Central Asia (Geng); UK
 government policy (Forrest; Gu) and legal bodies (Forrest). Gu was awarded £130,861 as Co-I
 on an ESRC joint programming initiative grant (£622,972) for self-organizing cities. Murakozy
 has been awarded £87,176 as part of an ERC starter grant (£1.3M) for minimum wages and
 inequality. The Group organizes three annual workshops, on applied macroeconomics;
 econometrics & big data; and theory and computation (most recently on blockchain and
 cryptocurrencies).




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Accounting and Finance (A&F)
 The A&F Group is growing in strength and research quality through investment in staff and
 databases under the leadership of Prof Alex Kostakis. Group members have published 150+
 peer-reviewed journal articles during this REF period, including 12 FT50 papers (compared with
 one in REF2014). Five of the Group’s 25 research-active faculty are Professors and four are
 ECRs, with recruitment ongoing. The Group is augmented by 28 PhD students. Investment has
 focused on the development of three areas of research strength: Empirical Asset Pricing (Profs
 Cai, Kostakis and Henry; Ahmed, Avino, Fu, Kim, Laws, Stamatogiannis, Wese Simen, Yang,
 and Ye), Corporate Finance and Market-Based Accounting (Prof Florakis, Ahmad, Pappas,
 Poletti-Hughes, Sainani, Sun, Zhang, Zhao) and International Finance and Banking (Prof Milas;
 Ellington, Kallinterakis, Michalski, Stentella Lopes). Research within these areas is evidence-
 based and practice-relevant.


 With Kostakis’s publications in field-leading journals such as the Review of Financial Studies,
 Management Science and Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis the Group has
 developed an international reputation in empirical asset pricing. Cai contributes to the Group’s
 international reputation as a member of the organizing committee of the International Accounting
 and Finance Doctoral Symposium. Group members have made significant contributions towards
 identifying common risk factors across alternative asset classes, modelling the behaviour of
 commodity prices and volatility and developing econometric tests for stock return predictability.
 Florakis leads on the Group’s historical strength in Corporate Governance. He is an editor of
 Corporate Governance: An International Review, a leading journal in the field. Milas continues to
 lead International Finance and Banking and is an invited member of the Monetary Roundtable
 organized by the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England. The Group has invested
 significantly in databases (see Infrastructure, Section 3) along with a new 40-terminal Bloomberg
 Suite, creating an environment supportive of world-class empirical research.


 Operations and Supply Chain Management (OSCM)
 Research in the OSCM Group makes original contributions to the theory and practice of
 Operations and Supply Chain Management, through development and application of models,
 analytical techniques and technologies that underpin the achievement of excellence in the
 design of operations and supply chain systems. The Group has 18 research-active faculty
 members with five Professors, eight ECRs and a 26-strong PhD cohort. In this REF period it has
 288 Scopus entries averaging 16 publications per individual, six FT50 Publications (compared
 with one in REF2014), and group members have brought in over £1M external research funding
 to ULMS (from a total funder value of awards of £4.525M – see also Centre for Supply Chain
 Research), with additional external funding of £864,000 as PI or Co-I.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Under the leadership of Prof Andy Lyons, investment in staff has enabled the Group to develop
 depth of expertise in four themes: transport and logistics (Profs Bektas and Song; Iris, Xing);
 agri-food supply chains (Prof Lyons; Hernandez, Li, Sharifi, Singh); sustainable supply chains
 (Prof Cousins; Lam, Li, Meehan, Pinnington); agile operations (Prof Lyons; Narayanamurthy,
 Sharifi); and supply chain technologies, analytics and risk (Profs Bektas, McHale and Song;
 Guo, Hedenstierna, Zhan). In transport and logistics Song (with Lyons) was awarded £107,672
 from the Royal Society and £41,177 from BEIS for logistics modelling research. A survey of
 research papers in transportation and maritime journals between 2000 and 2015 (published in
 International Journal of Shipping & Transport Logistics, 2018) ranked Song as No. 1 in the UK.
 Bektas, a world authority on logistics optimisation, was previously part of an EPSRC award for
 £1.16M for last-mile urban freight logistics in 2016, and since joining ULMS has been awarded
 £238,759 from Innovate UK for research on last-mile efficiency in logistics. Cousins, leading
 research into sustainable supply chains, was ranked the 8th leading SCM researcher in the world
 and the leading researcher in the UK, based on a survey of the seven top supply chain
 management journals (see Babbar et al., 2019, SCM research leadership: the ranked agents
 and their networks. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal. 24 (6), 824-854). Lam
 has been awarded a Leverhulme Fellowship (£46,541). Agile operations is a long-established
 area; funded projects within the period include a £366,891 ERDF grant (Lyons, Sharifi)
 researching agile behaviours across SME supply chains.


 Marketing
 Marketing is the newest Group in ULMS, established as a separate Group in 2019 and under the
 leadership of Prof Pippa Hunter-Jones. Its 14 research-active faculty include two Professors and
 five ECRs, with active recruitment to develop the Group further. It currently has 14 PhD
 students. Key research strengths in Marketing lie in the application and development of
 Marketing Theory to the study of vulnerable consumers and marginalised groups (Prof Hunter-
 Jones; Al-Abdin, Sudbury-Riley) as well as to industrial, B2B (Business to Business) and digital
 (Ashman, M.Guenther, P.Guenther, Raddats, Cartwright, Karimi) and the sociology of
 consumption (Prof Parsons; Daskalapoulou, Kerrane, McGouran, and Pirani).


 In developing existing service marketing research at ULMS, Hunter-Jones, with Sudbury-Riley
 and Al-Abdin, apply service learning to improve the experiences of those providing and using
 palliative and end-of-life services. They have received funding from hospice and hospital groups
 (£177,284) through, for example, collaborations with East Cheshire Hospice and the Liverpool
 Clinical Commissioning Group. Hunter-Jones and Sudbury-Riley were part of a University of
 Liverpool team that was awarded £1.9M under the Prime Minister’s Challenge Fund, tasked with
 transforming primary care and improving healthcare access in South Cheshire. They have also

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 won funding from the Leverhulme Trust Visiting Professor Scheme (Tom Baker, University of
 Alabama, £11,210). Parsons works in the area of vulnerable consumers and marginalised
 groups and is Co-Editor in Chief of the Journal of Marketing Theory. ECRs are developing
 funding through success with, for example, BA small grants (Cartwright, Pirani).


 1.2.2.2 Research Centres and Research Clusters: Supporting Interdisciplinarity and

 Impact through Cross-Cutting Thematic Research
 Research Centres and Clusters are led from the Subject Groups, bringing together research
 expertise across the School and University to facilitate internal and external research
 partnerships, around common cross-cutting research themes and projects. They support
 Objective 4 (interdisciplinarity and methodological diversity), and Objective 3 (excellence in
 impact). They enable strength in impact by applying externally-focused, real-world expertise in
 areas relevant to contemporary business, social and economic issues. The three Research
 Centres (Entrepreneurship, Supply Chain Research, Sports Business) drive much of the
 School’s external research activity and deliver against well-established School research
 agendas, with a focus on gaining funding and producing impactful research. The two Research
 Clusters (Econometrics & Big Data; Organizational and Employee Wellbeing) are in an earlier
 stage of development, bringing together researchers delivering impact in newer areas of
 expertise. Each Centre/Cluster is led by a Director responsible for allocation of ULMS funding to
 support their development. An example is the PhD Entrepreneurship Academy run by the Centre
 for Entrepreneurship. The School also supports interdisciplinary research in other areas. For
 example, Ellwood leads the Management School’s collaboration with the University’s £10M
 Leverhulme-funded interdisciplinary Centre for Functional Materials Design (also with the
 involvement of Brennecke). McNulty’s research on business judgement and the courts is in
 collaboration with colleagues in the Law Faculty at the University of Leeds. Tables 1 and 2 show
 the Subject Group disciplinary strengths (core expertise) that underpin the Centres and Clusters,
 cross-university interdisciplinary partnerships, and the areas of impact they are delivering. The
 areas listed show the extent to which ULMS’ research impacts on two areas of social
 importance: Economic and Social Development, and Individual and Organizational Welfare,
 consistent with the University’s commitment to research addressing health, wealth and justice
 globally and locally.


 The Centre for Supply Chain Research led by Bektas, Cousins and Song draws on the
 logistics and supply chain expertise in the OSCM Group to work in interdisciplinary teams across
 the University. These include the Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Food Systems; Institute
 for Risk; Digital Innovation Facility and the Centre for the Study of International Slavery.
 Internationally, Hernandez and Li are leading multi-partner H2020 projects on agri-food supply


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 chains (a €1.3M project on Agriculture Production Systems (RUCAPS) and a €1M project on the
 application of emerging technologies and on food security issues (GOLF). Lyons, Hernandez,
 and Li have been partners on two EC Interreg agri-food projects (£214,146 and £87,926
 respectively). Meehan and Pinnington are working with the Crown Commercial Services and the
 Home Office on modern slavery in supply chains, as well as the Centre for the Study of
 International Slavery and the University’s Heseltine Institute for Public Policy, Practice and
 Place. They have recently been awarded AHRC funding (£77,000) for research on the impact of
 COVID-19 on modern slavery. The Centre’s members are delivering impact in a variety of
 different sectors, including SMEs, social housing, humanitarian relief and modern slavery (see
 Table 1).


 Table 1: Research Centres
                  Centre Supply Chain          Centre Entrepreneurship        Centre
                  Research                                                    Sports
                                                                              Business

  Core            Logistics, Supply Chain &    Entrepreneurship and           Sports
  Expertise       Business Agility (OSCM)      Small Firms (SIBE)             Economics
                                               Business Dynamism/             (Economics)
                                               Regional Development           Sports
                                               (Economics)                    Analytics
                                                                              (OSCM)

  University      - Centre of Excellence:      - Heseltine Institute for
  Partnerships    Sustainable Food             Public Policy, Practice and
                  Systems                      Place
                  -Institute for Risk and
                  Uncertainty
                  - Digital Innovation
                  Facility
                  - Centre for International
                  Slavery

  Impact to       - Value-based                - Enhancing Livelihoods of     - Match
  2021            procurement in Social        Rural Women (India)            Fixing
                  Housing                      - Entrepreneurship and         - Making
                                               growth in LCR                  gambling
                                                                              safer

  Impact in   - MoD procurement;               - Rural Entrepreneurship       - Sports
  Development - Modern Slavery;                (Chile);                       Policy and
              - Humanitarian Logistics         - Entrepreneurial activity     Governance
              & disaster relief (satellite     and Sanitation (India)
              big data analytics)              - Developing Social
                                               enterprise LCR




                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Centre for Entrepreneurship (CfE) led by Munoz and Blackburn undertakes problem-
 based, impact-driven research by engaging with local, national and international academics,
 practitioners and policy-makers to examine the human, ecological, economic and cultural
 aspects of entrepreneurship and small firms. It draws together academics from SIBE with those
 from Economics (for example, Konings, Murakozy) and Finance (for example, Cai) to explore
 themes such as the internationalisation of SMEs, social inclusion and social enterprises,
 sustainable venturing, transformational entrepreneurship, young people and entrepreneurship,
 and social investment and entrepreneurship. Southern brings together work in the Centre with
 the University’s Heseltine Institute (as above) as a Principal Investigator focused on research in
 the Liverpool City Region. The CfE has a track-record of delivering research-informed growth
 programmes, equipping entrepreneurs in the Liverpool City Region (LCR) with business skills.
 Giordano has received ongoing ERDF research grants (£1.8M awarded since 2014) to support
 this programme. It is delivering impact locally and increasingly internationally, for example,
 through research in entrepreneurship and growth in the LCR, social enterprise regionally, rural
 entrepreneurship in Latin America, and entrepreneurship and sanitation in India (see Table 1).


 The Centre for Sports Business has, for many years, delivered international sports-related
 executive education (providing a stream of income for the Centre). More recently, led by Forrest
 (Economics) and McHale (OSCM) it has developed a strong research base in sports economics
 and sports analytics. McHale, for example, has created the EA SPORTS Player Performance
 Index, the official player rating system of the Barclays Premier League. Forrest and McHale
 have together used their research on sports economics and analytics to develop two
 significant areas of impact through influence on policy makers and legal bodies (see Table 1).
 They have contributed to the identification of match-fixing by assessing the processes used
 by UEFA for monitoring betting markets, and have influenced government policy on problem
 gambling through work with betting organizations and casinos. Forrest was Co-I in an EC
 funded project to identify sports betting risks (€238,896). Others (Buraimo, Tena Horillo) have
 explored overseas market development for Premier League football clubs, while work with the
 Spanish Football Association investigates the performance of football clubs in European and
 domestic tournaments.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Table 2: Research Clusters
                  Econometrics & Big Data            Organizational & Employee Welfare
                  Cluster                            Cluster

  Core            Econometrics in applied            Human Resource Management and
  Expertise       contexts (Economics, A&F,          Change (WOM, SIBE)
                  SIBE)                              Gender, Diversity and Equality (WOM,
                  Marketing Analytics (Marketing)    A&F, Economics)
                                                     Service Innovation (Marketing)

  University      - Geography                        - School of Medicine
  Partnerships    - Computer Science
                  - Institute for Risk and
                  Uncertainty

  Impact to       - Changing Patent Filing           - End of life care;
  2021            Practice                           - Menstrual hygiene (India);
                                                     - Currency Internationalisation

  Impact in       Policy evaluation: regional,       - Gender inequality & family friendly
  Development     industrial and social              policies
                  - Value of Developer               - High Performance Work systems
                  Contributions                      (NHS);
                  - Monetary Policy                  - Improving work experiences of BME
                  - Exchange Rate Policy             (NHS);
                                                     - Glass Ceiling Latin America;
                                                     - Improving Organizational Leadership




 The Econometrics & Big Data Cluster led by Economics and A&F (Bu, Wese Simen and Ye)
 draws on ULMS’ long-standing expertise in data analytics in the two Groups, but also
 increasingly Marketing (for example, M.Guenther, P.Guenther) and Strategy (for example,
 Papageorgiadis, Ragozzino, Wu). Researchers in this cluster work on the development of
 algorithms, data warehousing, and machine learning in a variety of applied contexts from
 scanner data, stock market information, oil and equity prices, marketing assets, and financial to
 operational data sets and exchange rates. Members of Economics and A&F work in
 collaboration with the Institute for Risk and Uncertainty, and also collaborate with Computer
 Science (Bach, Gorelkina: Game Theory) and Geography (Gu: developer contributions). This
 cluster has developed impact in exchange rate and monetary policy through engagement with
 the European Central Bank, the Bank of England, the National Bank of Belgium, and the
 International Monetary Fund. The cluster is involved in policy evaluations with impact
 on regional, industrial and social policy from connections with, for example, the European
 Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (see Table 2).




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Organizational and Employee Wellbeing Cluster led by Miraglia, Yang and Parsons,
 brings together research expertise from WOM (HRM, OB and Organization Theory), SIBE (for
 example, Balogun, Wolf), Marketing (for example, Hunter-Jones, Parsons, Sudbury-Riley)
 Economics (for example, Burns, Garikipati) and Finance (for example, Poletti-Hughes) to shed
 light on how organizing and managing affects production, working life and health, and how to
 thrive and flourish, whether as organizations, employees or self-employed/gig economy workers.
 Research focuses on two central themes of People and Change Management practices
 (facilitating productivity and organizational and employee well-being), and Equality, Diversity and
 Wellbeing (enhancing employee diversity, equality and wellbeing through research into gender,
 diversity, work-life relationships and health). Research in the People and Change Management
 theme is increasingly impactful, applying business and management principles to settings such
 as Healthcare with, for example, Hunter-Jones, Al-Abdin and Sudbury-Riley working directly with
 the School of Medicine (Planning for future care with patients with advanced cancer: Liverpool
 Clinical Commissioning Group: £51,587), and others (Otaye, Donnelly, Yang) working in
 partnership with NHS Trusts. Research in the cluster is currently delivering strong impact in the
 second theme, with a growing stream of impact in the first (see Table 2).


 1.2.3 Delivering Impact
 Delivering impact is core to the School’s research ambitions, with the focus in the School’s vision
 on “learning to make a difference” (Objective 3). The School’s impact strategy is embedded
 throughout its research activities and ensures investment in staff and infrastructure to extend
 impact in terms of scale and quality beyond that achieved in REF2014. The School’s Impact
 Director Chairs the School Impact Steering Group (a sub-committee of the School Research and
 Impact Committee), which administers an impact budget and workload allowances to support the
 extension of reach and significance of impactful work. Through this investment, ULMS has a
 growing body of impact projects which are sufficiently developed to generate cases for REF2021
 and beyond (see Table 6, Section 4). UoL has a database (Elements repository) that enables
 tracking and auditing of impactful research projects. The School has developed 46 impact
 projects in this REF period, 50% of which have been identified as sufficiently advanced to
 receive School funding.


 1.2.3.1 Stimulating Impact
 The School strategy for enabling impact has led to a number of supporting investments and
 incentives. Since 2014 we have drawn on the expertise of the ULMS Advisory Board, in which
 leading business experts advise on impact development in the Centres and Clusters. For
 example, Dr Rick Parry (Chairman, English Football League; former Chief Executive Liverpool
 Football Club) advises on impact developing in the Centre for Sports Business. Chris Gray



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Northwest Lead, Accenture), an expert on diversity, advises on cases related to diversity and
 well-being.


 Individually, researchers are encouraged through University promotion criteria and in annual
 performance development reviews to develop impactful work. In addition, drawing on existing
 impact expertise in Research Centres and Clusters, a mentoring system helps individuals
 developing new areas of strong impact. Individuals can request leave for impact development as
 part of the School’s sabbatical scheme.


 The School’s Impact Steering Group organizes mentoring and workshops regarding: facilitating
 impact development (2017); building and extending impact with external impact advisers,
 providing feedback on impact work under development (2018), and evidence of impact (2019).
 This activity is supported by the dedicated Impact Officer in the School Research Office, as well
 as impact specialists in the Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS) Faculty Research Office and
 University’s Research, Partnership and Innovation (RPI) team. The ULMS External Engagement
 team is responsible for developing links with business and identifying research partners,
 collaborating closely with relevant individuals in the RPI team.


 The Impact Steering Group makes annual calls for new potential impact work. Work considered
 to be sufficiently developed is incentivised through a £1,000 payment into an individual’s
 research account and assignment of a mentor. Progress is monitored by the Steering Group
 which also provides feedback and guidance. Individuals may apply for support for more
 developed work from both the School and HSS Faculty (allocated from HEIF funding) with funds
 for impact reach, development and evidence tracking, and for RAs to support impact activity,
 plus event management support from the ULMS Marketing team. This support extends to
 international impact activity. For example, Garikipati has received support for impact work in
 India, and Belfrage and Poletti-Hughes for impact projects in Latin America. Impact funding in
 this REF period has totalled £222,633.


 1.2.4 Future Strategy
 Future strategy will continue investment in high-quality growth and capacity building consistent
 with the School’s five objectives. Investment in managed growth will continue to build a
 research-active faculty of around 170 FTE. Investment will be focused in A&F, Marketing and
 Economics, as the most recently created Groups in the School. By 2024, ULMS will have
 expanded into a larger building in addition to the extension opened in 2016. Investment in impact
 and the cross-cutting themes in the Research Centres and Clusters will continue to extend their
 reach and significance and ensure ongoing connection with contemporary social challenges.



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recent investments to sustain and enhance the research environment will continue to follow a
 growth trajectory. These include, for example: from 2020-2021 increasing support for the
 number of PhD scholarships annually from 10 to 15 (see Section 2.4); from 2019-2020, a
 significant investment in databases (see section 3.1: with an additional £250,000 annually); and
 also from 2019-2020, the introduction of an additional £2,500 per individual probationer support
 fund (Section 2.3).


 Future strategy also involves building on the School’s existing reputation for world-class
 research and enhancing its strong international representation through journal editorial boards
 and international academic collaborations (see Section 4).


 1.2.5 Open Access
 The University has a substantial Institutional Fund available for staff who are not externally
 funded but whose work would benefit from ‘gold’ open access. ECRs in particular have benefited
 from this fund (Nilsson, Research Policy (2016); Ellington, Journal of Banking and Finance
 (2018)) as well as more senior individuals (for example, Smith, Business History (2018))


 ULMS faculty offer open access research data where possible. For example, Milas, in his blog
 piece for The Conversation, (2019: 29,000 downloads) provides data used in his (2014) paper in
 Journal of International Money and Finance. Papageorgiadis and Sofka provide open access
 data from their (2020) paper on the Patent Enforcement Index (PEI), allowing scholars, patent
 managers, attorneys and policy makers to use PEI in their research. Additionally, the dataset
 Papageorgiadis created for his (2019) study regarding the effect of European intellectual
 property institutions on Chinese outward foreign direct investment is available in open access for
 free download via the Centre for Open Science.


 1.2.6 Research Integrity and Ethics
 All research in ULMS upholds the strictest standards for research integrity and ethics. We are
 supported by the University, which embraces the UK Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. This is aligned with the University’s Research and Impact
 Strategy, to create an environment that supports researchers in improving the quality and impact
 of research at all career stages. Similarly, the University has a strict ethics policy, enforced
 through the University Committee on Research Ethics. ULMS faculty contribute to these
 University committees. For example, Brenneke: HSS Faculty Ethics Working Group; Hunter-
 Jones: STOP COVID-19 Steering Group; and Lam: the Concordat Steering Group.
 However, integrity and ethics are about an appropriate culture and not just policies for
 enforcement. ULMS has its own 14 member trained Research Ethics Committee Chaired by a


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School Director of Ethics (reporting into the ADR), supporting ethics approval for new research
 projects, and reporting to the University Committee on Research Ethics. To support an ethically
 aware research environment the Director of Ethics delivers ethics training workshops for staff
 and postgraduate students. Epigeum certification is required by all staff/students before applying
 for ethical approval. ULMS’ commitment to research integrity was commended by the EQUIS
 accreditation panel in 2019.



 2. People

 2.1    Staffing Strategy
 A strategic review of ULMS in 2016 recognised that the scale of growth needed to meet its
 ambition required external recruitment accompanied by internal promotion and staff
 development. As a result, the School has undergone a period of managed substantial growth.
 Careful implementation of our strategy has established an environment that demonstrates
 sustainability through targeted investments, and vitality through an enhanced and inclusive
 research culture for staff and students. The creation of a critical mass of research-active faculty
 with a balance of expertise and experience in all Subject Groups has entailed a large
 international recruitment drive. This balance of expertise and experience has enabled mentoring
 and development, particularly among ECRs, to create a pipeline of talent supported by an active
 promotions strategy that has moved forward the School’s equality and diversity agenda.
 Consistent with the University’s Strategy 2026, the goal is to be a destination of choice for
 established and aspiring research leaders, attracted by our vibrant environment and career
 opportunities.


 2.2    Building Sustainability: Recruitment and Promotions
 Since 2016, 85 staff on research tracks have been recruited, delivering current staffing of 32
 Professors, 9 Readers, 36 Senior Lecturers and 55 lecturers (Table 3). This distribution of
 experience across the School creates strong support for ECRs. Recruitment includes 22 new
 Professors (19.2 FTE). A significant number of research-active faculty present for REF2014
 have retired or taken advantage of University VS schemes (30%); another 24% have left,
 typically for promotions (for example, Richter and Cook, School Directorships, Surrey and Hull,
 Lindebaum Chair-Cardiff, Akbar Chair-Hull).




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 3: Recruitment and Promotion by Group
                     SIBE       WOM        A&F         Economics OSCM             Marketing
  Total              28         24         25          22        18               15
  Professor          10 [1]     6 [1]      5 [1]       4         5                2 [1]
   Women             3 [1]      1                                                 2 [1]
   International     6          4          4 [1]       2
  Reader             2 [2]      2 [2]                  3 [3]          2 [1]
   Women             1 [1]      1 [1]                  1 [1]
   International     2 [2]      2 [2]                  3 [3]          1
  Senior Lecturer    8 [4]      7 [4]      12 [1]      4 [1]          3 [3]       2 [2]
   Women             1 [1]      5 [3]      1 [1]       1 [1]          1 [1]       1 [1]
   International     2 [2]      4 [4]      11          3 [1]          2 [2]
  Lecturer           8          9          8           12             8           10
   Women             1          7          2           4              1           9
   International     8          5          7           10             7           6


 Key: [promotions] (Categories of International/Women not mutually exclusive)


 All recruitment to Subject Groups is driven by fit with areas of in-depth research expertise (see
 Section 1.2.2). For ECRs (and those in mid-career) this ensures a pool of senior faculty able to
 provide strong mentorship. Table 3 details recruitment and promotions since 2014, also
 specifying numbers of women and international staff (not British citizens). Four of the six new
 Subject Group Heads (SGHs) are international. Overall, 29% of staff are British, 30% from the
 EU, and 25% from Asia. 7% have dual nationality. The remaining 9% are from North and South
 America, the Middle East, Africa and non-EU European countries. 30% of staff are self-declared
 BAME.


 Women comprise 34% of the School’s research-active FTE. Women comprise 46% of Lecturers,
 28% of Senior Lecturers, 33% of Readers and 21% of Professors. Internal promotions since
 2016 contribute strongly to these percentages and to the intellectual development of the School.
 Two of the four individuals promoted to Chair are women (Hunter-Jones and Jayawarna), three
 of the eight individuals promoted to Reader are women (Brennecke, Garikipati, Otaye), and eight
 of the 15 individuals promoted to Senior Lecturer are women. A number of colleagues promoted
 to Chair and Reader in this REF period originally joined ULMS as Senior Lecturers (Jayawarna,
 Marchesiani, Otaye, Li) or Lecturers (Florakis, Zundel, Hunter-Jones, Brennecke, Garikipati,
 Papageorgiadis, Gu, Belfrage, Sharifi). 40% of these are women, and 69% are international.
 Furthermore, consistent with the School policy of development to enable internal promotion, the
 pipeline of women being prepared for promotion to Chair is strong. SIBE and WOM, areas in
 which there are traditionally more women, are ahead with the other Groups still using on-going
 recruitment to develop a better gender balance. To support equality and diversity in recruitment,
 appointment panels are Chaired by the Dean, and include the SGH and the ADR, with additional
 members to ensure a gender balance. Members have received EDI (equality, diversity and

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inclusion) and unconscious bias training. Potential recruits meet a wide range of staff, both
 senior and junior, to ensure fit with expectations of citizenship and collegiality (Objective 2).


 2.3    Ensuring Vitality: Enabling Environment and Staff Development
 The goals for staff development are to create conditions that enable research staff to deliver
 against University and School ambitions for world-leading research, with investment supporting
 all aspects of research and impact. These investments also enable individuals to achieve
 personal ambitions, including completion of probation for ECRs, promotions, and building global
 research reputations. Clear indications of their success are offered by metrics such as
 promotions (Table 3 above), and the greatly increased numbers of publications in journals
 recognised as world-leading by, for example, the FT50 list.


 The School’s Research and Impact Committee, Chaired by the ADR, provides robust research
 governance structures. These ensure that all research-related polices, practices, and support
 schemes are applied consistently, fairly and transparently across the School. This ensures an
 ULMS-wide research environment that supports all five School objectives, building a strong,
 collaborative and collegial community of scholarship. The ADR is supported by Directors of
 Impact, Ethics, Funding and Peer Review, as well as the Doctoral Director. Each Chairs a
 related committee/support group and sits on the Research and Impact (R&I) Committee with the
 ADR. They are joined in the committee by the six SGDoRs, who ensure consistent
 implementation of research systems and processes across Groups, and by the Research Office
 Team Leader and Impact Officer (Table 4).




                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 4: Research Governance
                                  Research & Impact
                                  Committee Membership
                                  Chair: Associate Dean
                                  Research: Gatrell
                                                                  School Membership
                                  Research Team Leader            Research Office
                                  Impact Officer

                                  Subject Group Directors of      Subject Groups
                                  Research: Bektas
                                  Belfrage
                                  Cai
                                  De Groot
                                  Raddats
                                  Smith


  Sub-Committees reporting
  to Associate Dean
  Research
  Ethics                          Director Ethics: Brennecke
  Impact Support Group            Director Impact: Garikipati
  Doctoral                        Doctoral Director:
                                  Jayawarna
  Funding                         Funding Director: Florakis
  Reading Programme               Director Peer Review:
                                  Donnelly



 The R&I Committee makes recommendations on resource allocation such as sabbatical leave
 and research budgets. The School research budget is managed by the Research Office with
 oversight of allocations to individuals, Subject Groups and Research Centres/Clusters.


 2.3.1   Investment in an Enabling Research Environment
 As part of the 2016 strategic review, ULMS developed a new workload model that allocates 40%
 of time (up from 30% in 2014) for research and provides ring-fencing for this through more
 generous teaching and leadership/administration allowances. The model also includes workload
 allocation for impact development, and activities such as editorial roles in leading journals.
 These allowances are accompanied by a research leave policy; all staff are eligible for a one
 semester sabbatical every three years. Staff apply through a formal process to the R&I
 Committee to ensure fairness and transparency. Applications need to be based on development
 of world-leading outputs, extension of impact reach and significance and/or funding. Since 2014,
 35 study leave applications have been approved and taken (20 were male and 15 female,
 broadly reflective of the gender balance at School level). Over a third of these have supported
 development of research outputs that have enhanced CVs leading to promotion (for example,


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Belfrage, Florakis, Gu, Jayawarna, Marechal, Papageorgiadis, Radcliffe, Raddats, Rao) or
 enabled individuals to take more senior positions externally (for example, Akbar, Johns, Goyal,
 Moxham). In addition, 16 shorter sabbaticals have been granted for impact (50% female), 10 of
 which have resulted in impact cases submitted to REF2021. Faculty can also organize teaching
 into one semester, where possible.


 All research-active staff have access to a conference/research support scheme of £2,500 p.a.
 Individual research budgets are augmented through an incentive scheme. This rewards
 publications in FT50 (£2,000), other publications considered by the Reading Group as significant
 (£1000) and highly assessed funding applications (with a percentage of funding amount,
 whether successful or not). As described above, impactful work is also funded. There is an
 additional Professorial role allowance of £2,500 p.a. since all professors carry some form of
 leadership role. Others receive a financial role allowance that varies by nature of
 leadership/administrative role (e.g. £1,500 for a Programme Director). This allowance
 encourages individual leadership development, and supports promotion opportunities, since
 demonstration of leadership is important for promotion to Chair and Reader.


 The School operates a pump-priming fund of up to £40,000 a year, managed by the School’s
 Funding Steering Committee, again with a formal application process to ensure transparency
 and fairness. The fund supports ECRs with primary data collection (Section 2.3.2 below), and
 also those with early-stage research showing potential for subsequent funding bids.


 2.3.2   Support for ECRs
 ECRs play a significant role in the life of the School, contributing to its vitality and future. Strong
 emphasis is placed on support (Objectives 1 and 2). New ECRs are placed on 3-year probation
 with clear targets for research and teaching set by their SGH for confirmation in appointment.
 The probationary support includes:
     -   Additional research workload allowances to facilitate their transition from PhD into a
         faculty role: 25% in Year 1 (65% research allowance in total); 12.5% in Year 2 (52.5%
         allowance in total).
     -   Building capacity through targeted funding: Annual research support totalling £5,000 p.a.
         (composed of the £2,500 conference fund, plus an additional £2,500 p.a. usable for
         research related expenses), since role and publication incentive allowances are more
         likely to benefit experienced staff.
     -   Access to publication incentive payments in addition to the £5K.
     -   Early PhD supervision experience where possible (over half of those on probation are
         second supervisors).



                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -      Protection from administration roles.

 Support for ECRs continues post-probation to facilitate promotion to Senior Lecturer. This
 includes on-going mentoring to support research outputs and building external visibility, and
 encouraging additional CV-enhancing activities such as administrative roles to build
 management and leadership experience (for example, Avino: Joint Honours Liaison; Wolf: MBA
 Projects Management). ECRs attend workshops on relevant external funding schemes, for
 example, workshops on ESRC New Investigator awards, and are encouraged to attend other
 School funding related workshops (see 3.1.1 External Funding) and to develop funding
 experience through pump-priming applications to ULMS Funding Committee. Following pump-
 priming, they are encouraged to apply for small grant schemes, such as British
 Academy/Leverhulme and others. Successes include Lam, Cartwright and Pirani (British
 Academy Grants of up to £10,000 each). Lam was subsequently awarded a Leverhulme
 Research Fellowship in 2020.


 All ECRs have access to University and Faculty support schemes, such as the ECR and
 Returners Fund, to support network building and collaboration, and the Faculty ECR Network. All
 early career staff can apply for University seed-corn funding schemes to support emergent
 research projects. Many School ECRs have been awarded funding from these schemes. For
 example, Nilsson £1,100 (2017) and £600 (2018); Lam £2,000 (2017) and £2,000 (2018); Fu
 £1,942; Liu £2,000; Daher £2,000; Zhan £1,980; Geng £2,000.


 2.3.3     Personal Development and Promotion
 The research leadership provided by SGHs and SGDoR prioritises staff development processes.
 These include community building/development activities such as monthly group meetings and
 bi-annual away days with a strong focus on research; an active seminar series with typically bi-
 monthly events, including leading international scholars, journal editors and brown bag lunches
 to support paper development and mentoring and advice on appropriate conferences,
 publication outlets and revise and resubmits. The seminar series and high-profile international
 conferences (for example, Academy of Management, European Group of Organizational Studies
 (EGOS), Strategic Management Society, European Economic Association) are used to facilitate
 international network building, particularly for ECRs. Supported by the research budget and the
 ULMS Marketing team, this Group-based research activity extends to workshops and mini
 conferences, such as those organized by OSCM, including “Social Media in Operations and
 Supply Chain Management” (2019) and “COVID-19 and Modelling in Management Science”
 (2020).




                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Annual Professional Development Review (PDR) discussions and research action plan meetings
 support staff development against clear, role-related promotion criteria. A mentoring scheme
 supporting career planning, and critical choices (conferences, journals, funding, networking,
 editorial boards, etc.) exists for all staff. There are clear University research policy principles with
 an expectation that for promotion to Reader/Chair staff will require world-leading outputs. All
 staff outputs are assessed by the School Reading Panel. Significant research-related impact in
 policy and practice is also recognised.


 To ensure equal opportunities for promotion and principles of equality and diversity, PDRs are
 expected to include an explicit discussion about promotion plans, with encouragement for those
 who are ready to put themselves forward. All promotion cases are discussed in the School’s
 annual Promotions Group Chaired by the Dean and with the SGHs to maximise potential and
 support for promotion. Constructive feedback is provided on how to strengthen applications,
 backed up by mock interviews in preparation for University Promotion Panels.


 Promotion to more senior levels requires experience of administration and leadership beyond
 expectations for outputs and impact. To create opportunities for everyone to develop their CVs in
 this way, the School has job descriptions for all major roles, for example, ADR, Subject Group
 Directors of Research, Directors of Ethics and Impact. All such roles are advertised School-wide
 with an application and interview process to ensure equality of opportunity. Now 39% of the
 research roles, including the ADR, are held by women whereas in 2014 only two women held
 research roles. The School continues to seek a better balance through its Athena SWAN work.


 Development is supported by mechanisms designed to create a collegiate environment and
 celebrate success, such as annual research awards (£1,000 for impact, output and/or funding
 achievements), one for ECRs and a further award for senior staff from each Subject Group.
 Successes, such as large funding awards or best paper prizes, are shared in School
 newsletters.


 Where relevant, the School supports leadership development through external programmes and
 workshops. For example, the BAM/CABS (Chartered Association of Business Schools)
 Development Programme for Research Directors has been attended by ULMS members
 (Zundel), and supported with sessions from ULMS staff (Balogun, Gatrell). Internally, there is a
 University leadership programme attended by all newly appointed SGHs. The HSS Faculty runs
 an annual programme for those in other leadership roles, such as SGDoR. ULMS has
 encouraged women moving into leadership positions to attend this (50% of ULMS attendees to
 date) and other career development programmes designed specifically for women, including



                                                                                                 Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aurora Leadership Development Programme (4 attendees since 2014) and Springboard for
 Women Programme.


 Support from the School’s External Engagement team and its Advisory Board stimulates
 exchanges between faculty and business and public and third sectors. For example, Board
 members from HSBC and Accenture have recently supported leadership practice research
 (Guillaume and Daher). The External Engagement team have sourced companies including
 North West Precision Engineering and Senar Precision Engineering to support ERDF funded
 Collaborate to Innovate research (Lyons), and local Chambers of Commerce to support HR
 practice research (Huadong and Miraglia). The School also hosts open events on contemporary
 organizational and socio-economic issues. This includes conferences such as ‘The Business of
 Equality’ (2018), and ‘Applications of Big Data and Analytics’ (2018: in collaboration with HMRC
 and the Operational Research Society), and regular Business Breakfasts for local business
 leaders, for example: “Productivity and Growth” (2019 Konings: research on regional high
 growth); “Big Data” (2019 McHale: research on analytics). Other engagement is encouraged
 through outlets including the Financial Times and The Conversation (for example, Ellington &
 Costas, see https://theconversation.com/uk/search?q=ellington%2C+costas). Economics offer
 an “Insights” series providing a layperson’s account of Group research findings and contribute to
 policy debate forums including VoxEU. de Groot, for example, has contributed to the ESRC
 funded Economics Observatory on coronavirus and the economy with a piece on negative
 interest rates.


 2.4     PGR Recruitment, Training & Supervision
 ULMS provides an environment for its PGR students that supports the establishment of
 academic careers to the highest standards. It benefits from the University of Liverpool-led North
 West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (NWSSDTP: the ESRC-funded Liverpool,
 Manchester, Lancaster and Keele University consortium) for which Gu is institutional lead and
 Radcliffe Business and Management Pathway lead. PGR recruitment, training and supervision
 are led by the ULMS Doctoral Director and supported by the Doctoral Committee. ULMS has
 140 PhD students, 106 in Liverpool (40 home/EU and 66 overseas), and 34 at its Chinese
 partner institution, XJTLU, who are co-supervised by ULMS faculty. Since 2014 ULMS has
 maintained Liverpool-based PGR numbers, focusing on establishing a PGR environment
 (Objective 5) that supports the recruitment and development of high-quality PGR students, as a
 key component of the School’s research sustainability and vitality. Growth has largely come from
 XJTLU (registration of students from 2016) with these students only recently reaching
 completion and graduation.




                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4.1   Funding
 Funding for PhD students comes primarily from two sources: ULMS Scholarships (Graduate
 Teaching Fellowships: GTFs) and ESRC NWSSDTP studentships. GTFs were introduced in
 2016 for 2017 enrolment to support recruitment of high-quality students. They provide PhD
 students with a 4-year stipend. GTFs offer an apprenticeship route providing training and
 support to develop teaching and assessment skills alongside research competence. Prior to
 2016, there were on average only six sponsored PhD students annually, some only receiving
 partial funding. Since 2017 funding for 10 GTFs a year has been provided, including
 international fees where needed, with funding increasing to support 15 GTFs from September
 2020. These numbers are boosted annually with ESRC-funded studentships from the
 NWSSDTP.


 New PGR recruitment processes have supported quality and EDI aspirations, with quality
 assessed through research proposals and gender-balanced interview panels. 56% of GTFs are
 women, and 69% international. Using this process, ULMS has also won increasing numbers of
 studentships competitively from the NWSSDTP, with 32 overall since 2014, and 18 in the last
 three years. 10 of these NWSSDTP studentships are part of the ‘CASE’ studentship scheme in
 collaboration with partners including, for example, Unilever, Alder Hey Children’s Hospital, the
 South Cheshire GP Alliance and Bank of England.


 All GTFs receive additional funding as part of their stipend to support conference attendance, as
 do NWSSDTP funded students. Additional investment has been made in PGR facilities, with
 individual working space, IT support and dedicated communal areas. There is also a PhD
 conference attendance fund, offered competitively to all (both funded and self-funded) through
 application to ensure equity of allocation.


 All PhD students have been given a blanket extension of 6 months to their registration date in
 response to COVID-19.


 2.4.2   Integration and Supervision
 ULMS treats all PGR students as apprentice academics, irrespective of funding status, with
 Subject Groups forming their disciplinary home. Integration into the ULMS research culture is
 assured through participation in Subject Group meetings, seminar series, workshops, away days
 and social events. PhD students have a voice through the PhD Forum, PGR student
 representation on the Doctoral Committee, and regular meetings with the Doctoral Director.




                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To ensure quality of supervision and support, mandatory supervisor training is provided by the
 Liverpool Doctoral College. Students undertake an annual Development Needs Analysis (DNA),
 and progress is assessed annually via Independent Progress Assessment Panels.


 Research students are encouraged to attain a good work-life balance and can access mental
 health and wellbeing services offered by the University and the School, including the University
 PGR Peer Wellbeing Ambassador Network programme. If a student learning difficulty or
 disability is identified, the Disability Support team ensure reasonable adjustments.


 2.4.3   Research Training and Development
 PGR students are offered an exceptional range of training and developmental opportunities,
 including training in core research methods through modules on the ULMS NWSSDTP Business
 and Management and Economics pathway programmes. Students are then funded to attend
 relevant courses at NWSSDTP institutions (and, in case of need, elsewhere) following the
 identification of training needs in the DNA. They have access to all support and training offered
 by the University’s Liverpool Doctoral College, including any training offered through
 Engage@Liverpool. The new University partnership with the ESRC’s National Centre for
 Research Methods is enhancing training provision for social science methods. Core training
 offered by ULMS includes the Concordat on research integrity, ethics, impact, and EDI.
 Research methods courses are augmented by an academic skills seminar series (‘Academia
 101’), held monthly to discuss topics such as career planning, and application and interview
 insights.


 Methods training is further provided by Northern Advanced Research Training Initiative (NARTI).
 This is a self-funded network of Northern research-led universities of which ULMS is a member
 and which facilitates events (workshops, conferences) to share expertise and training in
 advanced research methods, offering grants to support these activities. ULMS uses NARTI to
 support PGR students in gaining experience of organizing/attending academic conferences.
 ULMS supports PhD students in gaining grants from NARTI and also the Society for the
 Advancement of Management Studies. This has funded two ULMS PGR student-led
 conferences, involving leading international journal editors (Organization Studies, Journal of
 Management Studies) to advise on paper development (£6,000 and £8,000 respectively).


 Development of PhD students is furthered through work on conference papers and outputs with
 their PhD supervisors. Following the creation of the PhD conference funding scheme to support
 international PhD network building, 119 joint student-supervisor conference/workshop papers
 were presented between 2017 and 2019, also at high profile conferences such as the European
 Group for Organizational Studies and Academy of Management. Examples of co-authored

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publications include Boumparis (Journal of International Money and Finance, 2017), Horner
 (Research Policy, 2019) and Xing (European Journal of Operational Research, 2019). ULMS
 also co-funds an annual paper development workshop in collaboration with Hanken (Finland)
 and VU Amsterdam (The Netherlands).


 The emphasis placed on training and development enhances students’ employability. Of those
 whose destination post-PhD is known, 84% have remained in academia, with students taking
 lectureships in leading UK institutions (including Manchester, Nottingham, Royal Holloway,
 Cranfield) and also internationally (including Trinity Dublin, Dublin Institute of Technology,
 Monash, EM Lyon, Peking, King Saud Riyadh).


 2.5       Equality and Diversity
 Equality and Diversity is integral to the ambition and practices of the University and ULMS, and
 intrinsic to ULMS Objectives 1 and 2. In recognition of its EDI practices, the School holds the
 Athena SWAN Silver award. The School follows good practices embedded in the University
 Equality Framework, including recruitment, promotion and flexible working polices, to ensure
 an inclusive environment that embraces individual differences and extends equal opportunities
 to all staff, including:

       -   Development of job advertisements/person specifications to attract a demographically
           diverse range of applicants, and adhering to selection procedures, including the
           ‘Disability Confident’ scheme.

       -   During recruitment, shortlisting of candidates by members of the interview panel who
           have completed the University’s diversity and equality and unconscious bias training.
           This training has to be updated every three years.

       -   Teaching scheduled during core working hours (10-4pm), with access to a carers’ car
           park for staff with caring responsibilities.

       -   Supporting disabled staff through reasonable adjustments, such as lighter teaching loads
           and special equipment.


       -   Promoting the University’s diversity and equality committees, working groups and
           networks during induction and through high profile print and online communications. This
           includes the Female Early Career Researcher Network, PGR and ECR Networks,
           Networks for Disabled, BAME, LGBT staff and Parents and Carers.


       -   Access to breast-feeding and baby-changing facilities.


                                                                                                  Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     -   Participating in the new University RISE (Research in an Inclusive and Sustainable
         Environment) initiative to explore ways of mitigating differential impact of the COVID-19
         pandemic for gender widening inequalities and to address under-representation of BAME
         colleagues.

 Results of these initiatives are seen in the improved gender composition and international
 diversity in the School. As the diversity of the faculty has increased, so has interest in research
 and impact in equality and diversity which is a key research focus of the Organizational and
 Employee Wellbeing Cluster. For example, Poletti-Hughes: glass-ceiling in Latin America; Burn:
 discrimination and protected characteristics; Otaye: diversity management; and Parsons: social
 inequality.


 The School has developed local family-friendly policies and schedules with research events held
 usually during core working hours (10-4pm), to enable attendance by staff with caring
 responsibilities (including PGRs). ULMS draws on its research in parenting and diversity (Gatrell,
 Radcliffe), appointing Radcliffe to the role of ULMS Family-Friendly Adviser, providing guidance
 to all staff and PGR students on family-friendly policies.


 Transition back to work for those returning from leave, including maternity, adoption or carer
 leave, is supported by meetings with colleagues, SGHs and the School’s Family-Friendly
 Adviser. There is a workload allowance for individuals returning from maternity/shared
 parental/paternity leave. Women returners can join the University’s ‘Female Returners Network’
 and apply to the University ECR and Returners fund to pump-prime renewal of their research.
 The School actively promotes these in online communications.


 Opportunities to work part-time are offered, with workload set pro-rata to ensure fair allocation
 and access to the same development opportunities as all others. To date this opportunity has
 been taken up by one male (Professor) and one female (Senior Lecturer). Three other members
 of faculty have part-time positions with ULMS, also holding appointments with other institutions.


 Consistent with the University commitment to DORA (see Ref 5a), the School has a Director of
 Peer Review (Donnelly) who Chairs the ULMS Peer Review Reading Programme for outputs.
 This is governed by the Institution’s 2016 Code of Practice for the Annual Assessment of
 Research. Work accepted for publication is reviewed independently, and in-depth, by two
 subject experts chosen by the relevant Subject Group Head. All SGHs have completed EDI and
 unconscious bias training and consider balance of seniority and gender. In the event of a




                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disparity of opinion between these two reviewers, the output is moderated by a third, additional
 reviewer, selected by the Director of Peer Review.


 A REF Governance Committee (as part of the Institution’s REF Code of Practice) has been
 formed to finalise the selection of outputs for submission, with all individuals involved having
 completed EDI and unconscious bias training. This committee consists of seven female and nine
 male colleagues. The Governance Committee includes an external observer from outside the
 School, at least one representative from the School’s Equality & Diversity Committee, and one
 ECR (as defined by the REF guidelines).




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1    Research Funding
 ULMS’ funding strategy seeks to match funding sources to the nature of research in the School.
 EU Funding has been a focus since much of the School’s research is applied. The Research
 Centres for Supply Chain Research and Entrepreneurship play a key role (Section 1.2.2.2 ).
 Research Clusters are at an earlier stage of development and are working on streams of
 research for future funding support. ECRs (29% of those submitted) are encouraged to obtain
 experience and capacity building through applications to small grant schemes, such as those
 offered by the British Academy. More senior individuals are encouraged to apply for fellowships
 (for example, Leverhulme) to support capacity building. They are supported by the School’s
 Director of Funding and the Funding Steering Committee, which identifies funding opportunities
 for individuals and provides peer review of funding proposals. The School funds Research
 Assistants to support ambitious grant writing activity. Investment was enabled by a £500,000
 award to the School for a Brett Chair in Management held by the Dean of the School. ULMS has
 benefited from external funding (particularly EU projects) and significant internal University
 funding since 2014.


 3.1.1 External Funding
 Funding support is targeted at increasing the number of external funding applications and our
 overall success rate. In the previous REF period 125 applications resulted in 48 awards, totalling
 £2.8M. In the current REF period, 259 applications have been made, with a total funder
 contribution of £40.475M. 78 have been awarded, with a total funder contribution of £14.925M
 (£2,393,569 income to ULMS). Members of the School have continued to secure funding from
 the EU; UK Research Councils (predominantly ESRC, AHRC and Innovate UK); and charities
 such as the British Academy and Leverhulme Trust. Experienced faculty are supported to submit
 large grants, for example, to AHRC (Meehan), Innovate UK (Bektas), ESRC (Radcliffe), and to


                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contribute to cross-Faculty large grant applications (Garikipati, Nuffield Foundation; Li, Royal
 Society; Lyons, BBSRC).


 EU funding has been a focus for the School’s applied research. Successes in this period include
 two major European Horizon 2020 projects led by the Centre for Supply Chain Research (€1.3M
 RUCAPS, €1M GOLF), their two EC Interreg projects (total of just over £300,000 in funding) and
 continuing ERDF funding (£1.8M) for the Centre for Entrepreneurship. The School strategy for
 managing a drop in such funding opportunities following Brexit has been to develop global
 collaborations through applications to the Newton Fund via BEIS (Song, China; Kumar, Vietnam,
 Brazil, Thailand), to international funders (Garikipati, Korea Rural Community Corporation), and
 international exchange schemes (Song, Royal Society; Hunter-Jones, Leverhulme). In the face
 of Brexit-related uncertainty over future participation, the School has been involved in a number
 of awards involving international partnerships (total income of £2,204,954 to the University) that
 provide the basis for future collaborative applications, including in Europe post-Brexit. Other
 successes include Leverhulme fellowships (Gatrell 2018-19, Lam commencing 2021).



 ULMS faculty are involved as co-investigators in large-scale University projects amounting to
 almost £13M in this REF period. These include Haycox’s involvement in health economics
 research funded by Cancer Research UK and NIHR (£2.5M to the University), the contribution of
 Ellwood, Giordano, and Jones as co-investigators to the £10M Leverhulme-funded Centre for
 Functional Materials Design, the contribution of Lyons and Hernandez to an EC grant with
 Geography and Planning (£214K), and the contribution of Gu to an ESRC grant with Geography
 (£276,000). More recently Lyons and Narayanamurthy have contributed as co-investigators to a
 NERC funded project on packaging with Chemistry (£740K).


 There are regular development activities for funding, including seminars to raise awareness of
 schemes; grant writing workshops to build capacity; writing retreats to support application
 development; and peer review of applications. The ULMS “Write-It Programme” offers focused
 support for less experienced faculty in developing bids.


 Through such support, and in line with our commitment to equality of opportunity, we have
 dramatically closed the gender gap in terms of funding applications to external schemes,
 achieving 50% male/female investigators on externally funded projects in 2018/19. The
 proportion of female principal investigators has remained above 20% of applicants in each
 academic year and we seek to increase this to closer to 50% in each year.




                                                                                               Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University’s Consultancy team supports members of staff to engage in research-led
 consultancy. Work totalling over £367,800 has been contracted to the School’s staff in this REF
 period.

 3.1.2 Internal Funding
 Investment in building a sustainable and vibrant research culture at ULMS has been significant,
 amounting since 2014 to more than £34M, with an additional £14.44M spent on buildings (Table
 5).



 Table 5: ULMS Research Investment 2014 - 2020
  Research workload allocation: 30% 2014 – 2016; 40% 2016       £25,030,671
  to date
  Sabbatical leave awarded                                      £1,311,392
  Research Activity Support (conference funds, role-related     £4,207,104
  research allowances, incentives, etc.)
  Internal impact awards (including incentive)                  £222,633
  Journal Open Access awards                                    £22,736
  Research seed-corn, pump-priming and funding incentives       £310,800
  (school and faculty)
  Databases/servers/specialist software                         £2,427,870
  PGR studentships, facilities and support                      £3,145,506
  New buildings                                                 £14,440,000




 The University offers seed-corn and pump-priming schemes such as the Overseas Development
 Assistance (ODA) seed-corn fund and the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF), through
 which numerous staff members have been awarded funding, exceeding £100,000 since 2014.
 For example, ISCF: Karimi: with Computing and Linguistics for Unilever on Online Data
 (£19,000); ODA: Ellwood: food security, Mozambique (£8,840) and Narayananmurthy: Satellite
 Big Data Analytics for disaster relief, India (£9,550); Knowledge Exchange: Pinnington: Modern
 Slavery Crown Commercial Service (£9,685) and Southern: Social Enterprise Networks
 (£6,000). The University has also offered small grants to support COVID-19 research with
 £64,000 allocated to members of ULMS in 2020. Projects include, for example, Giordano,
 Blackburn and Southern (£12,000: Impact of COVID-19 on small business in the LCR),
 Hernandez (£9,900: Pandemic Resilience in South America Livestock Production Systems),
 Meehan and Pinnington with Boyle (Heseltine Institute) (£25,000: Developing learning and
 resources to strengthen the resilience of the LCR economy).



                                                                                            Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.2     Infrastructure and Facilities
 Excellent staff have to be supported by an excellent research infrastructure and environment. All
 research activity (funding bids, award management, knowledge exchange and impact,
 consultancy) is supported by the University RPI Directorate which also manages access to seed-
 corn funds linked to the ISCF and ODA research and manages allocation of COVID-19 research
 funding. The HSS Faculty Research Office offers advice, bid development support and peer review,
 and the University Research Support Office offers costing support, contract management and post-
 award administration. The University also offers support schemes, such as the ECR and
 Returners Fund that ULMS has benefited from (see 2.5 above).


 ULMS itself has invested significantly in research infrastructure and facilities, with the
 development of the Subject Groups and enhanced space through new buildings and PGR
 facilities, but also investment in a School-specific server to support the big data processing
 requirements of Economics and Finance, and significant investment in infrastructure through
 databases (recent additions include Refinitiv Tick History & Eikon, Board Ex, Orbis and Zephyr,
 which complement an existing comprehensive subscription to WRDS-based databases including
 CRSP, Compustat, Factset, CSMAR, OptionMetrics, DealScan, Audit Analytics, TRACE.


 The School’s dedicated Research Support team supports the ADR. It has been strengthened
 since REF2014 (doubled from 4 members to 8), enabling recruitment of an Impact Officer and a
 Senior Grant Writer to support funding applications. This team (1) maintains research
 information systems; (2) services research committees; (3) administers all research support and
 incentive schemes; (4) supports impact; (5) organizes events including writing retreats,
 workshops and mini conferences (with ULMS Marketing team); and (6) supports external funding
 activity.




 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society


 Making wider contributions to the economy and society regionally, nationally and globally is
 fundamental to the School’s research and impact strategy (Objective 3), and the University’s
 investment in addressing societal challenges and delivering public benefit.


 4.1     Engagement with Key Research Users and Beneficiaries to deliver Impact
 Our impactful research extends beyond the specific cases submitted for REF2021. With 46
 impactful research projects developed between 2014 and 2020, ULMS demonstrates a powerful
 contribution to policy and practice. Among the submitted impact case studies, Belfrage and


                                                                                              Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nilsson have convinced central bankers in Brazil of the virtue of a regional and trade-oriented
 form of currency internationalisation capable of supporting sustainable development. Forrest and
 McHale have changed UK policy and regulation on gambling to protect problem gamblers.
 Hunter-Jones, Sudbury-Riley and Al-Abdin have helped develop new practices to improve end-
 of-life care. Meehan has worked with social housing organizations to change national public
 procurement in social housing and healthcare. Table 6 lists further examples of current impactful
 research recognised by the School Impact Steering Group, in addition to the submitted case
 studies. Much of ULMS impactful research (for example, Radcliffe and Gatrell, de Groot, Munoz)
 involves collaborative projects, enabling partnerships to enrich the research of the School.


 Table 6: Impactful Research Projects
  Partner(s)                                     Area of Impact
  WOMBA (Work, Me and the Baby), Working         Changing organizational attitudes regarding
  Mums (the #1 job and community site for        gender and family-friendly working
  working mums in the UK), and Business in       (Radcliffe, Gatrell)
  the Community
  Liverpool City Region Combined Authority       Advancing social enterprise in a
                                                 metropolitan city region (Southern)
  European Central Bank                          Monetary policy simulator for advising
                                                 Central Bank policymakers (de Groot)
  Mexican Business Council                       Gender diversity on boards of directors in
                                                 Mexico (Polletti-Hughes)
  Chilean Development and Production             Fostering entrepreneurship in rural Chile
  Agency                                         (Munoz)
  The Crown Commercial Service, The              Government policy and modern slavery
  Cabinet Office, The Home Office                (Meehan, Pinnington)
  The Liverpool Combined Authority               Place-based approach to modern slavery:
                                                 regional policy and the Modern Slavery Act
                                                 (Meehan, Kennedy)
  UK Ministry for Housing, Communities and       Policy on developer contributions (Gu)
  Local Government, the Land Economics
  Foundation, Scottish Land Commission,
  Shelter Scotland and the Greater London
  Authority
  Satsure (https://www.satsure.co)               Big Data Analytics platforms for: timely
                                                 logistical planning and execution in disaster
                                                 relief (80 evacuation rescue missions 2018
                                                 Kerala floods); agri-insurers to conduct
                                                 assessment of crop acreage and yield for
                                                 calculating indemnity payments (Northern
                                                 India); institutional investors to conduct
                                                 initial assessment of potential sites for solar
                                                 photovoltaic projects (Narayanamurthy)




 4.1.1 Wider Contributions to Economy and Society
 International collaborations confer economic and societal benefits overseas. Beyond the
 benefits from international partnerships in the School’s impactful research in the submitted case

                                                                                              Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studies and above in Table 6 (for example, de Groot, Munoz, Narayanamurthy), examples
 include the Horizon2020 project led by Li. This brings together researchers across disciplines
 (economics, management, science and engineering) to address global food security challenges
 through innovation in agri-food supply chain management, and involves key international
 research alliances and industrial partners from countries such as France, Spain, Portugal and
 China, including Dalian Maritime, Hong Kong Polytechnic, Michigan State, Tianjin, Valencia and
 Zhejiang universities. Hernandez (£150,800) is leading a project with international partners from
 seven countries across Europe and South America, exploring how to manage the high risk,
 uncertain conditions faced by agricultural production systems. Meehan (2017-2021) collaborated
 with University of Windsor, Ontario on a CAD$1.6M project funded by the Government of
 Canada on enhancements to patient value and health system sustainability. Venugopal has
 engaged with organizations in India, including Samagra Empowerment Foundation, Genrobotic
 Systems, Basix Municipal Waste Management, and LooTel, to understand how they improve
 sanitation conditions across nine Indian states. Ellwood has supported transformation of
 management practices in food security and poverty alleviation in Mozambique, working with the
 Baixo-Limpopo Irrigation Scheme. Poletti-Hughes (2020) has worked with business women and
 the Mexican Chamber of Deputies to endorse a Government White Paper that guarantees
 gender parity on Boards of Directors within six years. With colleagues from Princeton University
 and the New York Fed, Konings developed path-breaking work on exchange rate pass-through
 using granular data on prices and exports. He also collaborates with the National Bank of
 Belgium and the European Central Bank. Murakozy collaborates with the World Bank and the
 European Commission. Sofka is the lead author of the annual Research and Innovation
 Observatory Country Report of Germany for the European Commission’s Joint Research Centre
 between 2014 and 2018.


 National collaborations stimulate exchanges between faculty and industry and the public and
 third sectors. Beyond the impact case studies and Table 6, there are the following examples.
 Meehan and Pinnington are working with the Home Office, the Cabinet Office and Crown
 Commercial Services to prevent modern slavery within businesses and supply chains.
 Collaborators include NGOs such as the Ethical Trading Initiative. Meehan also sits on the
 reference group for Metro Mayor Steve Rotheram’s ‘Liverpool City Region’s Fair Employment
 Charter’. Lyons has engaged in a systematic analysis of procurement in the defence sector,
 leading to a project developing new procurement techniques with the Ministry of Defence. de
 Groot works, through ESRC funding, with the Bank of England on low interest rate
 environments. Radcliffe and Gatrell have collaborated with Zurich Insurance (4,500 UK
 employees) and Nationwide (18,000 employees) to enhance their family-friendly policies.




                                                                                             Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ULMS is also committed to policy-relevant research which benefits the regional economy and
 society. In addition to the regional impact demonstrated by the ERDF-funded Growth Catalyst
 programme (Centre for Entrepreneurship), Lyons has improved regional industrial performance
 in manufacturing operations and supply chain systems in over 100 SMEs throughout the North
 West, approximately 10% of such SMEs. Southern’s research collaboration with the LCR has
 brought national organizations, including Big Society Capital, Power to Change and Social
 Investment Business, together with the LCR Combined Authority to create new ways of bringing
 finance to social enterprise, and supported the Metro Mayor in launching the city region’s first
 social investment fund (Kindred). As a result of its work with SMEs in the region, ULMS is a
 holder of the Small Business Charter award. ULMS has been actively engaged in COVID-19
 related activity in the LCR, with policy briefs for the Heseltine Institute (Meehan, Southern) and
 LCR-related University COVID-19 funded projects (see Internal Funding above, for example,
 Giordano et al. and Meehan et al.)


 4.2 Research Collaborations, Partnerships and Contributions to the Discipline
 Involvement within a globally connected research community is core to ULMS’ sustainable and
 vibrant research culture and is supported for colleagues at all levels through School research
 funding to form proactive international research networks.


 4.2.1 Collaborations and Partnerships
 Staff are involved in a wide range of partnerships with collaborators from other institutions,
 nationally and internationally. Key examples are the international partnerships (involving other
 academics and industry) built around the H2020 projects in the Centre for Supply Chain
 Research, and key institutionally-based research-partnerships held by members of the
 Economics Group, listed above. There are many others. For example, Brennecke is an
 Associate Member of MelNet, the Melbourne-based consortium of universities expert in social
 network analysis (http://www.melnet.org.au/people); Karimi works on various projects on
 consumer behaviour and digital platforms internationally, including universities in Spain, Canada,
 Taiwan and Lebanon. Daher works with American University of Beirut (Lebanon) on Knowledge
 is Power. Munoz collaborates on sustainable development in Chile with Universidad del
 Desarrollo (Chilean Economic Development Agency). Miraglia is Co-PI on the REaL-PAL
 (Relationships, Exchanges and Leadership: Implications for Performance Appraisal and
 Learning) project funded by the Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology (€240,000).


 ULMS engages in a wide range of international partnerships (57 staff hold or have held 140
 international honorary positions). The outcomes of joint projects are a key indicator of the
 success of these partnerships. Since 2014, 58% of outputs eligible for the School reading


                                                                                                Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programme for potential consideration for REF2021 have been published with international co-
 authors and there have also been collaborations on 37 special issues. Examples include Lam
 and Lyons, International Journal of Operations & Production Management with Cheng and
 Yeung, Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Marechal, Organization Studies, with Linstead (York)
 and Griffin (Texas A&M); Bektas, Computers and Operations Research with Gilbert (Montreal)
 and Vigo (Bologna); Florakis, Corporate Governance: An International Review, with Aguilera and
 Kim (Korea University); and Zundel, Academy of Management Learning and Education with Holt
 (Copenhagen Business School), Contu (Massachusetts) and Vince (Bath).


 4.2.2 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 ULMS makes many significant contributions to the sustainability of the Management discipline
 through our community citizenship (see section 4.2.3) and by responding to contemporary
 problems identified as national and international priorities. Our contribution to the latter includes
 applied research on key issues such as sustainability, health and social justice through funded
 projects dealing with, for example, sustainable supply chains and agriculture. In its impact work,
 ULMS demonstrates how Management Studies contributes to global and national priorities via
 projects on modern slavery, parenting and work, livelihoods of rural women and social
 entrepreneurship. Engagement also includes equine and human welfare via the Horseracing
 Industry Conferences, organised by ULMS (2018, 2020). Interdisciplinary research in ULMS’
 Centres and Clusters reaches out across the University to Health, Engineering and Humanities.
 ULMS has addressed national and international priorities through being proactive in University
 funded COVID-19 related activity in the LCR. ULMS has also won external funding for applied
 COVID-19 research. For example, British Academy Small Grants: Pappas: Earnings
 management in the times of COVID-19 (£9,993); Zhan: COVID-19 Social Media Infodemic in the
 Pharmacy Industry (£9,012).


 4.2.3 National and International Community Citizenship
 Staff are committed to supporting the work of learned societies including the Academy of
 Management (AoM); BAM, CABS and REF2021.


 Many staff members hold positions within the divisions and interest groups of AoM. Otaye is a
 member of the Executive Committee, Gender and Diversity Division. Wolf is treasurer of the
 Strategizing, Activities and Practice Interest Group and Balogun a member of its Advisory Board.
 Suddaby served on the History Division executive and also as PDW Chair. Marachel is a
 member of the Critical Management Studies Division Ethics and Inclusion Committee. Li is a
 member of the Outreach Committee and Yang a member of the Best Dissertation Committee.




                                                                                               Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within BAM, Gatrell was a Council member (2013-2019), Lyubovnikova is Co-Chair of the
 Organizational Psychology Interest Group, Jayawarna Chair of the Entrepreneurship Group, and
 Papageorgiadis Treasurer of the International Business Group. In addition to these, Gatrell is
 Chair of CABS Research Committee. Blackburn is Chair of the REF Sub-panel Business and
 Management, and Balogun a member. Balogun and McNulty are Trustees of Society for
 Advanced Management Studies, and Blackburn a Trustee and the Treasurer.


 In recognition of their collaborative contributions to the research base the following colleagues
 have been awarded prestigious Fellowships. Balogun and Gatrell are Fellows of the British
 Academy of Management, and Suddaby of Academy of Management. Balogun, Blackburn and
 Gatrell are Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences (AcSS). Konings is Fellow of the Belgian
 Academy of Sciences and Art. Poletti-Hughes is Fellow of the National Research Institute of
 Mexico.


 Examples of involvement in research councils include: Miraglia, reviewer for Social Sciences
 and Humanities Research Council of Canada; Guillaume, reviewer for Research Foundation
 Flanders Belgium, as well as ESRC Peer Review College; Milos, Leverhulme Trust project
 evaluator and ESRC project evaluator; Stamatogiannis, member UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowships Peer Review College and reviewer for British Council-Newton Fund Researcher
 Links. Academic community leadership has been particularly strong regionally through the
 collaborative enterprise of NARTI. Gatrell Chaired NARTI (2012-2018), with Radcliffe and
 Jayawarna members of the NARTI board.


 Staff also sit on various boards and committees. For example, Balogun: Advisory Board of
 Liverpool Health Partners; Cai: Liverpool LEP Professional & Business Services Board; Hunter-
 Jones: Council of Governors Alder Hey Children’s Hospital; Konings: the Committee for Social
 Economy, and Steering Group Research Policy Center Regional Economy and
 Entrepreneurship (both Flemish Government); Maitland: St George’s Hall, Liverpool.


 4.2.4 Building the International Community
 ULMS staff serve on the board of 101 refereed journals and hold (or have held) board roles at
 leading journals including Academy of Management Journal, Academy of Management Review,
 Strategic Management Journal, Journal of International Business, Journal of Management
 Studies, Organization Studies, Journal of Business Venturing, Journal of Organizational
 Psychology, Journal of Operations Management, International Journal of Operations &
 Production Management and Human Relations. Jones and Gatrell were Co-Editors in Chief of
 International Journal of Management Reviews. Gatrell was previously Associate Editor and is
 now General Editor of Journal of Management Studies. Blackburn is Editor in Chief of the

                                                                                             Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Small Business Journal, and also the Editor of the Routledge book series in
 Entrepreneurship and Small Business. Parsons is joint Editor in Chief of Marketing Theory and
 Florakis of Corporate Governance. Donnelly is Associate Editor of Work, Employment and
 Society. Zundel has been senior Associate Editor of Organization Studies since 2014.
 Cornelissen is Editor of the new journal, Organization Theory. Woods is Associate Editor of
 Journal of Organizational and Occupational Psychology.


 ULMS staff are actively involved in international conference organization. Those listed above as
 holding elected positions at AoM and BAM, for example, carry significant responsibility for
 annual conference programme organization. For example, as Treasurer of the Academy of
 Management Strategizing, Activities and Practice Interest Group, Wolf supports organization of
 the annual conference Interest Group arrangements, including sponsorship and events. In their
 roles at BAM, Lyubovnikova and Jayawarna chair conference tracks. Involvement is also
 significant at EGOS. Brennecke is convenor of the standing working group on “Multilevel
 Network Research”, Marachel is co-convenor of the Pre-Colloquium Postdoctoral and Junior
 Faculty Workshop since 2016, and Balogun is on the Advisory Board for the Strategizing,
 Activities and Practices Research Community Platform.


 ULMS staff regularly organize or are part of panels, workshops and symposia at conferences. At
 the Academy of Management 2019 conference, for example, members of ULMS were involved
 in 17 professional development workshops and symposia. Staff regularly contribute keynote
 speeches at conferences relevant to their expertise. For example, OSCM faculty contribute
 keynotes to conferences in logistics (for example, Bektas: 2015: EURO Working Group on
 Vehicle Routing and Logistics, Vienna; Song: 2018 Conference of International Joint Research
 on Innovative Container Supply Chains, Ningbo); Sports Business Centre members deliver
 keynote speeches on sports-related issues (for example, Forrest: 2016: New Horizons
 responsible gambling conference, Vancouver; McHale: 2019: International Symposium on
 Forecasting, Greece); individuals from the Centre for Entrepreneurship give keynotes on aspects
 of entrepreneurship (for example, Blackburn: 2019: Plenary to the 11th Congress of the
 Academy of Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Montpellier). Others are invited to contribute
 keynotes based on their impact (for example, Papageorgiadis: 2017: PATLIB17 conference,
 European Patent Office, Munich; 2018: IP Law Europe Summit, Montreux, Switzerland; and
 Garikipati: 2019: European Research Conference on Microfinance, University of Paris).


 ULMS has run 16 conferences since 2014, focusing on specialist conferences that match
 research expertise. These include: European Sports Economics Association 10th Anniversary
 Conference (2018: McHale and Forrest), the Centre for Port and Maritime History Annual
 Conference (2015: Song), the Forecasting Financial Markets 24th International Conference


                                                                                               Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2017: Laws), the Organizational Learning Knowledge and Capabilities Conference (2018:
 Jones); the annual academic conference of the Institute for Quantitative Investment Research
 (INQUIRE: 2019: Florakis), and the 10th International Conference on Systematic Innovation &
 the 9th Global Competition on Systematic Innovation (2019: Lam).




                                                                                         Page 37
