Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University

 Unit of Assessment: Unit 27: English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure

 Our UoA 27 submission comprises 17 (16.2 FTE) researchers working across English Literature,
 Creative Writing and Publishing, and English Language and Linguistics at Anglia Ruskin
 University (ARU), drawn from two Schools (the School of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS)
 and the Cambridge School of Creative Industries (CSCI)), both of which are housed in the
 Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (AHSS). Colleagues’ specialisms range across
 historical periods (early modern to contemporary), genres, forms, and languages, using a range
 of methods, including: archival research; creative practitioner research; participatory action
 research; eye tracking; elicitation, and large-scale surveys. The Unit’s research profile is
 therefore diverse, with enhanced strengths in scholarly editing, children’s literature, the ‘long’
 nineteenth century, science fiction and fantasy, morphosyntax, sociolinguistics and intercultural
 communication. Individual scholarly practice is enriched by the collective enterprise emerging
 from four interdisciplinary research clusters, which have developed out of our established and
 emerging strengths:

    •   Centre for Science Fiction and Fantasy
    •   Nineteenth Century Unit
    •   New Routes, Old Roots: Art, Migration & Exile
    •   Anglia Ruskin Research Centre for Intercultural and Multilingual Studies


 Each cluster aligns strategically with two of the priority research areas identified in ARU’s
 Research and Innovation Strategy 2018-2022: social inclusion and marginalised
 communities and creative practice and creative industries. Managed by a Director and team
 of Co-directors, each cluster unites Unit colleagues with postgraduate researchers (PGRs), ARU
 researchers from other disciplines, including History, Sociology, History of Art, and Education,
 and with colleagues in two University Research Institutes: StoryLab; and the Global
 Sustainability Institute. Each cluster is also supported by external academic colleagues, who
 bring networks, editorial and peer-review experience, mentorship, and co-production of funding
 bids. Membership further extends beyond the academy to writers, editors, poets and
 practitioners, who benefit from research knowledge exchange, whilst ensuring critical mass and
 further support for PGRs. All Unit colleagues are members of at least one of the four research
 clusters and several colleagues feature in more than one, enabling a vibrant exchange of
 knowledge, ideas and practices.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 We have successfully achieved our three strategic aims for this period as described at the time
 of REF2014 as follows:

 Aim 1: Grow, and enhance provision for, the doctoral student community.
 Since 2014, we have increased PGR numbers by 109% (33 to 69) through strategic investment
 of QR funding, external funding, and the securing of six institutionally-funded competitive Vice
 Chancellor (VC) PhD Scholarships, launched in 2017/2018, which are awarded to outstanding
 students to undertake excellent, interdisciplinary doctoral projects that strategically engage with
 one or more of the University’s eleven institutional priority research areas. We have also
 invested in external specialist training and mentoring for PGRs at every stage of their degree.
 Consequently, the volume of PhD completions has increased by 147% (15 to 37) during this
 cycle. The Unit’s increased research vitality is further evidenced by the development of PGR-led
 research initiatives, including: LitFuse (2017-present), a PGR-led creative community open to all
 ARU and non-ARU practitioners, and Electric Athenaeum (2018-present), an international
 Science Fiction and Fantasy magazine, which launched at UK EasterCon. See Section 2.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aim 2: Diversify income streams and secure external funding.
 In this REF period, we have engaged actively with the Research and Innovation Development
 Office (RIDO), invested in bid writing support for Research Council and other external funding
 sources, and increased time for writing retreats and internal funding workshops. Consequently,
 our research has secured support (totalling £403,146) from major funders and UK-based
 charities on a competitive basis, including the AHRC, EU Horizon 2020, the Leverhulme Trust,
 the British Academy (BA), and the National Lottery Heritage Fund (NLHF). Several awards have
 been made for collaborative projects with national and international partners within, and beyond,
 the academy, including Baxter’s heritage project on Basque child refugees in 1930s East Anglia
 (NHLF, £54,600, 2019-2020) with Norfolk Schools of Sanctuary, the UK Basque Children
 Association ’37, Refugee Week, Amnesty International, and UNHCR (see Baxter’s Impact Case
 Study). We have also grown and diversified our income streams and have nearly quadrupled our
 funding secured from EU government bodies (£171,659). For the first time we won income of
 £42,248 from ‘EU Other’ on a competitive basis. See Section 3.

 Aim 3: Foster, strengthen and enhance research and impact through high quality
 publications and collaborative projects.
 We have achieved this through two strategic approaches:

 Individual Practice: Unit colleagues produce research of the highest quality according to their
 own academic interests. We have achieved this through a robust system of research mentoring,
 internal and external review of outputs, and strategic investment of QR funding to support writing
 retreats and sabbatical application workshops, and to provide teaching relief for colleagues
 completing publications (see Section 2). Subsequently, we have produced innovative
 monographs, special issue journals, articles and essays, and won externally-funded projects in
 areas as diverse as: feminist literature and queer narratology (Young); the digital short story
 (Dietz); textual editing and the history of the book (Day); early-modern literature and philosophy
 (Gorman); morphology and its interfaces with semantics and prosody (Bell, EU Horizon 2020
 funded Mercator Fellowship, £42,247, 2015-2018); and grammatical relations and extraction
 restrictions (Sheehan, BA, £10,000, 2016-2017).

 Research Clusters: Since 2014, we have strategically invested QR funding to grow four
 interdisciplinary research clusters that allow us to enhance existing research strengths further,
 collaborate across disciplines and beyond the Unit, and enhance our impact and public-
 engagement profile.

 (i) The Centre for Science Fiction and Fantasy (CSFF) is the first UK university-based
 research centre of its kind. Established in 2017, it unites colleagues working in literature,
 linguistics, publishing and creative writing, as well as authors, editors and members of the book
 publishing industry to further enhance and diversify established research strengths in science
 fiction and fantasy (sf/f) scholarship and practice. Baxter has developed her work on J.G. Ballard
 by examining the interplay of science fiction, historiography and sound. Brown, secretary of the
 UK Science Fiction Foundation, has connected two areas of her research expertise to advance
 new work on the intersections of Shakespeare and science fiction. Gorman’s scholarship on
 early modern literature and science (supported by a Folger fellowship, $2,500) brings a new
 dimension to the cluster’s research profile, whilst Angus’s experiments in historical fantasy
 writing raise exigent questions about trans-historical female labour. Research expertise in Young
 Adult fiction has secured two VC PhD Scholarships, which respond to our two priority research
 areas - social inclusion and marginalised communities and creative practice and creative
 industries - both supervised by Giddens and Angus.

 (ii) The Nineteenth Century Unit (NCU) was introduced in 2015 to enhance our reputation for
 research excellence in this area. Ludlow’s interdisciplinary scholarship explores nineteenth-
 century women’s writing in relation to the Bible and theology. Claes’s work on the late-Victorian
 little magazine uncovers connections between eighteenth- and nineteenth-century periodicals
 and their politics of production. Cook’s work on the influence of the major Romantic poets on
 Dickens’s writing and sense of vocation is an important intervention in the field. Gardner,

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 currently on a Leverhulme Fellowship (£54,973, 2020-2022) for a project on literature,
 engineering and culture, has diversified his scholarship on radical politics and marginalised
 communities through new cross-disciplinary research (paediatrics, psychology and physiology)
 into Byron’s experience of child abuse. Concerned largely with children’s literature from 1830-
 1920, and in line with one of our key priority research areas – social inclusion and
 marginalised communities – Giddens’ scholarship and related AHRC-funded research on
 decolonising digital collections (with the Universities of Cambridge and Florida) helps to make
 the cluster an internationally recognised centre for work in the period (AHRC Research Network,
 £13,007, 2019-2020; AHRC Development Grant, £21,097, 2020-2021).

 (iii) New Routes, Old Roots (NROR) was set up in 2016 to advance existing scholarship on
 migration and exile. Baxter has advanced her BA-funded work on surrealist historiography to
 consider wartime and post-war literary discourses of refugee migration and human rights.
 Former colleague Houlden’s work at the intersection of World literature, Caribbean studies, and
 queer theory has furthered NROR’s commitment to produce research with real-world
 applications. Similarly, Rasinger’s study of the linguistic and semiotic landscapes of Banglatown
 sheds new light on constructions of identity in the contexts of migrant communities and cultural
 capital. Day’s scholarship on early-modern travel enhances NROR’s broader concerns with
 globalisation, displacement and migrant histories. In response to the priority research area –
 social inclusion and marginalised communities – NROR has secured two VC PhD
 Scholarships, supervised by Baxter in collaboration with the Global Sustainability and StoryLab
 Research Institutes at ARU, on climate change, refugees and heritage resilience; and migration
 and social inclusion.

 (iv) The former Research Unit for Intercultural and Transcultural Studies (RUITS) was
 transformed into the Anglia Ruskin Research Centre for Intercultural and Multilingual
 Studies (ARRCIMS) in 2016 to connect colleagues working in intercultural communication and
 diverse areas of linguistics such as syntax, semantics, morphology, pragmatics and second
 language acquisition. Its emergence also reflects changes in the research landscape towards an
 increased interest in multilingual studies within intercultural settings. This transformation of
 RUITS into ARRCIMS further reflects a wider change in research focus across the Unit (RUITS
 was returned as part of UoA36 in REF2014 while ARRCIMS has a stronger home in UoA27) and
 has reinvigorated our research activities. Beinhoff’s BA-funded work (£10,000, 2014-2015)
 enhances understanding of speech development and perceptive skills in a second language in
 the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages. Parvaresh’s research into
 aggression in online communication and politeness, and Rasinger’s and Sheehan’s multilingual
 research, advance scholarship on minority languages in the UK and Spain, respectively, and
 make innovative contributions to the fields of intercultural communication, theoretical syntax and
 sociolinguistics. Collectively, and according to the priority research area – social inclusion and
 marginalised communities – their expertise has secured two VC PhD Scholarships on the
 syntax of heritage languages (Sheehan & Rasinger; Sheehan & Parvaresh). Two further PhD
 projects on the teaching of semantic transparency (Bell) and the second language acquisition of
 pragmatics (Bell) are funded by the Government of Saudi Arabia; another on intercultural
 competence (Parvaresh) is fully funded by the Indonesian government. For details of
 collaboration, impact and innovation arising from our research clusters, see Section 4.


 Future strategic aims and goals. We will continue to build a vital and sustainable research and
 impact environment by developing our three on-going strategic aims:

 Research and impact

 1) Further enhance our research reputation by continuing to produce high quality publications.
 We will continue to invest in individual research, non-interdisciplinary collaborative research, and
 interdisciplinary collaborative research within, and beyond, our four research clusters. Four
 major scholarly projects, including two cross-institutional collaborations, on Pierce Egan,
 Thomas Kyd, Ovid, and James Shirley, as well as six monographs on C17th Poetry and

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alchemy, E-Books and Real Books, Amazon Publishing and Literary Media, and Shakespeare
 and Science Fiction, Case and Agreement, and Politeness and Sociopragmatics, are already
 under contract.

 2) Further develop regional, national and international partnerships with heritage and arts
 sectors, schools, third sector organisations, and NGOs through our leadership of the newly
 established cross-Faculty ‘Communities, Heritage and Migration’ research and impact group
 (Baxter leading on Heritage, Rasinger on Migration). This initiative will provide a focus for cross-
 disciplinary research bidding and for developing multi-partner research and impact projects that
 ensure mutual sustainability.

 Funding

 1) Intensify collaborative and interdisciplinary research and impact by building partnerships with
 other national and international HEIs and external partners, so enhancing our research reach
 and reputation, and increasing critical mass for our four research clusters. Supported by RIDO,
 we will do this by increasing the number of larger collaborative bids in order to grow our overall
 funding by at least 50-100%.

 2) In addition to initiatives above, we will further grow and diversify external income streams by
 working with RIDO (post-Brexit) to access available EU funding, such as Horizon Europe, and
 from other sources, including charities, publishers, learned societies, and heritage and arts
 councils; and grow income from consultancy and commercialisation of research.

 PGRs

 1) Enhance our PGR environment by continuing to attract outstanding PhD projects and secure
 PhD funding through partnership development with museums and galleries, external bids for
 projects, and by increasing VC PhD Scholarships awarded to the Unit from six to ten. Thus, we
 intend to have a higher proportion of fully-funded PGRs to ensure research vitality and
 sustainability.

 2) Continue to support and grow PGR employability through a dedicated QR funding stream that
 supports training, development, and other employment related opportunities, and further support
 our PGRs to secure external funding to supplement internal awards for career development.


 Impact Achievement and Enhancement

 As exemplified in our two submitted case studies, our approach to impact is to develop strong
 partnerships with regional, national and international organisations, and to develop and diversify
 impact funding streams.

 We have achieved these aims through co-ordinated Unit, Faculty and University support
 mechanisms. Since 2014, Unit colleagues have benefitted from impact training led by expert
 consultants RAND Europe, REF External Advisors, and the central and Faculty-based Research
 Impact Coordinator and Impact Support Managers. Individual researchers and research clusters
 have also worked closely with the Faculty Partnership Development Manager and Faculty
 Partnerships Officer in RIDO on managing partnerships and interdisciplinary collaborations, and
 devising future impact strategies. Impact is further ensured through institutional support as
 outlined in the Institutional Environment Statement, including use of QR funding. Since 2014,
 more than 35% of allocated QR funds has been used to support knowledge exchange and
 impact activities, far exceeding our 2014 target of ring-fencing 20% of conference and research
 funding for such activities. Consequently, we are developing an impact pipeline underpinned by
 individual and collective research strengths, including second language acquisition, language
 teaching and social marginalisation, and widening participation in sf/f literary communities.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We recognise that achieving impact from research requires strong and collaborative
 engagement with, and investment in, our partners and communities, responding to their strategic
 needs. Accordingly, QR funding has been invested in developing and supporting a range of
 strategic partnerships that extend impact reach through participatory action research. For
 example, since 2017, colleagues in NROR have supported The Common Lot participatory
 theatre company in Norwich with research and impact consultancy, bid-writing expertise, and
 knowledge exchange. This has enabled The Common Lot to secure more than £80,000 from
 diverse income streams, including the NLHF, Arts Council England, and educational charities.
 See Section 4 for details of collaborative projects and impacts enabled by this strategy.

 We are adopting and shaping our future impact strategy as follows:

    •   Continuing to embed public engagement, knowledge exchange and impact in research
        activity at all career stages.
    •   Further enabling and facilitating the achievement of impact through investment in
        resources, staff, and mutual investment with our partner organisations.
    •   Continuing to target QR funds on our existing areas of research and impact strength,
        including in innovative forms of participatory research.
    •   Increasing the number of impact projects, and further diversifying our impact funding
        streams and range of impact partners, ensuring their early engagement from research
        project design through to delivery.


 Interdisciplinarity

 Consistent with the University Research and Innovation Strategy, we recognise that
 interdisciplinary and collaborative research leads to increased creativity and impact opportunities
 that would not occur through single discipline work and equips us to drive innovation in areas of
 global importance. Within the Unit, we implement a full spectrum of interdisciplinary activity,
 including cross-disciplinary, multi-disciplinary, and transdisciplinary approaches and methods to
 research and impact. Examples include Gardner’s Leverhulme project on engineering and
 literature; Gorman’s work on literature and science; Dietz’s research on literature, publishing and
 digital media; and Bell’s linguistic experiments using eye-tracking. Strategic avenues for
 fostering interdisciplinary research are represented by our annual Faculty Research Conference
 and Unit research cluster activities and seminar series. Interdisciplinarity is also at the heart of
 our conference strategy, which is committed to organising one biennial international conference
 and one annual national conference. Where possible, conferences are organised in collaboration
 with University Research Institutes to generate cross-disciplinary research and pathways to
 impact such as, ‘J.G. Ballard and the Sciences’ (CSFF & Veterans and Families Institute for
 Military and Social Research, 2017). See Section 4.


 Open Access

 The Unit actively supports the move towards open access (as per the University Open Access
 Policy). Unit colleagues benefit from University-wide services such as an annual £100,000 Open
 Access Fund for gold open access, and the Anglia Ruskin Online Repository (ARRO) for green
 open access (in line with REF requirements) as well as Figshare, which facilitates the sharing of
 datasets and creative outputs. Three gold open access journal articles have been published by
 Unit colleagues in this REF period, funded by the Open Access Fund with £4,774. Fifty-five
 green open access articles and book chapters have been made available via ARRO, as well as
 all thirty-seven PhD theses completed in the Unit since 2014. Two recent AHRC bids from Unit
 colleagues include plans to share large datasets via Figshare, and previous datasets have been
 shared and accessed (for example Parafita Couto, Sheehan, Blokzijl and Schäfer 2019). Unit
 colleagues also seek other means of making their work available without a paywall. Giddens’
 Christmas Books for Children (CUP, 2020) was available to download for free for two weeks in
 November 2019 upon release; 262 copies were downloaded; Schäfer has published a

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 monograph (3,859 downloads) and Sheehan two edited collections with the new fully open
 access Language Science Press (17,500 & 13,000 chapter downloads). Beyond ARU, we make
 a vital contribution to fully open access journals through peer review and editorial expertise:
 Sheehan is on the editorial board of Glossa (a fully open access linguistics journal funded by
 LingOA and the Open Library of Humanities and a member of the free journal network), and the
 review board for Snippets (a freely accessible online-only publication by Led on line). Rasinger is
 on the editorial board of open access online Asian EFL Journal; Parvaresh is an Associate
 Editor of IPrA Bibliography of Pragmatics Online, an Open Source community product.


 Research Integrity

 Our research is underpinned by the highest standards of rigour and integrity, which are
 implemented through robust training and support mechanisms overseen by RIDO, and the
 Research Ethics and Integrity Manager. All research proposals are subject to a tiered ethical
 approval procedure overseen by ethics committees at School, Faculty and University level.
 These processes are integral to the Unit’s working practices and function as a peer-review
 process for methodology and good practice. They also help to co-ordinate ethics-related issues
 with partner organisations for non-academic collaborations, such as those led by Baxter and
 Giddens, involving participatory action researchers, refugee communities, and school children.
 Unit colleagues and PGRs also have access to JISC Online Surveys (formerly Bristol Online
 Surveys) which complies with data protection regulations and stores all data within the EU.
 Linguistics colleagues have access to five secure laptops for data collection and analysis; they
 are maintained by our Faculty technical support staff and comply with ARU IT security protocols.
 All funding bids are peer reviewed and undergo a central formal risk assessment and full
 economic costing before approval by the Dean for final submission. Anonymous critical peer
 review and feedback further supports us in maintaining research integrity. As well as staff, all
 postgraduate and undergraduate research students are required to undertake compulsory ethics
 training and complete questionnaires on their research which are submitted for clearance to the
 School's research ethics committee. On matters of Intellectual Property, Baxter has been
 supported by the University Commercialisation Officer in RIDO on the production of a toolkit for
 the UK Schools of Sanctuary network (see Baxter’s Impact Case Study).

 2. People

 The Unit incorporates 17 members of staff (16.2 FTEs) made up of four Professors, one Reader,
 three Principal Lecturers, seven Senior Lecturers, one lecturer, and one colleague who is
 Deputy Dean for Research and Innovation.


 Staff Development Strategy

 Time, resources and intellectual investment are essential to a vital and sustainable research
 environment. Unit colleagues are therefore supported by co-ordinated University, Faculty,
 School and Unit-level research development mechanisms. Colleagues at all career stages have
 Personal Research Allowances of £600 p.a. whilst research-active colleagues are allocated at
 least one day of protected research time per week. Strategic support for developing high-quality
 research, including public-engagement activities and pathways to impact, is overseen by the
 Faculty Research and Innovation Committee (FRIC) and implemented by Heads of School and
 Unit research convenors who discuss annually with colleagues their research plans and
 priorities, and identify investment and resources. Our Unit has three research convenors with
 expertise in English literature, language and linguistics, writing and publishing. This is strategic
 and ensures rigour and parity across the REF submission. Our commitment to supporting each
 other in the production of high-quality research is further enabled through: internal anonymous
 peer-review and research mentorships systems; an annual interdisciplinary Faculty Research
 Conference, and cross-disciplinary research seminars that run alongside those facilitated by our
 four research clusters. These include a monthly research seminar series for staff and PGRs,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘open’ brown bag research seminars to support the wider dissemination of ideas and to report on
 best practice, and themed seminars to share subject expertise and promote collaboration.
 The University oversees the criteria for appraisal and the training of appraisers, reflecting
 commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. As outlined
 in the Institutional Environment Statement, colleagues benefit from a robust appraisal structure,
 including the completion of Individual Research Reports that help identify career development
 and strategic actions in relation to research and impact. Staff development is further sustained
 through the ARU Researcher Development Programme which, in line with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework, offers workshops, events and online courses designed and delivered
 by external expert facilitators and internal academic and professional colleagues on matters
 such as research and impact development, and doctoral supervision.

 Pathways to promotion in the Unit are clear and transparent. Colleagues are supported at every
 level by a mentorship scheme whereby senior colleagues assist with career planning and
 promotion applications. A Research Mentoring Scheme for Aspiring Readers and Professors has
 supported two Unit colleagues’ career ambitions (Baxter and Sheehan) in the review period. Our
 commitment to supporting career development has produced a stimulating and supportive
 environment, resulting in high rates of internal promotion. Since 2014, six colleagues have
 successfully applied for promotion from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, two from Senior Lecturer to
 Reader, two from Senior Lecturer to Principal Lecturer, and one from Reader to Professor. This
 clear career progression pipeline has played an essential part in supporting good staff retention
 rates across the review period.


 Unit Staffing and Recruitment Policy

 Research and impact planning plays a key role in shaping our staffing strategy. Accordingly, we
 appointed eight early to mid-career colleagues in the review period to strengthen and diversify
 research in: creative writing and publishing (Angus and Marshall (2016-2019)); early-modern
 literature and science (Gorman); the ‘long’ nineteenth century (Ludlow); travel writing, print
 culture and textual editing (Day); world literatures (Houlden, 2015-2019); syntax and heritage
 languages (Sheehan); and intercultural communication (Parvaresh). One more colleague joined
 us (Claes) on a fixed term contract (2020-2022) to cover Gardner’s Leverhulme fellowship.
 These appointments were also part of a succession plan to enable leadership opportunities
 arising from the retirement of four senior colleagues, three of whom remain active supporters of
 our research environment as Emeritus Professors or Research Fellows: Wymer for CSFF,
 Gowar for NROR, and Purton for the NCU. For example, Ludlow, now Senior Lecturer, was
 mentored and supported by Purton to take on the directorship of NCU.


 Early-Career and Fixed Term Researchers

 We have a strong track record in promoting and investing in ECRs. During the review period,
 Leah Tether and Zoe Jaques, postdoctoral fellows of CoDE (now StoryLab), were promoted to
 senior research fellows and given time to complete monographs before securing permanent
 lectureships at Bristol and Cambridge respectively. In addition to University-wide mentorship and
 research mechanisms for ECRs, our current ECRs are mentored at Unit level by senior
 colleagues on career development, grant capture, and research strategy. Furthermore, they are
 fully integrated into the Unit’s research culture through their involvement in the intellectual and
 operational lives of our four research clusters. Angus was supported by senior colleagues to
 take on the directorship of the CSFF in 2019, whilst Gorman leads the ‘Literature and Science’
 sub-strand of the cluster, and Dietz the ‘Literature and Publishing’ sub-strand. In line with the
 revised ECR Charter (2019), we have extended the period of ECR status from three years to five
 years. This inclusive approach means that Angus (appointed in 2016) is supported as an ECR
 following conferment of a PhD in 2015. During his fixed-term appointment (2020-2022), Claes
 has been mentored by Young on research and career development, resulting in a successful
 FHEA application and a draft book proposal. He has also been supported by Ludlow to co-direct

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the NCU, enabling him to develop skills in research leadership and strategy, and cultivate new
 and existing networks.


 Support for Research and Impact

 In addition to sabbatical bidding support from RIDO, the Unit provides mentorship by a senior
 colleague, and anonymous peer review feedback on all sabbatical applications. Since 2014, this
 support system has enabled Unit colleagues to secure 21 semester-long sabbaticals (c.
 £200,000) awarded on a competitive basis. Beyond enabling the production of high-quality
 research outputs, funding bids, and impact projects, sabbaticals also support colleagues’ career
 development. For example, Dietz, an ECR, was awarded a sabbatical to complete her PhD at
 University College London (2019). Furthermore, sabbaticals have been used to ensure
 sustainability by securing high profile research fellowships (Gardner, Leverhulme, 2020-2022),
 and enabling another of our ECRs (Gorman) to secure promotion and complete her first
 monograph (forthcoming with Boydell and Brewer).

 In line with the University’s overall development strategy ‘Designing Our Future, 2017-2026’,
 workload models are adjusted to enable our most productive researchers to focus on research
 and impact-related activities within and beyond our four clusters. Unit colleagues have been
 further supported by QR funding to provide teaching cover to complete high-quality publications.
 Beyond the support mechanisms for impact detailed in our Impact Strategy (see Section 1), ICS
 authors have received additional financial support from QR funds, along with reduced teaching
 loads, in recognition of the significance of their contribution to research and impact innovation.
 Since 2014, three VC Awards have been awarded to Giddens, Gardner, and Baxter in
 recognition of their excellence in research, doctoral supervision, and impact and innovation.


 Research students

 Our PGR community is integral to the Unit’s research culture: since 2014, numbers have
 increased by 109% (33 to 69) with completions up by 147% (15 to 37). Working across English
 literature, creative writing, publishing, and linguistics, our PGRs enrich the intellectual life of our
 research environment by advancing new scholarship in areas as diverse as: Dickens and
 Algeria; Science as/and Poetry; the Morphosyntax of Heritage Polish; Publishing Innovations in
 the Fourth Revolution; and Societal Pragmatics. Our development and sustainability strategy
 has been achieved through two key means:

 (i) Robust Support and Monitoring Mechanisms: We recognise the importance of securing
 funds to support PGRs. Since 2014, various avenues have been available for PhD funding which
 have helped us to attract and support a diverse range of UK and international students. Building
 on the funding obtained from the AHRC Block Grant Partnerships: Capacity Building Route in
 2011 (Giddens, PI, 2011-2017), which totalled £182,988 and funded a number of PGRs,
 including two PhDs, we have sought other income sources. For example, since their launch in
 2017, we have won six VC PhD Scholarships. These highly competitive institutional awards (12
 awarded per year) provided students with a UKRI equivalent minimum annual stipend. Since
 2014, two students have received £70,623 through the Skinner-Young (external bequest)
 Scholarships: Angus (2012-2014), who secured a full-time position in the Unit on completion;
 and Brunton (2015-2020). Six students have received partial fee waivers through the institutional
 Research Investment Fund (2015-2016). Additionally, QR-funded full fee waivers have
 supported twenty-two students on full and part-time modes of study, and two students have
 received partial fee waivers. We have also supported a student in their writing-up phase to be
 awarded Funds for Women Graduates (£1,000, 2019), a competitive scheme for students at
 British HEIs.

 Since 2014, PGRs have benefitted from a research funding allocation of up to £500 towards
 research expenses, and £100 towards printing. This has enabled PGRs in the Unit to visit

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 archives, collect data and present at external conferences, including Minns who participated in
 the AILA Europe young researchers’ event (2018) in Essen, Germany. Payment for
 administrative support is offered wherever possible to enable part-time and self-funded students
 to benefit from co-organizing conferences and events. PGRs benefit from a dedicated Faculty
 PhD study room with a suite of computers, kitchen, and social space to encourage collegiality
 and knowledge exchange. Further to their specialist supervision, PGRs complete mandatory
 training (appropriate to their research stage) provided via a structured Researcher Development
 Programme and implemented by the ARU Doctoral School. Additional subject-specific research
 and funding advice is provided by senior Unit colleagues with strong track records in research,
 impact and grant capture. Progression is supported through monthly (with 1st supervisors) and
 periodic (whole team) supervisions, and further monitored through an annual review undertaken
 by senior researchers independent of the supervisory team to provide open discussion on
 research progression. This monitoring mechanism facilitates timely completion, as well as
 independent reviews of research studies as ‘rehearsal’ for final viva voce examinations.

 (ii) Promoting and Investing in Research Ambition: As part of our thriving research culture,
 PGRs disseminate their research through a wide range of events, including Annual Faculty and
 University PGR conferences, the Faculty and Research Institutes’ seminar series, and discipline-
 specific seminars and workshops at Unit and research cluster level. We strongly encourage our
 students and research fellows in their research and career ambitions and provide specialist
 training through Unit-facilitated workshops led by internal and external experts. In 2019, for
 instance, Professor Gina Wisker, a visiting research professor at Brighton University, led training
 on writing for publication. Our students are further supported by two Royal Literary Writing
 Fellows, who are professional writers sponsored by the Royal Literary Fund to advise on all
 aspects of writing. The success of this strategy is evident in the fact that several of our students
 have published journal articles and books while studying at ARU. Notable examples include
 Owens, who has two books on Shakespeare on film with Columbia University Press, and
 Benwell who has a novel published with Simon and Schuster. Furthermore, our Publishing
 students are supported to gain knowledge of industry through work placements and mentorships
 with leading publishing houses and presses, including Bloomsbury, Cambridge University Press,
 Burleigh Dodds Science, and ProQuest.

 Our PGRs are active beyond the University, organising and presenting at conferences and
 seminar series, participating in learned societies, and impacting on wider academic and non-
 academic communities through innovation and intervention. For example, Kosinska has
 published a textbook for heritage Polish speakers at Saturday community schools and was an
 invited speaker at the Women in Polonia Leadership panel at Quo Vadis X: Leaders in Action
 Conference in Canada (2019). We further support our PGRs to initiate research collaborations.
 Notable examples include:

 1. LitFuse (2017–present), a PGR-led creative community open to all ARU and non-ARU
 practitioners. Funded by a 3-year University Arts Council Award (£2,650), LitFuse provides a
 supportive and creative environment through seminars, workshops, writing retreats and readings
 with the likes of Daisy Johnson, Booker-nominated author of Fen, and Ali Smith in collaboration
 with Cambridge Literary Festival (2019). LitFuse has also founded and produced two creative
 writing journals, MINT and CRISP, managed and edited by PGRs under Dietz.

 2. Electric Athenaeum, an international Science Fiction and Fantasy magazine publishing short
 fiction, articles, poetry, and interviews, which PGRs run out of CSFF. Issues 1 and 2 were
 funded by ARU’s Global Sustainability Institute’s Education for Sustainability “Be the Change”
 grant, and by an ARU Research and Innovation seed fund (totalling £2,220).

 The vitality of our environment is further evidenced in the awards and prizes secured by our
 PGRs since 2014. Notable examples include: Caroline Ward Vine, winner of the Costa Short
 Story Prize (2019) and the Bath Short Story prize (2019), and Natalya Anderson, winner of the
 Moth Poetry Prize (2017). Penny Hancock, a Royal Literary Fellow at ARU (2019-2020) and
 former MA student who secured her first book deal upon graduation, won the East Anglia Novel

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Year Award for her fourth novel, I Thought I Knew You (2019). Beyond academia,
 publishing and professional writing, our PGRs have developed a range of successful careers,
 including in research and impact development (Harris), and literary events management
 (Crawford).


 Equality and Diversity

 We are dedicated to ARU’s drive to embed respect for equality and diversity within its working
 policies and practices. Unit colleagues regularly take part in specialist training in issues relating
 to disability, mental health, gender, and BAME students and staff. Our University achieved the
 Athena SWAN bronze award in April 2015 (renewed in 2018) and is currently working towards
 achieving Athena SWAN accreditation at Faculty level. Of our 17 submitted colleagues, eleven
 identify as female and six as male; seven colleagues are at the level of Reader and Professor, of
 whom five identify as female. As a result of our University’s commitment to the Athena SWAN
 principles, we have dedicated staff support networks: one of which is the women’s network,
 which offers mentorship for women to address gender-based imbalances in career progression.
 Our Unit comprises staff of six nationalities with 41% being non-British, so encouraging
 inclusivity and enriching our environment through linguistic diversity, international collaborations
 and networks.

 We actively contribute to the ‘Faculty-level BAME Award Gap Working Group’ with
 representation by Giddens. At Unit-level, our research feeds back into our support for equality
 and diversity through our collaborative impact projects. Two examples include: Giddens’ AHRC-
 funded work on decolonising children’s literature with the universities of Cambridge and Florida
 and Baldwin library; and Baxter’s NHLF participatory action research projects, involving
 refugees, asylum seekers and marginalised communities in collaboration with the City of
 Sanctuary and Schools of Sanctuary networks, New Routes Integration Charity (Norwich),
 Refugee Week, Amnesty International, and UNHCR.

 In line with the University’s flexible working policy, which was highly commended in the Working
 Families Special Awards in 2017, Unit research events and meetings are increasingly scheduled
 later in the morning or early afternoon to increase accessibility for those with caring
 responsibilities. Importantly, this has enabled an increasing number of PGRs to contribute to
 such events. In further support of inclusivity in the Unit environment, one Unit colleague has
 benefitted from home working and condensed hours being embedded in their contract. In the
 review period, two colleagues were supported to return to work after extended sick leave
 through phased returns and part-time working hours. We further supported one colleague
 returning from parental leave through KIT (Keep in Touch) Days and the Returner Scheme,
 which provided up to £4,000 for teaching cover and conference attendance. Mechanisms that
 enable staff to support research students with protected characteristics include staff training for
 awareness of disability and special learning needs and digital resources. A Reasonable
 Adjustment Form for PGR students further contributes to our support of students with protected
 characteristics.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 To ensure sustainability, our funding strategy is three-fold: 1) diversify our funding streams; 2)
 support staff at all levels, especially ECRs, to bid for smaller awards to build research and
 funding profiles, and attract HEI and non-HEI collaborators; 3) support senior colleagues to bid
 for larger funding awards.

 We have achieved these aims by successfully utilising University and Faculty support structures
 for generating external research income, enhanced by Unit-led initiatives. For example. Unit
 colleagues have been supported to plan and write funding proposals at Faculty-funded writing
 retreats. All researchers involved in planning and submitting bids have benefitted from the expert
 advice and peer-review available from the Faculty-funded Research and Innovation Funding

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development Manager (RIFDM) in RIDO. Beyond funding development workshops organised
 under the umbrella of the Researcher Development Programme, the Faculty Research and
 Innovation Committee (FRIC) organises workshops on accessing diverse funding sources and
 bid writing at all stages, including peer review and bid evaluation. We have also diversified
 income streams with support of the RIFDM and through services such as Research
 Professional. At Unit level, senior colleagues with established funding profiles provide mentoring
 and subject-specific workshops, using examples of successful bids. We also maintain a funding
 planning document, available to all Unit colleagues and overseen by convenors, that records
 details of all planned bids. This strategy eliminates overlap and internal competition, as well as
 implementing a culture of continuous bidding activity. An anonymous peer review process,
 conducted by colleagues within and beyond the Unit who have a record in grant capture,
 assesses all applications before final submission is given approval.


 Strategy in Action

 Since 2014, we have secured £403,146 in external income from major funders and UK-based
 charities on a competitive basis. We have also grown and diversified our income streams and
 can report a significant increase (nearly quadrupled amount) in secured funding from EU
 government bodies (£171,659) and, for the first time, from other EU sources (£42,248) on a
 competitive basis.

 Our strategy to secure external funding and diversify income streams has enabled us to produce
 high quality research in areas of existing strength, and to drive collaborative international
 research that responds to areas of global importance. Additional notable examples, evidencing
 strands 2 and 3 of our strategy, include two Marie-Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships: (i) Bell (PI)
 and Schäefer (Tübingen University) for a project on default meanings in compounded
 interpretation (£72,249, 2017-2018); (ii) and Giddens (PI) and Deszcz-Tryhubczak (Wroclaw
 University) for a child-led participatory research project on dystopian fiction and environmental
 literary activism (£84,968, 2017-2018). Strands 1 and 2 of our strategy are further evidenced in
 awards made to Brown (British Council, £3,000, 2018-2019) for a Writer in Residence Grant
 (Tashan Mehta) to advance CSFF activities, and to Sheehan (Arts Council England Museums
 and Universities Initiative, £1,000, 2017-2018) for ‘Voices of the Fens’, an exhibition and
 networking project with Peterborough Museum and the National Horseracing Museum.

 Additionally, eleven individual grants, fellowships, and smaller awards for projects not shown on
 HESA data have been secured at all staff levels. These awards total £44,273 and include
 competitive fellowships from the Universities of Harvard and Princeton, as well as UK and US
 library visiting scholarships. These awards have enabled colleagues at all levels to complete
 high-quality publications for REF2021, including Giddens and Ludlow. They have also supported
 Gorman, an ECR, to complete her first monograph and progress a major project on early women
 and alchemical writing for the next REF.


 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Research in our Unit is supported through our university library, which is particularly strong in its
 provision of electronic resources (nearly 300,000 e-books; 54,000 e-journals; and 194
 databases). 25 specialist databases for English Literature, Language and Linguistics further
 support our research, including key resources such as: JSTOR, ProQuest, Arts and Humanities
 Full Text, Zetoc, Gale Literary Sources, Gale Primary Sources, ProQuest British Periodicals,
 Linguistics and Language Behaviour Abstracts, Project MUSE (acquired 2015) and JISC
 Historical texts (acquired 2017). Linguistics studies are further supported by SketchEngine
 corpus software. Specifically, access to JISC Historical Texts, which incorporates both EEBO
 (Early English Books Online) and ECCO (Eighteenth Century Collections Online) has been
 essential to Day’s research on print culture. The OED online has also been vital to Giddens’
 production of major scholarly editions in the review period. All Unit staff have full reader access

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to Cambridge University English Faculty Library, and Cambridge University Library, which – as a
 legal deposit library – offers access to all UK publications and also holds rare books and
 manuscript collections that have been used extensively for Giddens’ Complete Works of James
 Shirley. Through our AHRC collaborations with Homerton College, colleagues and PGRs
 working in children’s literature have access to specialist research resources in the college
 library.

 The Ruskin Gallery, homed within ARU’s Cambridge School of Art, is an internationally-
 recognised exhibition space which incorporates a ground-breaking digital gallery. In the review
 period, it has showcased exhibitions curated by Unit colleagues, including ‘Arriving: Objects and
 Discoveries’ (2019). Funded as part of the international Being Human Festival, this project on
 inter-generational story-telling and refugee migration united NROR and StoryLab colleagues,
 project participants from Chesterton Sixth Form College and the Cambridge Ethnic Community
 Forum, and members of the public.

 Since 2014, the University has made significant investments into new buildings. Newly-built
 facilities on our main Cambridge campus, such as the Science building, opened in 2017, have
 been designed to support conferences across disciplines: our Unit made use of this space for
 both the 2019 ‘Language Creation Conference’ with over 100 participants (Beinhoff), and the
 2019 ‘International Conference on Im-Politeness’ (Parvaresh) with c.120 delegates. Other
 conferences, including the conference of the British Association for Applied Linguistics (Beinhoff
 and Rasinger, 2016, with c. 300 delegates) were held in the long-established ‘Business Centre’
 of the Lord Ashcroft Building; a space which can be flexibly adjusted to accommodate
 conferences. Our University’s IT Support team supports our conferences by providing support
 prior to the event and by assigning dedicated members of IT staff on site for the duration of the
 event.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration has been increasingly important to the Unit’s research and impact strategy during
 the review period. Key mechanisms for encouraging and enabling collaboration are our four
 research clusters through their co-ordinated programmes of activities and developing research
 networks. For ARRCIMS, collaborations include those of Beinhoff, who works with partners in
 Hong Kong on constructed languages, and in Spain on second language speech; and Sheehan,
 who contributes to projects on syntactic variation and change in Portuguese, Spanish and
 Catalan with colleagues in Brazil and France, and with colleagues at Cambridge and Newcastle
 on a European Research Council project (funded 2011-2015) on modelling syntactic variation.
 For NCU, Ludlow works with research partners at Baylor University (Texas) and the Universities
 of Warwick, Exeter, Durham, Lancaster, and St Andrews on the Thecla Project; Gardner works
 on the AHRC-funded ‘Institutions of Literature, 1700-1900 Network’ with the Universities of
 Glasgow and York.

 Through collaboration, our research engages diverse communities and audiences beyond
 academia. For example, CSFF aims to widen participation and expand the sf/f community by
 supporting underrepresented voices, including recognition of ‘fan’ culture as a powerful voice for
 personal and cultural change. Organised by Beinhoff, the ‘Language Creation Conference’
 (2019) was featured by BBC News online for its interrogation of the intellectual and cultural
 significance of constructed languages (such as Tolkien’s Elvish languages), so raising
 awareness of the issues of language development and hegemony beyond academia. Held under
 the auspices of the international Language Creation Society, the conference exemplifies how our
 collaborations enrich the research environment and contribute to the wider research community
 through innovative events addressing issues of diversity and inclusivity.

 NROR has developed a network of regional, national and international partners, including
 Refugee Week, Amnesty International and UNHCR, engaged in the fields of art, refugee
 migration and citizen action. Subsequently, NROR colleagues integrate new forms of research,
 including participatory action research, and innovation activities into the research environment.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 One notable example, in line with the University Research and Innovation Strategy, is
 knowledge exchange activities through which colleagues and PGRs support regional and
 national organisations, such as the UK Schools and City of Sanctuary networks, to drive
 innovation through access to research expertise, funding and facilities. These projects enhance
 cultural understanding and mutual respect, as well as develop understanding of heritage, people
 and place (see Baxter’s Impact Case Study). Further examples of impact not captured in the
 submitted case studies include: Young’s participatory research project on life writing for older
 people with the National Centre for Writing (Norwich); and Baxter’s participatory action research
 with The Common Lot theatre company relating to marginalised communities: ‘All Mouth No
 Trousers’ (2018) and ‘Anglia Square: A Love Story’ (NHLF funded, £51,800 awarded to The
 Common Lot, 2019-2020) have involved over 400 people in their production and in excess of
 5,000 audience members.

 Collaborations beyond our clusters have also led to major scholarly editions that further enhance
 the discipline. Giddens’s editorial AHRC-funded project (funded 2008-2013) on the Complete
 Works of James Shirley with the Universities of Warwick and Durham continues to bear fruit.
 The review period has seen the publication of the first electronic edition in 2017, and the first
 print volume will appear in 2021. Brown’s collaboration with Andrew Taylor of Cambridge
 University on the second volume of Tudor Translations of Ovid for Oxford University Press will
 offer the first scholarly edition of several fascinating early modern texts. Our editorial leadership
 is also committed to collaboration that enhances the work of others and advances the diversity
 and rigour of the discipline. Giddens is lead Editor of a 10-book series for Cambridge University
 Press (2018-2023), Gathering in Publishing and Book Culture: Children’s Books, and member of
 the editorial team for the landmark Cambridge History of Children’s Literature, along with
 colleagues at Cambridge University, Florida and Connecticut. Baxter is Series Editor of
 Contemporary Critical Perspectives, a leading international series on contemporary writing
 (London and New York: Bloomsbury Press) in collaboration with the Universities of Manchester,
 Nottingham, Wolverhampton and Newman. Dietz is Editor of the Digital Literary Culture
 gathering of the Cambridge Elements series on Publishing and Book Culture (Cambridge
 University Press), a cross-disciplinary series uniting national and international academics and
 industry specialists.


 Contribution to the discipline

 All Unit colleagues regularly peer review for leading national and international academic
 presses. We also sit on international editorial boards, including Snippets (Sheehan), Journal of
 Research Design and Statistics in Linguistics and Communication Science (Rasinger), The John
 Clare Journal (Gardner), and Critical Engagements (Baxter), and have edited special editions of
 Textual Practice (Young), Foundation (Brown), Morphology (Bell), and The Elizabeth Gaskell
 Journal (Ludlow). Our editorial work and peer review supports the diversity and rigour of the
 discipline by responding to gaps in research expertise, influencing and advancing the wider
 knowledge base, and enhancing others’ work. It further supports our strategy to extend our
 research reach beyond ARU, whilst enhancing collaborative work within and beyond our four
 research clusters through our exposure to the latest advances in the discipline.

 Our academic expertise is frequently called upon for peer and panel review. Examples include:
 Giddens, Brown, and Day for the AHRC; Gardner and Giddens for the Leverhulme Trust;
 Rasinger and Sheehan for the ESRC; and Bell for the UKRI Future Leaders. Sheehan has also
 reviewed for the French National Research Agency, the German Research Foundation, Polish
 National Science Centre, and the Swiss National Science Foundation. We have externally
 examined over 30 research degrees in the UK and abroad since 2014. Gardner also served as
 academic consultant on the BBC Culture Show on Shelley and the Peterloo Massacre (2014)
 and the BBC’s Portillo’s State Secrets (2015) in relation to the Cato Street Conspiracy.

 We have further contributed to the research base through collaborative arrangements for PGR
 training, including courses in Statistics for the Norwegian National Graduate School in

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Linguistics (2014, Bell), graduate training on comparative syntax at the University of Campinas,
 Brazil (2014), the University of the Basque Country (2016), and MIT (2017, all Sheehan), and an
 Advanced Core Training in Linguistics summer school (London, 2018, Sheehan). Through
 conferences, we have disseminated research to national and international audiences, generated
 publications, enhanced PGR training, and delivered over 60 keynotes and invited lectures at
 universities around the world. Since 2014, the Unit has organised over 20 conferences and
 workshops, including the John Ruskin 200 Year Celebration (2019, Ludlow), led by NCU, which
 included a public lecture on Ruskin, environmentalism and ‘progress’ by Craig Bennett, CEO of
 Friends of the Earth.




                                                                                          Page 14
