Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: City, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: C16 Economics and Econometrics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Our vision is to be the distinctive collegial interdisciplinary Economics department. To achieve this,
 we have created an environment designed to foster world-class research that is rigorous, relevant,
 innovative and influential. We have built on our tradition of engagement with industry practitioners
 and expanded our sphere of influence, forging new collaborations and deepening existing ones.
 We aim to influence the intellectual and strategic agenda of current and future economists as well
 as contribute to the wellbeing of society.
 Current phase: expansion and transformation
 Since REF2014, this Unit of Assessment (UoA), which sits within the School of Arts & Social
 Sciences (SASS) at City, University of London (UoL), has embarked on an exciting phase of
 expansion and transformation: 50% of existing members have been hired in the past five years
 and the head count has risen from 22 to 34 staff members during this REF cycle. In terms of
 Category A submitted staff, there has been an increase from 13.7 to 27.2 full-time equivalents
 (FTEs). The department’s strategy of adopting transformative incentives has strengthened the
 research environment, enhanced its ability to produce high-quality research and enabled greater
 impact.
 With the purpose of encouraging collegiality and providing an infrastructure to specialist areas, the
 department’s scholarly activities have been organised into three main clusters – economic
 theory, applied microeconomics and macro-finance – and two interdisciplinary research
 centres – the City Health Economics Centre (CHEC) and the Centre for Competition and
 Regulatory Policy (CCRP).
 In the economic theory cluster, six new members (in bold) have joined the research groups in
 behavioural and experimental game theory (Galanis, Georganas, Schlegel, Ungureanu) and in
 applied industrial organisation (Banal-Estanol, Celik, Che, Dassiou, Nikandrova, Silva Junior,
 Zauner). The extensive policy work conducted by members of this second group is supported by
 the CCRP.
 In the applied microeconomics cluster, seven new members have been hired. This is primarily to
 reinforce our research in health economics (Jofre-Bonet, Laliotis, Pinchbeck, Serra-Sastre,
 Suziedelyte) – which is backed by the interdisciplinary CHEC, a joint venture between the
 department and City’s School of Health Sciences – but also to complement our research in
 international trade and development (Celik Katreniak, Defever, Jafarey, Mesnard, Riano) and in
 migration (Ben-Gad, Jafarey, Laliotis, Mesnard, Yaman), and to open up a new area of research:
 urban economics (Faggio, Pinchbeck, Yaman).
 In the macro-finance cluster, the groups of macroeconomics (Ben-Gad, Jafarey, Pearlman,
 Pilbeam) and finance (Corsi, Delaney, Iori, Jafarey, Jain) have been reinforced by two new
 members (Defever, Riano) working primarily in international trade but with complementarities in
 fiscal policy and international finance. The department also maintains links with previous members
 who greatly contributed to the development of its research culture and environment, especially
 Dionysius Glycopantis (City Emeritus Professor) and Simon Price (University of Essex).
 Joining the UoL consortium in 2016 was a recognition of the university’s achievements in striving
 to become ‘a leading global university committed to academic excellence’ (as set out in City’s
 Vision and Strategy 2026 (VS2026) and highlighted in REF5a, section 2). It also marked a new
 chapter in City’s history, accelerating alignment of the university’s standards and practices with
 those of the other UoL members and providing a renewed emphasis on research excellence.
 Being part of the UoL has greatly benefited this UoA in terms of hiring talent, branding for
 undergraduate enrolment (which finances growth), branding for postgraduate research student
 (PGR) recruitment and expanding PGR training opportunities.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 This greater emphasis on research has been felt both at the school and the department levels,
 where a series of transformative incentives conducive to higher-quality research have been
 adopted during the current REF cycle. These include the university’s Annual Research Quality
 Monitoring (ARQM) process, which reviews the quality of staff research output against REF criteria
 on a regular basis; a new promotion policy with clearer criteria concerning research excellence as
 a necessary condition for promotion; a more transparent workload model which ensures that staff
 on a research and education contract are able to devote at least 40% of their time to research; a
 generous teaching buy-out policy whereby external research and consultancy income buys
 replacement teaching; availability of pump-priming internal research grants providing initial
 support to promising research initiatives; and a flexible sabbatical leave policy.
 Thanks to these transformative incentives and the department’s rigorous recruitment and
 promotion process, since REF2014 this UoA has made significant progress in at least three
 dimensions: (i) improving its research output and publication record, (ii) strengthening its PhD
 programme and (iii) putting greater emphasis on research income.
 With promotion and recruitment criteria clearly aligned with the highest sector standards, it has
 become the expected norm in the department to publish in world-class high-impact journals, top-
 20 general-interest journals and top-quality specialist-field journals. In our REF2021 output list,
 more than 95% of papers are in journals with ratings of 3 or 4 (according to the Chartered
 Association of Business Schools’ Academic Journal Guide or ABS Guide) whereas the equivalent
 figure in our REF2014 submission was 72%. According to the 2009 paper titled A Journal Ranking
 for the Ambitious Economist, which ranks journals based on their citations in seven top general-
 interest journals, 87% of the papers included in our REF2021 submission were published in the
 top 50 journals in economics, compared to 50% in our REF2014 submission.
 Furthermore, the department has strengthened its PhD programme and adopted incentives to
 raise the quality of PhD candidates’ training and research output. These incentives include:
      (i) The introduction of a taught PhD program in 2014. The program, which is jointly run by
            Birkbeck’s, City’s and Royal Holloway’s economics departments, requires all incoming
            PhD students to complete bespoke modules in macroeconomics, microeconomics and
            econometrics.
      (ii) The formalisation of the upgrade process from the MPhil to the PhD programme. Students
            are now required to complete and present the first chapter of their thesis within the first 18
            months of enrolment.
      (iii) City joining the South East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS) in 2016 (a £9.1m
            Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) doctoral training consortium running from
            October 2017 to September 2027) and the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network in
            2019, with the aim of raising the quality of our PhD programme to match the best practice
            of the other participating institutions.
      (iv) City creating the new Doctoral College in 2019 to improve the student experience,
            progression rates and completion rates across the university (see also REF5a, section 1).
 Thanks to these incentives and the department’s commitment to strengthening its PhD
 programme, since REF2014 we have successfully supervised and awarded 20 doctoral degrees,
 with an average time of submission of 4.06 years. The first destination of our PhD graduates has
 also improved. Recent graduates have gained positions at renowned institutions such as the Bank
 of England, the Bank of Italy, the IMF, HSBC, KPMG, McKinsey & Company, and University
 College London (UCL).
 Additionally, some members of the department have been successful in securing prestigious
 external research grants. In collaboration with the Department of Health Policy at the London
 School of Economics (LSE), Serra-Sastre was awarded two external research grants (the second
 with Faggio) from the Health Foundation and Laliotis received a third. Additionally, Pearlman
 was part of a pan-European university consortium successful in attracting EU funding. The
 department has also attracted smaller research grants through the British Academy/Leverhulme
 and the Centre for Global Development (Iori, Georganas, Mesnard). See further details of these
 grants in section 3.

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In addition, staff members (Celik Katreniak, Che, Delaney, Faggio, Galanis, Laliotis,
 Pinchbeck, Schlegel, Silva Junior) have taken advantage of a SASS pump-priming funding
 scheme (with individual awards of £5,000–10,000) that supports promising research initiatives in
 their transition towards external grant applications. This effort has led to a rise in the number of
 grant applications submitted (out of 29 applications submitted between 2014 and 2019, 16 were
 prepared in the past two years) and Galanis (Principal Investigator) being awarded a £497,700
 ESRC grant at the end of 2020.
 Future phase: consolidation
 Following this period of expansion and introduction of incentives, we expect the next REF cycle to
 be a period of consolidation. We expect to keep growing but at a slower rate. More importantly,
 we expect to reap the rewards of all the changes introduced and improve our performance in terms
 of publication record, PhD completion, external grant capture, hiring talent, visibility and impact.
 Regarding the department's research strategy, our goals are to consolidate our record for
 impactful research on relevant issues, leading to publications in 3 and 4 ranked journals, especially
 the five highest ranked ABS journals, and to recognise our heterogeneous research strengths. To
 this end, the department has already introduced a sharper incentive system: top five ABS rated
 publications receive a double weight in the promotion criteria. There are signs that this strategy is
 bearing fruit, given two recent invitations to revise and resubmit papers to the American Economic
 Review (Celik Katreniak) and the Review of Economic Studies (Galanis). In addition, the
 department is committed to supporting staff who have interests beyond economics; staff have
 published in top journals in management (European Journal of Operational Research,
 Management Science, Operational Research, Research Policy) and health economics (Health
 Policy, The Lancet, PLOS ONE, Social Science & Medicine). During the next cycle, we will
 continue to promote high-quality interdisciplinary research, a goal that is consistent with City’s
 research and impact strategy (see REF5a, section 2).
 Given the size of our current PGR cohort (22 students) and our recent intake of PhD candidates
 (five per year in the past two years), in the coming years the size of our PhD programme should
 catch up with our recent staff increases and we expect to double the number of degrees awarded
 in the next REF cycle. A larger PhD programme will be instrumental in increasing the visibility of
 the department (e.g. through participation in the US and European academic job markets) and in
 fostering the dynamism and richness of its research life (i.e., more and better prepared PhD
 candidates).
 A key strategy to support the growth of the PhD programme is to deepen and extend our network
 of collaborations with academic and non-academic institutions, including industry. We have
 already made progress in this direction. Starting in 2021/22, the Office of Health Economics (OHE)
 will sponsor two part-time student scholarships a year to attend City’s MSc in Health Economics
 or MSc in Economic Evaluation in Healthcare. Directly relevant to our PhD programme, the OHE
 is planning to sponsor two City PhD student scholarships a year in health economics. The chosen
 PhD students would participate in the research activity of the OHE two days a week, while
 concentrating on their academic research in the department for the rest of the time. This
 collaboration, which would build on the existing links between the department’s CHEC and the
 OHE, is likely to become a pillar of the CHEC’s vitality and sustainability in the future.
 To stimulate a culture of external grant capture within the department, the recently introduced
 workload model allocates time to staff members preparing grant applications and rewards them
 generously if successful. We will continue to take advantage of the SASS pump-priming funding
 scheme, which facilitated Galanis’s recent £497,700 ESRC grant award. To improve our success
 rate, a newly created departmental committee consisting of staff members with grant capture
 experience will coordinate the department’s activity on grants and consolidate individual efforts
 into larger grant applications. Members of the committee will receive a workload reduction for their
 time.
 In terms of hiring strategy, adopting a six-year career development plan for newly appointed
 lecturers, with a mid-review at the end of the third year, will further align the department’s practices
 with those of other UoL economics departments. It will also allow us to attract younger talent, set


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 clear research targets to be achieved within researchers’ initial three-year and six-year periods,
 and provide support in terms of both guidance (a mentor) and resources.
 Strategy for impact
 This UoA’s achievement of impact has been the result of a concerted effort: the adoption of a
 system of incentives and mechanisms targeting impact introduced at the institution and school
 levels (see REF5a, section 2); the CHEC and CCRP’s core and public engagement activities; the
 nourishing of interactions and collaborations across academics, policy makers and industry; and
 the support of interdisciplinary research. The three REF2021 impact case studies submitted
 provide a clear representation of this UoA’s impact strategy.
 The impact case study by Jofre-Bonet (ICS1) describes her decisive impact on health care policy
 making in Sierra Leone. One of Jofre-Bonet’s former PhD students (Joseph Kumara) gained a
 high-profile position in the Sierra Leone government and facilitated the introduction of a health
 insurance scheme for that country’s informal sector. As Kumara’s supervisor, Jofre-Bonet was
 instrumental in gathering the Sierra Leone government’s support and in shaping the policy. She
 directly advised the government on the specifics of the implementation between 2016 and 2018.
 In the development of ICS1, Jofre-Bonet received internal funding and further training by SASS-
 engaged impact consultants (see REF5a, section 2).
 The impact case study by Banal-Estanol (ICS2) illustrates how the pathway to impact rests on
 CCRP’s core activities and individual public engagement. Banal-Estanol’s research on the
 functioning of wholesale markets for gas and electricity has shaped Ofgem’s approach to
 evaluating energy markets. This result has been facilitated by a series of CCRP roundtables
 (organised between 2014 and 2018) that focused on the UK gas and electricity markets, inviting
 prominent speakers in the field (see section 4). Impact has also been achieved through Banal-
 Estanol’s growing reputation as a technical expert in energy markets, advising government
 officials and industry practitioners in both developed (the European Commission’s Directorate
 General for Competition, or DG Comp) and developing (in collaboration with the African Forum for
 Utility Regulators, the EU and the World Bank) countries.
 Lastly, the impact case study by Mesnard (ICS3), focused on human smuggling and cannabis
 consumption, has benefited from interactions and collaborations within the department’s research
 group on migration as well as from incentives and mechanisms targeting impact that have been
 set up at the institutional, school and departmental levels. At the onset of her impact activities,
 Mesnard received funding through the SASS Research Impact Development Fund. She then
 received media training and liaised with the SASS Senior Communication Officer, who oversees
 the school’s media activities. She next attended a series of SASS impact-related workshops as
 well as one-to-one sessions led by impact consultants. All this contributed to her work attracting
 media attention: it has commanded 20 citations in nationwide newspapers across eight countries
 (e.g. France24, The Guardian, Le Matin, Le Monde and La Repubblica); citations in international
 online news sites and blogs; and TV and radio appearances in Argentina, France, Italy and Russia.
 Mesnard’s ICS3 has also laid the foundation for the development of further impact activities that
 are likely to enrich the department’s future strategy. In collaboration with City-based sociologist
 Liza Schuster, Jafarey and Mesnard have built an interdisciplinary, stakeholder-led and
 participatory-action-focused research network on development and displacement in South Asia:
 the South Asian Development and Displacement Network (SANDD). During the next REF
 cycle, the department aims to embed the SANDD network into its research structure with the
 creation of a new interdisciplinary Centre on Migration.
 Open research environment
 To support open access to research, the deposit of published articles in a full-text digital repository,
 City Research Online (CRO), has been required since 2012. CRO incorporates both bibliographic
 data and the full text of outputs, which are automatically Google-indexed. In addition, early-stage
 research in the department is made visible to the public via our Discussion Paper series (online).
 Our discussion papers have been indexed within Research Papers in Economics (RePEc) since
 2003, providing a further venue for research dissemination (in the RePEc repository, the
 department is in the top 8% of economic institutions in the world for downloads). The SASS


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research Office provides full support for uploading of texts and copyright checking. All staff have
 an ORCiD. Our future strategy is to prioritise open science activities, capitalising on CRO and the
 university’s Figshare research data repository (see REF5a, section 2).
 Research integrity
 The department upholds the overarching importance of research integrity and the standards
 agreed by the Concordat (see REF5a, section 2). The department’s Research Committee has
 research integrity as a standing item on its agenda, with the Ethics chair (Georganas) being a
 permanent committee member and the Research Integrity Champion (Galanis) attending as
 required.
 Ethics approval is required for all research projects involving human participants and/or identifiable
 data, and approval must be obtained before any research begins. This applies to research
 conducted by both staff and students. Thus, we ensure that our PGR community is aware, via
 induction procedures, handbook guidance and ongoing supervision, that their research must
 conform to prevailing ethical, legal and professional frameworks.
 The introduction of research ethics management software, which streams applications according
 to their risk level, has improved the robustness of the monitoring process. The department deals
 with low-risk applications. A school committee (of which our Ethics chair is a member) deals with
 higher-risk applications. Unsettled or very high-risk cases are discussed by university-level
 research ethics committee(s).
 The department’s Research Integrity Champion is an external member of City’s Engineering
 Research Ethics Committee and a member of City’s Research Integrity Steering Group. The latter
 provides guidance on the implementation of the Concordat at the school and departmental levels.
 2. People
 Staffing strategy
 During the current REF cycle, the department has doubled in size from 13.7 to 27.2 FTEs, with 13
 new members joining in the past five years: one as a reader (Celik), three as senior lecturers
 (Che, Defever, Galanis) and nine as lecturers (Celik Katreniak, Faggio, Laliotis, Nikandrova,
 Pinchbeck, Riano, Schlegel, Silva Junior, Suziedelyte).
 Since 2014, the staffing strategy of the department has focused on hiring researchers with
 promising potential in terms of their ability to (1) implement our impact strategy and increase our
 engagement with industry practitioners and (2) explicitly develop our research expertise across a
 range of sub-fields and disciplines, including by strengthening the two research centres (the CHEC
 and the CCRP).
 A central objective of the department’s strategy throughout this REF period has been to attract
 early- and mid-career scholars with outstanding track records in terms of publications relative to
 their career level, and this is reflected in the fact that 12 out of 13 of the hires were at lecturer or
 senior lecturer level. Moreover, we hired early-career researchers (ECRs) whom we believe will
 strengthen our existing research groups with their expertise on up-to-date research and thinking
 in their respective fields. Five of the new hires joined as ECRs, some of them following successful
 post-doctoral assignments: Laliotis (University of Surrey), Pinchbeck (LSE) and Suziedelyte
 (Monash University).
 Simultaneously, we have set up mechanisms to facilitate the development of a thriving and
 inclusive research environment. To this end, the department ensures that staff with a ‘research
 and education’ role profile can devote at least 40% of their time to research. On average, a full-
 time staff member teaches two modules per year and no staff member, including those on a fixed-
 term and/or teaching contract, teaches more than three modules per year. In addition, the
 department supports ECRs to strengthen their research profile by reducing their teaching,
 administration and dissertation-supervision load in their first two years (typically a reduction of
 50% workload relative to experienced colleagues), with scope for teaching to be concentrated in
 a single term.




                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Staff development
 Since 2014, the staff development strategy of the department has been reshaped in accordance
 with City’s VS2026. VS2026 places a renewed emphasis on staff engagement and City’s newly
 articulated People Strategy aims to create and sustain a positive working environment that inspires
 and provides opportunities for all employees.
 At the departmental level, the career development of all staff is highly valued and is supported and
 monitored in a number of ways.
 Given the relatively small size of this UoA, the annual appraisal process for all staff members is
 conducted by the Head of Department (HoD). This facilitates good communication, equality and
 inclusiveness. Responsibilities are allocated to ensure that colleagues build on their career
 progression by developing leadership and teamwork skills and by actively contributing to the life
 of the department.
 Instrumental to the appraisal process is the university’s ARQM process, whereby the department’s
 Research Committee members review the quality of their colleagues’ research output against REF
 criteria. The exercise additionally fosters a deeper understanding of the research being conducted
 by colleagues within the department, thereby providing a strong basis for exploring synergies and
 complementarities between researchers. This has resulted in a series of research collaborations
 (e.g. Banal-Estanol, Iori and Jofre-Bonet; Ben-Gad and Pearlman; Faggio and Serra-Sastre).
 In addition to one-to-one mentoring for ECRs, the department has developed a peer support
 network in which every staff member is paired with a small number of colleagues with whom they
 share similarities and complementarities in their research interests. Those within the network
 provide colleagues with feedback on working papers and grant applications, and offer general
 advice on research-related matters. Wider mentoring support is also available at the school and
 university level through the Research and Enterprise Hub, which offers a rich series of workshops,
 courses and activities to enhance staff research practice. Delaney, Faggio, Galanis, Georganas,
 Laliotis, Nikandrova, Ungureanu and Zauner attended training workshops on effective writing
 for research grant applications; Galanis attended ESRC mock panel training; Iori and Galanis
 are currently enrolled in a two-year part-time Executive Master’s in Leadership programme under
 the apprenticeship level funding scheme at The Business School (formerly CASS), with expected
 completion in 2021. In addition, Dassiou, Iori and Jofre-Bonet attended leadership training and
 Mesnard attended a management training workshop. Furthermore, Iori and Jofre-Bonet
 participated in a media training session, and Faggio attended a social media masterclass.
 We have implemented a new promotion policy with clearer criteria governing research
 excellence as a necessary condition for promotion. Research performance (particularly publication
 in top peer-reviewed journals, and submission and acquisition of external research income) and
 the supervision of PhD students are now explicit conditions for promotion at all levels. Consistent
 with City’s commitment to excellent research that is closely related to commercialisation and
 knowledge exchange (see REF5a, section 1), both research excellence and impact achievements
 are key criteria for promotion to a readership or a chair. Since the policy’s inception, Delaney,
 Faggio, Schlegel, Serra-Sastre, Silva Junior, Suziedelyte and Yaman have been promoted to
 senior lecturer; Defever and Galanis to reader; and Banal-Estanol to professor.
 We have established a more transparent workload model underpinned by the principles of
 equality and inclusiveness. Full-time research-active staff are supported through reduced teaching
 loads (as previously discussed). The workload model also allows for supervision of PhD students,
 preparation of large grant proposals, development of impact case studies and management of the
 two research centres. These allowances aim to recognise all contributions to the life of the
 department and ensure that researchers have a fair amount of research time.
 The university’s generous sabbatical leave policy is implemented and fully supported by the
 department: a member of academic staff may apply for sabbatical leave for up to one full year
 every seven years they have worked at City. During this REF cycle, 12 faculty members went on
 sabbatical: six males and six females, six for half a year and six for a full year. During these
 sabbaticals, staff members strengthened their collaboration networks, visiting departments in
 Australia, France, Japan, Pakistan and the US.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research students
 During the assessment period, we successfully supervised and awarded 20 doctoral degrees. The
 average time to submission of these dissertations was 4.06 years (allowing for suspensions and
 extensions, and weighting for part-time students as appropriate). We currently have 22 PGR
 students (19 full time and three part time) and 15 of those (68%) are women.
 During the next REF cycle, as new hires grow in experience, we envisage a significant
 improvement in PhD students’ completion. There are already hints of progress: the annual intake
 of PhD students has increased in recent years, growing from an average of three students per
 year over the period 2014–2018 to five PhD students per year in both 2019/20 and 2020/21.
 In addition, the department has made tremendous efforts to improve the quality of its PhD
 programme since 2014. We expect to reap the rewards of all these changes in the next REF cycle:
     (i)     In 2016, City joined the ESRC-funded South East Network for Social Sciences
             (SeNSS) Doctoral Training Partnership. Since then, we have aligned our selection
             process and recruitment criteria with those shared by the network. Under the SeNSS
             umbrella, our PhD students have benefited from advanced online research training and
             other subject-focused training opportunities. For instance, in 2019 three City
             Economics PhD students attended two workshops on measurement error run by
             Christopher Bollinger from the University of Kentucky. Also in 2019, City joined the
             Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network, which enabled its PhD students to sign
             up for a range of research training sessions offered by the network partners, including
             King’s College London (KCL), LSE and UCL.
     (ii)    Since 2014/15, all incoming PhD students have been required to complete three
             bespoke modules (in macroeconomics, microeconomics and econometrics) during
             their first term. The taught PhD programme has been jointly run by City’s, Birkbeck’s
             and Royal Holloway’s economics departments since Royal Holloway joined the
             partnership in 2018/19. PhD students benefit from the expertise of lecturers from the
             three institutions as well as larger class sizes and networking opportunities.
     (iii)   During the second term of their first year, students are required to attend an additional
             module. With City joining the UoL in 2016, a wider range of learning opportunities has
             opened up. Since 2016, our PhD students have attended modules offered by the LSE
             (labour economics, macroeconomics), Queen Mary UoL (econometrics), University of
             Surrey (dynamic stochastic general equilibrium modelling) and UCL (macroeconomics
             and behavioural economics).
     (iv)    We have formalised the upgrade process from the MPhil to the PhD programme. In
             addition to passing all the required modules in the first year, PhD candidates need to
             upgrade within the first 18 months of enrolment. The upgrade consists of two parts: a
             presentation of their initial research output before department representatives and a
             written piece of work which is reviewed by the PhD director and a staff member not
             directly involved in the supervision. If unsatisfactory, candidates may resubmit within
             three months, and termination or continuation in the programme is then determined.
 Some of our PhD students arrive with scholarships from their governments or international
 scholarship schemes (e.g. Commonwealth Scholarships). Others receive financial support
 through the university, school or department funds. During the years 2014–2019, three students
 received university scholarships, and in 2019, one student was awarded a school scholarship
 (£245,175 in total). In addition, six students were awarded fee waivers (£128,700).
 The department also provides financial support for PhD students’ participation in local and
 international conferences, such as the Royal Economic Society (RES) Symposium of Junior
 Researchers. It also encourages and supports final-year students to attend the European
 Academic Job Market and the US academic job market (i.e. the Allied Social Science Associations
 (ASSA) Annual Meeting). PhD students have received financial support to attend summer schools
 (e.g. Barcelona Graduate School of Economics summer school, Paris School of Economics
 summer school, the Graduate Institute of Geneva graduate programme) and other training events
 as well as to carry out research activities such as laboratory and field experiments.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 PhD candidates are encouraged to apply for internships at various institutions. Between 2014 and
 2019, our students secured internships at the IMF (Aligishiev, Cantelmo, Sabuga), the United
 Nations Capital Development Fund (Aligishiev), the Financial Conduct Authority (Velias) and the
 Bank of England (Esady, Sabuga). First destinations of our PhD graduates include international,
 national, private and academic institutions, including the African Development Bank Group, the
 Bank of England, the Bank of Italy, the government of Sierra Leone, HSBC, the IMF, KPMG, a
 London-based hedge fund, McKinsey & Company, UCL Health Policy, Università degli Studi di
 Perugia, and City, UoL.
 Equality and diversity
 This UoA has a broad gender balance and spread across senior academics and younger scholars.
 The department comprises 17.5 male and 9.7 female FTEs. About 30% of senior positions (reader
 and professor) are occupied by women and a female professor (Iori) was the Department Head
 from 2017 to 2020. As a result, the department has one of the most even gender balances of all
 economics departments in the UK. According to the RES’s report titled The Gender Balance in UK
 Economics Departments and Research Institutes in 2016, only two departments out of 55 have a
 higher proportion of female professors than ours (see RES Report, 2017, Table A11, p35–36).
 The demographics of our department are truly international. Out of 34 staff members (head count),
 four come from the UK, 19 from the EU and 11 from countries outside the EU. Out of 22 PGR
 students, four are from the EU and 18 from countries outside the EU and the UK.
 This UoA actively pursues the development of a thriving and inclusive research environment,
 where fixed-term and full-time staff members have equal access to research funding opportunities.
 The two groups are similarly supported in conference attendance, skill upgrading, training and
 personal development courses. Staff administrative support and office space are allocated on an
 equal basis to fixed-term and full-time staff members.
 The department has a family-friendly policy (e.g. all meetings are scheduled between 10am and
 4pm). Serra-Sastre was involved in redesigning SASS’s parental leave policy, which now includes
 a teaching reduction within the first year of return from maternity leave. Staff are supported in their
 phased return to work through ten ‘Keeping in Touch’ days and continue to accrue sabbatical
 entitlements while on parental leave. SASS has also recently implemented a policy whereby the
 parental leave taken by PhD students does not count towards the overall suspension-of-study
 limits allowed by the programme.
 The department is fully committed to acting in accordance with the university’s policy on equality,
 diversity and inclusion (VS2026), as evidenced by its gender balance, wide internationalisation,
 equal research opportunities offered to full-time and fixed-term staff, and use of flexible working
 policies.
 City has been a member of the Athena SWAN Charter since February 2014 and recognises
 gender equality as ‘its most pressing challenge’ (VS2026). In 2017, City achieved the Athena
 SWAN Bronze Award for its commitment to gender equality. This was achieved under the
 leadership of Iori (who was appointed both chair of City’s Gender Equality Working Group and
 chair of City’s Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team in 2015) and with Jofre-Bonet as a member
 of the university’s Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team, which prepared and submitted the
 application. Jafarey currently serves as the People and Culture Lead within the department and
 is also part of the School Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team, which prepared SASS’s
 application for Athena SWAN Silver in November 2020.
 The university is also actively working to address the gender pay gap and has been conducting
 equal pay gap audits since 2015. This has resulted in City’s gender pay gap (ordinary pay)
 decreasing by 2.5 percentage points (pp), from 16.2% in March 2017 to 13.7% in March 2018.
 Corresponding figures for SASS show an even brighter picture: the gender pay gap has decreased
 by 5.1pp, from 16.8% in 2016/17 to 11.7% in 2017/18, while the total gender pay gap (ordinary
 and bonus pay) has decreased by 6.6pp, from 18.6% in 2016/17 to 12.0% in 2017/18. At the
 departmental level, all staff with managerial responsibilities (Defever, Galanis, Iori, Jafarey,
 Jofre-Bonet) have undertaken equality and diversity training and attended dignity-at-work
 workshops.

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 External income
 The department started the current REF cycle benefitting from two large European Commission
 grants awarded to Iori before 2014: ‘CRISIS: Complexity Research Initiative for Systemic
 InstabilitieS’ (£166,109.26) and ‘FOCII: Forecasting Financial Crises’ (£71,055.47).
 During the current REF cycle, staff members were involved in research collaborations and
 university consortia that were successful in attracting highly competitive and high-profile
 external research funding. Three prestigious research grants came from the Health Foundation;
 two additional ones were sponsored by the EU.
 Together with the Department of Health Policy at LSE, Serra-Sastre was awarded a research
 grant (with a two-year extension) from the Health Foundation for a project titled ‘Health Care
 Technology Diffusion in the NHS and Workforce Impact’ (April 2015–March 2021). The total value
 of the grant is £500,000, while the share credited to City was £77,362.65.
 Also in collaboration with LSE Health Policy, Serra-Sastre and Faggio were awarded a second
 research grant from the Health Foundation for ‘The Impact of Workforce Turnover and Temporary
 Staff on Productivity’ (June 2019–May 2022). City’s share of the grant was £90,376.07 (out of a
 total of £350,000).
 As part of a consortium involving the universities of Leeds and Surrey, Laliotis was awarded a
 third research grant (£500,000) from the Health Foundation for ‘Retention of Clinical and
 Ambulance Workforce in English NHS Hospitals’ (September 2019–June 2023). When Laliotis
 joined City in September 2019, he brought with him his remaining share of the grant (£10,800).
 Regarding EU-sponsored initiatives, Pearlman was part of a collaborative project titled ‘Integrated
 Macro-Finance Modelling for Robust Policy Design’, or MACFINROBODS (May 2014–April 2017).
 This collaborative research initiative, led by the University of Amsterdam, involved ten universities
 and research centres across Europe. City’s share of the grant was £108,246.21.
 Mesnard received a grant subcontract (£23,904.96) through the Université de Liège linked to a
 European Commission H2020 grant application for a project titled ‘Migration Governance and
 Asylum Crises’ (January 2020–November 2021). Mesnard also received a £7,500 grant from the
 Centre for Global Development to analyse how to better control migration flows (December 2015–
 April 2016).
 The department has also attracted two British Academy/Leverhulme small research grants. Iori
 was awarded £9,000 for her project ‘Experiment and Computational Models of Over-the-Counter
 Markets’ (April 2014–October 2016). Georganas was awarded £10,000 for his work ‘Can
 Technological Solutions Mitigate Information Asymmetries in a Market for Experts?’ (November
 2018–October 2019). This project was conducted in collaboration with researchers (Filippos
 Papakonstantinou and Anastasia Andrikogiannopoulou) at KCL.
 In December 2020, Galanis (Principal Investigator) was awarded a £497,700 ESRC grant in
 collaboration with Christos Ioannou (Co-investigator; Université Paris 1, Panthéon-Sorbonne) for
 a project titled ‘The Forecasting Efficiency of Prediction Markets’ (September 2021–August 2024).
 Scholarly infrastructure for research and impact
 Research support
 Research support in the department operates through its own Research Committee (RC). The RC
 budget (£37,000 in 2019/20) is allocated across staff members through a fair and transparent
 procedure. Each member of staff may apply irrespective of their contract type or fraction of
 employment. Funds are used to support members’ research practice and sponsor initiatives that
 will enhance City’s research output’s quality and visibility. Such initiatives include conference
 attendance, research assistance, journal submission and research output dissemination. In
 2019/20, ECRs were the largest beneficiaries of this generous departmental funding.
 The departmental research budget is also complemented by the HoD’s discretionary budget
 (£14,500 in 2019/20), primarily used to support PhD attendance at conferences, training
 workshops and summer schools as well as to support staff members with activities related to
 external grant capture, impact and knowledge exchange. For instance, this fund sponsored the

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 event in 2018 that led to the creation of the SANDD network. It also co-sponsored the 2020 UK
 Workshop in Economic Theory held at the University of Kent (in collaboration with the universities
 of Bristol, Kent and Southampton). City was scheduled to host the 2021 event (postponed).
 At the school level, an additional £2,000 Special Allocation budget is available for the organisation
 of an annual high-profile event. Thanks to this contribution, the department hosted the Health
 Economists’ Study Group Winter 2018 meeting and the 24th annual Workshop on Economic
 Science with Heterogeneous Interacting Agents (WEHIA) in 2019. Plans were made to host the
 13th Workshop on the Economics of Advertising and Marketing 2020 (postponed).
 Support for external grant capture
 The school maintains a research office comprising a Research Services Support Manager, a
 Support Officer and a Finance Manager, who provide external research funding support, proposal
 development support, research ethics expertise, project finance, distribution of awards and
 external reporting. Their work is facilitated by City’s investment in an online research portal,
 Worktribe (introduced in 2016), which is a cloud-based software platform that facilitates
 collaboration, efficiency and transparency of funded projects.
 The school’s research office also organises regular visits from representatives of large funding
 bodies, such as the British Academy, the EU, the Leverhulme Trust and the Wellcome Trust. In
 addition, SASS organises grant application writing workshops held by experienced consultants.
 Delaney, Faggio, Galanis and Zauner benefited from such workshops. Moreover, the school
 delivers a schedule of specific-call-focused workshops, such as the Global Challenges Research
 Fund (GCRF) and the ESRC. Galanis attended ESRC mock panel training.
 External grant capture is supported and encouraged via the use of internal funding schemes such
 as Research Development Fund pump priming. In the past few years, several members of the
 department have been successful in attracting early-career pump-priming grants: Faggio (2017),
 Silva Junior (2017), Pinchbeck (2018), Schlegel (2018, jointly with City PhD candidate Velias),
 Schlegel (2019), Laliotis (2019), Celik Katreniak (2020) and Delaney (2020). In addition,
 Galanis (2019) and Che (2020) were each awarded a mid-career pump-priming grant (£5,000–
 10,000).
 Furthermore, SASS’s research office allocates GCRF funds received by the university to promote
 interdisciplinary research aimed at helping developing countries achieve their sustainable
 development goals. Jafarey and Mesnard, in collaboration with Liza Schuster (City Sociology),
 won the first prize of £40,000 at the 2019 GCRF competition.
 Support for impact
 The school’s research office also comprises a Business Development Manager (overseeing
 knowledge exchange and impact) and a Research Impact Officer. Both support the development
 and implementation of impact activities. They manage two internal funding schemes: the SASS
 Research Impact Development Fund (RIDF) and the SASS Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange
 Fund (HEIF), which have been instrumental in the development of such activities within the
 department.
 Banal-Estanol, Defever, Jafarey, Jofre-Bonet and Mesnard received funding through the SASS
 RIDF for the initial phase of their impact activities. Faggio, Laliotis and Serra-Sastre received
 funding via the HEIF to organise two networking events: ‘The Business Improvement District (BID)
 Model’ (2018) and ‘NHS Workforce Challenges’ (2020, postponed).
 Furthermore, the school organises workshops and one-to-one sessions led by external
 consultants (e.g. Saskia Gent, Mark Read, Saskia Walcott) who advise on the development of
 impact activities. Banal-Estanol, Defever, Faggio, Jofre-Bonet and Mesnard benefited from
 such initiatives.
 Library
 The department has access to a world-class library with leading collections in a variety of subjects,
 both in print and online. Over the current REF period, more than £366,000 was spent by SASS on
 library resources in the fields of economics and econometrics to maintain a cutting-edge facility
 for research students and staff. We also have access to specialist resources from other schools


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 and departments, including The Business School’s library collections in the fields of finance,
 management and actuarial science. As part of the UoL, we have access to the Senate House
 Library’s online resources.
 Staff members have access to over 50 specialist business databases, which provide a vital source
 of information and expert analysis. These resources are supplemented by more than 250
 university-wide databases that support education and research. In addition, Library Services
 purchases and manages thousands of online journal subscriptions, which provide researchers
 with access to an extensive range of current and archived titles (e.g. via deals with Jisc, NESLI
 and NESLi2 to access major publishers’ online platforms, and via free online access to the
 Financial Times and The Economist).
 We also have access to a Financial Resources Suite at City’s Northampton Square Library, and
 a dedicated Financial Resources Zone and two simulated trading rooms at City’s Bunhill Row site.
 Representatives from the university’s corporate suppliers run training and drop-in sessions at
 Northampton Square.
 Open access
 Library Services has a Digital Repository team that manages CRO, our institutional repository.
 CRO underpins our open access strategy and researcher profiles. It contains over 10,000
 research outputs and a growing collection of over 1,500 doctoral theses. The repository team
 proactively engages with researchers by advocating for open access principles and ensuring
 conformity with copyright and other rights relating to research outputs. This service develops
 continuously in line with the rapidly changing open access landscape. This UoA takes open
 scholarship seriously: it has deposited 314 outputs into CRO since 2014; it is ranked in the top
 third of 1,000 economics departments and research centres worldwide for total number of
 downloaded pre-prints and working papers (SSRN repository); and it is in the top 8% of 8,050
 economic institutions in the RePEc repository for downloads (past ten years of publications).
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Since REF2014, this UoA has extended its network of collaborations and widened its contributions
 to the economy and society. Such results have been achieved through three channels: the
 department’s effort to increase its profile and visibility, the role played by the two research centres,
 and the engagement of individual staff members.
 The department has organised and hosted four large-scale international conferences: the 49th
 annual conference of The History of Economic Thought Society in 2017 (Jefferies and Andy
 Denis, City Emeritus Fellow, as organisers); the Health Economists’ Study Group Winter 2018
 Meeting (Jofre-Bonet, Serra-Sastre and Suziedelyte as organisers), a large-scale conference
 that attracted more than 150 delegates; the 17th annual conference of the European Economics
 and Finance Society in 2018 (Pilbeam, Defever, Faggio and Zauner as local committee
 members), which attracted 180 participants; and the 24th annual Workshop on Economic Science
 with Heterogenous Interacting Agents (WEHIA) in 2019, which attracted more than 250
 participants. The organising team, led by Iori as chair, comprised London-based scholars working
 in computer science, physics and economics: Fabio Caccioli, Giacomo Livan and Simone Righi
 (UCL), Tiziana di Matteo (KCL), and Iori and Jafarey (City, UoL).
 In 2020, plans were underway for the Economics of Advertising and Marketing 2020 conference
 (postponed). In July 2020, the department hosted ‘COVID-19 and the Economy: Looking Back
 and Thinking Ahead’, an online panel discussion on the economic consequences of COVID-19
 (Jafarey as organiser, with Ben-Gad, Faggio, Georganas, Jofre-Bonet, Mesnard and Aditya
 Goenka (University of Birmingham) as invited speakers).
 The department has also hosted several smaller-scale conferences, including a workshop titled
 ‘Macroprudential Policies, Inequality, and Financial Inclusion: Redistributive Impacts, and
 Implications for Financial Stability’ (2019), organised by Pearlman in collaboration with Margarita
 Rubio (University of Nottingham). Pearlman also organised the Money Macro and Finance
 Research Group (MMF) PhD conference 2019, sponsored by the Bank of England and Birkbeck
 Centre for Applied Macroeconomics (for which Pearlman received a £1,000 MMF grant). Faggio
 organised a workshop titled ‘The BID Model’ (2018), which attracted 50 participants from

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Germany, Spain and the UK, and co-organised a dissemination event held at the BID Brixton
 headquarters in 2019.
 City Health Economics Centre (CHEC) activities
 During the current REF cycle, the CHEC has strengthened its network of research collaborations
 (e.g. with LSE Health Policy and the OHE). It has run its own monthly seminar series, inviting
 health experts from the UK and abroad (e.g. KCL, Purdue University, Universitat Pompeu Fabra,
 University of York), and has organised the bi-annual events of the London Health Economics
 Group. Such events are routinely hosted at various London-based institutions, including Imperial
 College, KCL, NHS Improvement, the OHE and UCL. In 2020, the centre secured internal funding
 to organise and host a one-day workshop titled ‘NHS Workforce Challenges’ (postponed).
 The CHEC has also nourished its interdisciplinary dimension. Serra-Sastre (CHEC director)
 participated in the establishment of the Centre for Healthcare Innovation Research, set up in 2019
 by The Business School and City’s School of Health Sciences. The new centre provides an
 interdisciplinary perspective on the challenges of embedding technological innovations in health
 and social care services.
 Centre for Competition and Regulatory Policy (CCRP) activities
 Since REF2014, the CCRP has strengthened its engagement and collaboration with industry
 practitioners and non-academic stakeholders through its bi-annual roundtables. The CCRP’s
 roundtables are high-profile events that have since June 2005 attracted prominent academics and
 practitioners working in areas of competition and regulation. Speakers from the 2014–2018 series
 included Professor Paul Grout, non-executive member of the Gas and Electricity Markets
 Authority, and Mary Starks, Ofgem’s executive director of consumers and markets.
 The centre has also strengthened its network of collaborations and deepened its interdisciplinary
 dimension by, for example, establishing a deeper collaboration with the LSE’s Centre for Analysis
 of Risk and Regulation. As a result, the bi-annual roundtables have had alternate hosting by the
 two centres since March 2019. The City–LSE collaboration has helped to increase the visibility of
 both the CCRP (Dassiou, CCRP director) and the department; attracted even higher calibre
 speakers; and widened and deepened the issues discussed at the events – for example, the July
 2019 roundtable was titled ‘Vulnerability’ and the March 2020 Roundtable would have been ‘The
 Economic Regulation Path towards the Zero Carbon Economy’ (postponed). In addition, progress
 has been made to complement the roundtables with workshops relevant to both academics and
 industry practitioners (e.g. ‘Competition and Regulation in Digital Markets’, 2020, postponed).
 Research affiliations, public engagement and industry collaborations
 Faculty have extended their network of collaborations with academic institutions, government
 agencies and industry practitioners.
 Academic links
 Galanis has been co-organiser of the Workshop in Economic Theory in collaboration with the
 universities of Bristol, Kent and Southampton since 2013. Together with Bristol, Kent and
 Southampton, Galanis is currently organising the Virtual Seminars in Economic Theory – one of
 the few weekly online seminars in economic theory that attracts a global audience (700 registered
 attendees). Galanis has also been a programme committee member of the annual conference
 Logic and the Foundations of Game and Decision Theory (LOFT) since 2012. Georganas has
 been on the RES programme committee of its annual conference for several years (2014, 2019,
 2020, 2021). Schlegel co-organised and hosted the first UK matching and market design
 workshop (2020).
 Research affiliations
 Defever is a research associate at the LSE’s Centre for Economic Performance (CEP). Faggio
 and Pinchbeck were CEP research associates (2015–2020). Faggio is a visiting fellow at LSE
 Health. Jafarey is an associate fellow of the Institute of Development and Economic Alternatives,
 Lahore, Pakistan. Iori is a research associate of the LSE’s Systemic Risk Centre. Mesnard is an
 executive committee member of the European Development Research Network, an external fellow
 at the UCL’s Centre for Research and Analysis of Migration, a research associate at the Institute

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 for Fiscal Studies (IFS) and a research affiliate at the Centre for Economic Policy Research. Serra-
 Sastre is a research fellow at LSE Health Policy. Schlegel is a member of the Centre for Market
 Design, University of Zurich.
 Keynotes and speaking
 Faculty have given keynotes and been invited speakers at various events. Dassiou was a keynote
 speaker at the Global Law and Governance Summer School 2014, European Public Law
 Organization, Sounio; she has also been an invited panellist at various events organised by the
 National Audit Office (NAO) and the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA). Faggio was an
 invited speaker at the Conference on Economics of Livable Cities in the 21st Century, CERGE-EI,
 Prague, 2016. Georganas was an invited speaker at the 2015 Behavioural Game Theory
 Workshop, University of East Anglia. Iori has a long list of engagements as a keynote or invited
 speaker, including the 60th World Statistics Congress (ISI2015), Rio de Janeiro; the Warwick
 Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council mathematics symposium ‘Real World Risks
 and Extremes: Correlation and Quantification’, London, 2016; the Social Simulation Conference
 2016, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Rome; the 22th annual WEHIA (2017), Università
 Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Milan; the 23rd International Conference on Computing in Economics
 and Finance, Fordham University, New York, 2017; the 66th International Congress of the French
 Economic Association, Université Côte d’Azur, Nice, 2017; the 3rd International Conference of
 Econophysics, Volos, 2017; and the 14th Econophysics Colloquium, Palermo, 2018.
 Wider public engagement
 Banal-Estanol, Ben-Gad, Dassiou, Georganas, Mesnard, Pilbeam and Riano have contributed
 to The Conversation with 16 articles over the past six years. Georganas regularly contributes to I
 Kathimerini, a leading daily newspaper in Greece.
 Faculty have forged collaborations with various national and international organisations. Within
 the UK, Banal-Estanol and Dassiou have joined the academic panels of Ofgem and the CMA.
 Dassiou collaborates with the NAO, having contributed to the development of the NAO’s Market
 Analytic Toolkit for assessing public service markets. Faggio informed UK Cabinet Office
 members and McKinsey consultants about potential benefits and costs of public sector relocation
 initiatives in 2018 and 2020. Jofre-Bonet has been appointed head of research and vice president
 of the OHE. She is an expert adviser for the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
 (NICE) Centre for Guidelines and was a member of the NICE Programme Development Group for
 Type 2 diabetes. She is also a senior research associate at LSE Health Policy, collaborates with
 the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and belongs to the London International
 Development Centre (SOAS). Laliotis and Serra-Sastre collaborate with the OHE. Laliotis also
 collaborates with members of the LSE’s CEP, the LSE’s European Institute and the UK
 Department of Health and Social Care.
 Internationally, Banal-Estanol has established links with the Public-Private Sector Research
 Center, IESE Business School, Spain; the Research Institute in Berlin, Germany; the European
 Commission’s DG Comp; and the World Bank. Defever, Laliotis, Nikandrova and Riano
 collaborate with the World Bank. Georganas collaborates with the City of Athens Council. Jafarey
 has links with the Population Council of Pakistan. Jafarey and Mesnard, in collaboration with Liza
 Schuster (City Sociology), have built the SANDD network, which established a long-sought-after
 dialogue between local stakeholders, government and civil society organisations located in
 Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. Jofre-Bonet has links with the
 FEDEA Health think tank, Spain; the Centre de Recerca en Economia i Salut, Barcelona, Spain;
 and the Sierra Leone government. Laliotis collaborates with the Council of Economic Advisors,
 Greece.
 Industry collaboration
 Faculty have an extensive network of collaborations with industry practitioners both in the UK and
 internationally. Banal-Estanol is vice president and a member of the board of directors of Som
 Energia, an energy firm based in Spain that produces and sells electricity from renewable sources.
 Faggio collaborates with the BID Foundation. Galanis collaborates with Aaro Capital, a London-
 based fund of funds that specialises in crypto assets. Georganas is on the scientific advisory


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 board of KEFiM, an Athens-based think tank. Schlegel is an expert fellow at Swiss Economics, a
 Zurich-based consultancy firm.
 Executive training
 Banal-Estanol offers executive training courses on competition and regulation in energy markets
 to government officials and industry practitioners in both developed (the European Commission’s
 DG Comp) and developing (in collaboration with the World Bank; the EU–AETS consortium,
 Accra, Ghana; and the African Forum for Utility Regulation, South Africa) countries. Dassiou
 offered bespoke training on competition and regulation policy at the Financial Ombudsman
 Service in 2015. Galanis and Schlegel have been offering executive training courses on
 blockchain and cryptocurrencies through a two-day course held at City since October 2019. The
 course is offered jointly with lawyers (Vassilis Karantounias and Charles Kerrigan) from the global
 law firm CMS and Daniele Bianchi from Warwick Business School. Jofre-Bonet and Serra-Sastre
 offered bespoke continuing professional development training to health practitioners and policy
 makers at the Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, Spain, in 2018 and 2019.
 Recognition, review panels and editorial services
 Ben-Gad served on the US National Academy of Sciences panel ‘Economic and Fiscal
 Consequences of Immigration’ from 2013 to 2016; he was also elected to the Fellowship of the
 Royal Society of Arts in 2017. Iori is a member of the London Mathematical Society, a member of
 the Institute of Physics and a Chartered Physicist and a Steering Group member of the Conference
 of Heads of University Departments of Economics (CHUDE). Jafarey is currently a REF2021 sub-
 panel member in C:16 Economics and Econometrics.
 Iori was a member of the ESRC Grant Assessment Panel C (formerly Panel A) from 2015 to 2019.
 She is a panel member of the ESRC Research Methods Development Grants (2020) and the
 ESRC-IRC UK Ireland Networking Grants (2020). Iori and Jofre-Bonet are members of the UKRI
 Future Leadership Fellowships Panel College. Jafarey and Jofre-Bonet were members of the
 ESRC Peer Review College (2011-2017). Mesnard is a member of the IFS scientific committee.
 Georganas is a reviewer for research funding programmes, including the State Scholarship
 Foundation, Greece; Supporting Talent in Research, University of Padua, Italy; and the
 Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research.
 Iori is associate editor of the Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control, associate editor of the
 Journal of Financial Management, Markets and Institutions, co-editor of the Journal of Economic
 Interaction and Coordination, and editorial board member of the Journal of Statistical Mechanics:
 Theory and Experiments. Jafarey and Zauner are co-editors of the Bulletin of Economic
 Research. Pilbeam was co-editor of the Journal of Economic Asymmetries from January 2013 to
 September 2017 and is associate editor of Economic Modelling. Iori was guest editor of a special
 issue (‘Crises and Complexity’) of the Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control in 2015.
 PhD students associated with the department
 Our PhD students actively participate in local and international conferences, such as the RES
 Symposium of Junior Researchers; conferences held by the Rimini Centre for Economic Analysis;
 the Warsaw Money-Macro-Finance Conference; the International Conference on Applied Theory,
 Macro, and Empirical Finance; and a PhD workshop titled ‘Volatility Modelling’ at the National
 Bank of Belgium. Velias was awarded a faculty’s pump-priming grant (jointly with Schlegel) and
 was invited to visit the Universitat Pompeu Fabra (Spain) for a term.




                                                                                            Page 14
