Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)

 Unit of Assessment: D34 - Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context
 The Communication, Cultural and Media Studies Unit at Nottingham Trent (NTU) has a record of
 high-quality research in the major areas of Communication, Cultural and Media Studies. The
 Unit draws on well-established and internationally recognised research strengths in Media and
 Cultural Studies, Film and Television, Communications, Social Theory and Linguistics. The
 Unit’s strength and diversity are reflected in the range and number of its publications and grants
 and the vibrancy of its impact activities, collaborative partnerships and postgraduate community.

       We returned 11.7 FTE in 2014 and are returning 18 FTE in 2021;
       We have produced 21 books, 62 chapters and 113 journal articles as well as organising
        11 conferences, workshops or external seminar series in the period and numerous
        outreach events;
       We have seen an 8-fold increase in our research income from £90,000 for REF2014 to
        £749,350 for REF2021; and
       We have more than doubled the number of PhD completions from 10 in 2014 to 21.

 All D34 researchers, and 23 currently enrolled postgraduate researchers (PGRs) are members
 of the Centre for the Study of Inequality, Culture and Difference. The Centre’s core strengths
 relate to transversal themes of gender and identity, globalisation and the transnational, digital
 and everyday cultures, language, power, and institution.

 Committed to collaboration, the Unit’s researchers actively seek out local, national and
 international partners, bridging theory and practice and developing innovative forms of
 knowledge co-production with external institutions and communities. Since 2014, we have
 significantly extended the range and focus of our partnerships. We work at regional level, for
 example, with the Nottingham Contemporary gallery, the African Women’s Empowerment
 Forum, Broadway Cinema and the National Justice Museum. At a national and international
 level, we have developed relationships with organisations such as the NSPCC, the National
 Coal Mining Museum for England, the PILL, Arter and Zilberman galleries in Istanbul and
 CONCORD, the Brussels-based federation of international development organisations. We are
 co-investigators in cross-HEI networks such as the AHRC-funded ‘Centre for Hidden Histories’,
 part of the AHRC World War One community heritage centres.

 Since 2014, the Unit has benefitted from the investment of £2.7 million in the School of Arts and
 Humanities, through the Valuing Ideas pillar of NTU’s 2020 and 2025 Strategic Plans. This
 investment has supported postdoctoral research assistant appointments, impact and
 engagement activities and PGR recruitment as well as staff sabbaticals and output production.
 With its longstanding commitment to collaborations within and outside the institution, the Unit
 has also benefitted from NTU’s provision of financial and infrastructural support for five over-
 arching Strategic Research Themes (SRTs): Health and Wellbeing, Medical Technologies and
 Advanced Materials, Global Heritage, Sustainable Futures and Safety and Security of Citizens
 and Society). NTU has also invested in an Associate Dean of Research (ADR) in every
 academic school which connects the Unit directly to the University Research Committee and
 University Leadership Team where research and institutional policy and practice are debated,

 Structure
 All aspects of the Unit’s work are overseen by the D34 Research Strategy Group which
 comprises senior and earlier career researchers representing the different areas of research
 expertise. O’Shaughnessy is the Unit’s research leader; Allwood and Braber are its impact
 champions and Coffey-Glover convenes the research seminars. Senior members of the group

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 act as mentors for other researchers in the Unit. The Unit works in active dialogue with the
 School’s Athena Swan and Research Concordat Champions.

 The Unit’s Research Centre, the Centre for the Study of Inequality, Culture and Difference,
 is directed by O’Shaughnessy and its activities are distributed across five Research Groups:

    -   Gender and sexuality (feminism and post-feminism, queer theory, transnational
        sexualities, masculinities); Allwood, Boulé, Çakirlar, Coffey-Glover, Genz, McCaffrey.

    -   Globalisation (transnational communication, intercultural translation, exile and diaspora,
        migration and gender, globalisation and culture); Alexander, Bailey, Çakirlar, Lee,
        Poberezhskaya, Wittel.

    -   Cultures of the everyday (digital media, social media, material cultures): Coffey-
        Glover, Genz, Wittel, Wright.

    -   Language, power and institution (cultural policy, public diplomacy, critical discourse
        analysis, forensic linguistics, dialect and identity, cultural heritage, critical journalism):
        Alexander, Braber, Fuggle, Coffey-Glover, Wright.

    -   Media and film cultures (Media and gender, national and transnational cinema cultures,
        cinema, the body and the senses, political cinema, transnational stardom and celebrity):
        Çakirlar, Coffey-Glover, Genz, Hardy, Lee, Lundy, McCaffrey, O’Shaughnessy,
        Poberezhskaya.

 Some researchers find their home in a specific group but, underscoring connections and
 convergences within the Unit, others participate in the activities of more than one group. For
 example, Braber’s ground-breaking work on East Midlands English makes its important
 contribution to a burgeoning awareness of the importance of intangible heritage to regional
 identities while sitting squarely within the language, power and institution group. Wright’s
 innovative research into the application of the resources of forensic linguistics to institutional
 contexts finds its natural home in the same group. In contrast, Alexander’s work on public
 diplomacy and on aid, development assistance and communication feeds into the work of both
 the language, power and institution and globalisation groups. Working at the intersection of
 politics and media analysis, Poberezhskaya’s important research on representations of climate
 change in Russian mainstream and social media contributes to the same two groups.

 Wittel’s work, in the media and film cultures group, explores the political economy of digital
 technologies and the complexities of questions of on-line anonymity. Contributing to both the
 globalisation and media and film cultures groups, Bailey explores the use of social media by
 diasporic groups. Complementing Bailey, bringing together Queer theory, transnational cultural
 analysis and a deep sensibility to artistic practices, Çakirlar explores questions of cultural
 translation and mobility in a globalised world while contributing powerfully to the gender and
 sexuality group in the Unit.

 Significant contributions to the gender and sexuality group are made by Coffey-Glover,
 Allwood, Boulé, McCaffrey and Genz. Boulé and McCaffrey bring the resources of theory to
 bear on constructions of gender in cultural texts. Coffey-Glover draws productively on the
 resources of discourse analysis and linguistics to generate new insights into homophobic
 discourses in public debates and the consequences of naming practices in marriage and civil
 partnerships. More resolutely policy- and institution-centric, Allwood’s work probes the gap
 between rhetoric and practice with respect to gender and EU and national policy design and
 application.

 Contributing to both the gender and sexuality and media and film cultures groups, Genz
 combines high-level media analysis and feminist scholarship to analyse the interplay of
 neoliberalism and post-feminism both theoretically and as expressed in different media texts.

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Addressing media and film culture and globalisation, Lee combines close analysis with an
 informed understanding of international film industry practices to cast significant new light on
 East Asian film industries and their products. Working within media and film cultures, Hardy
 and O’Shaughnessy bring theory and close textual analysis to bear on a range of cinemas,
 especially European ones. Lundy brings philosophical expertise to the group.

 This rich network of interconnections and the Unit’s capacity to combine traditional tools of
 media, communications and cultural analysis with insights and methods from other disciplines
 constitute its strength and originality. They find expression in its publications, conference and
 workshop organisation, and rich impact activity.

 Matters relating to research integrity and ethics are overseen centrally (see REF5a) and
 managed locally. Scrutiny of staff and PGR projects in D34 is overseen by a cross-School
 committee to ensure that projects are scrutinised from different disciplinary perspectives.
 Resources are available to staff and students in the form of online modules which cover
 essential aspects of research integrity and these are complemented by training arrangements at
 School level.

 The D34 impact case studies (ICSs) demonstrate how we have formed effective local, national
 and international partnerships to empower individuals and to influence social and policy debates,
 supported directly by institutional investment. Led by Allwood, Mind the gap: improving
 alignment between rhetoric and reality in the implementation of European gender equality
 policy demonstrates the international reach of our impact. It supports the work of NGOs, the
 EU, whose policies she helps shape, and the women and girls around the world who are
 affected by the policy implementation. NTU funding of £37K provided Allwood with research
 assistance and enabled her to carry out European meetings, transcribe interviews and provide
 translations critical to the project. Led by Braber, Raising the Profile of Language as Heritage
 in the East Midlands exemplifies our commitment to shape and inform the work of institutions
 and individuals at a more regional and local level. Braber’s work put itself at the service of
 schools, artists, museums and communities in the East Midlands, helping individuals to
 understand and value their linguistic heritage while developing the necessary skills and self-
 confidence to use it creatively. Braber’s work was supported with £48.5K of NTU funding for
 research assistance and a wide variety of outreach activities, including the development of the
 project’s travelling exhibition.

 Strategic aims and achievements
 The Unit’s REF2014 strategic aims focused on building research excellence in core disciplinary
 areas, building productive internal and external collaborations, enhancing the research
 environment, producing research that responds to global challenges and further integrating
 research and impact. Progress towards realising these aims is as follows.

 1. To maintain research excellence within the core disciplinary areas and methodological
 perspectives characterising them.

 A series of book-length publications from across the Unit underscore its continued strength
 across its core disciplines as well as burgeoning inter-disciplinary work. Important monographs
 in political or public health communication were produced by Alexander, Poberezhskaya and
 Cummings. The first wrote China and Taiwan in Central America: engaging foreign publics in
 diplomacy (Palgrave Macmillan, 2014) and Administering Colonialism and War: the Political Life
 of Sir Andrew Clow of the Indian Civil Service (Oxford University, 2019). The second contributed
 Communicating climate change in Russia: state and propaganda (Routledge, 2016) and the
 third, Reasoning and public health: new ways of coping with uncertainty (Springer, 2015).
 Underscoring the Unit’s continued strength in the study of gender and sexuality, Coffey-Glover
 wrote Men in women's worlds: constructions of masculinity in women's magazines (Palgrave-
 Macmillan, 2019), while Genz co-wrote a substantially updated account of her Postfeminism:
 Cultural Texts and Theories (Edinburgh University, 2018). Alongside his own work on art, film,
 gender and sexuality, Çakirlar’s co-translation of Judith Butler’s seminal Bodies That Matter into

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Turkish (Bela Bedenler) was published by Istanbul-based Pinhan in 2014. Confirming the Unit’s
 ongoing commitment to research informed by social theory and philosophy, Lundy wrote
 Deleuze's Bergsonism (Edinburgh University, 2018) while Fuggle co-edited Foucault and the
 History of Our Present (Palgrave Macmillan, 2015). O’Shaughnessy’s Laurent Cantet
 (Manchester University Press, 2015) brought together social theory and film studies. Other major
 outputs confirm the Unit’s commitment to multi- and inter-disciplinary research. Braber, for
 example, draws upon the resources of linguistics to probe regional identity in her co-authored
 East Midlands English (De Gruyer Mouton, 2018) while Boulé draws upon gender studies,
 psychoanalysis and postcolonialism in his monograph on the work of the important Moroccan
 cultural creator, Abdellah Taïa. Wittel’s Digital Transitions (Lambert Academic Publishing, 2016)
 brings together the insights of social theory and the political economy of media and
 communications.

 2. To facilitate interaction, both in research initiatives and in building a community of
 diverse but complementary perspectives within cultural analysis.

 Whilst prizing individual research, the Unit is committed to an expanding and highly productive
 web of collaborations with colleagues across NTU, other UK and international scholars and
 local, national and international institutional partners. O’Shaughnessy, for example, was part of
 an Erasmus+ network which produced a documentary film about migrant musicians and a
 syllabus and MOOC examining how European cinema could be used to probe the meaning of
 hospitality in the context of the contemporary migrant and refugee crisis. He participated in
 events in Madrid, Uppsala, and Graz and online that disseminated the project among audiences
 of students, academics and trainee teachers. The project’s film featured among Nottingham’s
 Refugee Week events in 2020. Working with Broadway Cinema, Nottingham-based filmmakers
 and his Erasmus+ partners, O’Shaughnessy organised a highly successful study day in 2019
 that attracted representatives of local government, education, migrant support groups and the
 general public to explore film’s use for migration education. Similarly committed to international
 collaboration, Bailey worked with the Complutense University (Madrid), the Artemisszió
 Foundation (Budapest) and Elan Culturel (Paris) on an Erasmus+ Artivism (Art as Activism)
 project to empower young people through artistic production and generate transformative
 intercultural dialogue. She co-organised an Artivism festival in Budapest which gathered young
 people from France, Hungary and Spain for five days of workshops and cultural production, with
 150-200 participants and visitors each day. With Nottingham Contemporary, she assembled
 artists and members of the public to pool expertise around using art for socially transformative
 purposes. Bailey also continues to do important work with the African Women Empowerment
 Forum, the subject of her 2014 ICS, helping them with funding bids, giving talks on
 empowerment, recruiting guest speakers, chairing their board of trustees and participating in
 their latest project on vulnerable women, mental health and domestic violence.

 Wright’s research expertise in forensic linguistics allowed him to build partnerships with
 colleagues from NTU Psychology, Education, Sociology and Law as well as with
 Nottinghamshire Police, British Transport police, Notts LGBT+, the Everyday Sexism Project and
 Stonewall. Supported by £19,851 from NTU’s Health and Wellbeing theme, he worked with them
 to raise awareness of and develop resources for tackling the street harassment of young people.
 Wright’s forensic linguistic expertise and Braber’s command of sociolinguistics fed into an NTU-
 wide collaboration with colleagues in Psychology and Law, supported by £13,282 from NTU’s
 Safety and Security of Citizens theme, which saw them work with local police, lawyers and
 politicians to improve the reliability of protocols used in ‘earwitness’ testimony. The success of
 the project saw it develop to become part of a collaboration with Oxford, Cambridge and de
 Montfort Universities, funded by £872,120 from the ESRC, to pursue work on voice identification.
 McCaffrey was awarded a grant of £21,852 from the British Academy’s The Humanities and
 Social Sciences Tackling the UK’s International Challenges Programme (2019-21) to lead an
 inter-disciplinary team exploring contemporary understandings of borders and the internal and
 cross-border dynamics they generate. His collaborators combine expertise from the Humanities
 (Professor Diarmaid Ferriter, University College Dublin) and the Social Sciences (Professor


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cathal McCall, Queens University, Belfast) to explore the concept of ‘bordering’ from historical,
 regional, community and European perspectives.

 3. To continue to develop a stimulating and enabling research culture and infrastructure
 to meet the needs of staff and PGRs.

 The Unit runs a monthly seminar series with speakers drawn from both our own staff and PGRs
 and scholars from other British and international universities. Recent invitees include noted
 feminist scholars Lynne Segal (Birkbeck) and Catherine Rottenberg (Nottingham) to discuss
 their groundbreaking Care Manifesto, Jim Wolfreys (King’s, London) to present his work on
 French Islamophobia, Angelos Koutsoukaris (Leeds) to talk about documentary film, re-
 enactment and critical history and Karen Ritzenhoff (Central Connecticut State) to discuss the
 politics of costume in The Handmaid’s Tale. Unit staff and PGRs also participate in our annual
 School research conferences while PGRs are invited to take part in regular work-in-progress
 seminars which allow them to take their work out to a supportive audience. The Unit has taken
 positive advantage of the AHRC Midlands3Cities (now M4C) DTP, recruiting 11 students via this
 route. A further five students have been recruited through NTU’s studentship scheme and the
 Unit continues to attract an impressive number, 13, of EU students. Compared to the last REF
 period, our 21 PhD completions represent a twofold increase, while the current number of
 students, 23, underscores the ongoing vitality of our postgraduate community.

 4. To shape the profile of our research in recognition of the opportunities and challenges
 of an increasingly globalized culture and economy.

 The Unit continues to demonstrate its commitment to work in a global frame while also operating
 increasingly productively on a more local or regional level. The continued international thrust of
 our activity is exemplified by Allwood’s important research on gender mainstreaming and EU
 policy as expressed in her ICS. It is evident in Alexander’s research on propaganda, public
 diplomacy and ethics which has seen him contribute to the rewriting of the UN's in-house module
 on Public Information and Strategic Communications which forms part of staff training within the
 Disarmament, Demobilisation and Reintegration section of the UN's Office of Rule of Law and
 Security Institutions. Poberezhskaya’s work on Russian media and climate change enabled her
 to work as an associate member of the international, not-for-profit, Climate Strategies research
 network and contribute to one of its policy reports. Engaging global issues at a more local level,
 Poberezhskaya also initiated a collaborative research project with the infrastructure consultancy
 company AECOM and Nottingham City Council. The project investigates the likely future
 localised impacts of climate change, based on the UK’s new climate projections (UKCP18) and
 their interplay with the socio-demographic composition of the city for the 2040-2069 and 2070-
 2099 timeframes. This is a multi-disciplinary investigation that involves academic (NTU) and
 industry (AECOM) expertise and experience and will ultimately benefit the local economy and
 communities, especially vulnerable citizens across Nottingham.

 Unit members have organised important external events that address pressing global concerns.
 Lundy was co-convenor of the ‘After Progress’ symposium series at Goldsmiths sponsored by
 the Sociological Review Foundation which assembled an array of leading international scholars
 including Marisol de la Cadena (UC Davis, California), Iris van der Tuin (Utrecht), Isabelle
 Stengers (Université Libre de Bruxelles) to discuss understandings of the future. With the
 support of the King’s College Russia Institute and funding from the British Association of Slavic
 and East European Studies and the Academic Association for Contemporary European Studies,
 Poberezhskaya organised the ‘Soviet and Post-Soviet Imaginings of Climate’ workshop with
 keynotes from Jon Oldfield (Birmingham) and Elana Wilson Rowe (Norwegian Institute of
 International Affairs). In 2019, Alexander organised ‘Recognising Taiwan: Taiwan’s Society and
 Political World,’ the 16th annual conference of the European Association of Taiwan Studies at
 NTU. The event was attended by a host of international speakers and the Taiwanese
 ambassador.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5. To orient our research increasingly towards achieving impact, particularly around
 questions of inequality, culture and difference.

 The rich impact activity across the Unit confirms the strengths established by the two ICSs as
 expressed in their reach and ability to draw on support from the University and, where
 appropriate, its institutional partnerships. The work of O’Shaughnessy and Bailey discussed
 above and that of Çakirlar and Fuggle underscores the Unit’s contribution to the creative and
 cultural spheres, and commitment to changing attitudes and sharing knowledge. That of Wright,
 Alexander and Poberezhskaya demonstrates our record of informing and shaping the policies
 and practices of institutional actors.

 Çakirlar has consistently mobilised his expertise in transnational queer theory, visual arts and
 film to challenge national stereotypes and promote the transnational mobility of cultural
 practices. His research responds to demand from publishers or cultural institutions and in turn
 shapes practice, whether by helping develop the queer studies curriculum in Turkish universities,
 translating Judith Butler, or informing the curatorial activity of galleries and museums. He was
 commissioned by the PILL, Arter and Zilberman galleries in Istanbul to write parts of their
 catalogues for exhibitions by artists including Jake and Dinos Chapman and Soufiane Ababri.
 Promoting the international mobility and understanding of Turkey-based artists, he wrote
 catalogue sections for Sotheby’s (London) and prestigious galleries in New York, Berlin,
 Stuttgart and Moscow. Working with the Çukurcuma Collective and the UK-based Queer Art
 Projects, and with £3,950 from NTU, he brought work by more than forty artists to a major
 Nottingham-based exhibition, ‘The House of Wisdom’, exploring the geopolitics of censorship in
 the Middle East. He curated its public programme and enabled dialogue between Turkish and
 Nottingham-based artists. He also draws productively on NTU’s institutional links with the
 Broadway Cinema and Nottingham Contemporary. He curated an international LGBTQ film
 season for the former with Nottingham Pride in 2017 and did exhibition walk-throughs for the
 latter. With O’Shaughnessy, he supervised Meneses’ AHRC/M4C sponsored postdoctoral
 research project Bauhaus Imaginista with its significant curatorial input to the ground-breaking
 exhibition, Still Undead: Popular Culture in Britain Beyond the Bauhaus, at Nottingham
 Contemporary in 2019.

 Fuggle’s cultural engagement activity similarly bridges local, national and international frames.
 Funded by an AHRC Leadership Fellowship, Fuggle’s work on French colonial penal heritage
 led to collaborations with museums in French Guiana, New Caledonia and Vietnam. More
 recently, it has generated a podcast series, ‘Postcards from the bagne’, which takes the work to
 an on-line audience. Fuggle organised a public conference in 2015 at the Nottingham Galleries
 of Justice on the impact of Foucault’s Discipline and Punish. She co-organised a two-day event
 at Nottingham Contemporary exploring prison-related documentary films with directors from
 France, Ireland and the USA. Working with the same organisation, she organised two
 workshops, ‘Reframing prison photography’ (2018) and ‘Carceral Ecologies’ (2019) bringing
 together prison workers (artists, educators, lawyers, librarians) and ex-inmates.

 Outside her ICS, Braber is a co-investigator on the AHRC-funded ‘Centre for Hidden Histories,’
 part of the AHRC World War One community heritage centres. The project engages with
 communities previously alienated from WW1 commemoration to bring their histories to attention
 through academic and community research projects. Mobilising her (socio) linguistic expertise,
 typifying her engagement at regional level, Braber has collaborated with three secondary
 schools and local history groups to examine internment of German miners around Nottingham
 and with a youth theatre group in Chesterfield to explore how Germans were treated in the UK at
 the war’s outbreak.

 Wright and his internal and external partners in the street harassment team presented their
 work and a specially made video at a 2018 event in Portcullis House, Westminster hosted by
 Lilian Greenwood MP. He provided related evidence to the Women and Equality Parliamentary
 Select Committee.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond this engagement with specific groups, institutions and publics, the Unit more broadly
 shapes public debate through contributions to national and international media. Drawing on his
 research expertise in public diplomacy, propaganda and communication and collaborating with a
 range of media organisations (BBC television and radio, The New York Times, The Daily Mail,
 The Daily Star, The Independent and Sputnik News), Alexander has informed public debate
 around Trump’s engagement with Taiwan and North Korea, and British policy in colonial India.
 His pieces on the latter two in The Conversation have received more than 155,000 hits while the
 Korea piece was republished by seven news outlets and used by The Conversation to launch its
 podcast service in 2017. Braber’s three language-related articles in the same publication
 received more than 120,000 hits with one piece republished by 24 outlets, including The
 Scotsman. Poberezhskaya’s work on Russian media and climate change policy led to citations
 by the New York Times, Reuters, OpenDemocracy, the Washington Post, International Business
 Times, Carbon News, the Daily Times (Pakistan) and Wirtschaftsblatt (Austria). She has written
 pieces on the same topic for Geographical magazine and The Conversation. Coffey-Glover’s
 work on gender stereotyping led to interviews for articles in The Sun and The Mirror. She wrote
 a related piece (about stereotypes and Lego cards) for The Conversation. Tara Coltman-Patel,
 one of our PhD students, won the M4C 2019 Cultural Engagement Award for work with
 @WorldObesity on their #EndWeightStigma campaign.

 Future Strategic Aims
 As an established research unit committed to values advanced for over two decades, our future
 aims build on those espoused in 2014 but update them to ensure they remain current. The future
 aims are:

 1. To undertake pioneering research work addressing questions of inequality, culture and
    difference, drawing on the inter- and multi-disciplinary approaches characterising the Unit
    and engaging with its shared research interests.
 2. To respond to the challenges of a shifting global environment while maintaining a clear
    sense of embeddedness in local contexts and communities.
 3. To generate socially productive impact, particularly around questions of inequality, culture
    and difference, working in close collaboration with regional, national and international
    partners and responding to their needs.
 4. To make full use of NTU’s institutional support for research and impact and participate
    actively in cross-cutting research activity related to the University’s Strategic Research
    Themes.

 The updated aims give greater prominence to the inter and multi-disciplinary nature of our
 research because, while keeping the same essential foci as embodied in its Research Centre,
 the Unit now draws on a broader range of disciplines to investigate its objects of study, not least
 because of the expansion and renewal of the staff base. The goals recognise how essential
 academic and non-academic collaborations are to our activity as well as responding actively to
 the University’s prioritisation of transversal themes that call for innovative partnerships. The Unit
 is confident of the vitality of its impact activities: some of those described above are already solid
 achievements, in some cases (notably Bailey’s) building productively on earlier work. Others
 (Wright and Braber’s ‘earwitness’ project and Poberezskaya on climate change, Fuggle on the
 colonial prison and Alexander on public diplomacy) are developing strongly. While a focus on
 the global still remains a priority, it is balanced by more explicit attention to the regional and
 local, especially because of the University’s determination to support and inform activity in the
 region, notably in the cultural sector which is so important to the Unit’s impact activities.

 Specific immediate plans include:
     Development of our strengths in research in gender, sexuality and development and
         collaboration with a range of external partners to effect positive change in these areas
         not simply by fostering education and shaping attitudes but also by inflecting policy and
         its implementation.
     Developing inter-institutional collaborative research to explore the functioning of queer
         arts in repressive international contexts. Relatedly, further collaborations with local,

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        national and international cultural institutions to support curatorial activity, facilitate
        international cultural exchange and promote awareness of cultural diversity while
        bringing neglected cultural and linguistic heritage into visibility.
       Further development of our growing profile for research into international cinema, a
        significant vector of cultural diversity.
       To work with the Safety and Security of Citizens and Global Heritage SRTs, to deliver
        research and impact in both harassment in public spaces and intangible heritage.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Of the 18 staff researchers attached to the Unit, the gender and career-stage balance is:
 10.0FTE women/8.0FTE men; 5.0FTE professors (2 women/3 men); 3.0FTE associate
 professors (3 women); 10.0FTE lecturers/senior lecturers (5 women/5 men). One-to-one
 mentoring is available to all staff to ensure bespoke support relating to research matters
 including pre-publication output review, grant-writing and the promotions process. In this REF
 period, D34 has seen the successful promotion of Braber (from senior lecturer to associate
 professor then to professor), Bailey (senior lecturer to associate professor) and Fuggle and
 Poberezhskaya (lecturer to associate professor). This represents five promotions in total, all
 achieved by women. Since REF2014 we have recruited early career academics (ECAs): Coffey-
 Glover, Hardy and Wright to underpin and renew strengths in feminism and discourse analysis,
 forensic linguistics and film studies.

 O’Shaughnessy holds annual Individual Research Planning meetings with staff and the
 School’s ADR ensures that appropriate resources are in place so that individual ambitions may
 be realised. Twice-yearly appraisal meetings monitor the relationship between research and
 other academic responsibilities. Individual Research Plans also identify training needs, and
 delivery is supported by NTU’s Organisational Development department. Exceptional
 achievements in research are recognised through the appraisal process and by internal awards.
 In 2019, Allwood received a Vice Chancellor’s Outstanding Researcher award, an annual
 accolade recognising research excellence.

 Colleagues engaged in ambitious projects are eligible for additional time allocations for research
 and the School’s sabbatical scheme which allowed O’Shaughnessy and Braber, for example,
 to complete monographs. To support early-career researchers in applying for and securing their
 first competitive research grant and/or fellowship from a prestigious research funder, NTU has
 established a ‘Winning Grant Funding’ programme. The programme provides tutelage from
 senior researchers based at NTU and also external to the University. Support provided to
 participants includes peer review and mentoring and monthly masterclasses on proposal
 development, pathways to impact and development of external partnerships. Two Unit members,
 Coffey-Glover and Hardy, have benefitted from the course. The programme is now being
 extended to ensure colleagues have the skills required to manage larger grants as PI.

 Training and supervision of PGR students
 The Doctoral School is the principal support mechanism for the training and supervision of PGR
 students. It works collaboratively with Academic Schools, including each School’s Postgraduate
 Research Tutor. The Doctoral School oversees admissions, selection and registration processes
 and examination arrangements, as well as administering a well-established and robust process
 of annual monitoring for all students. Supervisory arrangements are monitored by the School
 Research Degrees Committee (SRDC). All PGRs are allocated a Director of Studies (DOS) and
 all supervisory teams consist of two to three staff (sometimes drawn from other research units,
 and, in the case of M4C, from other HEIs, to ensure the best possible mix of expertise).

 Regulations require supervisory meetings to be held on average once a month and with the
 whole supervisory team where possible. An independent assessor meets with the student and
 their supervisory teams at the end of each year and at key strategic moments (project approval,
 project transfer) to ensure due progress is being made. The student voice is represented on the

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research degree committees by student representatives. The postgraduate tutor remains in
 close contact with student reps between committee meetings to ensure any problems are
 addressed in a timely fashion. Supervisors are required to update their knowledge of University
 procedures every three years.

 Under the University’s DoctoratePlus Programme, experienced academics and professional
 services staff deliver high-quality core research training and professional development activities
 (Library workshop, Doctoral Research Festival Preparation), a series of electives and support for
 progression, including training for supervisors. These activities have been mapped to the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework (RDF) and the requirements of UK Research Councils and
 the Quality Assurance Agency. Organisational Development at NTU provides additional support
 for the development of PGRs and offers training in university teaching practice. PGRs in D34 are
 offered the opportunity to teach to develop their careers.

 Testimony to the effectiveness of the University’s efforts to improve support, facilities, training
 and opportunities for postgraduate researchers is provided by the 2019 Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey. The overall satisfaction score for NTU students of 82% moved the University
 ahead of the sector average. The score for Arts and Humanities increased from 71% in 2017 to
 80%.

 Equality and diversity (EDI)
 NTU was awarded bronze Athena Swan charter mark in April 2019 and targets a silver
 submission after 2023. Supporting this, the School has established its self-assessment team
 (SAT) and has carried out cultural surveys and started work on data analysis. The Unit is
 represented on the SAT by Coffey-Glover. The School’s Athena Swan champion signposts
 School-level EDI events including International Women’s and Men’s week and LGBT History
 month. The EDI intranet links staff to relevant policies, resources and staff networks. At Unit
 level, staff ensure our research environment is open, respectful, and supportive of all. All
 researchers in D34 have undertaken equality and diversity training. Our research Code of
 Practice ensures staff with responsibility for recruitment (whether staff or PGR) and research
 management undertake unconscious bias training. Our gender balance is very healthy, with 56%
 identifying as female and 44% identifying as male. Five out of seven staff appointed since 2014
 identify as female. There were four promotions to associate professor and one to professor, all
 achieved by colleagues identifying as female and one colleague was funded to undertake the
 Aurora Leadership programme. With two out of five professors women, the Unit is actively
 contributing to NTU’s Athena Swan target to increase the representation of women within the
 NTU professoriate to 35% by 2022.

 Principles relating to research excellence, openness, transparency, equality and diversity, set
 out in the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, underpin NTU’s
 and the Unit’s recruitment and selection procedures, as well as our professional practices more
 broadly. Echoing Principle Six of the Concordat, we believe that research, research
 environments, and the societal contribution made by research benefit from increased equality
 and diversity. Through both the NTU Doctoral School and the M3C/M4C DTP we actualise these
 values and principles. M3C/M4C ‘values the diversity of all research students, stakeholders and
 staff’ and is committed to ‘promoting equality of opportunity and good relations across and
 between the defined equalities groups in all of their activity’.

 If our commitment in this area is exemplified by the clear progress we have demonstrated
 towards achieving gender parity across the Unit, it is also manifest in the way our work engages
 with key EDI challenges. As its name implies, our Research Centre’s work focuses on questions
 of inequality, power and difference as they play out in different cultural and institutional contexts.
 Similarly, as this document and our two ICSs testify, much of our impact work seeks to inflect
 and inform the behaviour of institutions, enable cross-cultural dialogue, challenge stereotyping
 and empower individuals and groups by sharing expertise and enabling the co-production of
 knowledge. Evidence of this commitment and its real-world effectiveness can be found across
 the Unit’s research and impact activity from Allwood’s work promoting gender mainstreaming,

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through Çakirlar’s work on transnational Queer cultures to Wright’s research on on-line
 incitement.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 Research income in REF2014 was £88k from research councils and £1k from charities. This
 time, the Unit has brought in £265k from research councils, nearly £66k from charities, £360k
 from the EU and just under £56k from the UK government and public sector, an eight-fold
 increase overall. Due to the success of mentoring, peer review, the acquisition and sharing of
 experience and the availability of institutional seed-corn funding and grant support, we have
 successfully moved to a broad-based and sustainable long-term funding situation, with a much
 larger number of colleagues bringing in funding and smaller awards leading on to larger bids.

 The larger awards were as follows. Braber and Wright are co-investigators for a Cambridge
 University-led project entitled ‘Improving Voice Identification Procedures’ awarded £872k by the
 ESRC of which £150k will come to NTU. Wright is co-investigator on an inter-disciplinary
 University of Nottingham-led project called, ‘Mapping the Changing Face of Cross-Examination
 in Criminal Trials’ awarded £311k by the Nuffield Foundation. Braber is co-investigator for the
 University of Nottingham -led AHRC Hidden Histories project which was initially worth £655k but
 received subsequent additional awards of £85k and £88k. As part of the project, sums of £8k,
 £9kand £10k were specifically allotted to support her impact activity in Nottingham and
 Chesterfield around Germans in the East Midlands during the Great War. Fuggle was awarded
 an AHRC Early Career Leadership fellowship worth £232k for her work on legacies of French
 penal colonies. McCaffrey is principal investigator for an award of £22k to investigate shifting
 understandings of borders as part of the British Academy’s ‘The Humanities and Social
 Sciences; Tackling the UK’s International Challenges’ scheme. Bailey received £46k of EU
 funding to support her Erasmus+ Artivism project with its different impact activities.
 O’Shaughnessy’s University of Salamanca led Erasmus+ project on European Cinema and
 hospitality was awarded more than 200k euros of which 35k came to NTU. Poberezhskaya
 received £39,358 from the British Council for a researcher links workshop on sustainable energy
 and climate change in Russia. The Unit has also won eleven of the highly competitive AHRC-
 funded M4C bursaries, each worth between £53k and £69k, depending on the year of award. It
 is also proud to have won one of the inaugural M4C collaborative post-doctoral awards worth
 £45k.

 Some examples of smaller awards that paved the way for larger ones or enabled impact and
 engagement activity are as follows. Çakirlar was a collaborator on an Arts Council England
 National Lottery Project Grant of £14k to bring artists and artworks to Nottingham for his House
 of Wisdom project. Braber received £19k from the Heritage Lottery Fund to finance her ‘Dot Hills
 Midlands’ impact work, itself part of her broader project on East Midlands English and pit-talk.
 She was awarded a BA Small Grant of £10k for another part of her pit-talk project, ‘Pit Talk:
 Recording and conserving an endangered community language.’ She received £2k from the
 British Association of Applied Linguistics for another element of her ICS: ‘Charting the East
 Midlands: Engaging the Community in Heritage and Language Projects.’ Braber was awarded a
 British Academy Small Grant of £10k to fund the early stages of the voice identification project
 she later developed with Wright. Wright also received £10k from the BA to devise strategies to
 counter online incitement of violence against women. Fuggle received a BA small grant (£10k)
 for her research on France’s former penal colony in French Guiana. Allwood won a BA /
 Leverhulme award to research forced marriage in France. Lundy received £6k from The
 Sociological Review Foundation as a Seminar Series Grant.

 NTU’s REF5a details the University’s increased investment in research as part of its 2015-2020
 strategy. We have successfully engaged with this strategy and have benefitted from substantial
 levels of institutional funding - £2.7m to the School - to support research, impact activity and
 participation in inter-disciplinary University-wide projects. Investment in the Unit allowed us to
 enhance the impact of Braber’s and Allwood’s ICSs. More broadly, University funding has

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enabled our impact, engagement, and knowledge exchange activities, conference attendance,
 primary research activities (such as archival visits), our research seminar series, and the
 research leave and teaching buy-out vital to the completion of key outputs submitted to the REF
 such as monographs by Braber, O’Shaughnessy or Boulé. The Unit also benefitted from
 considerable funding in the form of the NTU PhD bursaries that, demonstrating the institution’s
 commitment to the renewal of the research base, have brought in five postgraduate researchers.
 Our researchers were also enriched by workshops organised by the University with major
 funding bodies: senior representatives from the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, and the Arts
 Council have visited NTU in recent years, providing our researchers with invaluable insights into
 funding schemes and processes and helping us achieve the step-change in research income
 shown since 2014.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Underscoring the Unit’s belief in the importance and productiveness of academic collaborations
 and the co-production and sharing of knowledge, its researchers participate in an impressive
 array of collaborative research networks with British and International partners.

 For the ‘Hidden Histories’ project Braber collaborates with colleagues from universities including
 Nottingham, UCL and Goldsmiths. She also collaborates regularly with Jansen (University of
 Paderborn, Germany). Allwood was Co-Chair of the US-based Council for European Studies
 Standing Group on Gender and Sexuality and Co-Chair of the European Union strand of the
 European Conference on Politics and Gender until 2018. Bailey worked with colleagues from
 the Elan Interculturel Association (Paris), Complutense University (Madrid), and The Artemisszió
 Foundation (Hungary) for her Artivism project. Coffey-Glover joined with colleagues from
 Liverpool, Sheffield, Leeds, Hull and Sheffield Hallam Universities to form ‘The discourses of
 marriage’ research group whose members co-authored work and organised a conference.
 O’Shaughnessy collaborated with colleagues from the universities of Salamanca (Spain),
 Uppsala (Sweden), Maynooth (Ireland), Graz (Austria) and the UNED, the Spanish Open
 University, to deliver the Hostfilm (migration and hospitality) project. McCaffrey works with
 colleagues from Queens (Belfast) and the Universities of Kent, Zurich and Aberdeen in the
 Critical French Medical Humanities Group. His Irish border project involves collaborations with
 prominent researchers from University College, Dublin and Queens, Belfast. Fuggle is co-
 investigator with a colleague from Ton Duc Thang University in Vietnam on a Newton Mobility
 Exchange grant worth £10K for a project entitled ‘Political Ecologies in Vietnam’ looking at dark
 heritage and ecotourism. Poberezhskaya has co-authored with colleagues from the Open
 University, the University of Exeter, Trinity College Dublin and Manchester Metropolitan
 University. She initiated a collaborative research project with colleagues from University of
 Aberdeen, Pavlodar State University (Kazakhstan) and Altai State University (Russia) on climate
 change discourses in Central Asia. She organized a workshop titled ‘Soviet and Post-Soviet
 Imaginings of Climate’ in 2017 at King’s College, London, an event supported by King’s Russia
 Institute, the British Association of Slavic and East European Studies (BASEES) and the
 Academic Association for Contemporary European Studies (UACES). Wright has academic
 collaborations with researchers from Universities including Cambridge, Oxford, Nottingham,
 Lancaster and Leicester.

 Committed to knowledge co-production and collaboration with civil society and public institutions,
 Unit members have a growing array of non-academic local, national and international external
 partners, some already mentioned. Alexander collaborated with the ex-Secretary General of
 Diplocat (Catalunya’s external diplomatic wing) to analyse the Catalonian independence crisis.
 Braber has a substantial collaboration with Jonnie Robinson, Sociolinguistics Curator at the
 British Library for their work on British regional dialects. Wright collaborates with Spool, UK, a
 Nottingham-based film, television and sound production company. Allwood works with the
 Brussels-based Confederation of International Development NGOs. Fuggle collaborates
 regularly with the Nottingham Contemporary Gallery and was a member of its Academic
 Working Group from 2015 to 2018. She has organised events through the Nottingham Galleries
 of Justice. Her research and impact activity around colonial prisons has involved collaborations

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with museums in French Guiana, New Caledonia and Vietnam. O’Shaughnessy works regularly
 with Nottingham Broadway Cinema and Çakirlar with Primary, a Nottingham gallery. Çakirlar
 has collaborated with galleries in Turkey, Europe and North America, his most recent
 commissions being to collaborate with the Martch Art Project for the ‘Venus in Furs’ exhibition in
 Istanbul and Garage, the contemporary art museum in Moscow.

 Unit members contribute to the maintenance and health of the UK research base. Allwood and
 O’Shaughnessy are Executive and Co-editors respectively for Modern and Contemporary
 France and collection editors for the Liverpool University Press book series by the same name.
 Allwood has been Co-editor for the Journal of Contemporary European Studies and is on the
 editorial board of the European Journal for Politics and Gender. Bailey is on the editorial boards
 of Popular Communication, Communication Theory, Journalism and Education and Intertext.
 Çakirlar is an invited member of the advisory board of the newly founded The Garage Journal:
 Studies in Art, Museums and Culture. Coffey-Glover is on the Journal of Language and
 Discrimination editorial board (2016-present). Lundy co-founded and edits The London Journal
 of Critical Thought, 2016-present and is co-founder and ongoing organizer (since 2012) of the
 London Conference in Critical Thought. Boulé served as Executive Editor for Sartre Studies
 International and is a member of the editorial boards of Autofiction, Contemporary French
 Civilization and Portal. Poberezhskaya is Associate Editor Digital Icons: Studies in Russian,
 Eurasian and Central European New Media and was convenor for the Political Studies
 Association annual conference at Nottingham Trent University in April 2019. Wittel is on the
 editorial boards of The Journal for Peer Production, tripleC, and Media Theory, Wright is book
 reviews editor for Language and Law. Fuggle is on the editorial board of Mimesis International.
 She also mentored two post-doctoral students as part of her AHRC award. McCaffrey is Cultural
 Studies Editor for the French Studies Bulletin.

 Unit members have reviewed series and book proposals and book manuscripts for a range of
 prestigious academic publishers: Bloomsbury, Cambridge University Press, Edinburgh
 University Press, I. B. Tauris, Liverpool University Press, Manchester University Press, Oxford
 University Press, Palgrave, Polity Press, Routledge, Sage, Taylor & Francis, and Wayne State
 University.

 Testimony to the growing esteem and international reputation of Unit members is provided by
 invitations to serve as reviewers for the AHRC and ESRC (Allwood, Braber), the ESRC (Genz),
 the DFG (German Research Council) (Wittel), the British Academy (Heritage, Dignity and
 Violence and Responding to the UK’s International Challenges calls) (Wright and Fuggle
 respectively) and the Austrian Science Fund (Wright). Poberezhskaya was invited to act as an
 expert on the panel for the Open Society Foundation Civil Society Leadership Award in Vilnius,
 Lithuania in 2015, Çakirlar acts as expert and rapporteur for the EU Horizon 2020 scheme and
 has assessed no less than 24 Marie Curie projects. O’Shaughnessy was invited to be an
 external assessor for a Marie Curie Fellowship at Trinity College (Dublin) and an Ipodi fellowship
 at the Technische Universität Berlin.

 Unit members took up prestigious international invitations to teach or to present their research.
 Allwood has been appointed to a visiting professorship at the College of Europe in Bruges, with
 responsibility for co-convening and co-delivering a course entitled ‘Gendering EU External
 Affairs: Towards a more Inclusive Diplomacy?’, as part of the International Relations and
 Diplomacy programme for the academic year 2020-21. The College of Europe trains
 postgraduates for careers in EU institutions, think tanks and NGOs. Poberezhskaya took her
 work on climate change discourse to the Institute for Geography and the Swiss East European
 Library in Bern, the Tyumen State University (Russia) and an academic audience in Moscow.
 Wittel was invited to act as Head of the Department of Anthropology at University of Bremen
 during 2017-2018. Wright delivered a keynote lecture at the Germanic Society for Forensic
 Linguistics annual conference (Graz, Austria). O’Shaughnessy was invited to be part of a panel
 on ‘positive’ cinema organised by the French national film body, the Centre National de la
 Cinématographie, at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival. Lee was invited to be one of the UK
 delegates in the Sino-UK Global Screen Industry Education and Skills Collaboration Pilot

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Programme held at University of Nottingham, Ningbo Campus and in the UK-China Creative
 Challenge workshop, funded by AHRC UK-China Partnership Development Grants Scheme and
 held at Shanghai Jiaotong University and Shanghai Theatre Academy. Alexander was funded
 by the Taiwanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be part of a symposium on Taiwan’s exclusion
 from the World Health Assembly at Aberystwyth University.

 Unit members were also invited to give a range of keynote lectures around the UK. Wright
 delivered a keynote lecture at the Centre for Forensic Linguistics Annual Symposium (Aston
 University). O’Shaughnessy was keynote speaker at the Studies in French Cinema Conference
 at King’s College, London in 2014. McCaffrey gave keynote presentations at Queens, Belfast
 and the Institute for Modern Language Research in London. Çakirlar gave a keynote on queer
 art in the new autocracies at a symposium at Goldsmiths organised by the London-based Queer
 Art Projects and funded by Arts Council England.

 Braber gave papers for the AHRC at Senate House London and the British Library. She also
 spoke at York St John, Leicester, Newcastle and Sheffield Hallam universities as well as giving
 talks to Pinxton Working Men’s Club, Nottingham and the D. H. Lawrence Society. Çakirlar gave
 invited papers at CRASSH, University of Cambridge, the Ludwig-Maximilian University of Munich
 and Haus der Kunst, Munich, and the Kuenstlerhaus, Stuttgart. Lee was invited to give papers at
 The Korean Screen Culture Conference, Sheffield Hallam University, The AHRC Chinese Film
 Festival Studies Research Network Workshop, University of Hong Kong, The Korean Screen
 Culture Conference, University of Copenhagen, The East Asian Media Studies Conference.
 Harvard University, USA, The Chinese Cinema in Global Context Conference, University of
 Idaho, USA. Lundy was invited to give papers at the University of Dundee, (twice), Leuphana
 University, Luneburg, Germany, Goldsmiths, University of London, Deakin University, Australian
 Catholic University, University of Wollongong, Oxford University, and The University of
 Queensland. Wittel was invited to deliver papers at The University of Lüneburg, Post-Media
 Lab, The Goethe Institute, Teilen und Tauschen (twice), The University of Frankfurt, by the
 German Cultural Studies Association, The University of Frankfurt and The University of Warwick.
 Poberezhskaya was invited to speak by the Royal Geographical Society and at the University of
 Cambridge. Wright has given invited papers at the universities of Mosul (Iraq), Santiago (Chile),
 Basel (Switzerland) as well as at Portsmouth, Nottingham, Huddersfield, Manchester
 Metropolitan and Lancaster Universities, and the Institute of Forensic Linguistics at Aston
 University. O’Shaughnessy gave invited papers at the Sorbonne, Leeds, Limerick, Liverpool,
 London Birkbeck, Uppsala, Sheffield, and Babelsberg (Berlin). Fuggle has been invited to speak
 at RMIT (Melbourne), New York University Paris Campus, Nottingham and Liverpool
 Universities, Canterbury Christchurch and Ton Duc Thang University (Vietnam). Alexander was
 invited to give a paper at Amnesty International (London) on Taiwan’s public diplomacy.

 The Unit’s strength finds expression less in any individual achievement than in this rich array of
 collaboration and what it represents in terms of the co-production and sharing of research.




                                                                                             Page 13
