Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Plymouth

Unit of Assessment: UoA 28 History

1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

A. Context and Structure

Research on History at Plymouth is developed within a unit of 11.5 FTE scholars
contained within the School of Humanities and Performing Arts, all of whom are on T&R
contracts, which represents 100% submission of staff within the subject. Throughout the
census period, the unit’s research was conducted within a thriving interdisciplinary
environment under the aegis of the Arts and Humanities Research Institute (AI) which
supported the research activities of more than 200 academics across the disciplines of
History and Art History, English and Creative Writing, Theatre, Dance, Performance and
Music, Art, Design and Architecture. The AI fostered and enhanced research excellence
and reputation in the Arts and Humanities at Plymouth by supporting and promoting
strategic partnerships, collaborations and networking, and sponsoring cross-faculty and
cross-university research initiatives in which History played a crucial role. With the
expansion of the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business (which now includes law and
business schools and an education institute) these research structures were devolved to
the Faculty in summer 2020 and are overseen by the ADR (Daybell) to facilitate further
collaborative synergies across research, impact and KE.

History at Plymouth has an established tradition of internationally recognised research
excellence in the fields of social and cultural history – which broadly defined within our unit
encompasses expertise in early modern religion, gender and sexuality, Victorian and
twentieth-century British society, politics, crime and law; modern labour history, popular
politics, modern US politics and civil rights – as well as in modern political, maritime,
military and diplomatic history, the British Empire and modern Japan. Since 2014, the
profile of the unit has been strengthened by the recruitment of high-calibre researchers
that broaden our expertise in important ways in Heritage and Eighteenth-Century
Architectural History, Oral History, Maritime History, Archives and Digital Humanities
(Halewood and Emmett). Post REF 2014 the unit made a strategic decision to develop
areas of specialism in heritage with the appointment at Professorial level (Maudlin), the
setting up of an interdisciplinary heritage hub, Cornerstone Heritage (which encompasses
oral and public history), as well as an income-generating consultancy arm and public
engagement arm, Cornerstone Praxis. Further strategic development was achieved in
archives and Digital Humanities (through a formal partnership with The Box, a multi-
million-pound state-of-the-art development of the Plymouth City Museum and local
archives that sits adjacent to campus, a relationship that encompasses shared space and
a jointly run professional MA in archival management) and maritime history (funded by
long-term investment from a Charitable Trust). The unit invested in these key research
priorities to drive research and impact strategy and develop local, national and
international collaborations, nurture PGR and ECR researchers, facilitate external
partnerships and grant capture and to build sustainability into impactful research.

The relatively small size of the unit, which operates within a large-scale
interdisciplinary research environment, allows for a collegiate and supportive research
environment that celebrates and hones excellence, an effectiveness that is distanced from
the corporate factory-like approach of many places. As a result of these initiatives research
is undertaken in a supportive, dynamic and truly interdisciplinary and collaborative
                                                                                        Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
environment, which has produced substantial results. As a submitting unit of 11.5 scholars,
we produced more than 14 books, 29 edited books or special editions of journals, 47
book chapters and 28 journal articles during the assessment period. Also, staff gave
more than 70 papers at international conferences and research seminars and organised
more than 12 international conferences. Between us, we edit four book series and two
peer-reviewed journals; are home to three major collaborative projects; and have formal
relationships with over 15 national and international HEIs and 6 public bodies. Our strategy
to target non-UKRI sources of funding delivered in excess of £3,500,000 of collaborative
research grants and consultancy income in addition to over £250,000 traditional grant
income, and £300,000-600,000 over a 10 to 20-year period from a charitable trust to fund
maritime history.

B. Research Strategy

The Research strategy since REF 2014 has been to enhance our position as a unit of
international standing by building on the foundations of what was identified by the panel as
a ‘strong’ unit for its size, developing research support for all staff including ECRs, and
implementing policies and initiatives aimed at improving PGR numbers, grant income and
collaborations in line with our strategic aims set out in 2014.

Our strategy has been to:

   •   develop a supportive and intellectually stimulating research environment,
       ensuring the continued production of high-quality outputs, the supervision of PGR
       students, the inducting and development of new members of staff, and ensuring the
       successful retention and strong career development of top-quality researchers;
   •   shift the unit towards a stronger research orientation through the appointment of
       high-calibre junior and senior researchers to strengthen our research profile;
   •   enhance long-term research planning and effectively manage research leave;
   •   increase research income from traditional and non-UKRI sources, and to increase
       PGR numbers;
   •   develop and foster collaborations internally, as well as with other universities and
       external bodies locally, nationally and internationally;
   •   to enhance the visibility and profile of our research.

The following initiatives were implemented at subject, school and faculty level to
deliver this strategy in line with the university’s key research objectives:

1) the establishment in 2016 of a cross-disciplinary Arts and Humanities Research
Institute (AI), which was home to more than 200 academics. The AI generated important
economies of scale and is a highly visible organisation with a mission to promote and
maximise the impact of world-leading research across and between disciplines at the
University of Plymouth. Capitalising on the diverse strengths of our research and networks,
it occupied a central position regarding future research development, funding initiatives,
impact, KE and public engagement. With the expansion of the FoAHB, these structures
were devolved to the faculty in 2020 to achieve greater synergies in collaborative
research.

2) with the gravitational-pull towards institutes, the Humanities and Performing Arts
research centre (HuMPA) was replaced by a school research committee that functions
to support and coordinate research planning across the school, monitor KPIs for outputs,
PGR numbers, grants and research income; and to allow for the strategic deployment of

                                                                                     Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
QR funding at local level, enabling efficient financial planning and management in the
support of research and impact activities;

3) the recruitment of high calibre scholars of international research standing in the
fields of maritime, and naval history (Halewood joined us from Oxford and Yale); archives
and digital humanities (Emmett joined us from Oxford, York and Queen Mary) and in
eighteenth-century architecture and heritage (Maudlin was a professorial appointment);

4) continued monitoring of workload scheme which supports research priorities;

5) enhancing in History of structures for mentoring and research planning and
management, with mentor training delivered by an external consultancy, and working
closely with two members of staff not returned in the last REF to support and develop their
research careers, including early sabbaticals;

6) continued support of competitive sabbatical scheme for all research-active staff to
enable dedicated research time every four years for the production of monographs, impact
case studies and grant applications;

7) use of internal and university strategic development grants (mirroring funding council
procedures and paperwork) to grow a stronger bidding culture, and to nurture pilot projects
seeking external funding, with separate funding streams targeted towards conference
organisation and attendance, collaborative projects, research trips and related expenses,
and impact;

8) increased training in grant writing for all staff, including ECRs (including externally run
workshops run by Parker-Derrington Associates); close liaison with Research and
Innovation at Plymouth to foster collaborative bids and develop research groupings
directed at funding calls, including monthly drop-in grant surgeries; the creation of a bank
of successful grant applications, which are available to all staff as models for future bids;
regular updates on funding opportunities and research council developments; and a
monthly research e-newsletter to disseminate news of outputs, projects, grants, awards
and conferences;

9) the development of faculty-wide teaching studentships to increase PGR numbers;

10) workshops, away-days and R&I facilitated sandpit events aimed at identifying
potential collaborative projects with other universities, public sector bodies and other
external bodies;

11) foundation of a Research Leadership Programme run in partnership with an external
consultancy. This began in History to develop talent within the unit, and now because of its
initial success has been extended to the whole university as a flagship training programme
situated within R&I.

C. Impact Strategy

Impact is an integral part of the regular working-practices of all historians within the unit,
and resource and effort has been concentrated to develop this area of our research
because it is an area in which we can excel as a concentrated unit of research excellence.
Since 2014, a major strategy for impact within the history team at Plymouth has been the
realignment of our impact-related research towards heritage, public history and oral

                                                                                       Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
history, with the development of a hub, Cornerstone Heritage. Directed by Maudlin and
Daybell, Cornerstone acts as the University of Plymouth's research centre in cultural
heritage – how we live with, use and understand the past through things, spaces, traditions
and memory. As part of a group of 30 academics, historians exchange ideas and form new
partnerships across the fields of heritage studies, art history, history, architecture,
business, tourism, geography, 3D and graphic design, and digital technologies. We work in
co-production with our partner organisations – museums, galleries, historic sites and
landscapes – to develop new projects, test ideas and prototypes and produce new
research (e.g., with Powderham Castle, impact case study 2, the Vasa museum and the
V&A, and UNESCO Cornish Mining Landscapes). With the support of faculty funding, we
host a range of activities that include network events, visiting speakers, research
showcases, and an annual postgraduate symposium hosted by the National Trust at
Saltram House. Cornerstone Heritage is also home to Cornerstone Praxis our heritage
research-practice unit, which was set up as a public engagement hub and consultancy arm
which is also the institutional home of Daybell’s public history brand Histories of the
Unexpected (impact case study 1), as well as Plymouth’s Oral History Hub (run by
Aoki). Moreover, Cornerstone Praxis benefits from strong institutional support in terms of
locally allocated HEIF funding to help promote its activities and cover the salary costs of a
manager to run it.

History also benefits from sitting within The Bridge, a new faculty research initiative for
open innovation and knowledge exchange, designed to increase the growth, productivity
and resilience of the Creative Economy in the South West. The Bridge supports
collaborative research, development and innovation; develops opportunities for impact,
knowledge transfer and knowledge exchange; fosters new connections, partnerships and
collaborations; provides access to funding opportunities and helps academics to increase
the visibility, profile and impact of their research, and has attracted approximately
£2,000,000 worth of funding since 2019. Directed by our faculty business partner and
overseen by the ADR (Daybell), and with a dedicated team of advisers, the Bridge is a
catalyst for collaborative impact-related research activities and is part of the South West
Creative Technology Network (£6.3m), iMayflower (£5.9m), and Cultivator European
Regional Development Fund (£3.3m). As a gateway to link academic research to
individuals, businesses and the community, this initiative has led to fruitful relationships
with a range of local user-groups, including Real Ideas Organisation, the Box, the Octopus
Project in Devonport, and The Elizabethan House.

Context

The main non-academic user-groups, beneficiaries and audiences for the unit’s
research are wide-ranging. They comprise heritage organisations (e.g. National Trust,
English Heritage, Powderham Castle (impact case study 2), Rame Head Peninsula,
UNESCO World Mining Landscape, Plymouth City Council to develop Mayflower 2020
Heritage Trails, Place House in Fowey, Stenton House in Philadelphia in the USA), local
history societies (Plymouth Historical Association, Friends of Devon Archives, Richard III
Society, Devon and Cornwall Record Society) and local and national archives, libraries,
galleries and museums (Victoria and Albert Museum, Vasa Museum, Stockholm, Galt
Museum and Archives, British Library, The Box Plymouth, Devon Heritage Centre, Royal
Albert Memorial Museum, Plymouth Proprietary Library, Britannia Naval College, Bodleian
Library, British Library, The National Archives and Dr Williams’s Centre for Dissenting
Studies). The unit’s research is also used by local, national and international charities
and cultural organisations (The Philip Nicholas Trust, Plymouth Pride, Barnardo’s,
Nikkei Cultural Society of Lethbridge, Nikka Yuko Japanese Canadian Centennial

                                                                                      Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Garden). Finally, user-groups also include local and national media, radio, TV and film
(BBC1, BBC4, Radio 4, Keo Films, Discovery History, Longbow Productions); as well as
local councils, organisations and international institutions (e.g., Plymouth City
Council, the Royal Navy, Swedish Royal Court, and Royal Court in the Netherlands) and
policy-related think tanks (Phoenix Think Tank).

As a unit, we actively seek wider dissemination of our research through a series of impact
pathways, for purposes of public engagement and knowledge transfer to achieve impact
by contributing to civil society and cultural life. Our impact is co-produced with and for the
benefit of community groups, including working with LGBT+ groups (e.g. with Pride in
Plymouth at Powderham, with the LGBT+ research group at the V&A on Daybell’s AHRC-
project ‘Gendered Interpretations of the V&A and Vasa Museums’, and Maudlin’s HLF-
funded Rainbow Connections project with Pride in Plymouth and Barnardo’s), with
disability charities (The Mede, Tophsam, a local provider of dementia care and activities;
Living Options Devon, a local advocacy and campaign group for disabled people, which is
currently undertaking an HLF project ‘Heritage ability’ to expand access to heritage sites in
the South West) and Devon Gardens Trust.

Approach to impact

1) An important aspect of the unit’s approach has been to emphasize six main pathways
to impact in order to disseminate our research to a diverse range of non-academic users
and to foster mutually beneficial relationships with external bodies to develop impact from
our research that is intentional as well as serendipitous. Staff disseminate their work i)
through public lectures and events; ii) to our network of local schools and colleges; iii) to
local history societies, museums, heritage sites and archives; iv) via the media,
documentaries and film; v) through websites, podcasts and other social media e.g.,
Histories of the Unexpected; and vi) through exhibitions e.g., Mayflower 2020.

2) The History public lecture series run by Peninsula Arts (renamed in 2018 as the Arts
Institute), the University’s cultural umbrella organisation, is vital to the dissemination of the
unit’s research to non-academic audiences and to foster links with local history groups and
societies, such as the Historical Association, Plymouth Proprietary Library.

3) Our strategy to develop relationships and networks with external partners ranging
from historical societies; libraries, museums, and archives; as well as local properties and
charities, includes:

    • staff forge links through committee work for local historical societies and
       organisations, e.g., Historical Association (Daybell/Gregory), Friends of Devon
       Archives and Council of the Devon and Cornwall Record Society (Daybell);
       Bennett is trustee of the historical books, manuscripts and artefacts for Britannia
       Naval Museum Trust;
    • History hosts an annual local history networking day, aimed at engaging with
       local societies, businesses and institutions, e.g. Lest We Forget project at Oxford;
    • we have actively sought to build relationships with archives, institutions and
       potential user groups alongside grant applications for research projects. At a
       national level, we have worked with the National Trust, Historic Houses
       Association, the British Library, the National Archives, the Royal Maritime Museum
       and the Bodleian Library.
    • externally-funded projects have also developed international partnerships with
       HEIs, museums and heritage organisations generating impact for research. The

                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     AHRC ‘Gender, Power and Materiality in Early Modern Europe, 1500-1800’
     network grant and AHRC ‘Gendered Interpretations of the V&A and Vasa
     Museums’ projects (Daybell) developed links with the V&A, Museum of London,
     and the Worshipful Company of Glovers; in Sweden, Skarhults kulturminne, the
     Vasa Museum and the National Archive (Riksarkivet), Stockholm; and in The
     Netherlands, The Koninklijke Bibliotheek in The Hague, the Museum Catharijne
     Convent Utrecht, and The Hague Historical Museum. The ‘Nikkei Memory Capture
     Project – Narrating Japanese Canadian inter-racial relationships in southern
     Alberta during the postwar’ (funded by Social Sciences and Humanities Research
     Council, Canada) developed collaborations with the University of Lethbridge and
     Nikkei Cultural Society of Lethbridge.
   • Finally, staff contribute to the current debate on policy-making and public
     discourse (e.g., Bennett’s work with Phoenix Think Tank).

Support of impact

The unit has sought to build a strong culture of impact across the team in several key
ways:

1) mentoring on pathways of impact is a key component of research mentoring at all
levels, from early career researchers to more experienced colleagues; this is provided by
the research coordinator and our professorial consultant;

2) a pathway to impact statement is an integral part of all personal research plans and
internal funding forms, similar to UKRI requirements;

3) staff have attended impact training and workshops organised at the school, faculty
and university level, including by Fast Track Impact;

4) staff have attended national impact awareness/training events and reported back to all
colleagues to build expertise and share knowledge across the entire unit;

5) relationships with external partners have been sponsored by internal funding at a
university level, which has been directed towards projects between the University of
Plymouth and local non-HEI partners (including Theatre Alibi in Exeter to develop an oral
history project, May 2020)

6) At the faculty and university level, History is supported by a dedicated impact team,
which aims to supports each stage of impact from incubation, mapping of pathways,
evidence gathering and audit, to development, monitoring and writing of case studies;

7) University PR specialists help develop media plans for impact case studies, acting as
important conduits for public dissemination of our research in local and national media,
and production of films as legacy outputs.

8) Finally, the University has invested in market-leading VV-Tracker Impact Software to
identify, capture, and archive evidence of resulting impacts, and facilitate follow-up
activities.

Relationship to case studies

The case studies were selected to reflect best practice across the researchers in the unit

                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and are based on research developed over almost two decades in each case. They also
reflect the degree to which the research within the unit has an impact not only at a local
level (on the cultural life and civil society nationally, and in the South West region) but also
at a national and international level on debates of heritage and public history. The case
studies reflect an important element of our impact strategy and are exemplary of wider
practice in relation to impact demonstrated across the entire team.

Future Research and Impact Strategy, 2021-2026

The unit is currently working on a five-year research strategy for the period 2021-2026.
All members of staff currently have in place a five-year research plan geared towards the
next REF. Major research projects (aimed at delivering monographs and other outputs,
and generating collaborations, impact and grants) are planned on early modern gloves
(Daybell), transatlantic inns and Georgian architecture (Maudlin), naval libraries and
reading culture (Bennett), Victorian mercy (Gregory), Anglo-Scottish printing (Emmett)
African American GIs in Northern Ireland (Topping), Japanese-Canadians in Western
Canada, 1949-88 (Aoki), early modern women and the sea (Murphy); German colonies in
the Pacific (Barkhof), and popular politics in Ireland in the 1920s (Fitzpatrick), Huguenot
refugees (Tucker) and grand strategy (Halewood). As a part of this planning process, we
are beginning to anticipate longer-term post-REF strategy for further building of the unit
into maturity. Our strategic aims are to increase grant capture through a faculty-based
peer review college system made up of colleagues who sit on UKRI peer review colleges;
increase recruitment of PGR through a new Teaching Assistantship scheme and a new
suite of PGT programmes; to foster interdisciplinary research by engaging as a unit with
cross-cutting research clusters at faculty and university level, and to enhance our outward-
facing long-term collaborations and partnerships of regional, national and global reach.
Finally, restructuring within the faculty in 2021 will bring History together with Art History,
Politics and International Relations, which will enable interdisciplinary research
collaborations, and the development of strengths in maritime, heritage, oral history and
archives, and modern history.

The unit’s goals and plans for support for impact from research in the future are:

1) working through the Bridge and Cornerstone Heritage we aim to strengthen and
broaden our range of collaborations with external partners and develop new ways of
targeting widening users-groups and identifying their research needs;

2) to continue developing an active engagement with the impact agenda across the unit,
by continuing to develop the wider dissemination of our research through our pathways to
impact. This will be developed through training programmes (provided by the Faculty for
new and current staff members), research mentoring, and will be overseen by the research
coordinator and individual progress in the area of impact will be assessed as part of the
appraisal process;

3) to develop a new suite of impact development and measurement tools for capturing
and recording impact data, taking advantage of university-wide initiatives and support but
also embedding audit procedures as an everyday-part of individuals’ research;

In addition to the two long-term impact case studies, we are developing several next-
generation case studies: 1) A meta-case study of Cornertsone Heritage, 2) Gendered
Interpretations of Museums in collaboration with the V&A and Vasa Museums which stems
from two AHRC-funded projects directed by Daybell 3) Aoki’s research-based oral history

                                                                                         Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
project on Japanese internment camps in Canada during WWII investigates and archives
the experiences of Japanese Canadians as a result of this policy; Murphy’s women and
the sea project in collaboration with the Royal Navy and community-based groups in
Devonport.

2. People

A. Staffing strategy and staff development

Staff development in research takes place at various levels, supporting academics at each
stage of their career in order to aid progression and facilitate research succession and
retention. We operate a confidential mentoring system for all staff, with ECRs and new
researchers assigned an appropriate mentor on joining the team. All colleagues produce a
detailed personal research plan, have regular discussions with the research coordinator
and head of subject, facilitating planning of sabbaticals and time management. Progress in
research is monitored on a termly basis by the research coordinator as well as through a
formal annual appraisal system (PDR). Experienced staff peer review the work of less
experienced colleagues, provide advice on publications, responding to readers' reports,
drafting research bids and prioritization. As part of these systems the unit has developed
the research profile and careers of two members relatively inexperienced in research not
returned in REF 2014, but who have greatly benefitted from the robust research mentoring
and support offered within our compact and vibrant research community. Research away
days aimed at training and development are held at Subject, School and Faculty levels,
and the staff development budget is held at a school level, which allows for flexible funding
sources to service our staff development requirements. The Faculty organises and delivers
a wide programme of training (catering for people at all stages of their careers from PGR
to Professor), which extends from supervisory training, REF strategy, impact and Open
Access through working with museums to grant writing, publication, social media and
presenting research on the TV and radio, and podcasts. All colleagues have access to and
make regular use of a wealth of research expertise beyond the unit, including a
professorial research consultant employed by the school (who has been instrumental in
advising on successful bids and in assisting to develop collaborative projects), dedicated
members of the university’s research and innovation unit, who advise on grants,
collaborations, project management and impact.

In recent years, the University has developed a Research Leadership Programme,
which began in History (led by Daybell in his role as Director of the Faculty Research
Institute). This began as a research report on the state of research leadership training
within the sector, and a day-long symposium on ‘Research Leadership in the Arts and
Humanities’ (2017). Working with HR and with DVCR support, Daybell succeeded in
establishing a university-wide pilot Research Leadership Programme, which ran in
summer 2018 delivered by the external providers Barefoot Training. This year-long
programme consisted of an intensive three-day summer course, followed up by four half-
day workshops, and a series of one-to-one meetings with the instructors across the year.
Several members of the History attended the year-long course, designed to develop
leadership ‘projects’ and are now RL champions for the Faculty, including Emmett (female
and ECR).

Clear procedures operate for career progression of all staff. Applications for promotion are
considered annually at the faculty and university level. Career development (with an eye to
promotion criteria) is an important part of the mentoring and Professional Development
Review (PDR) structures in place for ECRs and other staff. Within the UoA Tingle was

                                                                                      Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
appointed to a chair in 2015, and Murphy and Gregory promoted to Associate Professor
in 2017 and 2018.

Our staffing strategy has aimed to produce a balanced unit, central to which has been the
recruitment, development, and support of new ECRs with a mind to succession planning
and career advancement. As part of the unit’s strategy to grow research excellence,
significant support is provided to ECRs, who receive a lighter teaching load in their first
year, an extra 50 hours of research allowance (delivered via workload allocation) per year
for their first two years in post and are encouraged to apply for a term-long sabbatical
leave to be taken in their second or third year. On arrival, ECRs are assigned a ‘buddy’ in
addition to a research mentor to aid acculturation to the demands of teaching and
research. ECRs have regular meetings with the research coordinator, and our professorial
research consultant as appropriate to discuss strategic planning. During the probationary
period they experience regular progress review and professional development meetings
with the subject leader and head of school, and an ECR representative from History
served on the school research centre for two years. Recruitment of new members of staff
within the subject follows university-wide equal opportunities guidelines. A workload
allocation model administered by the subject leader allows for an equal distribution of
duties across the entire team, which supports all colleagues’ research and provides an
open and fair structure that recognises merit and aims at building capacity across the unit.
The Faculty runs an ECR network, which brings together researchers from across the
faculty several times a term, with the aim of creating a forum for ECR issues, and targeting
developmental needs.

Plymouth has fully implemented the expectations of the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers, and members of the unit engage fully with
Concordat requirements: contract researchers are inducted into the department; mentored
by the project PI and encouraged to record their Continuing Professional Development
activities in a developmental log. Project review meetings are two-weekly; monthly
progress reports produced by the PI are monitored by the School Research Committee
quarterly. Developmental review meetings are held monthly with the PI, and quarterly with
the Head of School. Researchers on fixed-term contracts are members of the University’s
researcher forum and receive guidance on career options, feedback on applications and
CVs, and support with interview preparation. The University Doctoral College also runs
developmental workshops for postdoctoral and EC Researchers on all aspects of
professional practice, which researchers in History regularly attend. Plymouth was among
the first 35 European HEIs to receive the EU HR Excellence for Researchers kitemark.
The unit actively seeks to support the career progression of its postdoctoral research
fellows. Temporary staff are similarly inducted, enjoying regular review and mentoring
meetings, support and training, and are eligible to apply for internal funding to support
research trips and conferences.

B. Research Students

Research students in History are members of an intellectually vibrant cross-disciplinary
postgraduate community with the Faculty, which is home to more than 450 PGR students,
overseen at university-level by the Doctoral College. The organisation of training and
research environment by the faculty-level Deputy Director of the Doctoral College aims
to facilitate doctoral work across disciplines by fostering rigorous and genuinely enriching
PGR training, in line with national and international best practice and guidelines; to provide
support for supervisors and research groups and build on the developing international
profile of our doctoral training expertise in order to compete successfully for externally

                                                                                       Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
funded studentships. A comprehensive programme of research training is provided to
PGRs by a multi-disciplinary team of more than 30 staff, enhanced by subject specialist
training within History, and supplemented by professional development workshops run by
the Doctoral College. Postgraduate students are fully integrated into a rich research
culture of specialist seminars, conferences, public lectures and reading groups at the
subject, school and faculty level. Doctoral students are active members of the History
research group and trans-disciplinary research strands within the faulty. History PGRs are
provided with a Director of Studies and at least one other supervisor, with whom they work
closely in developing their projects. Supervisory team members are active researchers
within their field and well-placed to provide relevant support. All students have access to a
workspace including a desk, lockable space for personal items, computing (a personal
netbook), printing and photocopying facilities, and funds each year for photocopying and
printing, to attend conferences and for archival visits. Students are also encouraged to
practise presenting papers at the History research seminar series and to gain experience
of undergraduate teaching (working closely with an academic mentor whom they work-
shadow and who observes their teaching) to enhance their professional development.

Over the last five years, History has begun to build doctoral capacity in the areas of
early modern and modern social history, heritage, maritime and twentieth-century political
and military history. We currently have 7 PhD students working on projects within these
various strands. Since REF 2014, we have had 14 PhD completions in History.
Monitoring of students’ progress is enabled by Gradbook, in line with Doctoral College
regulations; training needs are monitored from the point of enrolment to the completion of
the project following national Guidelines. Training in the identified skills is provided by the
Doctoral College (generic skills); the Faculty (via a credit-rated research training module
for students in the arts and humanities and staff/student research clusters); and by the
subject (specific skills development related to historical practices). The Doctoral College
provides myriad courses, workshops, and training events throughout the academic year,
which are regularly taken up by History students. The programme of events has been
carefully constructed to meet AHRC Skills Training Requirements. History offers
postgraduate workshops on skills development, publication and future careers, and assists
them in gaining experience working on impact and KE projects as part of career
development. A recent success story from our doctoral cohort is Emmett, who on
completing her PhD at Plymouth in 2013 secured posts at Oxford, York, and Queen Mary
before her appointment as lecturer in 2017.

C. Equality and Diversity

The unit is committed to equality, diversity and inclusion in all its forms, and has
implemented and benefits from University-wide EDI protocols and procedures, which
support, enable and empower all colleagues without discrimination. These comprehensive
support structures ensuring a demographically balanced team and parity in terms of
recruitment, levels of posts and promotions, workload, mentoring and access to funding,
support and expertise. It is standard HR policy for all interview panels to retain a gender
balance, for members to receive an intensive training programme in equality and diversity,
and all members of staff regularly complete on-line training modules on equal opportunities
and unconscious bias. Maudlin and Grey served on the Faculty Equality and Diversity
Committee and were responsible for the school winning an Athena Swan bronze award in
2020, and its implementation and monitoring. Equality and diversity are a standing agenda
item for History meetings, which facilitates periodic review to ensure that no groups have
been disadvantaged. The unit acknowledges the importance of equal access for all staff to
conference funding, sabbaticals, and an equitable workload. The gender balance of staff

                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
within the unit is 4/7 (F/M), with leadership roles held in equal proportion by men and
women. The university-wide women researchers forum offers mentoring for female
researchers; while within the unit, careful mentoring and support has led to the
development of the research trajectories of two female members of staff who were not
returned in the previous REF exercise. The unit lacks BAME staff (8% overall) and is
committed to addressing this lack of diversity through recruitment; however, while much of
the unit is white British (58%), there is cultural diversity within the team, which comprises
42% international staff. Moreover, an ethos of inclusion underpins everything we do in
History, from organisational matters, such as ensuring diversity and balance in
membership of committees, speakers for research seminars and conferences, promotion
and training opportunities and implementing many of the recommendations of RHS Race
Ethnicity and Equality, and LGBT+ and Gender Equality Reports; restructuring teaching
and research as part of decolonising the curriculum; to our research and external
collaborations and partnerships which focus on issues of gender, sexuality, race and social
inclusion as exemplified by our LGBTQ project Rainbow Connections with Plymouth Pride
and Barnardo’s.

3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

The unit was awarded over £250,000 in research income over the duration of the REF
census period and has partnered on successful grants or consultancy contracts worth
approximately £3,500,000, as a result of strategically targeting non-UKRI funding. Among
research funding awarded to multiple grants winners Aoki received funding for his project
‘Nikkei Memory Capture Project – Narrating Japanese Canadian inter-racial relationships
in southern Alberta during the postwar’ (Social Sciences and Humanities Research
Council Insight Grant, CDN $143,856; Nikkei Cultural Society of Lethbridge and Area
Grant, CDN$5500; Centre for Oral History and Tradition Award, CDN$5000, Community of
Research Excellence Development Opportunities Grant, 2017-2020); Daybell was
awarded an AHRC Network Grant for a project entitled ‘Gender, Power and Materiality in
Early Modern Europe’ in collaboration with an international CI, Professor Svante Norrhem
at Lund University, Sweden (2015-17), and AHRC follow-on funding (also with Norrhem)
for the ‘Gendered Interpretations at the Victoria & Albert Museum and the Vasa Museum’
project (2018-19); Maudlin was awarded a Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship:
The Inn and the Traveller in the Atlantic World (£128,526); the John D. Rockefeller
Fellowship, Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, Colonial Williamsburg, 2016; HEIF funding
to set up Cornerstone Praxis (£10,000, 2019); Mayflower Heritage Trails, National
Mayflower Partnership, Plymouth City Council (£1.5 million public realm and digital
interpretation, 2018-19); HEIF, Cornerstone Praxis (£29,950, 2018); HLF, Rame Peninsula
Heritage Gateway (£248,000), HLF, Tavistock: Our Story: Tavistock Townscape Heritage
Initiative (£3000, 2016), Tavistock Heritage, Trust, Cornish Mining World Heritage
Gateway Centre (Heritage Lottery Fund, £1.65 million, 2016-18); Murphy was awarded a
Beinecke Library Yale University Edith and Richard French Fellowship (2016) and Caird
Research Fellowship, National Maritime Museum, Greenwich (2016-2017). All of these
grants benefited from external advice and internal support given to the UoA in the form of
grant workshops, surgeries with UoP’s R&I Directorate, and seed-corn funding to stimulate
research activity.

The History Research Group was an integral part of the Arts and Humanities Research
Institute, which supported the sustainability and long-term planning of the work of more
than 200 academics across the school of Humanities and Performing Arts. With the
creation of a new Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business, which includes researcher
being submitted in 9 UOAs (13, 17, 18, 20, 23, 27, 28, 32, 33), the environmental

                                                                                     Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
structures of the AI were repatriated to the faculty to allow for effective economies of scale
and vital synergies between cognate subjects. The faculty research environment fosters
a lively interdisciplinary culture, hosting seminars (including termly History research
seminars), international conferences, and postdoctoral and visiting international research
fellows and professors, and collaborations, public engagement and impact through the
Bridge (see section 1). It supports several formal research clusters, including ‘Cornerstone
Heritage’ and informal cross-disciplinary groupings in nineteenth-century studies. A
balance of Subject level, School and Faculty Strategy and Research committees facilitate
cross-fertilization of discipline level strategies. These are reviewed on an annual basis and
inform the overall plan developed by the Research Coordinator which is inflected by
School, Faculty and University-level strategy. Research strategy is also co-ordinated
across the FoAHB by the ADR (Daybell) and Faculty Research Committee. The research
coordinator for History has overall managerial responsibility for research, being advised by
the Head of Subject and senior management team and working closely with the School
research committee. Procedures are in place to ensure quality maintenance in research
grant applications, which is overseen by the research co-ordinator and Faculty Grants
Peer Review College Mentor: University procedures require that bids are peer-reviewed,
risk assessed and signed off by a member of the costing team, Head of School and Dean.
A further key aspect of research governance is the implementation of a university-wide
code of good practice in research, which outlines protocols of ethics and professional
practice which the unit closely follows. Research activities are a standing item for History
meetings, which in addition to away-days allows all academic members of staff to discuss
specific items. This encourages collective ownership of reviewing strategy, responding to
staff needs, and mapping future activities.

The organisation of research activities under the umbrella of the School Research
Committee allows for direct financial control facilitating flexible directing of resources
targeted in accordance with research strategies and enabling effective management of
research leave. Members of History can apply for a term of sabbatical leave every four
years, with ECRs given priority within their first two to three years. The School Research
Committee holds a pot of funds (c.£40K p.a.) to support conferences, research trips,
publication costs, and collaborative research initiatives. This competitive internal funding is
managed mirroring AHRC application procedures and reporting to grow a stronger bidding
culture across the school. Within this institutional framework History is supported by the
University’s R&I Office, which advises on grants; and enjoys strong administrative support
for conference organisation, PGR support, funding and grant applications. The faculty is
housed within £30m state-of-the-art Faculty of Arts building, with History occupying offices
in a well-maintained building across campus. The Seale Hayne Library is a well-supported
research library for History, with substantial printed and on-line resources, and a rare
books collection, which support staff scholarship. History has a dedicated subject
specialist, is allocated c.£50K p.a. (2014-2020) for purchase of books and online
resources, and virtually unlimited ILL provision. History staff also have access to affiliated
libraries and institutions, including Plymouth Propriety Library (which houses the Halliwell
Phillips MSS and rare books collection), the collection at Britannia Naval College, and to
nearby archives at Antony House, Port Eliot, Powderham and Saltram. Furthermore,
History is an integral partner in The Box, Plymouth, a £42m flagship capital investment in
the city’s museum and archives, incorporating Plymouth Museum, Plymouth and West
Devon Record Office and other local archives all housed within a new purpose-built site
situated adjacent to campus, where the university has designated teaching and research
space and launched in 2018 a new MA in Archival Studies.



                                                                                      Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

A. Collaborations

There are a series of key structures that facilitate collaborative research for historians at
Plymouth, both within and beyond academia. At a macro-level, historians operate within
the rich and diverse research environment of the FoAHB, which is directed by Daybell
as ADR. The strategic coordination of research at faculty level purposely encourages and
facilitates cross-disciplinary research within the Arts, Humanities and Business and
stimulates collaborations across subject, institute and institutional boundaries at the
University of Plymouth, and with international collaborators within and beyond the
university sector. The Faculty has the following top-level drivers: to foster and enhance
research excellence and reputation at Plymouth by supporting and promoting strategic
partnerships, collaborations and networking. It does this in the following main ways: 1)
Enhancing our visibility and profile: i. Generating exposure; ii. Showcasing research; iii.
Enhancing influence; 2). Furthering the Impact of our Research: i. Identifying and reaching
non-academic research users and beneficiaries; ii. Improving the impact and sustainability
of our research through enterprise initiatives; iii. Enhance public engagement; 3). Facilitate
World-Leading Research: i. Facilitate cross- and inter-disciplinary exchange and
opportunities; ii. Enhance the research environment to support groups and individuals in
their development; iii. Provide strategic leadership to ensure alignment with national and
European research agendas. External collaboration is facilitated by The Bridge (see
section 1) and driven by a series of faculty-sponsored research themes, the most
successful of which is Cornerstone Heritage (and its subsidiary consultancy
Cornerstone Praxis) (Directed Maudlin and Daybell), which is an interdisciplinary
research group which brings together more than 30 staff from across the University of
Plymouth working in the field of heritage. This group has a series of external collaborations
with for example Powderham Castle in partnership with Penn Design at University of
Pennsylvania, UNESCO World Heritage Site Cornish Mining Landscapes, and The Box.

The unit enjoys collaborative links at a regional, national and international level with other
research groups, networks, HEIs and a range of public bodies. It has hosted the AHRC
funded research network ‘Gender, Power and Materiality in Early Modern Europe, 1400-
1800’ which generated a valuable dialogue between the four university nodes (University
of Plymouth, Lund University, Leiden University, and University of Western Australia) and
curators and research department at the V&A, and practice professionals at Skarhult
Castle, Sweden, Museum of London, Worshipful Company of Glovers, Powderham Castle,
Catherijne Convent Utrecht and Cultural Heritage Leiden.

B. Contribution to Research Base

Staff within the unit have served on research councils, committees of professional
societies and other organisations, research-related consultancies. Daybell and
Maudlin are both members of the AHRC Peer Review College; Maudlin was on the
Judging Panel, Morris Essay Prize, Society of Architectural Historians, the International
Advisory Board, World Monuments Fund, New York; Trustee, Paul Oliver Vernacular
Architecture Trust; Director, Tavistock Heritage Trust (UNESCO Cornish Mining World
Heritage Site), Advisory Board, The Elizabethan House Museum (Plymouth City Council),
Advisory Group, The Box; Murphy is Chair of Selection Committee for the Pearsall
Fellowship in Maritime History, and Sir Julian Corbett Prize in Modern Naval History, and
Section Editor for the Bibliography of British and Irish History.


                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Members of the unit are active as editors of journals, peer-reviewed book series,
members of editorial boards, and in refereeing academic publications or research
proposals. The unit is home to four book series: the Routledge book series ‘Material
Readings in Early Modern Culture’ (co-edited by Daybell and Adam Smyth, Balliol
College, Oxford), which has an advisory board consisting of academics at the universities
of Cambridge, York, Aberdeen, Columbia, Penn, Ottowa and York; the Amsterdam
University Press series ‘Gendering Medieval and Early Modern Worlds’ (co-edited by
Daybell, and Professors Svante Norrhem, Lund, Merry Wiesner-Hanks, UWC,
Milwaukee), the ‘Military History’ series and ‘WWII Battle Summaries’ Series at Plymouth
University Press (Bennett with Britannia Naval College). It also houses the peer-reviewed
journal, Law, Crime and History. Members of History are on the editorial boards of
Epistolary Cultures, Traditional Dwellings and Settlements Review, Architectural Histories,
Journal of the European Architectural History Network, Gender and History, Cultivate
Feminism.

Members of the History group are regularly invited to referee scholarly manuscripts (e.g.
Oxford, Cambridge, Yale and Manchester University Presses, Routledge, Palgrave,
Longman, Boydell, Ashgate and the Camden Society), research proposals and
professional reviews (e.g. AHRC, the American Philosophical Society, Netherlands
Organisation for Scientific Research, HERA, the NEH, Social Sciences and Humanities
Research Council of Canada, and Universities of Northern Illinois and Toronto) and to
contribute reviews to leading journals (e.g. Albion, Contemporary British History,
Continuity and Change, Economic History Review, English Historical Review, History,
French History, Journal of Early Modern History, Journal of Ecclesiastical History, Journal
of Southeast Asian Studies, Reformation, Twentieth Century British History, Urban History;
Cultural and Social History, Gender & History, Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth
History, Medical History; Social History, Women’s History Review.

Staff have examined over 12 PhDs at the following institutions during the REF period:
Queen Mary, Oxford, Glasgow, Birkbeck, Hull, Abersythwyth, University of Western
Australia, Cardiff University, Courtauld Institute, Newcastle University, and University of
Sheffield.

History has hosted many international conferences and symposia, including ‘Gender
and Political Culture in Early `Modern Europe’ (2016), ‘Gender Power and Materiality in
Early Modern Europe’ (2017), ‘Union and Disunion in the Nineteenth Century’ (2017), and
‘A Time of Judgement’ (2016). Plymouth historians co-organised conferences elsewhere
including: New Directions in Early Modern Women's Correspondence (University of
Oxford, 2015), and Social History Society Annual Conference 2017, 2018 (UCL and
University of Keele)

Staff have also received scholarly awards or fellowships for their research. Daybell was
awarded the prize for best collaborative project by the Society for Study of Early Modern
Women (2016); Halewood won the Smith Richardson Foundation Predoctoral Fellowship,
Yale (2018-19); Maudlin was awarded a Leverhulme Trust major fellowship (2014-17) and
the Allen G. Noble Prize for Building the British Atlantic World (2016); Murphy held the
Edith and Richard French Fellowship, Beinecke Library Yale University, the Caird
Research Fellowship, National Maritime Museum, Greenwich (2016) and two Bodleian
Library Fellowships (2017, 2020); and her book won the Society of Naval Research
Certificate of Merit (2019); Tucker was awarded the Maddock Research Fellowship at
Marsh’s Library, Ireland (2019).


                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Members of the unit receive regular invitations to deliver conference papers and
keynotes, and collectively gave more than 70 papers since REF2014. Plymouth historians
delivered invited lectures and papers at international universities including Pennsylvania,
Lund, Paris-Sorbonne, Yale, and Trinity College Dublin; and within the UK have delivered
papers at numerous universities, including Oxford, Cambridge, Leicester, Sheffield,
Glasgow, and St Andrews.

C. Contribution to Economy and Society [see also, 1 C. Impact Strategy]

Over the course of this REF cycle, the unit has sought to contribute significantly to the
economy and society through its strong and wide-ranging impact activities, in line with the
University of Plymouth’s wider mission as a Civic University to make a real difference
locally, nationally, and internationally. Within History Cornerstone Heritage has
strategically allowed us to deliver impactful research in three interrelated areas: heritage,
oral history, and public history. Our work ranges from knowledge transfer projects with
community and school groups to the in-depth physical investigation of historic buildings,
landscape surveys, oral history, criminal and legal history projects, site-related
performances, cataloguing archive and library collections, historic building conservation,
heritage strategy consultancy and the development of interpretation materials for historic
sites including digital and new media platforms. Cornerstone researchers have been
involved with regional, national, and international heritage projects during the census
period, working with museums, galleries and historic sites ranging from the V&A to the
Eden Project to Bodmin Jail and the town of Nantes, France. We are currently working on
projects with several partners including The Box (Plymouth City Museum and Gallery),
National Trust, Historic Houses, UNESCO Cornish Mining World Heritage Site and
Powderham Castle.

Exemplary of our research in this area is the AHRC ‘Gender, Power and Materiality’
project (Daybell), which as a result of four workshops run over a two-year period in
dialogue with non-HEI partners (including the V&A) developed an interpretative
methodology for understanding objects through the lens of gender, power and materiality,
as constellations of power which impacted upon the design, form and function of objects.
These collaborations led to an AHRC follow-on funding project on ‘Gendered
Interpretations at the Victoria & Albert Museum and the Vasa Museum’ which involved
working with collaborative partners including Allard Pierson Museum, Amsterdam; Skarhult
Kulturmine, Sweden; and a network of Swedish state museums. Through the deepened
and expanded stakeholder engagement and knowledge transfer achieved over two years,
the project raised awareness of gender as an interpretative category in the modern
museum environment.

Aoki’s research-based oral history project on Japanese internment camps in Canada
during WWII engages with user-groups among local community groups of Canadians of
Japanese descent (including Nikkei Cultural Society of Lethbridge and Nikka Yuko
Japanese Canadian Centennial Garden) in an attempt to process and understand this
period in their lives and history within a broader framework of studying how community and
identity are shaped in cross-cultural contact and how this contact enables us to understand
identity in a wider transnational context.




                                                                                     Page 15
