Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: Clinical Medicine UoA1

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview
 An ambitious restructure since REF 2014 of the research environment for Clinical Medicine at
 Birmingham has achieved transformational change, driven by academic reorganisation and
 sustained investment in people and infrastructure. An embedded culture of ambition, diversity and
 interdisciplinarity has greatly enhanced the impact of our work. Within UoA1 this has resulted in a
 49% increase in average annual research awards between 2013/16 to 2017/20, from £43M to
 £64M. Research publications have increased by 37%, from 837 in 2014 to 1,140 in 2020, with
 52% of outputs in the top 10% of individual journal citations.

 This success will now be extended through further investment in discovery, translational and data
 science, together with innovative approaches to support staff development and extension of
 international reach.

 1. UoA1 Context and Structure

 UoA1 is based within the College of Medical and Dental Sciences (CMDS), one of five Colleges
 in the University (See REF5a for context). The College is led by Pro-Vice-Chancellor Professor
 David Adams, Director of Birmingham Health Partners (BHP) and Lead for the Birmingham NIHR
 Biomedical Research Centre (BRC). The College management structure is shown in Figure 3.1.
 231 staff are submitted in UoA1 and contribute to teaching >5,000 students (4000 UG, 700 PGT
 and 430 PGR). Researchers in UoA1 work closely with colleagues across the campus,
 demonstrated by the number and quality of interdisciplinary research outputs (e.g. UoA 2-5, 7-12,
 14, 18, 20 and 24).
 1.1    Formation of Research-led Institutes
 The 5 Schools in the College returned in REF2014 were reorganised into eight Institutes following
 an institutional Life Sciences Review in 2015. Six of the Institutes are within UoA1:




 Figure 1. Restructure in 2015 of the CMDS from five Schools to eight Institutes (Institutes
                               aligned with UoA2/3 in grey).



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Life Sciences Review concluded that biomedical research would benefit from the
 establishment of Institutes with a clear research focus and embedded research-led education.
 This structure allows support of nimble academic groups able to respond rapidly and effectively to
 national and international opportunities and challenges.
 Major changes included:
    The School of Immunity & Infection was hampered by size and location across four sites and
     was restructured into the Institutes of Immunology & Immunotherapy (II&I); Inflammation &
     Ageing (IIA) and Microbiology & Infection (IMI).
    The School of Cancer Sciences was refocused into the Institute of Cancer & Genomic
     Sciences (ICGS), integrating research in genomics whilst allowing cancer immunology to move
     into II&I. Success is visible in the capture of CRUK Centre Status and award of 10 CRUK
     programme-level awards.
    The School of Clinical & Experimental Medicine (CEM) was too large for effective delivery and
     was concentrated into an Institute of Metabolism & Systems Research (IMSR) and an Institute
     of Cardiovascular Sciences (ICVS) with disinvestment in neurophysiology. IMSR maintains
     outstanding expertise in endocrinology, metabolism and maternal health whilst ICVS develops
     an increasing profile in cardiovascular disease underpinned by substantial BHF investment.


           Institute                Director                    Research Themes
      Cancer and Genomic            Pamela                   Genomics & DNA repair
           Sciences                 Kearns            Bioinformatics & health data science
                                                       Clinical Trials & Academic Surgery
        Immunology and            David Wraith                  Immune regulation
         Immunotherapy                                      Gut and liver inflammation
                                                    Cancer immunology and immunotherapy
     Inflammation and Ageing       Janet Lord                    Ageing & Trauma
                                                       Musculoskeletal Science & Disease
                                                              Acute Care Research
                                                         Neuroscience & Ophthalmology
     Cardiovascular Sciences      Roy Bicknell      Platelet Biology & Thrombo-inflammation
                                                    Leucocyte Trafficking & Vascular Biology
                                                           Arrhythmias & Heart Failure
     Metabolism and System         Wiebke Arlt                      Metabolism
           Research                                               Endocrinology
                                                        Maternal & Reproductive Health
        Microbiology and          Alan McNally               Antimicrobial Resistance
            Infection                                         Microbiome Research
                                                           Host-pathogen interactions

          Table 1. Leadership and Research Themes of Research Institutes in UoA1

 Interdisciplinary research is at the core of UoA1 endeavour and boundaries between institutes are
 fluid with high volumes of collaborative partnership in line with the University’s Strategic
 Framework 2015-2020 (REF5a 2.1.1). This culture is strengthened through a range of Research
 Centres (see 3.1.1).
 Furthermore, all Institutes engage with our NIHR translational research infrastructure. Our £13M
 NIHR BRC focusses on inflammatory disease and incorporates groups from all of our institutes as

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 well as from University departments outside CMDS. It is closely integrated with our NIHR Clinical
 Research Facility (CRF), the NIHR Surgical Reconstruction and Microbiology Research Centre
 (SRMRC) and the West Midlands Applied Research Collaboration (ARC), thus providing a
 powerful engine to translate our discovery science.
 1.2.   Reflection on REF2014
 Priorities defined within the 2014 Environment template are shown below and discussed in relation
 to subsequent delivery:
       We would utilise the newly awarded CRUK Cancer Centre to increase reach into ‘tumours
        of unmet need’ and innovative approaches to Clinical Trials.
 The CRUK and ECMC Centres supported new developments with the recruitment of Professor of
 Neurosurgery (Watts) to initiate a Glioma programme and new posts in lung, oesophageal and
 ovarian cancer. A Bladder Cancer Research Centre was established in 2020 with philanthropic
 funding. The CRUK Clinical Trials Unit (CRCTU) underwent a successful quinquennial review and
 remains the largest clinical trials grouping in Europe. Innovation in trial design initiated the ‘Trials
 Acceleration Programmes’ (TAP) in stem cell transplantation (IMPACT) and delivered the National
 Lung Matrix trial, one of the largest and most complex stratified cancer trials in the world (Nature,
 2020) and whose impact extended into non-cancer themes e.g. Arthritis-TAP (A-TAP) and the
 COVID platform CATALYST.
       We would create a Centre for Maternal and Child Health
 We secured leadership of the national Tommy’s Centre for Miscarriage Research
 (Coomarasamy), recruited a Chair in Maternal and Perinatal Health (Thangaratinam),
 established a WHO Collaborating Centre for Global Women’s Health, and secured an $11M grant
 from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to tackle post-partum haemorrhage in low-income
 countries. The Centre has delivered five NEJM and five Lancet publications in the last five years.
       We will drive our expertise in membrane receptors to translate fundamental research into
        translational opportunities in areas such as thrombo-inflammation
 We co-invested £10M with University of Nottingham to develop a Centre of Membrane Proteins
 and Receptors (COMPARE) as a world-leading centre for the study of G-protein-coupled
 receptors and tyrosine kinase-linked receptors by advanced microscopy. Several transformational
 recruitments were made (e.g. Calebiro, Jones, Hodson, Herten) and output exemplars include
 targeting of CLEC14 for cancer angiogenesis, CLEC-2 for deep vein thrombosis and GLP1
 receptor in diabetes.
       We will build on the formation of the NIHR SRMRC, the NIHR Healthcare Technology Co-
        operative in Trauma Management and the Healing Foundation Centre for Burns Research,
        all created in 2012.
 Belli, Chair of Neurotrauma, was appointed as Director of the NIHR and MoD-funded SRMRC
 and funding from the Scar Free Foundation established a Centre for Conflict Wound Research
 (CfCWR). The Centre for Trauma Science Research was established in 2019 to act as a pipeline
 for experimental medicine and trials activity of SRMRC and CfCWR. The Centres are now
 providing the infrastructure for ground-breaking and novel studies including the first trial of its kind
 NIHR-EME RePHILL study, which is investigating the effectiveness of giving patients blood
 products immediately after a major injury or trauma.




                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       We will exploit our £24 million investment in the Institute for Translational Medicine (ITM)
        as a focus for changing healthcare practice.
 The ITM is firmly established as the central hub for translational healthcare research across BHP
 (see 3.4.1) and has catalysed success in:
    -   Health Data Research (HDR), through the award of the HDRUK Midlands Site and two
        HDR Hubs including PIONEER led by Sapey.
    -   Medical Technologies, through £13M EDRF investment over two major SME-focused
        programmes (MD-TEC and DEMAND Hub)
    -   Precision Medicine, through the MRC & Versus Arthritis Stratified Medicine Facility (£7.2M)
        with additional funding from the Wolfson Foundation (£268K).
    -   Two specialist early-phase clinical trials innovation teams under the CRCTU umbrella: the
        Devices, Diagnostics, Drugs and Biomarkers (D3B) team supporting small-scale
        collaborative industry and surgical specialty trials, plus a team focused on inflammatory
        diseases and advanced cell therapies. The latter supports the £9M Midlands and Wales
        Advanced Therapy Treatment Centre (MW-ATTC), the £7M Kennedy Foundation-funded
        A-TAP and the Birmingham NIHR BRC.

 1.3.   Research Portfolio within UoA1
         1.3.1 Institute of Cancer and Genomic Sciences (ICGS)
 ICGS hosts the Birmingham CRUK Centre and an NIHR/CRUK Experimental Cancer Medicine
 Centre as well as the largest academic cancer clinical trials unit in Europe (CR-CTU, Director:
 Kearns). ICGS has 63 Principal Investigators (PIs), six of whom hold CRUK programme grants,
 and including five Birmingham Fellows (REF5a; 3.4.1).

 Current and future research objectives, and facilitation of impact

 ICGS research strategy is delivered around five pillars:
     Gene Structure and Function
     Molecular Oncology, Pathology and Genetics
     Bioinformatics and Health Data Science
     Clinical Trials
     Academic Surgery

 Gene Structure and Function: ICGS has internationally-leading discovery science capability in
 DNA-repair, epigenetics and molecular oncology, linked within the Birmingham Centre for
 Genome Biology (BCGB). State of the art genomics capability was supported by £7M MRC Clinical
 Infrastructure, including Illumina, single-cell and nanopore platforms.

 Molecular Oncology, Pathology and Genetics: Two collaborative initiatives form powerhouses
 of translational research: the Birmingham Bladder Cancer Research Centre (Bryan) (2020),
 building on £2.2M funding, and the Centre for Rare Diseases (Barrett) incorporating the largest
 adult and paediatric rare disease clinics in the UK, with innovative studies such as an international
 trial repurposing valproate for Wolfram Syndrome.

 Bioinformatics & Data Science: The Centre for Computational Biology (Cazier) builds on UoB
 membership of the Alan Turing Institute and was key in award of HDRUK Midlands Site status

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2017). ICGS played a leading national role in delivering the national 100,000 Genomes
 programme (Morton), including recruiting 40% of UK cancer samples.

 Clinical Trials: The CRCTU incorporates the UK Paediatric Cancer Trials Centre (Director:
 Kearns, £10.5M core) and the UK Therapy Acceleration Programmes in haematology and
 transplantation (IMPACT) (Craddock). CR-CTU staff manage >130 active trials within 20
 countries and have established two new trials teams (3.4.1).

 Academic surgery is world-leading in colorectal (Morton), head and neck (Mehanna) and
 gynaecology (Sundar). They established the Birmingham Surgical Trials Consortium (BiSTC), a
 Royal College of Surgeons/CR-UK initiative to promote training and clinical trials in surgical
 specialties and in 2018 secured a £7M NIHR Global Research Unit in Surgery (Morton).

 Future ambitions are exemplified by £2M recruitment of Watts (Chair of Neurosurgery), catalysing
 the Tessa Jowell Brain MATRIX Trial. This builds on the pioneering Lung Matrix trial (Middleton,
 Billingham), arguably the most advanced global genetic stratification cancer trial. Bayesian trial
 design underpins innovation in small patient populations (e.g. childhood, molecularly stratified sub-
 groups, and rare disease). The NIHR Global Research Unit in Surgery will expand initiatives to
 reduce morbidity and mortality within lower and middle-income countries.
          1.3.2   Institute of Inflammation and Ageing (IIA)
 IIA research focusses on inflammatory processes in ageing, trauma and chronic disease
 (Director: Lord). The Institute hosts five national Centres of Excellence including trauma research
 benefiting from co-location with the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine. A unique feature is the
 Institute’s strategic location within the Queen Elizabeth Hospital (QEH). IIA hosts an integrated
 Inflammation CRF, affiliated to the NIHR/Wellcome Trust CRF (Director: Buckley). IIA has 40
 PIs including eight early career researchers with personal fellowships.

 Current and future research objectives, and facilitation of impact

 IIA research strategy is delivered around four themes:
       Ageing and Trauma
       Musculoskeletal Science and Disease
       Acute Care Research
       Neuroscience and Ophthalmology
 Ageing and Trauma: IIA hosts the MRC-Versus Arthritis Centre for Musculoskeletal Ageing
 Research (Director: Lord), the NIHR-MoD SRMRC (Director: Belli) and CfCWR (Director:
 Moiemen). Interdisciplinary work includes novel anti-scar wound dressings (Grover, UoA12) and
 nanopore technology for rapid infection diagnosis in military and civilian settings (Loman, UoA5).

 Musculoskeletal Science and disease: IIA hosts two themes in the NIHR BRC (Rheumatoid
 Arthritis and Sarcopenia) and the Versus Arthritis Centre for Rheumatoid Pathogenesis. Buckley,
 a joint appointment with the Kennedy Institute at Oxford, and Raza have established the A-TAP
 and leads the joint element of the Human Cell Atlas project.

 Acute Care Research: This area is an exemplar of our agility to respond to challenges. This
 initiative was launched in 2018 in response to extreme demand for improvements in acute care


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and lack of appropriate evidence base (Lead: Gao-Smith). This established the first NIHR
 Academic Clinical Lecturer in Acute Care in the UK, launched a bespoke MSc and won a HDRUK
 Hub (PIONEER, lead Sapey) and COVID-19 informatics platform, DECOVID.

 Neuroscience and Ophthalmology: Strengths include neurotrauma within SRMRC and data
 science, including the INSIGHT HDRUK Hub (Lead: Denniston) and deployment of artificial
 intelligence (AI) to develop triaging tools for large scale emergencies (Lead: Belli). Translation
 includes diagnostic tools for concussion and anti-scarring dressings & eye drops (Hill, Di Pietro,
 De Cogan).

 IIA impact is broad, exemplified by Belli’s salivary microRNA test for brain injury after concussion,
 adopted by international sports groups and supported through a spin-out test with POC test and
 CE mark. Ambitious plans include utilising A-TAP to improve health in ‘long-covid’ patients,
 development of the Innovative Therapeutics for Ageing Consortium (ITAC) (£4.9M from Research
 England jointly with the University of Oxford) and exploiting the Human Cell Atlas for next
 generation diagnostics.
          1.3.3   Institute of Immunology and Immunotherapy (II&I)
 II&I integrates fundamental research with clinical programmes in cancer, infection and
 inflammatory disease of the liver and gut (Director: Wraith). Leadership roles are held within the
 NIHR BRC, CRUK Centre and MRC/BBSRC Bactivac Network. II&I has 44 PIs (18 clinical and 26
 non-clinical) and five Birmingham Fellows who have all secured long-term funding from MRC
 (three MRC-career development awards and a new investigator research grant) and CRUK
 (career establishment award).

 Current and future research objectives, and facilitation of impact

 II&I research strategy is delivered around three themes:
       Immune regulation
       Gut and liver immunology and inflammation
       Cancer immunology and immunotherapy
 Immune regulation. Research uses cellular and in vivo models supported by advanced
 technology platforms in COMPARE (single molecule, single cell and whole animal imaging) and
 the £7.2M MRC/Versus Arthritis West Midlands Stratified Medicine Innovation & Translation
 Facility (CyTOF and single cell analysis) to understand the molecular and cellular basis of immune
 regulation. Translation is facilitated by the Institute’s Clinical Immunology Service (Richter) that
 processes >50,000 samples annually for the NHS with strong links into the NIHR BRC and the
 BactiVac Network.
 Centre for liver and gastrointestinal research (CLGR): Outstanding global profile for liver
 research continues under Adams and Newsome who lead the NIHR BRC in Inflammation.
 Outputs include normothermic machine liver perfusion by Afford (ICS; REF21) and the £10M
 Innovate MW-ATTC (Lead: Newsome) including CD34+ cell therapy for cirrhosis and £1.7m Sir
 Jules Thorn Award for Biomedical Research into immune liver disease (Oo).
 Centre for Immunology and Immunotherapy of Cancer (CIIC): Cancer immunology is a pillar
 of the £5M CRUK Birmingham Centre, led from II&I by Willcox & Middleton and supported by
 £2M Molecular Histology Facility. The £2.4M NIHR/CRUK ECMC (Lead: Middleton) catalyses
 translation to early phase clinical trials and therapeutic approaches include novel stratified

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 immunotherapy approaches, industry collaborations and spin-out of Chimeric Therapeutics
 (Lee/Bicknell).

 Research impact is strong and includes development of lateral flow assays for serum free light
 chains and antibiotic prophylaxis in cancer patients (Drayson).

 Future plans include building on the recruitment of Owen to exploit COMPARE for analysis of
 immune synapses and analysis of phase I trials and CAR-T development based on ‘4th generation’
 CAR-Ts resistant to nutrient deprivation (Mussai & De Santo). A cornerstone is the Birmingham
 Precision Medicine Centre (BPMC) aligning diagnostics to GCP clinical trials which will form the
 first phase development on the new £210M Birmingham Health Innovation Campus (3.4.3).
          1.3.4   Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences (ICVS)
 ICVS harbours expertise in platelet biology, vascular biology and atrial fibrillation (Director:
 Bicknell) and outputs have included the establishment of COMPARE (Watson), a 5-year BHF
 Accelerator Award (2019) and leadership for a Wellcome PhD programme in inflammatory
 disease. Research programmes benefit from state of the art infrastructure including unique
 advanced intravital microscopy suite, and multiple super-resolution light sheet microscopes. ICVS
 comprises 26 PIs.

 Current and future research objectives, and facilitation of impact

 ICVS research strategy is delivered around three themes:
       Platelet Biology & Thrombo-inflammation
       Leucocyte Trafficking & Vascular Biology
       Arrhythmias & Heart Failure
 Platelet Biology & Thrombo-inflammation: ICVS is internationally recognised for platelet
 biology specialising in discovery of new receptors and ligands, genetics of bleeding disorders and
 mouse models of thrombo-inflammation (Watson et al) with CLEC-2, G6b-B and PEAR1 identified
 as targets for antiplatelet drugs (Watson, M Thomas, Morgan, Nicolson).

 Leucocyte Trafficking & Vascular Biology: A purpose-built in vivo microscopy service exploits
 expertise in leucocyte recruitment and angiogenesis and has supported discovery of shear-
 regulated genes (Bicknell, Hewett, Khalia), drug discovery and spinout company Viatem Ltd.

 Arrhythmias: Our leading profile, including iPS-derived cardiomyocytes as models for inherited
 cardiomyopathies and arrhythmia syndromes, has delivered outputs including definition of PITX2-
 dependent aetiology and integrated care programmes with apps and online tools (Fabritz).

 Impact is broad and, with >20 patents, Bicknell (Chimeric Therapeutics) and Rainger (Viatem
 Ltd) established spinout companies including trial of CAR-modified T cells targeting CLEC14A.
 Trials include humanised monoclonal antibody and recombinant GPVI in clinical trials for stroke
 and coronary syndromes (Thomas, Watson) whilst Iqbal and Rainger are developing PEPITEM
 inhibitors to prevent T cell trafficking into vessels.

 Future work will include ageing and stem cell therapy in inflammatory diseases together with
 genomic stratification in atrial fibrillation therapy.


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          1.3.5   Institute of Metabolism & Systems Research (IMSR)
 IMSR has an internationally leading profile in metabolism, maternal health and endocrinology
 (Director: Arlt). It comprises 33 PIs (40% female) with a median age of 38 years, achieved
 through mentorship of local staff and systematic external recruitment including three Birmingham
 Fellows.

 Current and future research objectives and facilitation of impact

 IMSR research strategy is delivered around three major health & disease themes:
       Metabolism
       Endocrinology
       Maternal and Reproductive Health
 Metabolism: Key research programmes include energy metabolism (Lavery & UoA2), pancreatic
 islet cell biology (Hodson), metabolic receptor biology (Calebiro, Hodson) and cancer immune-
 metabolism (Tennant). These interact with translational programmes on metabolic health in
 women, focussing on polycystic ovary syndrome (Arlt), idiopathic intracranial hypertension
 (Sinclair) and gestational diabetes (Thangaratinam). Outstanding technology platforms include
 Metabolic Tracer Analysis Core and Steroid Metabolome Analysis.

 Endocrinology: Major strengths are steroid endocrinology (Arlt, Hewison) and endocrine tumour
 research, underpinned by one of the largest and most complex clinical practices in the UK with
 European Reference Network (ERN) Centre-of-Excellence status for rare endocrine and metabolic
 disorders. Pituitary (Karavitaki), thyroid (McCabe) and adrenal tumour research (Arlt, Ronchi)
 exploit links with UoA2 to develop diagnostic tests and prediction tools

 Maternal & Reproductive Health: World-leading strength in (i) Early Pregnancy & Conception
 (underpinned by Tommy’s National Centre for Miscarriage Research (Lead: Coomarasamy) and
 the HFEA-approved Centre for Reproductive Science, Lead: Kirkman-Brown), (ii) Late
 pregnancy and neonatal health (Thangaratinam, Kilby), and (iii) Global Maternal Health,
 recognised by designation as World Health Organisation (WHO) Collaborating Centre for Global
 Maternal Health (Joint Leads: Coomarasamy, Thangaratinam).

 Innovative interdisciplinary systems science is utilised by many PIs and was boosted by £7M
 investment in an interdisciplinary Centre for Systems Modelling & Quantitative Biomedicine
 (CSMQB; Terry), integrated with Mathematics and Computer Science (UoA 10 & 11).

 An outstanding impact profile is seen in multiple REF2021 impact cases, >20 patent files and two
 spin-out companies, Invex for idiopathic intracranial hypertension (Sinclair) and Neuronostics Ltd.
 for seizure susceptibility assessment (Terry, Woldman).

 Future plans include interdisciplinary theme in Women’s Metabolic Health and integrating CSMQB
 with core IMSR themes.
          1.3.6   Institute of Microbiology and Infection (IMI)
 IMI operates at the forefront of prevention and treatment of bacterial infection. As a cross-College
 collective (UoA1 & UoA5), IMI is one of the largest and most successful communities of academic
 and clinical microbiologists in the world. Several new investigators have been recruited in recent

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 years, including McNally (Director), van Schaik and Iqbal, with strong success in attracting Marie
 Sklodowska-Curie and Birmingham Fellows. IMI has 12 PIs in UoA1.

 Current and future research objectives and facilitation of impact

 IMI research strategy is delivered around three themes:
         Antimicrobial Resistance
         Microbiome Research
         Host – pathogen interactions
 Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR): Key research programmes focus on the genetic basis of
 microbial resistance and include international collaborations driven by McNally and van Schaik,
 in China, Bangladesh and India. Therapeutic innovations have included Blair, Piddock and
 Buckner developing novel compounds to reduce antibiotic resistance through the inhibition of
 efflux and the spread of mobile genetic elements carrying resistance genes.

 Microbiome Research: IMI hosts the Microbiome Treatment Centre (MTC) which produces the
 only licensed faecal microbiome transplant (FMT) product in England (ICS; REF21) and has
 delivered >500 therapies for C.difficile with >80% success rate (Iqbal). The role of microbiome
 perturbation in gastrointestinal and respiratory disease is spearheaded by van Schaik and Cox.

 Host-Pathogen interactions: IMI is at the forefront of host-pathogen interaction research,
 focussing on gram positive pathogens such as MRSA (Geoghegan) and Strep pneumonia
 (Mitchell). Both conduct world leading molecular microbiology, with translational work around
 pneumococcal vaccine development and novel skin anti-colonisation strategies for MRSA.

 Impact includes the MTC and political leadership in AMR (Piddock). Future aims include
 development of 2+ new FMT clinical trials and developing the MTC as a self-sustaining clinical
 service provider, destined to join the enormously successful MicrobesNG as the second IMI spin
 out venture. IMI staff made pivotal contributions during the Covid pandemic, including setting up
 the Milton Keynes Lighthouse and Birmingham Turnkey Pillar 2 testing labs (McNally).
        1.4 Implementation of Research Strategy within UoA1
 UoA1 research acts to improve health outcomes within the UK and beyond by training, retaining
 and recruiting the best research staff and providing them with an outstanding infrastructure to
 deliver impactful research. Our research strategy focuses on enhancing five key elements:
 Culture; Partnerships; People; Infrastructure; and Interdisciplinarity.
            1.4.1   Enhancing the Research Culture
 The University’s 2026 vision aims to deliver ‘Research that Matters’ by creating ‘a culture that
 stimulates, nurtures and engenders drive, confidence and ambition’. This has been the primary
 ambition within UoA1 since 2015 with promotion of ‘intellectual excitement’ alongside the highest
 values of equality, integrity and openness. Strategic delivery has included empowering academic
 debate, setting and supporting ambitious personal targets and undergoing regular internal and
 external assessment. Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) principles are embedded in every
 decision and reflected in our Silver Athena SWAN status (Section 2.6). Regular staff surveys show
 consistent improvements in staff perception of EDI principles.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          1.4.2   Building Partnerships for Delivery
 The physical environment for UoA1 is amongst the strongest in the UK with the Medical School
 and University campus adjacent to the QEH (part of University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Trust,
 the second largest NHS Trust in the UK) and Birmingham Women’s Hospital. BHP is the clinical-
 academic accelerator at the heart of Birmingham’s Life Sciences engine, a strategic alliance
 between UoB and these two major NHS foundation trusts. The formation of BHP has catalysed
 operational and strategic delivery of several key research and training programmes.

 This vibrant and integrated health sciences community forms one of the largest healthcare
 campuses in the UK and an excellent platform for UoA1 research. The campus was designated a
 Life Sciences Opportunity Zone in 2019. Partnerships are described fully in Section 4.
          1.4.3   Empowering People
 Our strategy for recruiting and supporting staff is described fully in section 2 and focusses on
 embedding processes that ensure optimal recruitment, support, promotion and development,
 allowing staff to express their full potential.
          1.4.4   Investment in key Infrastructure (Section 3)
 Since 2014 over £100 million has been invested by UoB and partners in new buildings and
 infrastructure to facilitate UoA1 research. Whilst these are covered in more detail in Section 3,
 highlights include:
       £24M to establish the ITM (co-investment with BEIS and NHS partners).
       £12.6M from NIHR to support our NIHR BRC
       £12.8M to support NIHR/Wellcome CRF at QEH and BWCH
       £7.2M MRC/ARUK investment for stratified medicine facility
       £13M co-investment with ERDF and NHS to establish Institute for Healthcare Technologies
        and two SME support platforms (MD-TEC and DEMAND Hub).
       £5M UoB investment for COMPARE imaging initiative (see 1.2).

          1.4.5   Growing and facilitating Interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinary research is a major strength of the UoA1 portfolio, facilitated by our campus
 which co-locates all five colleges, and two NHS trusts on one campus. This engages research
 across STEM, social sciences and humanities and is enhanced by targeted recruitment of
 interdisciplinary early career researchers and professorial staff.

 The Institute for Global Innovation (£5M, REF5a; 2.3.3) is led by Mehanna (UoA1), UoB’s first
 Deputy Pro Vice-Chancellor for Interdisciplinarity. It incorporates key UoA1 themes of anti-
 microbial resistance, surgery, healthy ageing and maternal health.

 Specific exemplars of interdisciplinary research collaborations are:
       Healthcare Technologies with Engineering, building on £7M investment in new facilities
        within the ITM, supported by a further £6M ERDF investment in the DEMAND (Data-
        Enabled Med tech ANd Devices) Hub (Hill, Naylor).
       Drug discovery, £1.5M University investment to facilitate collaboration between CMDS
        staff and those in the Schools of Biosciences and Chemistry, underpinned by the
        recruitment of Roberts (ex-AZ; now Apconix) as inaugural Chair of Drug Discovery. This
        initiative includes curation of unique UoB chemical compounds, high-throughput screening

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           and Drug Discovery Clubs that attract researchers from across the Campus. The
           recruitment of O’Reilly as Head of Chemistry has initiated collaborations focussing on the
           use of polymers and nanoparticles in medicine.
          Our outstanding capability in Data Science is founded on shared research with partner
           NHS Trusts, Computer Science and Mathematics and membership of Alan Turing Institute,
           and hosts an HDRUK Site and two of seven national HDRUK Hubs.
          We have embraced UK investment in Global Challenges Research Funding, winning £15M
           in support and establishing the NIHR Global Health Research Unit on Global Surgery with
           six international hubs and a policy initiative co-developed with the London School of
           Economics.
 1.5       Impact Strategy – overarching aims and outputs at UoA1/College level

 UoA1 research has leveraged substantial health and economic benefits and reflects our
 embedded culture of research impact. Sections 3 and 4 detail our strategies around infrastructure
 and collaborations with the outline of actions taken at the College/UoA level including:
          A focus on ‘research that matters’ and has impact. Academic leads for impact are
           appointed within each Institute and promote and facilitate impact within their environment
           and meet and exchange ideas at the College Impact Committee chaired by Ewer. This
           committee reports, through College Board, to the University DPVC for Research Impact,
           Professor Heather Widdows.
          Embedding innovation and knowledge transfer in the culture of the College by:
               - developing research-led teaching including undergraduate and postgraduate
                   modules on impact and knowledge transfer with an innovative industry-placement
                   programme;
               - appointing academic business leads in each Institute to foster and deliver industry
                   partnerships;
               - investment in posts to support business engagement, IP protection and
                   commercialisation (REF5a 2.4.1).
          Nurturing a vibrant research culture of discovery science, encouraging intellectual ambition
           and supporting our strong programmes of translational medicine. New links between
           discovery and translation are promoted by targeted investments such as the Wellcome
           Translational Partnership Award and MRC Confidence in Concept.
          Incorporation of public and patient engagement and involvement in all that we do including
           the establishment of a PPPIE Team providing operational support within the College. This
           has underpinned the coordination of a large network of PPE/I groups coordinated through
           BHP to provide a dynamic patient voice involved in regular outreach and public
           engagement events.
          A new Centre for Patient Reported Outcome Research has been established across UoA1
           and UoA2.
          Investment in a city centre hub (The Exchange; REF5a 4.2.2) for effective engagement
           with the City of Birmingham and its wider population.

 1.6 UoA1 future research ambitions
 UoA1 is committed to extending the significant momentum that has been achieved since 2015. In
 order to achieve this we will build on four broad themes (with specific initiatives for each institute
 highlighted in 1.3):


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          We will focus our investment within areas of outstanding research excellence - We
           aim to strengthen our competitive position in areas such as DNA repair, immunology, AMR,
           maternal health, ageing/multimorbidity, data science and clinical trial design. Whilst
           developing this approach, we will remain flexible to support new areas of expertise built
           around young investigators of exceptional talent, for example those recruited through our
           Birmingham Fellows scheme.
          We remain committed to increasing the breadth and quality of our interdisciplinary
           research, further exploiting the power of our integrated health campus. We have appointed
           a range of Interdisciplinary Lecturers and Professors between UoA1 and other schools
           including Computer Sciences, Mathematics, Engineering and Social Sciences. We are
           using student ambassadors and research ‘speed-dating’ events to drive and sustain
           relationships underpinned with interdisciplinary PhD studentships such as EPSRC-funded
           DTP SciPhy4Health. In 2019 we invested £7M to recruit Terry to lead the Centre for
           Systems Modelling & Quantitative Biomedicine (2.4.2), incorporating three Interdisciplinary
           Chairs.
          Strong and effective partnerships - We will develop and strengthen local, national and
           international partnerships across academia, the NHS and industry. We will use our
           Wellcome Translational Partnership Award to support ‘challenge’ meetings between NHS
           and UoA1 researchers to identify new opportunities, build teams and pump-prime
           investment, exploiting establishment of Fox as ‘entrepreneur in residence’. We will use our
           status as one of the six Life Sciences Opportunity Zones by the Department for Business,
           Energy and Industrial Strategy to extend links with industry. We will deepen collaborations
           with other universities including Oxford and Nottingham, which have already delivered in
           excess of £14M funding. We will utilize our recent formal partnership with the Association
           of the British Pharmaceutical Industries to tackle key issues such as multimorbidity and
           regulatory hurdles to drug development. We will leverage opportunities arising from the
           Institute for Global Innovation (4.2) and our global NIHR Centres.
          We are ambitious that our research leads to measurable change in clinical practice and
           an increase in commercialisation. To maximise our interactions with industry we have
           appointed academic leads for enterprise within each Institute and helped to instil and
           secure a culture for knowledge exchange. In addition we will exploit £6.8M investment in
           the BioHub Incubator which offers fully equipped laboratories with regulatory advice, a
           medical devices testing pathway and a BizzInn business incubator. Moreover, we will
           complete development of the Birmingham Health Innovation Campus, a 9.9 acre and over
           £200M joint investment for life sciences enterprises at the heart of our BHP campus (3.4.3).

 1.7       Open Research
 UoA1 is committed to a culture of open research and will play a leading national role in further
 defining the scope and importance (REF5a; 2.2). An academic lead has been appointed to ensure
 that the implementation of open science complies with, and exceeds, current recommendation by
 research funders and regulators.

 In order to support Open Publication, all UoA1 staff comply with REF2021 requirements for open
 access. Central resources are used to support gold standard publication wherever possible.
 Researchers curate publications on the PURE information system with preprint ‘accepted’
 versions archived in PURE and data shared as quickly as possible with the international
 community. UoB has contracts with many publishers to support Open Access and we are


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 signatories to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), emphasising
 quality of research rather than journal metrics, and use this for promotion and recruitment.

 To support Open Data we make our data Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable
 (FAIR) and these principles are included in our research data policy. Storage facilities for research
 data are freely available and we encourage publication of full experimental details and open
 analysis codes. One example is recent work on ethnicity and Covid-19 outcome; (“anonymised
 participant data and data dictionary defining each field will be available to others through
 application”).

 Future plans for Open Research
          From 2021 a bespoke training course in Open Research will become mandatory for
           research staff and PIs will be expected to maintain an ORCID to ensure outputs are
           traceable and linked with their PURE account.
          UoA1 is a world leader in defining the evidence base for outcome measures for artificial
           intelligence in healthcare (Denniston; Cat C). Open algorithms for data extraction have
           been developed to extract data from large databases in a transparent and reproducible
           manner and we will encourage open source software systems to improve interoperability
           of algorithms.
          All researchers will have a minimum of 4TB of free server space to store research data,
           archived for 20 years.
          To simplify data archiving we will increase the use and useability of our research portal
           (PURE) to link publication with associated data and will work with academics to obtain
           consent from participants to release their anonymised data.
 1.8       Research integrity
 Research integrity is a vital component of medical research embedded within our culture of
 creativity, freedom and integrity. The University has an established Code of Practice for all
 research-active staff which provides a clear framework and guidance on research integrity. The
 Clinical Research Compliance Team has been established to deliver support to external
 regulatory standards for researchers involving human participants, delivering training programmes
 and providing expert advice and guidance to researchers. The team works closely with the
 University's Research Governance and Ethics team to ensure UoA1 responsibilities are
 undertaken effectively and efficiently with commensurate ethical review. All studies involving
 human subjects are assessed by Institutional and external ethics panels and animal research is
 subject to internal review by a dedicated animal ethics committee. Our Clinical Trials Oversight
 Committee assesses compliance of CRCTU and reports directly to the UoB Research
 Governance, Ethics and Integrity Committee.

 Potential allegations of breaches of integrity are of highest concern and the University has a
 defined process for investigation, supported by staff in human resources and legal services
 (REF5a 2.2).




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 2.1 Strategy
 UoA1 recognises that people are the primary determinant of research success and works to
 ensure it represents a destination of choice (REF5a, 3.1). Our integrated staffing strategy
 embraces all career stages and reaches across non-clinical and clinical boundaries. Particular
 emphasis is placed on embedding processes that ensure optimal recruitment, support &
 development, as well as promotion & retention, thereby allowing staff to fully express their
 potential. In all areas we pay particular attention to equality, diversity and inclusion to make sure
 that we continue to support an inclusive and dynamic research culture.

 Here we set out the developmental journey across all career stages, from postgraduate through
 early career and senior posts, embracing both fundamental science and clinical roles, outlining
 associated infrastructure and process support.


                                                          Director of Researcher Training and Development

              Head of                    Head of                Life Science Researcher                                        Head of                      Research Development             Head of               PGR
              PERCAT                      NIRSE                 Development Manager                                             ICAT                              Manager                     PGR                 Manager

                                                                                                                         ICAT Manager                                                                            DTP
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Administrator
                     Researcher Development Administrator
                                                                                                                     ICAT Administrator

    Post-Doctoral/ECR development And       Newly Independent Researcher                                                                                                                   Postgraduate Research (PGR)
                                                                            Fellowships and Grants Academy (FGA)    Integrated Clinical Academic training (ICAT)   Research Development
             Training (PERCAT)             Support and Engagement (NIRSE)


    Ø Masterclasses                     Ø Networking                          Ø CV review                          Ø Networking                               Ø Mock funder               Ø Development
    Ø Scientific writing                Ø Peer to peer support                Ø Proposal writing                   Ø Fellowship                                 panels                      Needs Analysis
    Ø Networking                        Ø Research symposium                  Ø PPI training                         support                                  Ø PPI training              Ø Annual Progress
    Ø Presentation skills               Ø Post award support*                 Ø Impact training                    Ø Training                                 Ø Funder specific             Review
    Ø Seminars                          Ø Mentoring*                          Ø Mentoring                          Ø Resilience                                 training                  Ø Skills Training
    Ø Mentoring*                                                              Ø Networking                         Ø Mentoring*                               Ø NC3Rs training              Careers
                                                                              Ø Interview skills                   Ø Research retreat*                        Ø Impact training           Ø Mentoring



                                                                               Postdocs applying                     Clinical Academic
               Postdocs                    New Investigators                                                                                                       All Researchers         All PGR students
                                                                                 for first award                           Trainees



   Figure 2.1. Overview of early-mid career development support structures within UoA1

 2.2 Post-graduate researchers

 2.2.1 Internal and external investment
 Since 2014 we have enrolled 1,111 postgraduate research students (PhD, MD, MRes and MSc
 by Research) with 455 current registrations within Uo1 (Lead: Tennant). The College has invested
 £6.8M over the current REF period to match studentships and nearly 100 funded studentships
 have been made available through our success in attracting prestigious doctoral training grants
 (Marie Curie ITNs, Wellcome DTGs, CRUK, MRC-ARUK, MRC DTG) and independent Clinical
 Training Fellowships. This has allowed the College to develop innovative training programmes for
 young scientists and clinicians. We have leveraged UoB-funded studentships to capacity-build in
 spheres of emerging strength such as global challenges. Our institutional MRC Doctoral Training
 Programme (MRC-DTP) is linked with the Universities of Nottingham and Leicester and matched
 1:1 from internal funds, while our BBSRC DTP is joint with Nottingham, Leicester, Warwick, Aston
 and Harper Adams universities. UoA1 also benefits from a wide range of Charity-funded DRs
 (currently 34; sources include: Wellcome, CRUK, BHF).



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University of Birmingham is destination of choice for many international graduates. This adds
 further to our highly diverse PGR population, of which around 40% identify as Asian or mixed
 Asian and over 10% as Black or mixed background. We rank 1st in the UK as a coordinating
 Institution for Marie Curie Initial Training Network (ITN) grants offering PhD exchange training. A
 dedicated Marie Curie Researcher Society supports our international fellows and UoA1 currently
 hosts 10 staff on Marie Cure awards.
 2.2.2 Research training, skills development, funding and integration into research culture
 Interdisciplinary collaboration of supervisors is strongly encouraged and UoA1 hosts 158
 postgraduate registrations with cross Institute/College supervisors. This is particularly important
 for national strategic collaborations associated with studentships offered by COMPARE, MRC
 IMPACT, BBSRC MIBTP, the MRC-Versus Arthritis Centre for Musculoskeletal Ageing Research
 (CMAR), Global Challenges and the Alan Turing Institute. Collaboration is enriched by the
 Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) symposium, the annual PhD Research Festival and PGR-led
 journal clubs which encourage open scientific discussion in a safe and nurturing environment.

 UoB aims to become a favoured location for overseas PhD candidates and UoA1 has appointed
 a College Lead for International PhDs (Lead: McGettrick) and launched an Integrated PhD in Life
 Sciences programme for international postgraduates. This has generated significant interest and
 provides a high-quality research-based training scheme, integrating technical skills, analytical
 skills for quantitative or qualitative research, communication skills for diverse audiences and core
 transferable skills. The programme aims to enhance the student experience in a research-
 intensive University environment to create the next generation of global academic and life science
 leaders.
 2.2.3 Training and development
 The College Graduate School ensures that, in addition to normal supervision and mentoring,
 students can enhance their personal development through bespoke generic and specific training
 covering topics such as statistics, entrepreneurship and experimental design. The PGR student
 completes, with their supervisors, an annual development needs analysis that assesses training
 needs, aligned to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Identified needs are supported
 through formal training programmes. The College and University Graduate Schools work closely
 to co-ordinate delivery of transferable skills such as communication, career development,
 publishing and thesis preparation. In addition, each discipline has its own specific skills training
 and research seminar programme which PGRs are required to attend and PGRs join the formal
 Institute seminar list in their final year of training.

 2.2.4 Careers support
 An annual CMDS event focussing on ‘Careers outside academia’, and supporting CV and
 interview preparation, is held in collaboration with external speakers. In addition, our Careers
 Centre offers skills training courses designed to help postgraduates looking to find their niche in
 the jobs market. There are practical opportunities within UoA1 to gain an understanding of
 business and develop entrepreneurial flair at our CMDS Enterprise Summer School and undertake
 outreach activities in schools visits, shadowing, and co-developing activities and poster and oral
 presentations. Support is also available in talking to the media (mock TV and radio interviews) and
 social media awareness as well as patient and public engagement training platforms.

 2.2.5 Monitoring and review
 All PGRs have access to a minimum of two supervisors and a personal mentor. Supervisors are
 appointed on the basis of research excellence and the ability to supervise and mentor students. A

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 tailored supervisor-training programme (for both new and established academics) continues to
 assure quality of supervision and includes equality and diversity training to minimise bias during
 recruitment. This is positively reflected in the diversity of our student cohort (2015-2019 intakes),
 which accurately reflects the gender identity of the undergraduate applicant pool (57% female),
 has higher than expected ethnic diversity (<60% identifying as ‘white’) and 7% reporting a
 disability.

 UoB has a strong programme to ensure monitoring of PGR supervision (REF5a 3.2), including
 monthly supervision reports and an annual progress review by a progress panel with action taken
 as necessary. The review includes a formal written report submitted by the student and
 supervisor/co-supervisor and an oral presentation. Any concerns are managed by individual and
 joint meetings with students and their supervisor.

 2.2.6 Wellbeing
 The 2017 PGR experience survey reported that 30% of UoA1 students felt the research
 experience had affected their mental well-being. In recognition of this we incorporated workshops
 and activities related to resilience, mindfulness and mental health awareness at induction and
 other student events. The College has established a PGR Academic Lead for Wellbeing
 (Topping) and a PGR Academic Lead for Mental Health (Blair). CMDS has a Student Services
 Centre where professional services wellbeing officers are available on a drop-in basis (Monday-
 Friday, 9am-5pm). Following consultation with PGR representatives, a CMDS ‘PGR buddying’
 scheme was initiated to offer informal advice and signposting to available resources.

 In addition, the Guild of Students has a designated postgraduate officer and offers a free and
 confidential service to PGRs in areas such as finance, housing, immigration and employment.
 UoB has also, in partnership with Forward Thinking Birmingham and the Children’s Society,
 established the Pause Drop In Centre for confidential support and signposting (REF5a; 3.4.5).
 CMDS initiated a local response by piloting mental health first aid (MHFA) Awareness Training
 (mhfa.org) in 2019 with 30 PGR supervisors. Success was such that is has been embedded as
 core training for supervisors, supported with group supervision facilitated by an MHFA trainer and
 emulated across the University.

 The CMDS EDI committee has extended eligibility for the Parent and Carer’s fund, which provides
 support with childcare/caring costs for those attending conferences, to PGR students. UoA1 has
 also instigated a new Student Equality Group (SEG), with staff and student co-chairs, to bring
 together existing student-related EDI work and support delivery of the targets and action plans.

 2.3 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)

 2.3.1   Researcher support and Concordat
 We have put in place a range of activities to implement the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. Academic career development is supported by mentorship
 schemes, leadership development, coaching and courses offered by UoB People and
 Organisation Development (REF5a; 3.4.4). ECRs are encouraged to take responsibility for their
 own development and engage with development opportunities over a minimum of 10 days each
 year, as per the Concordat.
 2.3.2   Career development and culture integration

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The College fosters a supportive environment for ECRs ensuring that they are represented on
 college committees. The Post-Doctoral/ECR development And Training (PERCAT) initiative
 (Lead: Stamataki) was set up to provide training and support for ECRs, driven by their active
 involvement. This includes masterclasses (e.g. Scriptoria for scientific writing, transferable skills
 workshops and resilience training), symposia, mentoring and career support with involvement from
 employers from different sectors. The aim is to deliver on the Concordat principle of enabling
 researchers to achieve their full potential. PERCAT distributes a monthly newsletter to 400+ ECRs
 and its priorities are informed by an annual ECR survey and coordinated by ECR representatives
 who are also members of the College Institute Executive Committees. The latest biannual Vitae
 survey on careers in research provided evidence of strong ECR engagement within UoA1, with
 clear progress between surveys in 2017 and 2019. For example, 84% agree/strongly agree that
 they are encouraged to engage in personal/career development and 89% taking ownership of
 career development. Dedicated professional careers advice for UoA1 academics is provided via
 bespoke PERCAT-coordinated external consultants.

 2.3.3 Supporting pathways to independence
 Pathways to independence for ECRs within UoA1 are supported by tailor-made career
 development programmes including the newly independent researcher support and
 engagement (NIRSE) programme for post-doctoral basic scientists and our Fellowship and
 Grants Academy (FGA) initiative (2019). We offer bespoke training including: CV review and
 advice from senior academics, funder-specific grant workshops, grant and fellowship clinics with
 senior researchers and interview skills training. All activities are supported by the researcher
 development manager and 161 people have engaged with the academy, with 45 applications
 submitted of which 10 have been funded, totalling £5.1M (e.g. Sir Jules Thorn, £1.7M (Sinclair)
 and Advanced Clinical Scientist CRUK fellowship £1.4M (Shetty)). Our FGA initiative will evolve
 to support ECRs managing their awards, with provision of post-award support and training on
 budget, career management and difficult conversations.

 We have leveraged external institutional awards to support career progression. In particular, the
 major theme of our successful Wellcome ISSF award 2016-2021 was targeting of funds to promote
 career progression and support fellowship applications. The goal is to help researchers gain
 fellowships and to bridge difficult career transitions. We have supported 47 awards since 2016 of
 which 64% were to women.

 2.3.4 Developing research interests in undergraduate medical students
 We firmly believe that the future health of UK academic medicine depends on engaging clinicians
 with research from the very onset of their professional training and invest heavily in this axiom.
 Our MBChB degree promotes research experience through ‘Research Tasters’ in which students
 meet in small groups of 5-6 with a researcher and discuss current research to get a sense of what
 research is and how it works. In Year 2 students can undertake a ‘Personal Interest Project’ where
 they investigate a subject of interest in depth, under supervision of an expert, and get exposed to
 critical evaluation of evidence and formation of hypotheses. Students are also encouraged to
 undertake a custom-made summer school. Moreover, 35% of our MBChB. students take
 advantage of our wide range of intercalation options in areas of research excellence which provide
 a strong foundation for a research career.
 2.3.5.1 Integrated academic training pathway
 Support for clinical ECRs is provided by our highly respected integrated clinical academic training
 pathway (Lead: Boelaert). Since inception this has been awarded 170 NIHR ACF posts and 73

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NIHR ACLs, with 90% in UoA1. 159 trainees have completed training and 75 of 112 ACFs (67%
 vs. national average 47%) have progressed to clinical research training fellowships or other
 academic posts and 37 of 47 NIHR ACL have progressed to senior academic positions (79% vs.
 national average 69%). Birmingham is in the top 25% of institutions for NIHR-funded training posts
 and strategic funding decisions by the College have maintained 9 ACFs and 51 ACL locally-funded
 posts. All trainees are provided with a consumable budget beyond support provided by NIHR. A
 monthly newsletter is sent to all trainees communicating and encouraging attendance at training
 events. An annual trainee survey is conducted annually to inform future training events and assess
 satisfaction with 100% rating training as ‘good/excellent and relevant’ and 90% rating academic
 supervision as ‘good/excellent’.

 Trainees are encouraged to access interdisciplinary training opportunities and co-localising clinical
 trainees with non-clinical scientists facilitates these opportunities. Examples include the
 Healthcare Technology Institute where ophthalmology trainees are co-supervised by engineers
 on innovative solutions to prevent corneal scarring and neurosurgeons co-supervised by
 neurobiologists in the NIHR SRMRC.

 Over 90% of trainees feel they are provided with sufficient resources, opportunities, advice and
 support in relation to achieving their academic goals and academic career progression.




                 Figure 2.2. Responses to Clinical Trainee survey report 2019

 Our Academic Foundation support has established a reputation for excellence and 70% of
 students are offered posts, compared to national average of 51%. 32% of applicants come from
 other universities and 98% of appointees report Birmingham as their first choice. Clinical
 academics often rate a positive experience or engagement with an inspirational researcher as the
 important first step in developing a research interest. Our INSPIRE scheme (funded by Academy
 Medical Sciences) has funded 33 summer studentships over the assessment period, supported
 travel to conferences for 57 students, provided networking events and dinners and showcased
 research excellence with the development of a distinction in research award annually.

 In addition, working in a unique way with our NHS Charity partners, we have established a BHP
 Fellowship scheme, which provides salary for 1 year to allow clinical trainees to develop
 preliminary data for competitive fellowship applications. This has appointed 18 fellows since 2015
 of which 60% have progressed to external competitive fellowships with grant income totalling
 >£2.5million.

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3.5.2 Clinical Doctoral Training
 250 clinical trainees have completed a higher degree over the assessment period, 60% funded
 through highly competitive personal fellowships. A survey of these trainees (59% response rate)
 suggested 95% would recommend the experience, 77% had 3+ publications, 85% continued to
 participate in research following completion of their degree and 82% reported the experience
 improved their provision of clinical care. UoA1 provides a range of funded PhD opportunities for
 clinical staff. As one example, the Birmingham CRUK Centre Clinical Academic Training and
 Research Programme has recently been expanded to annually train 3 MB-PhD students to start
 PhDs at completion of intercalation as well as 3 Clinical Research Training Fellows. A similar
 scheme was recently successful in funding from the Kennedy Foundation for rheumatology
 research.

 2.3.5.3 Bridging support to achieve research independence
 A critical stage in the career of academic clinicians is the development towards academic
 independence. In 2017 we introduced a systematic support approach for Academy of Medical
 Sciences Starter Grants for Clinical Lecturers which raised success rates from 16% to 50%. These
 grant holders are considered as independent researchers and are included in REF submission.
 NIHR recognise the importance of bridging this gap and support trainees to continue their CL post
 beyond completion of clinical training (CCT). In a unique partnership with our local education and
 training board, we have matched the NIHR offer and all our CLs have the opportunity to extend
 their post-doctoral training for 1 year following CCT (2019).
 2.3.5.4 EDI
 Transition to independence is particularly challenging for women as it often coincides with
 changing family circumstances. In Autumn 2016 we introduced the Athena SWAN Parental
 Leave Project Support Grant for Clinical Lecturers which funds technical support (up to £20,000)
 to support project continuation, with 4 awards made to date. An important partnership also
 exists with the Mayo Clinic in the U.S. to support clinical ECRs to develop independence and
 international networking via an exchange programme. 7 individuals have been supported across
 4 clinical disciplines, resulting in several joint publications.

 2.3.5.5 Support for non-medical clinical academic careers
 To meet evolving healthcare demands it is essential that the wider clinical workforce is supported
 to engage in research. Working with NHS Trust partners, we successfully secured £1.1M from
 Health Education West Midlands to support non-medical clinicians who wish to embark on a
 clinical academic career. This offers an introduction to research including research design, data
 management and practical research. 100 staff have completed the programme and 90% strongly
 agreed the programme was helpful. Impact was demonstrated by both participants and managers
 identifying organizational benefits of participation, including increased use of evidence-based
 practice. Metrics of success have included award of 7 NIHR doctoral fellowships (from 11
 submitted vs 1 in the 5 years prior to start) and 7 pre-doctoral clinical academic fellowship awards
 (from 12 submitted with 10 judged ‘fundable’, the best rate in country). 40% of participants received
 additional research funding or progressed to further study and >100 articles have been published
 and 26% of participants promoted (2016-18).

 2.3.5.6 Evidence of success
 These initiatives have contributed to our outstanding success in supporting clinical researchers of
 all career stages in obtaining prestigious personal fellowship support. Since 2016, 45 early career

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers were successful in securing prestigious personal fellowships or New Investigator
 awards (e.g. MRC, Wellcome, NIHR, CRUK, BHF, Versus Arthritis), including 16 fellowships to
 support clinical academics. Additionally, 8 Mid-career and Senior fellowships and 13 NIHR Senior
 Investigator Awards have been gained. Over 50% of our CLs have been awarded
 intermediate/senior fellowships and 10 have progressed to appointment in Professorial positions.

 Academic Staff (Teaching and Research)

 2.4.1 Investment context
 259 staff within UoA1 were considered eligible for REF21 and 231 are submitted after
 consideration of research independence according to UoB REF21 guidelines. Research-only staff
 numbers have increased by 26% between 2014 and 2020, rising from 500 to 630, reflecting a
 substantial increase in the research base.

 2.4.2 Recruitment strategy
 An ambitious recruitment programme has been implemented and during the assessment period
 we have recruited 20 Chairs, 7 Readers and 10 Senior Lecturers. These initiatives include the
 Birmingham Fellows and Industry Chair campaigns (REF5a; 3.4.1). In particular, Lewis brings 30
 years global Health industry experience and is currently Chair of 5 Medical/CRO/digital health
 companies, supporting our ambition to expand industry links. Our Interdisciplinary Professors
 have included Owen and Metcalfe in Chemical Engineering and a £7M investment to recruit Terry
 to lead a new Centre for Systems Modelling & Quantitative Biomedicine with Mathematics and
 Computer Science.

 UoA1 aims to attract the best international talent and Calebiro is an exemplar, appointed through
 our Professorial Fellowship scheme and recently awarded a Wellcome Trust Senior Research
 Fellowship. Integration of international staff is supported by tailored induction and welcome packs,
 regular meetings, surveys and focus groups. Personal support is further provided by current staff
 members acting as ‘buddies’ to new staff from overseas. Recruitment is always focussed on
 strategic priority, building on local strength and promoting interdisciplinary outcomes, e.g. Herten,
 recipient of an Academy of Medical Sciences professorship. Section 1.2 highlights examples of
 recruitment to build critical mass in key areas of development.

 2.4.3 Induction and Performance Development Review (PDR)
 A new schedule for Induction has been implemented centrally (REF5a, 3.4.2) and UoA1 has
 developed this further for all new staff, capturing initial support, training and signposting to the
 wealth of resources available. All staff undertake an annual PDR conducted by managers who
 receive bespoke tuition, including unconscious bias training, and emphasis is placed on career
 development.

 2.4.4 Training and Leadership Development
 The scale of investment and quality of research leadership training at UoB is amongst the
 strongest within the HEI sector (REF5a, 3.4.5c). An extensive range of opportunities are provided
 through the People and Organisational Development (POD) team (REF5a, 3.4.3b) to support
 the development of UoA1 leadership, strategic influencing and networking capabilities. Training
 and development opportunities include accredited and bespoke immersive programmes,
 consultant-led sessions and webinars such as action-centred leadership, resilience, wellbeing and



                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 managing change and ambiguity. All staff have access to UoB LinkedIn learning license for co-
 directed learning.

 Leadership programmes include:
       Senior Leadership: for grade 10+ staff, designed to empower strategic leadership in times
        of rapid change – 22 UoA1 staff (32%F) have attended.
       Emerging Leaders: for grade 9 staff, focussing upon the relationship between leadership
        and management and models of effective leadership- 35 UoA1 staff (49%F) have attended
       Research Team Leaders: for early career researchers with aspirations to lead their
        academic field and become an effective team leader. This is a well-established
        collaboration with the University of Nottingham – 18 UoA1attendees (50%F).
       Many UoA1 academics (e.g. Mauro, Sapey, Calebiro) have also taken advantage of the
        UoB Research Leaders programme for mid-career academics (REF5a; 3.4.4).
       ILM-accredited Leadership and Management Levels 2,3,5: for Academic and
        Academic-Related staff wishing to develop a firm management foundation (level 2) - 53
        UoA1 staff (79%F)
       Aditi Leadership: for Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) academic and academic-
        related staff in the University; 8 UoA1 staff (50%F) have attended.
       Aurora: for ECR female academics. This is Advance HE’s leadership initiative for women
        and those who identify as women, bringing together leadership experts to address under-
        representation of women in leadership positions in HEI. 24 UoA1 staff have attended.
       MDS SUSTAIN: a new programme for ECRs establishing their own research group, a
        unique partnership with the Academy of Medical Sciences, modelled on their national
        SUSTAIN programme for female early career leaders. Our programme will widen
        participation beyond gender (e.g. ethnicity, LGBT, first generation scholars) to ensure
        better future representation at senior academic level.
 UoB has an established coaching academy with experienced coaches that understand the work
 environment and the challenges it presents. To date 56 staff from UoA1 have received coaching
 (77%F). Managers who wish to become qualified can join the University Coaching Academy by
 undertaking the ILM Coaching and Mentoring programme. Denniston and Sapey have joined the
 prestigious external NIHR FLIER (Future Leaders in Innovation, Enterprise and Research)
 programme for which Adams sits on the cross-sector Task Force.
 2.4.5 Promotion, rewards and recognition
 UoA1 has championed transformational change in support for staff through the promotion
 process at all stages. Early support is given to those we feel could be on a trajectory for promotion,
 and colleagues who are unsuccessful receive support, feedback and mentoring to help them focus
 on closing any gaps to improve future success.

 We believe that our excellent rates of retention and promotion have also been enhanced by
 significant improvements to our Performance Development Review (PDR) process. Since 2019
 we have introduced Institute-specific PDR review committees to identify and encourage
 candidates for promotion and we have also made it a requirement for the College EDI lead to join
 the senior promotion committee. These steps have helped to achieve substantially higher success
 rates for female academics, achieving 63% and 53% of the reader and chair appointments,
 respectively, since 2017.




                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To further help embed these process improvements consistently across the College in 2020 we
 introduced the role of Institute career development leads to support staff applying for promotion.
 As a result of our efforts in these areas, through staff surveys we were delighted to see an increase
 of satisfaction in the PDR process of 53% from 2018 to 2020, and a concomitant increase in
 satisfaction in the academic promotion process of 54% over the same period.
 2.5 Career support for development and delivery of impact
 Our infrastructure, practice and processes to support engagement with external stakeholders is
 covered in Section 4. Specific career-linked opportunities for engagement include:
    Recruitment of Campbell-Hill (10 years founding member of the Medical Technologies
     Advisory Committee for NICE and recent Non-Executive Director for MHRA) to develop
     entrepreneurial training programmes.
    Recruitment of Lewis as Professor of Life Sciences Innovation.
    Links to staff in major advisory roles within business and charity bodies, such as Kearns who
     is Trustee at CRUK.
    DTPs include support and training for students to spend dedicated time delivering public
     engagement activities or external policy roles (4.2).
    International engagement is supported by a range of opportunities.

 2.6 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 EDI is at the heart of UoA1 strategic vision and is driven by the College EDI leadership team
 which comprises leads from Institutes and professional services and reports to College Board and
 the University Equality Committee. This team is supported by a dedicated EDI Officer since 2018.
 This team ensures that relevant activity is embedded as a behavioural and cultural norm and
 provides support to researchers through promotion of diversity activities, signposting staff and
 students to appropriate policies and services, exploring equality related barriers that may hinder
 any member of staff or student being successful, providing scrutiny for policy and strategy
 development and implementation, and providing an advocacy role for implementation of policy
 and delivery of plans.

 Examples of targeted interventions to improve awareness of EDI and close notable gender and
 ethnicity gaps at different levels across the College are present throughout this document (e.g.
 2.2.1, 2.2.5, 2.2.6, 2.4.2, 2.4.5, 3.3). A recent survey of staff demonstrates the notable
 improvements in this area and the impact our positive interventions have made. Survey findings
 reveal that, between 2018 and 2020, there has been:
    60% increase in respondents to communications relating to EDI;
    46% reduction in behaviour respondents would describe as ‘discriminatory’;
    54% increase in satisfaction of the academic promotion process;
    53% increase in satisfaction of the PDR process.
 We are pleased to see improvements, not only in perceptions of gender equality, but also in
 tangible outcomes, such as the improved prospects of promotion for female academics which
 supported our successful Athena SWAN Silver award in 2020.
 However, EDI is about more than gender equality. We recognise the particular barriers that BAME
 staff can face in accessing and maintaining success in the College and which are evidenced
 through under-representation of our BAME staff at Professorial level. We remain committed to
 open communication with our staff and students about the issues they face, as well as increasing
 collaboration with our NHS partners to address any issues identified and proactively work to foster

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 an inclusive atmosphere across our organisations. The College EDI Committee includes staff
 network representatives representing women, BAME, LGBTQ, disabled, and parents/carers.

 Since 2018 we have created a race equality working group and sponsored and co-organised
 two Black History Month and one LGBT History Month conferences at University Hospitals
 Birmingham. We also hosted the LGBT STEMinar conference (2019). Internal events for Black
 History Month and LGBT History Month have been supplemented with ‘Bring Your Family to Work
 Day’ and ‘World Menopause Day’.

 We also recognise that we will be able to create more impactful and lasting changes by working
 collaboratively with regional partners. Professor Una Martin (ICS and former Deputy Pro-Vice-
 Chancellor, Equalities) has joined the Inclusive Leadership forum established by the Mayor of
 the West Midlands, Andy Street, committing the University to three pledges around female
 representation at Senior Leadership with emphasis on BAME representation.

 We have prioritised consideration of Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity issues in constructing our
 REF submission, following the University’s Code of Practice for REF2021, including the use of
 equality impact assessments in both the process of identifying staff with significant responsibility
 for research and those who are independent researchers, and the final selection of submitted
 outputs. Equality impact assessments, overseen by the College Director of Research, compared
 the contributions of staff with protected characteristics and at different career stages to the
 submitted output portfolio with their representation in the UOA1 as a whole. Our submission
 reflects the diversity of UoA1 research and our equality impact assessments show no evidence of
 biases with respect to any particular cohort of combination of protected characteristics.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research Funding Strategy
 Research funding strategy is planned and delivered through the College Board. We aim to deliver
 a balanced ‘bench to bedside’ research portfolio from a variety of funders including UKRI, NIHR,
 charity, international and industry. This strategy has seen UoA1 research awards increase by 49%
 between period 2013-2016 and 2017-2020, from average £43M to £64M per annum.

 Key drivers of our strategic delivery include:

       Strengthening interdisciplinary research through collaborative Centres such as our
        Centre for Computational Biology (UoAs 1, 11 & 24), Centre for Patient-Reported
        Outcomes Research (UoAs 1, 2, 18 & 20), Centre for Systems Modelling & Quantitative
        Biomedicine (UoAs 1, 10 & 11) and Medical Devices Testing & Evaluation Centre (UoAs1-
        3 plus 8 & 12).
       Support for large consortia awards, through strategic partnership posts and a cross-
        cutting project management teams. This has delivered several major awards such as our
        CRUK Centre, NIHR BRC, NIHR/CRUK ECMC, Innovate UK MW-ATTC, Birmingham-
        Oxford A-TAP, HDRUK Centre and PIONEER HDRUK Hub.
       International links have been transformed through a number of collaborative initiatives
        including the NIHR Unit in Global Surgery, a Global Health Group in COPD and our WHO
        partnership delivering the e-MOTIVE study funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
        The number of outputs with an international partner has increased by 60%, from 392
        in 2014 to 627 in 2020.


                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The capacity and breadth of translational research awards has increased substantially
        over the last 5 years. We have increased capture of MRC Confidence in Concept awards
        and been funded at increasing levels over seven consecutive rounds. We have also been
        successful in three rounds of MRC Proximity to Discovery funding, winning a Wellcome
        Trust Translational Partnership Award in 2019 (£600K), appointing an Entrepreneur in
        Residence and external consultants to de-risk projects in ‘Dragons Den’-style discussions
        for IP and spin-out companies.
       Investment in Business Engagement professional services staff and establishment of a
        culture of knowledge exchange across UoA1 has delivered a steep upward trend in
        industry awards from £4M (2014) to £15.2M in 2019, of which £11M came from global
        pharma. Over the last 12 months, 79 UoA1 researchers delivered research projects with
        industry, with many more being engaged in the development of project ideas and
        relationship-building with companies. We are proud that 6.5% of UoA1 outputs now include
        a corporate partner.
       Engaging all academic staff in strategic development and established ‘think tanks’ of
        academics who sit on national research committees to inform UoA1 research strategy.

 3.2    Operational research infrastructure
 The research and knowledge transfer management structure within CMDS is based on integrated
 leadership by both Academic and Professional Services staff (see figure 3.1).


                                                                                                                 Vice Chancellor


                                                                                                                Head of College


          Director of Research                                    Director of Operations                        Director of R&KT            Director of BHP           Director of Education
            Support Services

                                                        Academic Lead for                                                                                               Academic Lead for
                        Academic Lead for                                            Academic Lead for        Deputy Director of R&KT    Deputy Director of R&KT
                                                          Enterprise &                                                                                                       Research
                       Business Engagement                                           Global Challenges        Training & Development     Academic Environment
                                                        Commercialisation                                                                                              Quality Improvement

                   Head of College
                                                                    Deputy Director of
                   Research Support                                                                Head of PGR Head of PERCAT Head of ICAT
                                                                    Operations (R&KT)




                                           RESEARCH                        RESEARCH               POST-GRADUATE             ADVANCED THERAPIES          CLINICAL RESEARCH
                                        DEVELOPMENT &                      DELIVERY             RESEARCH, TRAINING               FACILITY                  COMPLIANCE
                                           SUPPORT                                                & DEVELOPMENT


                                      Funding intelligence, Pre        Project Management         Research Training &         HBRC, Cell therapy,      Research Governance &
                                      Award Research Support           Technology Transfer           Development                     FMT                    Compliance




                                               UoB: College Admin, Research Support Services, UoB Enterprise, Insurance, Legal Office, Treasury, HR, DARO, Planning,
                                                          Academic Services [Studentships, Admissions], POD, Estates, Other Colleges, Communications.

                                                External: NHS Partners, Academic Collaborators, Sponsors, Funders, Regulators, Support Agencies, Regional Partners.




 Fig 3.1 Operational research infrastructure within Research and Knowledge Transfer (RKT)

 The above structure brings together a team of 90 staff working on grant development and delivery,
 regulatory compliance, research integrity, translation and researcher training. These link to
 University-level teams covering Business Engagement; Strategic Projects; Charitable Funding;
 Interdisciplinarity (Institute for Global Innovation); Commercialisation (UoB Enterprise); External
 Relations (including Public Engagement with Research); International Collaboration; and
 Research Finance.




                                                                                                                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Specific UoA1 teams include:-

        The Research Development and Support Team of 9 staff who support the development
         and submission of grant applications and have established a ‘Grant Information Centre’ to
         provide enhanced support to grant applicants.
        The Strategic Projects Team, a newly-established team of senior professional services
         staff who develop major research investment opportunities, particularly those involving
         highly interdisciplinary and cross-sector partnerships. Notable successes include the two
         HDR Hubs and £6M DEMAND Hub SME platform in collaboration with the School of
         Engineering.
        The Research Delivery Team of 44 staff comprises project managers developing and
         managing large consortia and infrastructure bids. They provide expertise and training in
         specialist areas including PPIE and translation and the management of grants e.g. MRC
         Confidence in Concept and Wellcome Trust Translational Partnership.
        Technical and Facilities support delivered by 50 core staff in technical roles, with
         additional 70 funded from research grants. UoB was early signatory to the national
         Technician Commitment for recognition, career development and sustainability (REF5a;
         4.4). We launched our Technical Academy in 2017, improving skills training, networking
         and career structures for all technical staff. We hold technical conferences and have
         supported attendance at the national Higher Education Technicians Summit, hosting in
         2019, and supported the Science Council on their Professional Registration Scheme.

 3.2.1 IT Infrastructure
 The University has made three major recent investments in data support including the largest IBM
 AI cluster in the UK (REF5a; 4.5). Additionally, within UoA1 the Compute and Storage for the
 Life Sciences (CaStLeS) is a £2.3M investment, with 5Pb of storage, 122 Compute Nodes and
 eight IBM Power9 with GPUs, which has propelled Birmingham to the forefront of AI and Data
 Sciences for the Life Sciences. This unique resource of high performance cluster and virtual
 machines is used by 448 users across 102 projects, with support from two dedicated system
 administrators and a Research Software Engineer.

 3.2.2 Laboratory space
 Since 2015 we have undergone major reorganisation of research space to bring dispersed
 activities into physical proximity. The Institute of Biomedical Research underwent £18M
 refurbishment in the West Wing Extension which increased the provision of high quality laboratory
 space by 3000m2, and provided bespoke accommodation for our core imaging facilities including
 light microscopy, COMPARE and intravital imaging. ICGS was previously split across five
 locations, but following an £8.8M investment is now housed in a single area which opened in
 January 2020. We are currently investing £1.3M in our molecular NMR facility to accommodate
 an EPSRC-funded 1GHz NMR Spectrometer which was delivered in 2020.

 3.2.3   The Technology Hub and key research facilities

        The Technology Hub comprises a wide range of state of the art research facilities
         including Imaging Suite, Genomics Birmingham, Flow Cytometry and Sorting, Protein
         Expression Facility and Category 3 Containment. £13.5M investment in strategic
         equipment supported expansion of Genomics into nextSeq500, single cell sequencing and
         promethion long read sequencing. We have confocal, 2 Photon & TIRF microscope
         imaging. Our immunophenotyping core includes a Helios CyTOF Mass Cytometer. Tech

                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Hub facilities are overseen with by academic leadership, a dedicated manager,
         Stratocore® booking system and 14 staff (seven new since 2017).
        The Human Biomaterials Resource Centre is a Human Tissue Authority (HTA) licensed
         human sample biorepository which is dedicated to the collection and storage of
         appropriately consented, quality-assured biomaterials for distribution to biomedical
         research groups both in academia and industry.
        The Cell Therapy Suite is a clean room facility licensed by both the MHRA for the
         manufacture of Advanced Therapeutic Medicinal Products (ATMPs), and the HTA for the
         production of cell- and tissue-based therapies for human application. The main objective
         of the CTS is to enable, embed and facilitate clinical research projects and programmes
         involving the delivery of gene and cell-based therapies.
        The Microbiome Treatment Centre is the first Medicines and Healthcare products
         Regulatory Agency (MHRA) licensed facility in the UK to provide Faecal Microbiota
         Transplant for clinical trials and for the treatment of patients with recurrent and
         refractory Clostridium difficile infection.
        The Centre for Computational Biology (est. 2014) is a joint initiative between CMDS
         and the College of Life & Environmental Sciences, and has leveraged in excess of £35M
         grant funding building on UoB membership of the Alan Turing Institute.
        The Biomolecular NMR Facility is the largest open access high and ultra-high field NMR
         facility in the UK. In 2018, UoB was awarded £6.5M investment (UKRI/EPSRC) for 1 GHz
         spectrometer offering the highest field strength and line-up of NMR spectrometers at a
         single site. A £1.5M Wellcome Trust award supports UK-wide open access, acting as
         national high field centre alongside UoA1 research in NMR tracer-based metabolism and
         metabolomics for translational medicine.
        The Phenome Centre Birmingham is a collaborative fee-for-service centre, supporting
         untargeted and targeted metabolomics and offers capacity to perform 30k liquid
         chromatography-mass spectrometry and 15k NMR assays /year.
        The Biomedical Services Unit (BMSU) provides facilities for the breeding and
         maintenance of small animals (12,000 rodents in IVC caging) and zebrafish (600 tanks,
         10,000 fish) as well as infrastructure for investigational procedures including live imaging
         and operation rooms.
        The University leads one of six HDRUK sites in the Midlands HDRUK Centre (Leicester,
         Nottingham and Warwick). Success was facilitated by Gkoutos’s recruitment as Professor
         of Clinical Informatics. In 2019 we won two of seven national HDR Hubs focussing on acute
         care (PIONEER) and ophthalmology (INSIGHT).

 3.3      Equality and diversity
 The College was awarded Athena SWAN Silver status in 2020 and has delivered a comprehensive
 and innovative range of activities, refreshed and changed policies, and taken practical steps to
 improve the working environment. Funds are available to help with childcare costs during
 conferences and a budget is set aside annually to fund SWAN events. Staff can access a range
 of leadership opportunities and are offered grant workshops and fellowship interview practice. We
 have further identified that women are more likely to apply for grants only when they feel they “tick
 all of the boxes”, are very well prepared and the likelihood of their failure is low. To provide suitable
 support the College provides seedcorn funding and mentorship for female early career
 researchers through our Research Development Fund, showing increasing success rates for
 female applicants since 2014.



                                                                                                  Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Fellowship and Grant Academy and Newly Independent Researcher Support and
 Engagement initiatives provide an excellent space for cohort support, exchange of ideas and peer
 help, which is very important to ensure women do not feel isolated and left on their own. Fellowship
 Academy events are well attended by women (61%F) with the result that in the last year 65% of
 applications submitted by FGA attendees were from women and 78% of the applications funded
 were awarded to women. 52% of our New Investigators that have signed up to NIRSE events are
 women.

 Staff have access to a dedicated breastfeeding/expressing room, multi-faith prayer space, and
 gender neutral toilets in our main building, which are accessible from all of our laboratory facilities;
 similar facilities are available in our partner hospitals.

 3.4    Infrastructure for impact
 A significant proportion of our infrastructure, facilities and expertise are focused on delivering
 impact and this integrated approach across stakeholders is driving innovation for patients and
 communities.

 3.4.1 University Impact Infrastructure
 The focus of our impact infrastructure is the ITM, established in 2016, as a £24M (£12M matched
 from BEIS) research facility that acts as a central hub for interaction between basic scientists,
 clinicians, informaticians, biostatisticians, bioengineers and clinical trial design experts and
 industry. The aim is to accelerate clinical therapeutic innovations. The ITM hosts the £7.2M West
 Midlands MRC/Versus Arthritis Stratified Medicine Facility (deep immunophenotyping, molecular
 pathology, metabolomics), Clinical informatics, Centre for Patient Reported Outcome Research
 and two trial management teams supporting trials into drugs, advanced cell therapies, biomarkers
 and devices. The ITM Novel Endoscopy Centre, located at the NIHR-Wellcome CRF, houses the
 latest endoscopy equipment with magnification and optical enhancement and confocal
 endomicroscopy in vivo. Further services include device simulation facilities, the first robotics
 pharmacy dedicated to clinical trials and research imaging facilities (COBALT). This facility is now
 at capacity and further translational ambitions will be expanded through the Birmingham Health
 Innovation Campus (3.4.3).

 3.4.2 NHS Impact Infrastructure
 The BHP alliance (see section 4) has co-created a shared vision for delivering transformational
 change at a local, regional and national level. Our Genomic Medicine Centre is an exemplar that
 links 17 regional NHS Trusts, accelerating service innovation and transformative research. As a
 result, we were the highest recruiting region for the 100,000 Genomes Project and co-developed
 a Genomic Tumour Advisory Board model, enabling identification of patients in novel trials for
 genetic mutations.

 BHP coordinates our local NIHR infrastructure, ensuring an integrated translational pipeline from
 the BRC and ECMC, through to ARC and the Academic Health Sciences Network. BHP
 engagement was also critical to award of the Midlands HDRUK Centre and the MW-ATTC. It is
 also an integral part of the emergent Birmingham and Solihull Integrated Care System, playing a
 critical role in accelerating deployment of evidence-based interventions to transform the health
 and economic wellbeing.




                                                                                                 Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our jointly-managed NIHR Wellcome CRF, based at the QEH and BWC, provides high-quality
 clinical environments for experimental medicine, complex research studies, and early phase
 clinical trials, including an Advanced Therapies Facility and Inflammation Research Facility, plus
 the first stand-alone children’s facility in the UK. It received the largest UK award, £12.6M in
 2016. The CRF also hosts the Birmingham NIHR Bioresource for Common and Rare Diseases,
 the 2nd highest recruiter to UK rare disease cohorts. The work of the CRF covers high profile
 studies (e.g. gene therapy for haemophilia A) with implementation in healthcare (therapy for
 chronic HCV infection in children). With 450 active studies in 2017/18, it is the 3rd highest recruiter
 in England to experimental medicine CRF-based studies and with cutting-edge facilities including
 the country’s first research pharmacy robot and specialist endoscopy equipment.

 3.4.3 Industry Impact Infrastructure
 A number of facilities have been developed to support UoA1 Industrial impact:

       BioHub Birmingham is a £9m bioincubator opened in 2015 to house and support spin-outs
        from the University and across the region. Four spin-out companies have been established
        in the reporting period (Revitope, Chimeric Therapeutics, Invex Therapeutics,
        MicrobesNG) with £16million development funding secured and 54 patents filed relevant
        to UoA1 during the current REF assessment period.
       To further capitalise on successes pioneered at BioHub and ITM, we have engaged
        Bruntwood SciTech in a long-term partnership to develop the Birmingham Health
        Innovation Campus (BHIC; Fig 3.2). This will provide 675,000ft2 for innovation facilities
        and commercial grow-on space on a 10 acre site at the heart of the University-NHS
        campus. £70M is being invested (UoB, Bruntwood, LEP) in phase 1, completing in 2023.
        The site will attract >£200M private investment for project completion in 2031. This will
        provide a home for innovative life and health sciences businesses seeking to co-locate at
        the heart of the BHP ecosystem. BHIC’s key differentiator from similar incubator
        developments is the Precision Health Technologies Accelerator, an innovation hub
        supported by funding from the Greater Birmingham and Solihull LEP, which integrates
        genomics medicine & diagnostics, clinical trials, medical technologies and healthcare data
        to accelerate the delivery of healthcare innovations around early diagnosis and precision
        medicine.




          Fig 3.2       Artist impression of Birmingham Health Innovation Campus
 3.4.4 Policy Impact Infrastructure
 A dedicated University Public Affairs team facilitates significant interactions at a regional and
 national level with MPs, ministers, government bodies and other influencing functions. Within

                                                                                                Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA1, we have hosted a range of government delegations including Jeremy Hunt, Matt Hancock,
 Greg Clarke, Lord O’Shaughnessy and Baroness Blackwood. We hosted the national Life
 Sciences Industrial Strategy launch by Sir John Bell, and are one of only four sites in the UK to
 have official MoUs with the Association of British Pharmaceutical Industries and Association of
 British Healthcare Industries. We support academic engagement in policy, such as Moss who
 leads the £18M Immunity theme for the Covid National Core Studies programme.

 3.4.5 Impact Infrastructure for public and patients
 Transport links into our campus are outstanding and will be further developed by UoB investment
 to upgrade the University railway station. This mainline station, busier than many city centre
 stations, is a 2 minute walk from the Medical School and five minutes from the QEH.

 We have developed a team of professional patient involvement specialists who support numerous
 major infrastructure projects including our NIHR and HDRUK infrastructure, the Wales and
 Midlands ATTC, CRUK/ECMC and UK SPINE CCF award on healthy ageing with the University
 of Oxford. These specialists work as a coordinated team with our NHS partners to develop and
 implement a clear strategy across BHP which embeds the patient voice in the heart of our
 research. Our NCCPE Silver Watermark Award for public engagement with research had
 significant coordinating support and input from UoA1-associated staff.

 3.5      Evidence of cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure
 including the use of major research facilities both in the UK and overseas
 Our Technology Hub links into the Midlands Innovation group of Midlands universities
 (Birmingham, Leicester, Loughborough, Nottingham, Warwick, Keele, Cranfield and Aston), a
 collaborative network working to improve research collaboration and share equipment and
 expertise. This is achieved through the Midlands Innovation equipment catalogue, joint training
 initiatives and a Technical Skills Placement Programme. For example, UoA1 researchers can
 access partial funding to utilise the high-spec cryo-electron microscopy housed in Leicester and
 shared flow cytometry technologies. Midlands Innovation Health was established by the same
 group of universities to focus on health issues and has supported pan Midlands initiatives including
 the Midlands HDRUK hub and collaborative working and access to shared facilities at the Defence
 and National Rehabilitation Centre at Stanford Hall. MIH is supported by the Midlands Engine and
 works closely with the Midlands Health Alliance lead by the three Midlands NIHR BRCs which
 coordinates collaborative working between the Midland’s NIHR infrastructure.

 A strategic partnership between the Universities of Birmingham and Nottingham co-invested £10M
 in the COMPARE in 2015, supporting shared state of the art microscopy facilities on both
 campuses, joint training programmes and research collaborations.

 In 2017 we established an interdisciplinary Institute for Global Innovation to focus on pump-
 priming research with the Global South. The Institute has facilitated interdisciplinary dialogue
 across Colleges, Schools and disciplines and supports collaborative working with colleagues from
 around the world (REF5a; 2.3.3).

 The newly purchased and refurbished city centre building The Exchange will be a hub for public
 engagement, focussing on making research accessible to the public in line with our civic mission
 (£40M investment; REF5a; 4.2.2). This will also house the new £5m research institute West
 Midlands REDI (funded by Research England) examining how research can directly inform policy

                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 at the regional level, with major case studies planned around UoA1 medical technology research
 and commercialization.
 3.6     Significance of major benefits-in-kind (including, for example, donated items of
 equipment, sponsorships secured, or other arrangements directly related to research).
 Our Development & Alumni Relations team (DARO) supports regular giving and major gifts
 programmes aiming to encourage individuals, alumni, and trusts and foundations to support the
 University through philanthropy. This support has provided donations including Chair endowments
 (Versus Arthritis), £1M development of the Bladder Cancer Centre and equipment for the ITM
 (£200k). A key example of targeted endowments is the ‘Birmingham Mayo Fellowships’ which
 allow researchers to undertake fully funded extended visits to the Mayo Clinic in the US. The
 recent Birmingham in Action campaign focusses strongly on UoA1 activity, especially cancer.
 We have agreements in place with equipment suppliers who provide demo and prototype
 development. Pentax & Olympus have provided £500k each for advanced equipment ‘in kind’ to
 support endoscopic studies. We have also developed novel patient-focussed models of
 philanthropic investment through clinical trials networks such as IMPACT, A-TAP and ‘Rare
 Diseases TAP’ which allow patient access for new drugs and have secured >£21 million industry
 investment.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1. College/institutional support to enable local collaboration
       The 2011 decision to develop BHP has facilitated greatly the integration and expansion of
        research strategy and collaborative activities over the REF period by UoA1 and its NHS
        partners, University Hospitals Birmingham and Birmingham Women and Children’s NHS
        Foundation Trusts. The appointment of Dr John Williams as Managing Director in 2016
        has leveraged a step change in research capacity, delivery and impact between
        stakeholders.




                     Figure 4.1 The Birmingham Health Partners campus
       With joint location on the Edgbaston campus (Fig 4.1), BHP offers a unique ecosystem
        which enables the full spectrum of translational medicine. BHP has a unified vision for
        “ageless” delivery of research with clinical and economic impact. This refreshed research
        strategy has resulted in substantial growth of inter-institutional awards, with NIHR


                                                                                         Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        infrastructure bids growing from £21M in the last REF period to current value of £38M. The
        next investment into this unique integrated health campus is the Birmingham Health
        Innovation Campus which will deliver significant space for precision medicine and closer
        working with industry partners (Figure 3.2).
       The ITM (est. 2016) is a dynamic platform promoting collaboration and engagement
        between University staff, clinicians and industry (Section 3). This hosts academic,
        corporate and patient groups and supports laboratories, clinical trials teams (3.4.3) and
        medical device companies. It acts as a hub to promote collaborative problem solving
        between clinical academics and health professionals with bioinformaticians,
        biostatisticians, trialists, bioengineers and laboratory scientists.
       We have invested heavily to support translational activity through working with industry. A
        key example is BioHub Birmingham (Section 3) which houses University spin-out
        companies. There has been significant investment in business engagement through a
        dedicated Business Engagement Team of four staff for UoA1 along with core support posts
        (contracts/communications/marketing/events) who support academics in their
        engagement with industry partners. The UoA1 Business Engagement (BE) team sit within
        the larger UoB BE of 23 staff that allows further reach across the University to enable and
        facilitate cross-College, interdisciplinary collaborations and research.
       We use a broad range of internal and devolved external funds to pump-prime new
        collaborations across the academic, NHS and industry sectors. These include MRC
        Confidence in Concept and Proximity to Discovery awards, Wellcome ISSF and
        Translational Partnership, and UoB Enterprising Birmingham Funds. Notably, MRC
        investment of £4.6M has leveraged over £28M in follow-on funding, enabling significantly
        greater levels of translational activity through close working with industry partners.
       Regionally we have developed coordinated partnerships to drive research collaborations.
        We work through the Midlands Innovation Health group (connecting medical leadership
        across the universities of Aston, Birmingham, Keele, Leicester, Loughborough, Nottingham
        and Warwick) as well as the Midlands Health Alliance (connecting NHS and academic
        leads across NIHR-funded infrastructure in Birmingham, Leicester, Nottingham and
        Warwick) to develop joint strategic approaches to emerging national priorities, funding
        initiatives, patient/public involvement and training. Investment with University of
        Nottingham developed the £10million COMPARE initiative and MRC-ARUK Centre for
        Musculoskeletal Ageing Research.
       The University opened the Edgbaston Park Hotel and Conference Centre in September
        2018 to support academic networking and attract national and international conferences.
        Several international UoA1 meetings, such as the 2020 European Young Endocrine
        Scientist Conference, have been booked to date although disrupted by the COVID
        pandemic.
       We actively support academics to undertake prestigious joint or sabbatical posts with
        external partners. Examples include Piddock seconded to the Global Antibiotic Research
        & Development Partnership (GARDP) as the Head of Scientific Affairs and Lord as
        Specialist Advisor to The House of Lords Committee inquiry into Ageing. Barone has taken
        a two year sabbatical to work as the Vice President of Experimental Medicine in a life
        science company. McNally was seconded to UK Biocentre to lead establishment and
        operation of the Lighthouse SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic facility in Milton Keynes and now
        leads an NHS COVID-19 turnkey lab in Birmingham, the first of its kind integrated with a
        University campus.



                                                                                           Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       We embrace the importance of working with policy makers and politicians at local and
        national levels. Staff have participated in the Royal Society MP pairing scheme that saw
        staff buddy up with local MPs within parliament followed by local visits and discussions
        with ECRs (e.g. Parish & Stuart MP) and had representation at ‘Speaker’s open days’ to
        promote research interest. Our staff are actively involved in current debates regarding
        future arrangements for regulation and clinical trials.
 4.2. College/institutional support to enable collaborations nationally/internationally, with
 indicators of success
       The ethos of collaborative research is encouraged across UoA1 at all levels. Recent survey
        data show >94% of UoA1 senior academics and 70% of junior academics are active
        in national and international collaborative research programmes. Collaboration
        supports personal training, shares expertise and technologies and supports translation of
        research programmes. We are a leading centre for sponsoring and conducting clinical trials
        in over 20 countries internationally including Europe, Australasia, North America and
        Africa.
       These ambitions are facilitated by UoA1 investment in international leading technology
        platforms such as the Henry Wellcome NMR centre and COMPARE. UoA1 uses Wellcome
        Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) and College Research Funds to support
        international travel and training.
       This strategy has resulted in a 60% increase in the number of publications published
        jointly with international colleagues, from 392 in 2014 to 627 in 2020 (Fig 4.2).




        Figure 4.2 UoA1 publications published jointly with international colleagues
       Our Institute for Global Innovation (IGI) (REF5a 2.3.3) is a new UoB investment addressing
        key global challenges and current themes with UoA1 including Gender Inequality, Ageing
        and Antimicrobial Resistance. IGI incorporates our Institute for Advanced Studies
        (REF5a; 2.3.1) which provides funding for interdisciplinary workshops and visiting
        international Fellowships.
 The UoB Campus in Dubai and international engagement
     Birmingham is the first Russell Group University to establish a campus in the rapidly
       developing international education hub of Dubai. The full campus will open officially in
       2021, embedded with cutting-edge technology for education and research expertise, and
       designed to promote environmental sustainability. UoA1 research ambitions will focus
       initially on strategic partnership between the Dubai Health Authority (DHA) and the UoB
       Global Surgery Unit to create the first Surgical Research Hub in the Middle East, bringing
       UAE into a global surgical network of 20,000+ clinicians across over 110 countries.

                                                                                          Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     Figure 4.3 UoB Dubai campus (artist impression) and the UoB Guangzhou office
      We have also established a dedicated UoA1 investment in two BRIDGE exchange fellows,
       working in Brain Trauma and Genomics, with the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign,
       the former leading to a spin out company (1.3.2).
     UoB has research partnerships in China, managed through its China Institute and
       administrative centre in Guangzhou (Fig 4.3). Biomedical collaborations include health
       cohort studies involving the middle-aged and newborn (n=50k) and a drug discovery
       partnership with the Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine and Health, which has identified
       novel lead compounds. Biomedical engineering is linked with Southeast University in
       Nanjing and the Institute of Biomedical Devices in Suzhou, including AI approaches for
       image analysis of brain cancer. A new institute has been launched in Nanjing (the Nanjing
       Brain and Life Science Research Institute), directed by Birmingham academics and with
       close links to major hospitals in Nanjing.
     We have capitalised on the significant South Asian population in Birmingham by
       developing strong links with India since 2014, primarily with the UoB Global Surgery Unit
       where the India hub is a leading partner, and an MoU with the International Centre for
       Genetic Engineering and Biology (ICGEB) focussing on compound screening for
       identifying autophagy modulators and including student and staff exchange. Exciting future
       plans include (i) partnership with the National Health Agency for India (responsible for
       insurance provision of 500+ million citizens) in data science, clinical quality standards and
       fraud prevention and (ii) development of a Centre on Connected Surgical Ecosystems for
       Non-Communicable diseases (NCDs).
     In light of Brexit, the UoB has invested in the legal framework to enable continuity of
       sponsorship of our extensive clinical trials activity in European member states. To further
       extend our European footprint, we have developed strategic alliances with Trinity College
       Dublin, which will focus over the next 5 years on Clinical Trials research, as well as the
       University of Amsterdam with an initial focus on cardiovascular disease and microbiology.
     In 2019 UoB co-founded EuniWell, the European University for Well-being, a trans-
       European alliance uniting 7 universities and recently selected as a ‘European University of
       the Future’ in the 2nd round of the European Universities initiative (2020). This provides
       UoA1 staff access to €7M of Erasmus+ and Horizon 2020 funding and Birmingham,
       Florence and Leiden have now established a network around anti-viral therapy with a
       proposal on musculoskeletal health also well advanced.
     UoB has a dedicated Brussels Office which provides a central focal point for researchers
       to engage within Europe, a facility that has underpinned many successful Horizon
       awards. It has also expanded support for international activity with the provision of a



                                                                                            Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        specialist team to support researchers in delivering both European and International
        funded projects, including NIH.

 4.3. Examples of relationships with ‘research users, beneficiaries or audiences’ for
 impact and enrichment of UoA1 research environment

 BHP creates our overarching framework for collaboration with the NHS, providing a trusted
 interface for new and ongoing interactions with our two major local hospitals. Beyond this, we have
 a range of strong NHS relationships across the region and UK which enable us to deliver large-
 scale trials and clinical studies. In addition:
      UoB manages one of the largest Clinical Immunology Services in the UK, providing
         analysis of 64,000 samples annually and providing expert advice for complex immunology
         and haematology patients. This contributes substantially to the care of 4000 patients each
         year, facilitated the development of a wide range of academic programmes and initiated
         the development of Binding Site Ltd, one of the largest Pharma SME in the UK.
      With industry, we have developed a significant portfolio of ‘trusted advisors’ who are
         connected to our devolved funding schemes such as MRC Confidence in Concept and our
         Wellcome Translational Partnership. These are drawn from across a wide range of industry
         sectors, and provide both bespoke advice to individual academics as well as joining our
         “Project Translational Groups” which perform a permanent advisory role for our funded
         innovation/commercialisation projects. Major companies such as Google and Roche are
         partners in our Health Data Research Hubs (INSIGHT and PIONEER), while emerging
         partnerships such as that with Bruntwood SciTech (the UK’s foremost operator of science
         parks) are enabling us to develop the roadmap and investment portfolio required to realise
         our vision the Birmingham Health Innovation Campus (Fig. 3.2).
 4.4. Wider contribution to economy and society, beyond impact cases studies

 UoA1 has myriad examples in this area and selected exemplars include:
       Drayson has been a global pioneer in the use of antibiotic prophylaxis in patients
        undergoing chemotherapy and the recent TEAMM trial showed that 12 weeks of
        levofloxacin reduced febrile episodes or deaths by 34% in patients with a recent diagnosis
        of myeloma.
       Craddock led development of the Centre for Clinical Haematology at the QEH, which co-
        locates a state-of the-art clinical facility with a satellite of the University of Birmingham
        CRCTU Trials Unit. Major extension in 2018 has developed an internationally competitive
        portfolio of haemato-oncology trials and accessed more than £200M of novel drugs for
        patients across the UK through its Trial Acceleration Programme (TAP). This further
        strengthened Buckley to develop an arthritis A-TAP with £7.4M from the Kennedy Trust
        Foundation.
       Bryan has developed the introduction of narrow band imaging (NBI) for cystoscopy where
        beneficiaries include industry suppliers Olympus and Storz Spies who have introduced this
        as standard technology. Patients are thus benefitting from earlier diagnosis, more
        complete removal of lesions and reduced risk of reoccurrence.


 4.5. Organisational approach to patient/public engagement and involvement with research,
 particularly where relating to diverse communities


                                                                                             Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2015 we have developed a team of dedicated patient involvement specialists who support
 numerous major infrastructure projects including the NIHR SRMRC, PIONEER HDR Hub and the
 NIHR ARC and Global Surgery Unit. This team work with NHS partners to develop and implement
 a clear strategy which embeds the patient voice within UoA1 research activity. To ensure
 engagement with diverse communities, we have taken specific steps to identify underrepresented
 groups and set up effective initiatives to work with these. For example, in the frail elderly we
 established the ‘1000 Elders’ cohort (Lord), supporting translational studies and holding an annual
 celebration event for participants in the AgeWell conference. Additional initiatives include:
       PILAR (the Patient and Public Involvement and Lay Accountability in Research and
        Innovation Leaders Forum),
       Involvement and Engagement in Cancer Research at Birmingham (ICRB) group. Through
        our NIHR CRF we have increased PPI/E by appointing 14 research ambassadors who
        specifically represent communities in research that are traditionally difficult to access. This
        has increased BAME participation in our research portfolio, making our research outputs
        more representative of our population.

 4.6 . Category C staff
 As befits our integrated campus, category C staff are at the heart of UoA1 research and contribute
 substantially to research environment and impact enablement. CMDS has >1000 honorary staff
 and exemplars include:
       Denniston in Health Data, Deputy Lead for HDRUK and global expert on ethics in AI;
       Foster and Blanch in Defence Medicine;
       Moiemen in the Centre for Conflict Wound Research;
       Cook and Pratt in Oncology, leading UK myeloma trials;
       Steeds with international profile in cardiac MRI imaging;
       Chu, Clark, Latthe and Meher as integral partners in the WHO maternal health unit;
       Mirza, Tripathi, Moissen in Liver disease and transplantation.
 4.7     Encouraging and developing best practice in undertaking research that is
 reproducible
 UoA1 has strong programmes to ensure reproducible science and mandates complete reporting
 of scientific design, conduct, data and analytical approaches.
       Methods reproducibility, such that experimental and computational procedures use data
        and tools to obtain the same results, is promoted by education and presentations that
        convey importance of the study protocol, experimental approaches, software codes and
        analytical techniques. The challenge arising from biological ‘batch effects’ is minimised at
        each step and automated analyses are encouraged. In clinical setting we encourage
        consistency in selection of study criteria and internationally-accepted criteria for
        assessment.
       Results reproducibility or ‘replication’ is ensured by seminars and education on the
        importance of experimental design, adequate powering of studies and standardised
        experimental protocols and technologies. Our data are archived for 10+ years and we will
        experiment with the development of ‘living’ figures. We encourage reporting of ‘negative’
        studies.
       Inferential reproducibility, referring to consistent knowledge claims from data, is
        underappreciated and here we utilize our expertise in trial design and Bayesian statistics
        to educate on optimising interpretation and analysis of datasets. Caution is emphasized in

                                                                                               Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        not overstating data findings. We strongly encourage engagement in peer-review and open
        access review statements.
 4.8. Contribution to sustainability and profile of academic medicine

 Regarding sustainability of medical training, we have undertaken a major review of
 Undergraduate training and increased Medical Student intake to 400 annually. The importance of
 research culture is embedded from the first week of tuition (2.3.5) and Middleton and Raza have
 secured funding for 25 MD-PhD awards.

 Our academics support research development within the NHS. Raza was Director of Research
 and Development at Sandwell & West Birmingham NHS Trust (2014-2018), doubling research
 activity by leading a bespoke Clinical Research Facility (2019). Morton was Director of the West
 Midlands Genome Medical Centre (WM GMC), overseeing the largest contribution of cancer
 samples from any region. Jones is lead investigator on 4 clinical studies at the Royal Orthopaedic
 Hospital NHS trust.

 UoA1’s early response to environmental sustainability issues was to set up an academic
 Environment and Sustainability Committee in 2011. Chaired by a senor academic (McCabe), this
 comprises academics, estates staff, PGR and undergraduates, with a remit to promote sustainable
 working. Major initiatives include (1) targeting staff behaviour, such as ensuring that fume hoods
 are only operated when necessary, (2) pioneering approaches to decrease laboratory use of
 disposable plastics and (3) increasing recycling, centralised printing and usage of Green Impact
 Labs Scheme. Support for the UoB spin-out UniGreenScheme which recycles obsolete equipment
 and donates funds back to UoB, has allowed the committee to invest >£20,000 to enhance
 biodiversity and tree planting. Looking forward, we will feed into UoB Sustainability Steering
 Committee, which adheres to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and promotes
 sustainable societies.

 Our profile is demonstrated through a variety of exemplars. UoA1 academics support UoB
 Communication and Marketing services to communicate their research to the public, including
 Piddock who has played a prominent position in communicating the importance of Anti-Microbial
 Resistance and the work of Coomarasamy in relation to the utility of progesterone in recurrent
 fetal loss, where the PRISM study has initiated an increase in use of progesterone by UK mothers
 with threatened miscarriage from 12% to 74%.

 4.9. Institutional approach to supporting interdisciplinary research, with key examples of
 success
 Interdisciplinary engagement is a core principle underlying research culture within UoA1, with
 many examples developed since 2014 and explained fully in 1.4.5. In addition:
       The Drug Discovery initiative (1.4.5) has curated a library of novel drug-like molecules
        synthesised within the University, developing topical delivery system for glaucoma.
       Healthcare technologies, led by Grover, operates between Chemical Engineering and the
        Healthcare Technologies Institute in the ITM and has outreach to Engineering, Chemistry,
        Metallurgy and Materials and Mathematics. The group secured £7M from EDRF and UoB
        to start the Medical Devices Testing and Evaluation Centre (MD-TEC) programme. This
        refurbished 1200 m2 within the ITM creating high-quality lab space to conduct research in
        collaboration with local companies. Recent funding successes total £10M including £3M

                                                                                           Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        from the ScarFree Foundation to establish the only UK Centre for Conflict Wound
        Research. Future plans will increase the ITM footprint and nurture companies within
        Birmingham Health Innovation Campus.
       Major innovations have developed within computational biology and health data, enabled
        by BHP. The University joined the Alan Turing Institute in 2018, with particular emphasis
        on programmes of work on Computational Life Sciences and Complex Image Data. Seven
        UoB Turing Fellows hold project funding with connections to the life sciences.
       Links with Physics and Chemistry are pursued with shared research programmes, ‘speed-
        dating’ events and student exchanges that seed novel collaborations. Examples of
        engagement include ‘big-data’ analysis of clinical informatic datasets and novel
        approaches to interrogate biological datasets. Interactions with Chemistry include
        application of novel polymer technologies for novel technologies in drug release.
       UoA1, through the Birmingham Fellow and Interdisciplinary Fellow schemes, has been
        able to appoint a number of interdisciplinary fellows who actively work at the interface of
        the medical and physical sciences, including Metcalfe for work on wound healing.
 4.10. Examples of how UoA1 responds to emerging national and international priorities
 and initiatives

 UoA1 has shown itself to be agile and comprehensive in its response to major challenges that
 have arisen since 2014. COVID research is shown below and additional initiatives have included:
       HDRUK PIONEER data platform in response to the crisis in acute medicine admissions in
        secondary care (1.3.2).
       BactiVac as a contribution to overcoming anti-microbial resistance, a unique
        academic/industrial network that accelerates development and uptake of vaccines against
        bacterial infections in low and middle-income countries (LMICs).
       Leadership in mentoring and personal support (2.2.5) in light of national concerns over
        mental health and research culture.
       The Lancet Commission on Global Surgery identified a global deficit of 143 million surgical
        operations annually, the majority of these within LMIC. Development of our UoB Global
        Surgery Unit is addressing this challenge and, with a worldwide shortage of 2.2 million
        surgeons and anaesthetists, we are partnering with LMIC to undertake innovative training
        and quality assurance initiatives. The Unit is a consortium between Birmingham, Edinburgh
        & Warwick together with our international partners at hubs and centres around the world,
        including Ghana, Rwanda, South Africa, Mexico, India and Nigeria.
       Multimorbidity has been identified as a major health challenge by the CMO Professor
        Whitty and through BHP we set up a Multi-morbidity Working Group within ABPI to address
        issues such as lack of representation of older adults in clinical trials.
 4.10.1 UoA1 response to the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic

 As would be expected, UoA1 staff made a very significant contribution in the international
 response to the Covid-19 pandemic, contributing influential policy advice. UoA1 infrastructure was
 critical in this regard, keeping laboratories open throughout 20/21 and providing financial support
 for posts and consumables. Research is described under four themes:
    1. Testing
 McNally was seconded as Infectious Disease lead for the Milton Keynes Lighthouse Laboratory
 for PCR testing. He played an integral role in initiating the programme and delivering capability for

                                                                                              Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 >2 million tests by 31 July 2020. He now works with Richter running the Turnkey laboratory at
 UoB, processing >100k tests per month. The laboratory is linked into the COVID genome
 sequencing facility, part of the COG UK consortium of which Birmingham were founding members.
 Through the Birmingham CLIMB-COVID platform the Turnkey laboratory can provide real-time
 data integration & analysis for UK & global genomics.

 Beggs utilised UoA1 research laboratories to initiate a rapid programme of viral antigen testing at
 the height of the pandemic. This has now gained ISO/UKAS and Government accreditation. He
 also led a pilot study to assess effectiveness of the Oxford Nanopore ‘LamPORE test’ and
 designed the LamPORE Respiratory Panel, a multiple-pathogen test to allow healthcare
 professionals to distinguish respiratory infections.
    2. Clinical management
 Sapey is chief investigator for DECOVID, with the Turing Institute, UVL and UCLH, a research
 database and analytical environment for COVID analysis (UKRI £1.25M). She is co-lead for UKRI-
 funded projects in risk prediction models and COPE-COVID study of health impact of COVID on
 NHS staff.

 Kearns, Gates and Sharpe initiated CATALYST (£450K UKRI), an early phase multi-arm platform
 trial rapidly evaluating new drugs for severe COVID19 for entry into RECOVERY.

 Newsome utilised ATTC and BRC funding to initiate a study of mesenchymal stem cells from
 patients with COVID 19-related pneumonitis.

 Campbell-Hill developed the AerosolShield (Disposable Resuscitation, Intubation and
 Nebulisation Kit), a compact device that was designed to cover the patient’s head, neck and
 shoulder area while treatments for COVID-19 are administered and rolled out internationally.

 Sundar evaluated viral swabs to understand transmission risk to operating teams and
 laparoscopy.
 Middleton and Lee launched the UK Coronavirus Cancer Monitoring Project, a national project
 that pioneered the use of clinician-led reporting to track cancer patients and inform treatment
 pathways. They established that in-hospital mortality rate is not significantly affected by
 chemotherapy and this has been used globally to enable re-introduction of cancer services.
 Lord was author on the Academy of Medical Sciences report on the Immunology of COVID-19,
 and presented this to SAGE.

 Through the Royal Academy of Engineering’s Pandemic Preparedness call, De Cogan designed
 anti-viral air filters to tackle the spread of SARS-CoV-2 on public transport to protect passengers.
    3. Immunology
 Richter, Cunningham and Wraith worked with Binding Site PLC to develop a diagnostic ELISA
 antibody test with >98% sensitivity and specificity. This was used to define SARS-CoV-2 as the
 cause of the Kawasaki-like syndrome (PIMS-TS) in children (with Schofield).
 Moss initiated and leads the UK Coronavirus Immunology Consortium (£6.5 million, UKRI). He
 also directs cellular analysis of the VIVALDI national care home study and reports to Government
 Chief Science Advisor as Lead for the National Core Studies in Immunity (£7M 20/21).


                                                                                             Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4. International
 Morton, Bhangu and Nepogodiev, through the NIHR Global Health Research Unit on Global
 Surgery, launched the CovidSurg Collaborative, capturing real-world data and sharing
 international experience throughout the pandemic. Data showed that patients undergoing surgery
 after contracting SARS-CoV-2 were at greatly increased risk of postoperative death and led to 28+
 million elective surgeries worldwide to be cancelled in 2020. This resulted in a priority paper in the
 Lancet, which achieved the highest ever Altmetric score of any surgical manuscript, informing
 World Health Organization guidelines.

 Thangaratinam, through the WHO Collaborating Centre for Women’s Health, evaluated the
 maternal and offspring outcomes, published in a living systematic review in BMJ.

 4.11   Markers of Esteem
       UoA1 researchers undertake national and international leadership roles at many
        levels, reflecting career stage. Most notably: Adams, Chair of Diabetes UK Research
        Committee and BHF Programme grants committee; Moss, Chair of MRC Infection &
        Immunity Board (14-18); Arlt, Chair of AMS Starter Grant Panel (16-20); Terry, Chair of
        UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in AI (2018), McCabe, Chair, Science Committee,
        Society for Endocrinology UK (2014-2019); Craddock, Chair UK Stem Cell Strategic
        Oversight Committee (2010+).
       Our staff contribute to many national and international societies, committees and
        agencies including: Newsome, Secretary-General European Association for the Study of
        the Liver (EASL); Craddock, President British Society of Haematology (16-18); Kearns,
        President European Society of Paediatric Oncology; Sundar, President British
        Gynaecological Cancer Society.
       Our researchers also drive agenda and policy change by writing national and
        international guidelines through peer review and standards associations including:
        Boelaert, Chair, NICE Guideline ‘Thyroid Disease-Assessment and Management’ (2019);
        Arlt, Chair EJE COVID-19 International Consensus Guideline ‘Management of Adrenal
        Insufficiency (2020); Thangaratinam, Chair EJE COVID-19 International Consensus
        Guideline “Management of Gestational Diabetes”; Parry, Chronic Leukaemia UK
        guidelines; Sundar, Ovarian Cancer British Gynaecological Cancer Society (2018);
        Buckley & Raza, Rheumatoid European League Against Rheumatism (2017); Monteiro,
        member of Clinical Medicine Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Bodies (2014-2017)

       Our strong business engagement strategy involves numerous staff who provide expert
        advice and consultancy to industry, influencing their R&D programmes, including through
        representation on Advisory Boards. Exemplars include Roche (Brill), Merck & Co/GSK/AZ
        (Mehanna), Sanofi (Lord) and Bayer (Kotecha).
       Our research excellence is also evident through senior editorial positions. Editors-in-Chief
        include: Buckley, Chief Editor of ‘Arthritis Research and Therapy’; Gupta, Chief Editor of
        “European Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Reproductive Biology”, Watson and
        Harrison, Chief Editors of “Platelets”; McNally, Senior Editor for Microbial Genomics;
        Karavitaki, Senior Associate Editor, Hormones, 2016+; Arlt, Editor-in-Chief, European
        Journal of Endocrinology, 2019+.



                                                                                               Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Our researchers continue to be recognised at the highest levels internationally as
        reflected in prestigious awards and Fellows of Learned Societies, most notably Turner and
        Tomlinson as FRS (2015, 2019), Arlt, European Society of Endocrinology Trust Medal
        (2016); Shetty, Lancet Young Investigator prize (2017); Yap, Edgar Gentilli Prize from
        Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (2017); G Taylor, NCRI Prize for
        Translational Research (2015); Croft and McGettrick Linacre Medal and Garrod ECR
        Prizes British Society for Rheumatology; Buckley Heberden Oration; Arlt, Berthold Medal
        at German Society of Endocrinology and first female European to receive Outstanding
        Clinical Investigator Award from the USA Endocrine Society.
       Invited keynote lectures at (inter)national conferences, society meetings and other
        Universities have been made by virtually all UoA1 staff. Highlights include: Parish,
        Plenary session at American Society for Virology Annual Conference (2020); Cox,
        keynote at Microbiology Society Early Career Scientists (2020); Bonifer, Plenary at
        European Haematology Association (2019); McNally, Plenary at ASM Microbe Annual
        Meeting, (2019); Mehanna, Presidential Plenary at European Society of Medical
        Oncology; Gupta, Keynote Lecture at the EBCOG conference; Drury, Hunterian
        Professorship at Royal College of Surgeons.




                                                                                         Page 40
