Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The current research position and key developments since REF2014

 Our submission reflects the work taking place across the three research groups and three
 specialist laboratories or research centres (see Figure 1) within the Department of Psychology. In
 REF2014, 55% of our research was rated as 3* and above and the submitted work was notable
 for its impact, with 73% of the impact submission scoring 4*.


 Since then, Northumbria articulated an overarching ambition for significant research growth, with
 a corresponding vision for Psychology to become internationally recognised as an inclusive and
 diverse centre for innovative and rigorous research that informs teaching and creates impact for
 individuals, families, communities, organisations and society at large. In achieving this vision, the
 unit submission has more than trebled in size: in 2014 we submitted 19 FTE, in contrast to 62 FTE
 returned here, with an improved gender balance.


 Research output in this period improved both in quality, with 61% in top quartile journals (by
 SNIP Source Normalised Index per Paper) and in quantity of outputs, with 922 peer reviewed
 journal articles published in the current REF period as against 316 published during 2008-2013.
 The rate and size of research grant applications made and won also improved. For example, 72
 applications were made in 2019/20, with a total value of £14,449K, compared with 29
 applications made in 2013/14, with a total value of £2,888K. Awards won in 2019/20 totalled
 £1007K, as compared with £466K in 2013/14 and a notable success in 2020 was an ESRC (Digital
 Economy) award of £3.8 million for the Centre for Digital Citizens, which includes a (psychology-
 led) award of £1.7 million to Northumbria.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




        Figure 1: The three research groups and associated specialist centres/laboratories

 Psychology returned three ‘core’ research groups in REF2014 and articulated a strategy to drive
 new research through these groups and through three dedicated research centres. The current
 position is shown in Figure 1, still with three core groups, which have all grown significantly. Our
 three smaller, but highly focussed and distinctive research laboratories/centres were returned to
 REF2014, although at that time the work of the Brain Performance and Nutrition Research Centre
 (BPNRC) was submitted under UoA3 and the work of the Psychology and Communication
 Technology Lab (PaCTLab) was submitted under UoA34. As a new development, to enhance
 translational, interdisciplinary work, both the BPNRC and the Northumbria Centre for Sleep
 Research now form part of NUTRAN, an interdisciplinary nutrition-focussed clinical trials unit
 which integrates expertise in trial design and delivery with biochemical, molecular, vascular and
 neuroscience analyses. NUTRAN offers targeted industry support via consultancy, basic scientific
 discovery and randomised clinical trials services. (https://www.northumbria.ac.uk/business-
 services/engage-with-us/research/NUTRAN/).


 Achieving our strategic goals

 The research growth aligns with the wider university ‘Power with Quality’ strategy (REF5 section
 2.1.1) and reflects the UoA4 strategy articulated for REF2014. Specifically we have delivered on
 plans to improve the research capacity of existing staff, to recruit new talent to each of our research
 groups and to improve translational, interdisciplinary research - by the introduction of NUTRAN,
 by targeting larger, interdisciplinary funding opportunities (resulting in four interdisciplinary Horizon
 2020 projects and the new Centre for Digital Citizens) and by linking the research in psychology
 to cross-cutting multidisciplinary research themes (MDRTs) established across the University.
 These MDRTs promote the delivery of impactful work that addresses key societal challenges




                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (REF5a 2.2). Psychology staff contribute to two of the MDRTs: Integrated Health & Social Care
 and Human and Digital Design.


 Future strategic aims have been articulated by the Psychology Research Committee, chaired by
 the Psychology Research Director (Coventry), and with members: PGR Director (Haskell-
 Ramsey), REF UoA lead (Briggs), Head of Department (Moss) and research group leads
 (Myachykov, Saxton, Wetherell). These aims prioritise innovative, internationally recognised
 research that has societal impact. Specific targets include: (i) raising the proportion of staff with
 significant responsibility for research to 100% of staff in scope (ii) the strategic recruitment of new
 talent, utilising the opportunities for Vice Chancellor’s Research Fellow (VCF) appointments that
 transition to senior lectureships, (iii) providing improved infrastructure support for the highly
 distinctive specialist research centres/laboratories and promoting multidisciplinary work in sleep,
 nutrition and digital interaction, (iv) growing exciting new work at the intersection of social and
 evolutionary psychology, promoting interdisciplinary collaboration through our multi-disciplinary
 research themes, (v) developing better working relationships with relevant non-academic partners
 in order to maximise the impact of our research, (vi) enhancing sabbatical opportunities for the
 growing numbers of academic staff, (vii) strengthening our PGR community, including applications
 for doctoral training partnerships, and (vii) improving open science practices across the discipline.


 Our research groups and their relationship to these aims are described below.


 1. The Cognition and Neuroscience Group
 This group, led by Myachykov, was formerly ‘Cognition and Communication’ and has grown from
 10 to 18 staff, with new research expertise in reading development (Blythe, Pagan Camacho),
 applied cognitive neuroscience (Craig, Watermeyer) cognitive distortions (K Cornelissen,
 Moseley, Tovee) and expert performance (Bilalić).           The group combines behavioural and
 neuroscience approaches to cognitive development, attention and perception, memory, decision
 making, linguistic communication, including sentence comprehension, discourse, dialogue and
 reading,     embodied    and     situated   approaches      to   cognition    and     communication,
 neurodevelopmental disorders, and the neurocognitive basis of sleep. A distinctive feature of this
 group is the application of novel research methods including fMRI, EEG, MEG, TMS, and 3D body
 modelling.    An example project is MapMe (Tovee, working with colleagues at Newcastle
 University), which addressed child obesity by targeting parents’ under-estimation of their child’s
 body size. An intervention was developed that led to a significant reduction in children’s BMI, and
 this has since attracted funding of £1.5m for a full-scale randomised control trial (RCT) with 8,000
 families recruited across 12 Local Authorities (NIHR project 127745, March 2020-Feb2023, Tovee
 as CoI).



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The following research themes (with associated staff) are found within this group:
    •   Language and Communication (Blythe, Camacho, Haigh, Myachykov, Taylor). Here,
        the focus is on human communication and discourse, psycholinguistic theory, language
        development and learning, reading, and embodied approaches to language and cognition.
    •   Memory, Perception, and Attention (Constable, Hamilton, Heffernan, McInnes, Orme,
        Rajsic, Riby). This encompasses research into the cognitive and neurophysiological
        aspects of attention, perception, and memory including understanding impact of ageing on
        cognitive performance, effects of alcohol and smoking on memory performance, the
        contribution of individual differences, autism, and other factors to working memory,
        cognitive and neurophysiological mechanisms of attentional control and the organization
        of working memory.
    •   Neuroscience and Neuropsychology (Bilalić, P Cornelissen, , K Cornelissen, Greer,
        Moseley, Riby, Tovee). This includes the investigation of psychophysical and
        neurophysiological properties of human physical attractiveness and body image, neural
        underpinnings of reading and visual word recognition, neural basis of semantic cognition
        and the neurological basis of ASD, autism, and eating disorders. Staff use multimodal
        imaging/neuroscience methods to investigate topics across the lifespan such as self-
        generated thought, mind-wandering, creativity and how this is associated with wellbeing.


 2. The Health and Wellbeing Group
 This group, led by Wetherell, was formerly the ‘Health in Action’ research group, but it has grown
 significantly, with over 30 academics involved in its research (compared to eight in REF2014). It
 includes the work of chartered Health, Clinical and Occupational Psychologists as well as research
 experts in psychobiology, behaviour change, developmental disabilities, psychopathology and
 nutrition. The group has benefitted from the establishment of the Integrated Health & Social Care
 MDRT (REF5a 2.2) and by the arrival of eight new staff with expertise in psychopathologies
 (Barkus, K Cornelissen, Craig, Dodd, Kraueter, Moseley, Smailes, Watermeyer). Examples
 of the group’s translational work in mental health include Deary’s work on improving our
 understanding of patients with persistent physical symptoms and the associated development of
 new clinician training packages and associated patient resources, and Dodd’s work on student
 mental health, through her contribution to the UK’s Student Mental Health Research Network
 (SMARtEN) and the Office for Students project (BRinging Innovation to Graduate Mental Health
 TogethER (BRIGHTER).


 The following research themes (and associated staff) are aligned to this group:
    •   Psychobiology of Stress and Wellbeing (Wetherell, Hope [formerly Mitchell],
        Haskell-Ramsay, Lovell, McGann, Smith, Rippon, McInnes, Pepper). Novel
        methodologies are used to assess psychological (e.g., personality, mood, coping),

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        behavioural (e.g. recreational drug use, smoking, alcohol and diet) and biological (e.g.,
        nervous, endocrine and immune system function) processes using state-of-the-art
        laboratories and real-world assessment techniques. The research supports the
        development of bespoke interventions and assesses their feasibility for healthy, clinical
        and occupational populations.
    •   Health Behaviour and Behaviour Change (Deary, Heffernan, Newham, O’Brien,
        Saxton, Shepherd, Wolfson). Here, mixed methods are used to assess behaviour and
        develop, implement and evaluate behaviour change interventions. This research draws
        upon expertise in systematic reviewing, meta-analysis, intervention co-design, and
        conducting randomised and pragmatic trials across a range of populations. This work also
        contributes to the behaviour change programme of Fuse: the Centre for Translational
        Research in Public Health (http://www.fuse.ac.uk/).
    •   Hoarding Research (Briggs, Hamilton, McInnes, McKellar, Neave, Sillence, Saxton
        Smailes). A recent multidisciplinary research initiative that aims to foster a better
        understanding of Hoarding Disorder and explore the impact of this disorder on the
        individual and society. The research involves close collaboration with external agencies
        including Housing Associations, Local Authorities, Emergency Services, GCHQ, the NHS
        and charities.
    •   Research and Practice in Developmental Disabilities (Greer, McKenzie, Riby),
        involving a multidisciplinary and systemic approach to research and consultancy and the
        development of clinical applications relevant to children and adults with developmental
        disabilities, including those with an intellectual disability, and Autism Spectrum Disorder.
    •   Psychopathologies (Barkus, K Cornelissen, Craig, Dodd, Kraueter, Moseley,
        Smailes, Watermeyer), encompassing research on neurodegenerative diseases,
        psychosis, and bipolar disorder, as well as research documenting the experiences
        associated with these problems (e.g., hallucinations, mania). Researchers use a range of
        qualitative and quantitative methodologies to assess the biological, social, and
        psychological processes involved in the development of psychopathology, as well as
        developing interventions that aim to improve the health and well-being of people affected
        by psychopathology.


 3. The Evolution and Social Interaction Group
 This group is an expansion of our former ‘Evolution, Perception and Behaviour Group’ where we
 returned six staff in 2014 compared to 13 here. Led by Saxton, the group uses social and
 evolutionary theory to understand perception, attitudes and behaviour within both offline and
 online social settings. A targeted recruitment strategy has expanded the original evolutionary
 psychology group to also include new staff with a strong social psychology profile (e.g. Brown,
 Linden, Paterson, Pollet, McNeill and Shepherd). This has allowed distinctive work to take

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 place at the interface between evolutionary and social psychology and technology. The group has
 invested in highly sophisticated motion capture equipment (see infrastructure, below) and has
 been successful in attracting funding from diverse sources (including Leverhulme Fellowships to
 Saxton in 2014 and 2020 and Facebook funding to Pollet in 2019). The major research themes
 associated with this research group are:
    •   Perception, Evolution and Behaviour (Bovet, Honekopp, McCarty, Neave, Newman,
        Saxton, Pollet) where current research includes investigations into inequalities in health
        and ageing, interpersonal relationships, mating behaviours and preferences, and
        movement. Researchers take a multidisciplinary approach to ask not only how, but why
        humans perceive and behave the way they do, drawing ideas and expertise from cognitive
        neuroscience, cognitive psychology, physiology, evolutionary biology, and animal
        behaviour.
    •   Social Psychology (Hope, Jolley, Linden, Paterson, Shepherd, Thompson)
        addressing intrapersonal, interpersonal and intergroup processes, this research explores
        processes of gender identification, the personal characteristics associated with, and the
        psychological consequences of conspiracy theories, the emotional and behavioural
        consequences of hate crime and sexual objectification, and the factors that contribute to
        the development of intergroup discrimination and conflict.


 As noted above, three dedicated research laboratories/centres also conduct more tightly focussed,
 but highly distinctive psychology research:


 1. The Northumbria Centre for Sleep Research (Elder, Ellis, Santhi)
 This research laboratory, including a purpose-built two-bedroom en-suite facility (section 3), has
 links to both the Cognition and Neuroscience and Health and Wellbeing Groups and is a
 collaboration of experts with diverse backgrounds including experimental and applied psychology,
 neurophysiology and neuropsychiatry, chronobiology and medicine. Research programmes
 broadly encompass social cognition and sleep, paediatric sleep and learning, dreaming and states
 of consciousness, sleep, the ageing brain and neurodegeneration, and the psychophysiological
 and neuropsychological correlates underpinning the pharmacological and non-pharmacological
 management of poor sleep. This group has attracted PHE funding for translational sleep research,
 has recently developed highly innovative Cognitive Behavioural Therapy Interventions for
 Insomnia (see ICS) and has contributed to European Guidelines for the Treatment and Diagnosis
 of Insomnia.




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. The Brain Performance and Nutrition Research Centre (Dodd, Jackson, Haskell-Ramsay,
 Kennedy, Moss, Wightman, Watermeyer)
 BPNRC conducts highly original and impactful research on nutritional interventions
 (https://www.nutrition-neuroscience.com/). The laboratory runs a wide-ranging portfolio of
 randomised controlled trials investigating the cognitive mechanisms and mood effects of herbal
 extracts, nutraceuticals and food supplements. This research uses novel methodologies, including
 bespoke cognitive assessments (e.g. Cognimapp, COMPASS) and unique study paradigms (e.g.
 NIRS, indirect calorimetry) to explore the effects of dietary interventions on the interaction with
 human biology and how changes in blood chemistry, metabolic factors or the microbiome, are
 associated with changes in brain function and psychological well-being. BPNRC has received in
 excess of £2.3m industry funding during the current REF cycle for clinical trials and collaborative
 PhD studentships to explore a range of novel nutritional compounds including iron and vitamin C
 (Bayer Consumer Care); resveratrol (Evolva); and omega-3 fatty acids (BASF). Research
 generated from collaborative studies with industry leads to high quality publications and is used to
 inform product development and marketing strategy, activities that are often associated with
 financial benefits for the industry partners involved (see ICS).


 3. The Psychology and Communication Technologies Lab (PaCTLab) (Briggs, Brown,
 Coventry, McNeill, McKellar, Sillence, Thomas)
 PaCTLab seeks to understand the psychology of human interactions through digital technologies
 including the digital dissemination of (mis)information (https://pactlab.co.uk/). This laboratory is
 linked to Northumbria’s Human & Digital Design MDRT and contributes to the University’s widely
 acknowledged global status as a centre for multidisciplinary work in Human Computer Interaction.
 PaCTLab is distinctive in the UK for conducting human-computer interaction work that draws
 heavily on psychological theory and models. The lab has attracted over £2m in research awards
 during the REF period, with research projects addressing issues of privacy, security and trust and
 the impact of technology (including social media) on identity and behaviour. An additional strength
 of PaCTLab is the focus on inclusive and participatory, value-sensitive design and the commitment
 to exploring issues of social injustice that can arise from various forms of digital communication.
 PaCTLab researchers forge links with industry and policy-makers through their (founding)
 membership of the UK’s Research Institute in Sociotechnical Cyber Security (RISCS) and their
 membership of the network of Academic Centres of Excellence in Cybersecurity Research (ACE-
 CSR). An ICS gives details.


 Taken together these three groups and three specialist centres/laboratories have delivered a more
 than three-fold growth in research activity for the Unit since REF 2014 and have built a strong
 international presence, evidenced by 314 outputs in the REF period with international co-authors
 and citations from 127 different countries. The groups contribute towards regional, national and


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international priorities around inter-alia Digital and Health and Life Sciences, the Ageing Society,
 AI and Data (see REF5a Figure 1).


 Open Science and Ethics
 An important development, since 2014, has been the promotion and increasing adoption of Open
 Science Practices. Researchers are kept fully briefed on Open Access and Data Management
 policies via University Library team presentations. Funding for OA publishing payments are made
 available when outputs meet relevant quality criteria. Psychology joined the UK Reproducibility
 Network, with the view of further promoting open science and reproducible scientific practices
 among its staff and students. Workshops are held on the open science framework and
 postgraduate research students are now required to preregister their research projects. All are
 encouraged to engage in data sharing via third party sites as well as peer-to-peer scrutiny in
 accordance with FAIR guidelines that research data should be findable, accessible, interoperable
 and reusable. Finally, staff have been involved in large scale, crowdsourced projects focussed on
 replicating core findings in Psychology (e.g. ‘Many Labs 2’), as described in section 4.


 All researchers are committed to maintaining the highest standards of academic and ethical
 integrity. All staff follow the British Psychological Society Code of Conduct and research is subject
 to full independent ethical review, overseen by the Faculty Ethics Committee and Director of
 Ethics. Moreover, our research is monitored for full compliance with appropriate external ethical
 standards (e.g. NHS), supported by an internal approval process for submissions to the Integrated
 Research Application System. Staff who are leading clinical trials and health interventions are
 encouraged to publish protocols and register their work with ClinicalTrials.gov or the ISRCTN
 registry. All staff have access to extensive online resources to support effective Ethics &
 Governance processes and undergo annual mandatory training on GDPR, ‘Research Ethics’ and
 ‘Information Security and Awareness’, as well as Health & Safety training.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Our strategy for building international excellence involved a significant recruitment drive, but we
 also provided more effective research support for all academic staff, PGR and contract
 researchers. This aligns to the University’s strategy for building upon the success of REF 2014 by
 improving research ‘power with quality’ (REF5a 2.1). The 62 staff FTE (94%) returned in this
 submission include 7 staff that were in post, but not included at REF2014 and all those who were
 submitted in REF2014 and remain at Northumbria (including six who were submitted to other
 UoAs). Of these, 14 have been promoted since 2014. Only four staff did not meet the criterion of
 ‘significant responsibility for research’, as defined in Northumbria’s approved Code of Practice.



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The research groups aim to (i) provide an environment of inclusivity (with all staff engaged in
 research), (ii) offer mentorship, peer support and joint learning for the group members and (iii)
 ensure a critical mass of researchers and PGR across all levels, to create a stimulating and vibrant
 community. These groups provide the focus for the development of new theory and methods within
 the discipline. Innovation and good practices are communicated to all via weekly or fortnightly
 seminars within groups, Unit level seminars, workshops and multi-disciplinary seminars. The latter
 are often tied to the University’s MDRTs. For example, a weekly Wednesday lunchtime seminar
 that unites the Human & Digital Design researchers took place physically prior to the COVID-19
 pandemic but was rolled out virtually during the pandemic, and made available to an external
 audience, with up to 85 attendees, several from overseas research institutions.


 New Appointments
 We adopt stringent criteria for the recruitment of new academics, involving diverse members of
 the Psychology Department in the recruitment process. In addition to a formal interview panel
 (where HR policy ensures an appropriate gender balance), applicants make presentations to
 various audiences, including a research panel, to ensure that successful applicants would be able
 to make a meaningful contribution across all facets of academic activity. All panel members
 receive EDI training (for example, training in unconscious bias). Candidates are offered the option
 for selection events to be online (e.g. via Teams). This supports international applicants as well
 as those with caring responsibilities. In the current submission, 15 (24%) of the submitted staff are
 international (including 7 EU) as opposed to 4 (21% - including 1 EU) in 2013/14. Successful
 applicants are offered the opportunity for a funded visit to meet more informally with existing staff
 and to see our research facilities. The number of applicants for such positions has increased
 significantly during the REF period. For example, in 2015/16, we received 56 applications (28
 female) for academic appointments, with five appointments made (2 female). In 2018/19, we
 received 351 applications (230 female) with 20 appointments made (13 female). In terms of level
 of first appointment, most new appointments made during the REF period were at lecturer/senior
 lecturer level, as shown in Table 1, although five appointments (making up 8% of of submitted
 staff) were made to the Vice Chancellor’s Research Fellow scheme (VCF), a university initiative
 to attract high quality research-led appointments, prior to embedding these as permanent
 academics (REF 5a, 2.2, 3.2).


     VC Research             Lecturer/Senior            Associate
                                                                                   Professor
        Fellow                  Lecturer                Professor
  Female     Male         Female Male               Female    Male           Female        Male
  3          2            17        10                        1              1             2

 Table 1: New appointments since 2014, split by gender




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For new academic staff, mechanisms are put in place to help them establish an independent
 research career. They are given reduced teaching loads in their first year and have research
 mentors assigned to them, who help them develop applications for competitive external funding
 (e.g. new investigator awards), target appropriate hiqh-quality journals, adopt open science
 practices and access the research resources available across the university. There is a policy of
 prioritising new staff, working in collaboration with more established researchers, when allocating
 internally funded PhD studentships and when applying for capital equipment. We are sensitive to
 EDI issues from the outset and new appointees are encouraged to discuss any specific working
 needs with the Head of Department. Part-time arrangements as well as other forms of flexible
 working have been offered and taken up in recent years. Considerable efforts have also been
 made to guide EU staff throughout the Brexit process, including refunding of application fees for
 EU colleagues seeking permanent residence in the UK or British Citizenship. Northumbria also
 reimburses immigration costs for international colleagues (REF5a 3.3) and operates an
 Immigration Fees Short-Term Loan Scheme for those needing additional assistance with other
 immigration costs.


 Career Progression, Promotion and Support
 We support career progression and promotion for academic staff and there is an annual call for
 applications for promotion to Grade 8 (Associate Professor) and 9 (Professor). All academic staff
 are eligible to apply, with no limit on the number of promotions available. Of the 11 professors (4
 female) currently in post, seven (3 female) achieved their grade through internal promotion, and
 15 researchers (7 female) gained promotion to Associate Professor or Professor during this REF
 period. Overall, the proportion of staff in senior research leadership positions (Associate Professor
 or Professor) is 27% - similar to the proportion returned in 2014. Currently 91% of in-scope
 academic staff have doctorates (as opposed to 84% in 2013/14) and those without are chartered
 psychologists with professional qualifications. These are offered opportunities for professional
 doctorates or doctorates by publication and two of our Chartered Occupational Psychologists have
 recently completed the former route. All staff are made aware of the University’s Academic
 Promotions Policy and the criteria for promotion and progression are clearly set out on the
 university intranet.


 All staff members have an annual Performance and Development Appraisal meeting, normally
 with the Head/Deputy Head of Department (HoD) or Research Director. In these, resource and
 training requirements are identified, workloads set and milestones agreed for the attainment of
 specific research and career goals (e.g. external grant funding, impact, publications, goals for
 academic promotion). Where possible, for academic staff, the balance of research, teaching and
 administration roles are targeted at 40%:40%:20% respectively, but individual staff circumstances



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are taken into account, with the most recent data for submitted staff showing a
 research/teaching/administration balance of 49:36:15%.


 The research development and promotions trajectory for all staff is considered carefully at
 Northumbria. Contract researchers – typically post-doctoral research associates - are fully
 integrated into the Unit, are invited to regular departmental meetings and encouraged to contribute
 to seminars and to discussions around strategy and research planning. Where possible, they are
 encouraged to apply for funding or are included as named researchers on funding applications to
 ensure continuity. There are role models for contract staff wishing to apply to academic
 appointments, as our Head of Department (Moss) and Director of the BPNRC (Kennedy) made
 the same transition.


 Semester-long sabbaticals are open to all academic staff and are allocated on an annual basis in
 order to deliver significant contributions, such as books (e.g. Research Methods in Developmental
 Psychology, Routledge; Riby) or large scale international research initiatives e.g. the Reach study
 (Researching Eating Activity and Cognitive Health), a collaboration with Massey University,
 Auckland (Haskell-Ramsey). Typically 3 or 4 staff have taken sabbaticals each year, often basing
 themselves in other institutions (e.g. University of British Columbia, University of Sydney,
 University of California, San Diego), in order to forge closer collaborations or to learn new research
 techniques. Given the large growth in staff numbers in recent years, a strategic priority is to grow
 opportunities for more staff to take research sabbaticals each year. QR funding is used to supports
 the travel and subsistence of those taking up sabbaticals overseas and to support the strategic
 release of staff from teaching duties. Other QR funding is available to support shorter term external
 visits (or visiting faculty) and a travel budget supports staff (with priority given to ECRs) giving oral
 presentations at National and International conferences.


 The university has mechanisms in place to support and incentivise applications for funding. An
 online repository of successful grant applications is available and a training programme is offered
 to support ECRs develop their capacity to apply for large awards. Local support is available for
 ECRs applying for smaller awards and there has been considerable success in diversifying
 sources of funding, with examples including new awards for ECRs from the National Eye Research
 Centre, WhatsApp, the North East Leadership Academy, UKRI, and the Royal Society. In addition,
 the university regularly offers pump-priming awards. For example, in 2019 an internal funding
 opportunity was set up to enable academic investigators to undertake activities that would
 develop/strengthen engagement with an industrial partner and position the investigator for a
 successful significant funding application to the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund.




                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University’s Research and Enterprise Rewards Scheme provides those staff who have
 successfully secured research grant and contract income with additional financial rewards of up
 to £5K p.a. to spend on developing their research.     A QR research budget (typically £25K per
 annum) provides funds for consumables, small pieces of kit and software, and participant
 payments to support research. Small grants are available for networking, speaking at conferences
 and workshops, pump-priming pilot studies and to support consumables for research projects.
 Priority is given to ECRs and new staff who have limited access to external resources, but internal
 funding can also be used to bridge research activities following periods of disruption (e.g. due to
 ill health). Further funds can be accessed through the MDRT (Integrated Health & Social Care;
 Human & Digital Design) and through centralised university impact funding. The university also
 supports research by awarding paid UG and PG research internships, which are aligned with
 internal research groups and their themes. Students can also undertake their research placement
 modules within these research groups. We support both undergraduate and masters students to
 apply for external internship funding and notable successes include summer funding from the
 British Psychological Society, the Experimental Psychology Society, and the Alzheimer’s Society.


 Research Students
 PGR students are a central part of our research culture and the University provides a Research
 Development Fund (REF5a 2.2) offering fully funded studentships (around 6 p.a. in UoA4,
 typically advertised in areas that will support research priorities and that also align with newly
 appointed/ECR staff). Additional ‘matched’ University funding is made available to support
 Collaborative PGR studentships with external partners (REF5a 3.5), whereby the university will
 match the external amount provided, with examples including PGR funding from Evolva and BASF
 (Norway). Applications are also supported through the Northern Bridge Doctoral Training
 Partnership. High calibre candidates are recruited though supervisors’ networks and
 advertisement, notably on FindAPhD. All PGR recruitment follows fair and effective recruitment
 practices implemented by the Graduate School.


 All students have a Principal Supervisor and at least one other academic supervisor who meet
 regularly with their students (monthly documented meetings as a minimum, as well as more
 frequent informal meetings) to provide research direction, support and guidance. In this we follow
 The Graduate School Code of Practice, which is reviewed and updated annually. All students
 complete an initial project approval template together with a PGR Development Portfolio (Vitae)
 template within three months of registering. Arrangements for distance working are made where
 appropriate. Subsequent annual reviews allow for PGR progress and training needs to be formally
 reviewed. The ‘subject specialist’ on the candidate’s annual progression panel will typically be the
 same individual throughout the programme, which provides another mechanism via which
 continuous academic support is available to the candidate throughout their PGR studies.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Graduate School provides a structured training programme with sessions on statistical
 analysis, bibliographic software, academic writing skills and ethics in research. Themed
 workshops are offered on ‘doctorate essentials’, ‘managing your research degree’, ‘giving your
 research impact’, and ‘life after your doctorate’. Taught research training modules within our MRes
 programme are also available to PGR, such as training in quantitative and qualitative methods,
 academic skills training (including sessions on dissemination of research, and grant application
 writing), training in specialist equipment (e.g. polysomnography), statistical analysis using R
 software and engagement with open science practices.


 As a consequence of a strong and supportive framework for PGR supervision and training, the
 Unit performs well in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (85% overall PGR
 satisfaction in 2019 versus a sector average of 82% for this discipline area). Particular attention
 has been paid to the needs of PGR students during lockdown, where alternative data collection
 approaches have been shared across the PGR community in order to continue work with human
 participants that would otherwise be disrupted by COVID-19.


 PGR students are required to attend departmental research seminars and give presentations
 within their particular research groups. They are also encouraged to present at international and
 national conferences (with travel funds awarded on a competitive basis). Students in Cognition
 and Neuroscience have benefited from the activities in the Human & Digital Design MDRT and
 students in the Health and Wellbeing group have been involved in initiatives across the university
 and associated with the Integrated Health & Social Care MDRT. They benefit from non-academic
 collaborations and become involved in academic/industry/policy workshops and events. Examples
 include student involvement in a UK Government policy-oriented event in 2020, organised in
 collaboration with the National Cyber Security Centre and a regional CyberFest organised by
 Dynamo in 2019. Students are also encouraged to present at the annual University and/or Faculty
 Research Conference. Unit staff hold roles on conference committees (section 4) and we
 encourage students to become involved as volunteers and reviewers and to get involved in
 organising international symposia. Success with these initiatives is evidenced by students who
 win national prizes, including those presented by the BPS Psychology Postgraduate Affairs Group
 and BPS PG thesis award.


 Equality and Diversity
 The University is committed to promoting and supporting equality of opportunity and diversity both
 as a focus for research and as good practice for our own workplace. In research terms, an
 emerging group of applied work psychologists (e.g. Longstaff, Thompson) are currently working
 on research projects with police forces in England on the career progression of women in policing,


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and with the NHS on bullying and bystander behaviour. The strategic aim here is to add to
 Northumbria work that informs policy and practice around workforce development, inequalities and
 social injustice. This group supported the department’s successful 2020 application for a Bronze
 Athena Swan Award, with the assessors commending the “evidence and narrative around the
 culture of the department” and highlighting the presence of “a strong and structured approach to
 making improvements”. They liaise with a Workforce & Practice Development group within Applied
 Sciences (UoA3) that addresses these issues in the healthcare professions. Social injustice is also
 a theme of the Centre for Digital Citizens, where the influences of algorithmic social bias are
 considered in relation to race, gender and disability.


 The gender balance of both eligible and submitted staff is equal (51% female and 49% male) and
 the age profile of eligible and submitted staff is similarly matched. For example, there are 13 staff
 aged over 55 and all are submitted. More could be done to encourage diversity in terms of disability
 - where 2% of eligible and submitted staff have a registered disability, and ethnicity - where 2% of
 eligible and submitted staff are BAME, but steps are being taken to address this. In 2020 the
 University signed up to the Race Equality Charter to further its commitment to combat racial
 inequality, and has recently established a member-driven Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic Staff
 Network and the University is a Level 2 member of the Disability Confident Scheme which means
 that staff with underlying conditions or declared disability are supported by reasonable
 adjustments to their workload/workspace where needed. As noted earlier, all staff attend Equality
 and Diversity training, with appropriate additional training mandated for those taking part in
 selection panels, conducting appraisals, and taking up line management roles.


 The University’s Code of Practice used in preparing this submission was developed with an
 underpinning commitment to fairness and EDI. The UoA lead (Briggs) and relevant staff have
 been given unconscious bias training provided by Advance HE. The UoA lead co-ordinated the
 internal peer review of outputs by ‘colleges’ of suitably experienced psychology staff, the
 composition of each reflecting the need to maintain a gender balance appropriate to each area
 and to consider succession planning i.e., staff gaining experience for future REF preparations.
 The output portfolio was selected by first attributing a primary output to each individual (typically
 their strongest output, although with management of co-authored outputs to maximise the
 expected Grade Point Average), followed by ‘blinded’ selection of the highest scored outputs
 needed to make up the total. Where the option was available to select from equally graded outputs,
 equality assessments and the need to consider fair representation of all the discipline areas in this
 wide-ranging submission were taken into consideration.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External Research Funding
 Psychology received £4.76M in external funding during this REF period, with RGCI increasing
 steadily from £780K in 2013/14 to almost £1.1m in 2019/20 (Table 2). The new Centre for Digital
 Citizens (EP/T022582/1; Briggs/Coventry) was launched in October 2020, which means the
 £1.7M income to Northumbria is not realised in the current REF period, but signposts a successful
 strategy for more large-scale, interdisciplinary applications.


                 13/14      14/15      15/16      16/17      17/18     18/19        19/20       Total
    Awarded    780,059    691,058    817,354    952,975    616,184   815,085    1,058,948   5,731,663
     Number          29        43          44         36        34         48          72         306
      Value      £2.8m      £4.6m      £4.8m      £3.9m    £10.2m*     £3.1m      £14.4m*     £43.8m
       Table 2: RGCI income (row 1) applications (row 2) and value (row 3) over the REF period
                              *includes two ESRC Centre applications

 Research applications have also risen over the REF period, with 29 applications made in 2013/14
 as compared to 72 in 2019/20 (Table 2) and are projected to increase further as the significant
 number of recently appointed staff establish themselves. The overall picture in the last 12 months
 is that 48% of the department’s successful applications were led by female PIs. The larger awards
 (for example, H2020 and EPSRC awards) were led by female PIs, who provide mentoring for new
 female members of staff, offer timetabled sessions on attracting larger awards to ECRs across the
 university and are available to offer research grant advice on request.


 Funding comes from diverse sources, including the EU, UKRI (with EPSRC our largest funder),
 the NHS (including NIHR, local Trusts and the AHSN North East and Cumbria), government
 (including GCHQ), industry (e.g. Pepsico, Philips, Facebook) and charities (e.g. the Leverhulme
 Trust, the Alzheimers’ Society). Funding is distributed across the six psychology research groups,
 although the three specialist centres, whilst relatively small in staff terms, attract significant
 awards. The PaCTLab is highly distinctive in applying psychological models of attitude and
 behaviour change to digital interactions which means it is well positioned to be a psychological
 partner in large-scale European and UK multidisciplinary studies. These include four H2020
 projects awarded to Coventry and/or Briggs: The DALI project (2011-2014. Euro3.2m) which
 explored digital interventions to improve the mobility of Older Adults, the ACANTO project (2015-
 2018, £4.3m) a follow-on project that looked at digital social nudges to improve mobility, the
 CYBECO project (2017-19, Euro1.98m), which addressed behavioural issues influencing the
 uptake of cyberinsurance, and the PANACEA project (2019-2022, Euro4.96m) with a focus on
 data protection and privacy issues within healthcare.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Members of PaCTLab have also been successful in attracting EPSRC funding, notable amongst
 the projects being the £1.2m Reel Lives project (EP/L004062/1) on the management of digital
 identity, led by Northumbria and with partners Edinburgh, Open and Birmingham Universities; the
 £1.1m EPSRC Cybersecurity across the LifeSpan (cSALSA) project with £290K for Northumbria
 and with partners Bath (lead), Portsmouth and Cranfield Universities; and the £828K EPSRC
 INTUIT project.    Finally, as noted above, Briggs and Coventry are Co-Investigators on a
 successful new ESRC Digital Economy application to set up the new Centre for Digital Citizens
 (£1.6m to Northumbria). Taken together, this tranche of European/UKRI funding illustrates the
 strength of the PaCTLab in building strong international and interdisciplinary collaborations, where
 Northumbria staff contribute expertise in psychological theory and methods. In all cases where
 projects have been completed, they have been well rated by external assessors, with the
 Northumbria contribution having been labelled as ‘exemplary’ for the H2020 ACANTO project. An
 ICS relates to this group’s cybersecurity work.


 The BPNRC has an international reputation for research assessing the effects of nutrition and
 dietary interventions on brain function and is almost entirely externally funded, mostly by
 collaborations with industry. BPNRC has worked with many global food and nutraceutical leaders
 including BASF, Bayer, Danisco, Frutarom and PepsiCo, along with UK companies such as Pukka
 Herbs and Vitabiotics. This collaborative research provides an important evidence base for
 product efficacy and product claims, the impact of which is presented in a case study developed
 from these trials. Other examples include work with Bayer Consumer Care (total value of 3 studies
 £233K; Kennedy and Haskell-Ramsay as PI) to evaluate the subjective fatigue effects and
 underpinning mechanisms of new formulations of one of their global multivitamin/mineral brands,
 a collaboration with Frutarom (total value of 4 studies £371K Kennedy) to establish efficacy and
 dosing of a novel herbal supplement and work with PepsiCo (total value of 4 studies £199K,
 Kennedy) to evaluate different formulations and dosing of functional drinks containing
 polyphenols and herbal extracts on cognition, mood and cerebral blood flow.


 Longer term collaborations also provide the opportunity to explore the effects of specific
 components of the diet across a wide range of parameters as well as their underpinning
 mechanisms. For example, work with BASF (£320K, Jackson) investigated the effects of a novel
 omega-3 fatty acid supplement with enhanced bioavailability on cognition, mood, sleep quality,
 and cerebral blood flow; a collaboration with Evolva (Kennedy Co-I) explored the effects of the
 polyphenol resveratrol on cognitive function, mood and inflammation in overweight and obese
 individuals, enabling the interrogation of links between specific metabolic responses and gut
 microbiota colonisation to changes in cognition. Recently, the capacity of BPNRC for multi-
 disciplinary research (in collaboration with staff returned in UoA3) has attracted a number of grants
 and contracts from industry partners (e.g. Bayer consumer care £85K, Jackson; Pukka Herbs


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £101K, Wightman) and research councils (e.g. the International Nut and Dried Fruit Council
 £100K, Haskell-Ramsay) interested in investigating the effects of supplements, nutrients or whole
 foods on the gut-microbiome-brain axis. The creation of NUTRAN as an externally facing,
 multidisciplinary clinical trials unit is a strategic step to grow these kinds of partnerships.


 The Northumbria Centre for Sleep Research receives funding from a variety of sources, largely
 from organisations related to health and healthcare. Research examining the pathophysiology of
 insomnia has been funded through two large awards (ESRC £431K and NIH $570K to Ellis, with
 colleagues from the University of Pennsylvania) and several related awards (e.g. Royal Society of
 Edinburgh, Wellcome Trust). From this work a successful training package on the assessment
 and early management of sleep health and sleep disorders has been commissioned, including
 aligned research and audits, by several NHS partners, UCB Pharma, The Royal College of
 Surgeons in Ireland and the Sleep Council (totalling £128K). Significant funding has also been
 attracted for research focused on understanding the relationship between stress, sleep and
 fatigue, including from charities (Action 4 ME, Macmillan, and ME Association), government
 agencies (Health Education England North East, Public Health England, Transport for London)
 and industry (Calms, Cherry Active, Mayborn, Phillips). An emerging area of expertise within the
 group is chrononutrition and this programme of work has already received funding in relation to
 food timing and sleep-related glucose regulation from Nestle, Unilever and Pukka and on
 supplementation timing on human performance and recovery from Irish Rugby Football Union and
 Sport Ireland (totalling £141K). Most recently, the group has been commissioned by Public Health
 England to conduct a series of rapid reviews on sleep and health for the Secretary of State
 (£112K).


 The three wider research groups also attract significant research grants from diverse sources. For
 example, Dodd has had considerable success for her work on student mental health, with a recent
 award of £413K from the Office for Students (BRinging Innovation to Graduate Mental Health
 TogethER (BRIGHTER) and £263K from NIHR Research for Patient Benefit: The clinical and cost
 effectiveness of adapted Dialectical Behaviour Therapy (DBT) for Bipolar Mood Instability in
 primary care (ThrIVe-B programme). The student wellbeing work provides another example of
 large-scale UK-wide collaboration, with £911K UKRI funds awarded to the Student Mental Health
 Research Network (SMARtEN), where Dodd is Co-I. Other awards include a Leverhulme grant of
 £68K to Haigh to explore public understanding of science and a Leverhulme fellowship (£54K) to
 Saxton to explore the effects of natural infant odours on parents. Myachykov and Taylor have
 recently secured an Erasmus+ Capacity Building grant (£43K) to work in collaboration with seven
 other universities from France, Denmark, Russia, and India. The resulting I-Brain consortium’s
 main goal is to develop a new Master’s-Doctoral track with the focus on cognitive, neuroimaging,
 and modelling applications (http://ibrainproject.eu/).


                                                                                                   Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 A wide variety of funders support a body of work on disability and chronic healthcare, often with a
 focus on healthcare inequalities. For example, O’Brien has an award from NIHR’s Public Health
 Research Programme (£502K) to assess the impact of a community social prescribing on people
 with type 2 diabetes living in an ethnically diverse area of high socio-economic deprivation and a
 NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) North East and North Cumbria award of £33K to
 improve the accessibility of medicines review services in primary care for older people from BAME
 communities.


 McKenzie’s work on supporting carers for those with longer-term conditions and improving
 strategic workforce development has been funded, firstly by Health Education England, (£101K)
 and by the North East and North Cumbria NIHR ARC (totalling £368K). A series of awards to
 McKenzie and McCarty, including a total of £45K for two NHS Lothian pilot studies and £38K
 from the NIHR ARC has improved screening for intellectual disability in a homeless population
 begun to address their health inequalities, and £107K from the Edinburgh and Lothian Health
 foundation has involved improve screening for intellectual disability in a paediatric population


 Finally, relatively new funding bodies include Facebook UK, with a Facebook research award to
 Pollet, to examine how Instagram use is related to offline social networks and well-being (£32K),
 and GCHQ, who recently funded Neave’s work on Digital Hoarding (£49K).


 Internal Support
 The Unit operates several mechanisms to help build research income. New staff are allocated
 research mentors to advise them on internally available support and peer review processes
 available to improve the quality of applications. In-kind support is often offered informally through
 the research groups and laboratories, with more senior colleagues raising awareness of new
 funding opportunities, supporting established staff and ECRs to develop independence in
 application writing and providing the opportunity for peer-review. Where cross-disciplinary
 applications are appropriate, the MDRTs exist to help forge new synergies between disciplines
 and the more established researchers work to involve ECRs in large collaborative applications.


 Centralised support comes from our Research and Innovation Services team in terms of pre- and
 post-award co-ordination and research management. Psychology staff have a dedicated research
 manager who advises on costing applications and a faculty impact advisor ensures opportunities
 for developing high quality impact are highlighted. Staff are also able to access a separate Sales
 and Business Development team who help with KTPs and InnovateUK funding, as well as
 supporting researchers in finding appropriate industrial/non-academic partners.



                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the QR budget used to support staff development (see above), some elements of
 external funding are also available to support internal development more widely. Thus, Briggs
 and Coventry lead the University’s multi-disciplinary Academic Centre of Excellence in
 Cybersecurity Research, which receives an award from EPSRC/NCSC of £60K to organise events
 and other development activities across the University, including support for PGR wishing to
 attend cybersecurity events within the wider Cybersecurity Research network.


 Capital Spend and Infrastructure
 The UoA has the research facilities expected of a large Psychology Department but also houses
 specialist equipment for sleep polysomnography, virtual-reality, body-scanning and motion-
 capture, that help make Northumbria’s research offer distinctive. Investment of £431K during the
 current REF period has led to the redesign of facilities to grow the dedicated research space. An
 example of infrastructure investment during this time was the addition of a clinical testing facility
 to the BPNRC. In addition, the university has made significant investments in dedicated research
 equipment, sourced from an annual capital expenditure programme that allows staff to request for
 dedicated research equipment costing over £10K.


 Significant new investments include: a recently furnished virtual reality (VR) suite that includes
 both Oculus, and HTC Vive Pro VR headsets, the latter have been upgraded with a fully wireless
 interface linking to a powerful computer with cutting edge hardware-accelerated graphics
 specifically for the stresses of VR. This VR suite services researchers in the areas of clinical and
 social psychology. Projects include: investigating the psychological effects of walking around low-
 SES neighbourhoods (Pepper), and the cognitive distortions exhibited by eating disordered
 patients in judging body size (P/K Cornelissen). For body image work, the VR suite is used
 alongside two full-body volumetric and photogrammetric body scanners. The SizeStream scanner
 allows for accurate volumetric scanning and measurement of bodies, whilst the 3DMD
 photogrammetric 10-camera 3D body scanner allows researchers to capture both volumetric and
 photographic detail of participants. These facilities enable our researchers to allow participants to
 experience themselves in VR at varying level of adiposity, thus addressing one of the criticisms of
 the current literature regarding the lack of a ‘self’ component in body size judgements.


 A large Vicon motion-capture and biomechanics laboratory (established in collaboration with
 UoA24 colleagues) allows for full body motion capture, accurate hand tracking, and full-face
 capture. The laboratory houses 14 high-speed near-infrared motion tracking cameras, providing
 a unique flexible tool for empirically investigating perceptions of biological motion and likely one
 of the largest and well-equipped such facilities in the country For example, it is used to record
 intricate gestures that have been used by clinical psychology researchers to investigate emotion
 recognition from dynamic stimuli with those with Autism, whilst colleagues in the evolution and


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 social group have used this to investigate cultural-specific evolutionary cues to fitness in the
 context of sexual selection (McKenzie, McCarty).


 We have invested in a high-performance computing array boasting 300 high-specification
 multicore CPUs. We have used such resources in two contexts. Firstly, with the emergence of ‘big
 data’ in psychological research, computational resources to handle large scale machine-modelling
 are required. As part of a Consumer Data Research Centre funded project, Vijaykumar (UoA3)
 and McCarty are in the process of analysing of a large corpus of Twitter data to explore the
 conversation surrounding probiotics and their links with health using machine learning. In addition,
 colleagues researching body image disturbances have used the cluster to render hyper-realistic
 3D bodies for their body image work. Such rendering is resource-intensive and has allowed us to
 render large sequences of body size change very quickly (going from ~2hrs per frame to just a
 matter minutes).


 There are highly specialised facilities associated with two of our research centres. The Sleep Lab
 is a purpose-built two-bedroom en suite facility with a fully integrated kitchen, conference room
 and lounge and laboratory control room. It has been designed to study and treat disorders of sleep
 and wakefulness using psychophysiological assessment (e.g., EEG, EMG, EOG, ECG, ERP),
 indices of basal functioning of the endocrine and immune systems (e.g., diurnal cortisol, cortisol
 awakening response, cytokines, melatonin), and a variety of signal processing techniques,
 including power spectral analysis. Each bedroom has Bluetooth connectivity to the control room
 but there are also facilities to do ‘at-home’ ambulatory studies. Taken together, these facilities give
 the opportunity to examine full physiological and sleep/wake parameters over the 24 hour cycle
 for short or long durations. Not only does this allow descriptive studies to be undertaken on
 objective markers of sleep quality, quantity, and timing; it also can be used as a diagnostic
 measure of ‘clinically relevant’ adverse nocturnal events which impact on sleep and daytime
 functioning in physically and psychologically ill populations and in patients with neurodegenerative
 disorders.


 The BPNRC houses a clinical testing facility including a wet-laboratory for biological assays (e.g.
 endocrine, cardiovascular, immune) and other sample preparations; Computer enabled and
 networked cognitive testing laboratories that encompass: 128 channel Biosemi EEG /ERP
 facilities (with portable facility essential for clinical work); Near Infrared Spectroscopy; Indirect
 calorimetry; and Transcranial Doppler; Physical performance laboratories and a Nutrition kitchen
 (used in collaboration with UoA24).


 Finally, the department also has a fully equipped driving simulator with pedals, manual
 transmission, and force feedback to investigate the negative effects of alcohol consumption on


                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 driving and new work on the possible benefits of aromas in attention (Moss); a state-of-the-art
 stress laboratory equipped to administer a range of laboratory stressors and measure
 neuroendocrine and well as cardiovascular and other physiological responses using Portapres
 (Finometer) and PowerLab units (Wetherell, Smith). We are one of only two institutions in Europe
 with two Finometers, and the only institution with two Portapres units, enabling ambulatory, beat-
 to-beat measurement of cardiovascular function; and a range of state-of-the-art eye-trackers (used
 by various research teams). Faculty based technicians provide support for specialist equipment,
 and a centralised IT support team provides more general support for researchers, facilitating
 access to specialised software and applications for research whilst ‘working from home’.


 In addition to these laboratory facilities, staff and research students have direct access to a ‘Digital
 Commons’ within the Psychology building and the ‘Research Commons’ located in the University’s
 City Campus Library – a mere 40m distant. Library investment in books, journals and databases
 relevant to this discipline area has almost doubled during the period since REF2014, from £47K
 in 2014/15 to £89K in 2019/20 (total £483K).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Strategic Support for Collaboration and Impact
 The strategy for building strong translational research highlights the critical role played by external
 stakeholders, research users and international partners. To facilitate such partnerships, QR
 funding is made available at both faculty and departmental levels to support travel and networking
 events, with additional funding made available through our MDRT budgets and via the Research
 & Enterprise Rewards Scheme. Four Business Development/Customer Relationship Managers in
 the Sales and Business Development team support staff in finding external partners and
 developing sustainable relationships through a range of knowledge exchange and impact
 activities. This team helps to attract strong non-academic partners to ensure relevance and impact
 of large research proposals (recent successful examples include the BBC, Microsoft and Google
 as non-academic partners). The team also supports the development of industry-academia
 collaborations to InnovateUK (successful examples being the collaboration with ThinkCyber
 described in the Cybersecurity ICS (Briggs) and a Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Smyths
 Toys (Orme)).     Finally, NUTRAN now offers an important mechanism to promote external
 collaboration and this multidisciplinary, industry-facing centre forms a key part of our strategy to
 maximise impact in relation to nutrition, health and wellbeing.


 Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base
 Successful large-scale collaborations typically involve European or UKRI funding at scale, with
 examples from across the laboratories and research groups given below.



                                                                                                 Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Large Scale International and UK wide Research Collaborations
 Northumbria psychologists have engaged with six EU funded projects, four within the H2020
 programme and these have involved large-scale collaborations across France, Greece, Italy, the
 Netherlands and Spain, with academic partners including University Degli Studi di Roma La
 Sapienza, the Universities of Trento and Siena, Valencia and Madrid and TUDelft. Non-academic
 partners include INRIA, Siemens, Telecom Italia and AXA insurance. Some of the EU projects
 have involved close collaborations with the European Commission’s own Joint Research Centre.


 In addition, members of both the Cognition and Neuroscience (Haigh, Myachykoff) and Health
 and Wellbeing (Smith, Neave) groups have been involved in the Many Labs 2 project, labelled
 “one of the most ambitious replication efforts in psychology yet”, recently published in Advances
 in Methods and Practices in Psychological Science. The study was a huge replication effort,
 involving 125 researchers from around the world. P Cornelissen was a member of the European
 Medicines Agency Joint Task Force on Big Data. Myachykov and Taylor recently secured funding
 for a 3-year project I-BRAIN funded by European Commission (ERASMUS+), a project that unites
 11 universities and research centres worldwide with the aim of developing MRes and PhD tracks
 in cognitive neuroscience in India and Russia. Pepper collaborates with partners in the US
 (University of California Santa Barbara) and Australia (Edith Cowan University) on a NEScent-
 funded project on evolution and reproductive timing. Deary has been working with scientists
 worldwide via the Global Consortium of Chemosensory Researchers to investigate the connection
 between the chemical senses and the COVID-19 virus. Following their letter in the British Medical
 Journal, the loss of smell (anosmia) was recognised as a symptom of COVID-19.


 In further examples of large scale, UK based multi-site studies, Deary contributes to the Multiple
 Symptoms 3 Study, a multi-site randomised controlled trial to test the effectiveness of a Symptoms
 Clinic for people with persistent “medically unexplained” physical symptoms. Persistent physical
 symptoms account for at least one third of referrals from GPs to specialists and is therefore likely
 to yield significant social and economic benefits. The study is funded by the NIHR (£1.2M) and is
 a collaboration between Sheffield, Newcastle, Manchester and Northumbria Universities. Moseley
 has been involved in a large scale preregistered multi-site study on hallucinatory experiences
 (HEs), in which general population participants (N=1394, across 11 data collection sites and
 online) completed assessments of HEs and source memory, dichotic listening, backwards digit
 span and auditory signal detection tasks, plus a measure of adverse childhood experiences.
 Findings from this study provide an important step in improving reproducibility in hallucinations
 research.


 This collaborative work is reflected in a steady growth in international co-authorship (moving from
 31% of outputs in 2013/14 to 41% in 2019/20) including collaborations with top global universities.


                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our most frequent international collaborator is the University of Toronto, Canada (39 outputs),
 ranked as the top Canadian university and 18th overall in the Times University World Rankings
 (2020). Our research is also cited in policy documents worldwide, with the USA (27 policy
 citations), the EU (15) and Australia (12) citing Northumbria’s psychology work most frequently
 (source: Overton).


 UK Networks and Network Plus
 We encourage strategic involvement with UK wide research networks. For example, Dodd is a
 Co-I on SMARtEN a national research network funded by UKRI that draws together researchers
 and key stakeholders across the Higher Education sector to improve the understanding of student
 mental health. During 2019, Briggs progressed from her mentoring role in the EPSRC funded
 Not-Equal Network Plus on Social Justice through the Digital Economy, to head up the project for
 six months and lead the commissioning of academic/community collaborations around the three
 challenge areas of Algorithmic Social Justice, Digital Security for All, and Fairer Futures for
 Businesses and Workforces. In another example, Deary leads on a multi-centre UK Biobank
 collaboration looking at the genetic basis of fatigue and the genetic and phenotypic associations
 of self-reported tiredness.


 Other Academic Contributions and Esteem Indicators
 Members of the Unit also contribute to the wider research process through their representation on
 UK research council panels (e.g. Coventry, Briggs for EPSRC funding panels) and overseas
 (e.g. Briggs for Academy of Finland funding panels); societies (e.g. Smith is a member of the
 BPS Research Board); conference committees (see below) and journal editorial boards. Examples
 of editorial work (for the period 2014-present) includes board membership of The Journal of
 Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance (Rajsic, Blythe), Plos One
 (Tovee), BMC Psychology (Smith), Psychology and Health (Wetherell, Smith), Journal of
 Reproductive & Infant Psychology (Newham), Nutrition Research Reviews (Haskell-Ramsey),
 International Review of Social Psychology (Pollet), Frontiers in Psychology (Myachykov),
 Frontiers in Public Health (Briggs), Frontiers in Human Neuroscience (Bilalić), Sleep Health
 (Ellis) and Behavioural Sleep Medicine (Ellis).


 In addition, staff are active in supporting PGR processes at home and internationally, with staff
 acting as external examiners for, in Asia: University of Hyderabad, University of Malaysia; in
 Australia: Deakin, Flinders, Monash, Newcastle and Swinburne Universities, in Canada: Carleton
 University; in Europe: University of Leuven, University of Antwerp, Klagenfurt University,
 University of Vienna, Tomsk State University, University of Helsinki, National University of Ireland,
 Galway, University of Limerick, Eindhoven Technical University; in South Africa: University of the
 Free State, University of Pretoria.


                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Members of the Unit support the research community not only through their invited conference
 contributions, but also through their work as International conference organisers. For example,
 staff gave invited (fully funded) conference contributions and keynotes to the 8th China
 International Conference on Eye Movements, the 14th Annual Conference on Autism, the
 International Convention of Psychological Science in Paris, the European Summit on Information
 Security, the International Society for Evolution, Medicine & Public Health, the FENS European
 Nutrition Conference and the Sikon Conference in Denmark. Staff have been members of the
 following conference committees: the European Health Psychology Conference, the European
 Congress of Psychology, the European Association of Social Psychology, the ACM World Wide
 Web International Conference Committee, the ACM SIGCHI Conference on Computer Human
 Interaction, ACM Digital Health and the International Society for Evolution, Medicine & Public
 Health (Annual Meeting). Awards to staff in respect of such academic citizenship include the BPS
 Distinguished Contribution to Sport & Exercise Psychology award to Wolfson in December 2018.


 Contribution to the Economy
 Economic impact is realised largely throughout our industry-focussed research, which is carried
 out throughout the research groups and centres, examples of which are detailed in the impact
 case studies. Of the three research laboratories, BPNRC works most closely with pharma and
 nutrition industries globally to conduct full clinical trials around the cognitive impact of diet and
 nutrition, particularly regarding fatty acids and polyphenols (see dietary supplement ICS). Notable
 is their work with Bayer consumer care, where Northumbria research on their multi-vitamin/mineral
 brands has been used in educational materials to train the Bayer medical staff, sales forces and
 pharmacy staff globally, and also used to generate product specific claims which are put on
 pack/product websites and/or used in communication to health care professionals and consumers
 in key markets. Their work also supports product development (for example work with the Mibelle
 Group has been used to support the launch of their Nepalese pepper product, with Northumbria
 research cited on their website and in the product brochure).


 Economic impact is generated through a number of mechanisms. A two-year Knowledge Transfer
 Partnership with Smyths Toys (Orme, £140K) is designed to develop a buyer decision making
 support system using machine learning and social media trend analysis to predict market interest
 in individual toys in order to identify items that will generate high sales. PaCTLab worked with the
 [text removed for publication] Chain to improve cybersecurity advice and guidance offered to
 consumers by IT sales staff and with ThinkCyber to improve the behavioural effectiveness of their
 cybersecurity awareness training. The Northumbria Centre for Sleep Research has been working
 with Mayborn on two projects designed to create evidence-based toys and clothes for optimal
 sleep in toddlers.


                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Contribution to Society including collaborations with health and care organisations
 Societal impact is most closely realised through health and wellbeing initiatives. For example, a
 collaboration with Manchester University (McInnes) gives access to the Manchester Brain Bank
 with the aim of identifying cognitive tests that can predict brain pathology years before it occurs.
 A publication in Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders has identified a simple cognitive test
 of visuospatial episodic memory performed decades before death that can predict the ultimate
 presence of Alzheimer's disease pathology. Coventry conducts participatory/co-design work (in
 collaboration with PHE) on improving the quality of life with those with HIV, exploring issues around
 the sharing of highly sensitive data. McInnes, Wetherell and Haskell-Ramsay combine expertise
 from psychobiology and stress measurement, nutrition and ageing to assess everyday functioning
 and stress in older adults and to isolate lifestyle factors that may buffer against stress. A two day
 workshop in Denmark on ‘Adaptive Stress Responding’ in teachers and carers of those with
 challenging behaviours, plus regular consultancy on stress identification and measurement in
 training packages for care providers, has been undertaken by Wetherell. Tovee and Cornelissen
 have developed an intervention which targets body image disturbance in those with Anorexia
 Nervosa (AN). This is undergoing trials in collaboration with the University Hospital of the Ruhr-
 University Bochum for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and with Radboud University in the
 Netherlands. Recently, they’ve attracted NIHR-funding to test its effectiveness with UK
 adolescents.


 Staff are working with the NHS and other health care organisations on UK health and wellbeing
 initiatives. Deary’s work has refined the existing cognitive behavioural approach to Persistent
 Physical Symptoms and has shaped novel health professional training, improving service
 provision in the North East. Members of the Northumbria Centre for Sleep Research offer advice
 on managing insomnia in cancer-care, sponsored by Macmillan, and sessions on CBT-I,
 sponsored by the Northern Pain Network. Tovee’s NIHR funded Mapme project involves a
 childhood obesity intervention that is being tested with 8,000 families recruited across 12 Local
 Authorities. McKenzie has worked as a member of the expert panel for the Scottish Intercollegiate
 Guidelines Network which produced the ‘Assessment, diagnosis and interventions for autism
 spectrum disorders: A national clinical guideline’ (2016). Rippon has worked with
 Northumberland, Tyne & Wear NHS Foundation Trust with the aim of reducing the use of
 restrictive practices, such as seclusion rooms, within mental health inpatient settings. Smith
 received funding as Co-I from Tees, Esk and Wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust to investigate
 sources of resilience in offender mental health staff. Thompson was a co-I on a consultancy
 project for the North East Leadership Academy (with other Northumbria colleagues) to design,
 deliver and evaluate development centres and coaching for systems leaders in the NHS.



                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In terms of responding to national and international priorities and initiatives, Unit staff have
 considered the implications of their work for COVID-19, with Deary’s contribution to the work on
 anomia as a symptom providing a prime example. He is a contributor to the British Academy
 evidence review The COVID decade: Understanding the long-term societal impacts of COVID-19
 (March 2021), providing input to the health and wellbeing policy area. Jolley has recently provided
 evidence to Parliament (Home Affairs Select Committee) on COVID-19 conspiracy theories (with
 associated work by Jolley and Paterson just published in the British Journal of Social
 Psychology). In earlier work on pandemics, McNeill and Briggs worked with Public Health
 England to identify factors that lead to the spread of (mis)information on Twitter during the H1N1
 (Swine Flu) Pandemic, with a view to improving communication with the public about antivirals
 and vaccination during future pandemics (they were subsequently invited to contribute to the
 development of the NHS Digital Strategy). Other new and ongoing work in 2020 assesses the
 impact of COVID-19 on people with dementia, on those with eating disorders and also on sleep
 disturbance.


 Outside of health, several members of the Unit work closely to ensure their research findings
 inform social policy, particularly in areas of pressing concern. For example, Paterson’s work has
 informed the Crown Prosecution Service (2017) and she contributed to the All-Party Parliamentary
 Group’s Hate Crime Report (2019). Coventry and Briggs have worked with the UK’s National
 Cyber Security Centre and the European Commission on the growing problem of cybersecurity
 and their influence on International and UK policy is documented in an ICS, with dissemination
 events including a week-long Lorentz workshop (2019) where insurers, cybersecurity
 professionals and academics came together to discuss the role of cyberinsurance in a more
 secure Europe.


 Public Understanding of Science
 A strategic priority is that we continue to maximise the social relevance and impact of our work
 and engage widely with the public, both in co-designing our research but also in seeking to improve
 the public understanding of science. We do this through public facing workshops and events, often
 in association with local and national science museums, but also by engaging with national and
 international press and broadcast media. In terms of the former, Northumbria has a long-standing
 collaboration with the Centre for Life, a world-leading science centre and museum where our
 collaboration led to the development of the Brain Zone, a permanent exhibition funded by the
 Wellcome Trust that draws upon psychological research on the brain-body relationship and where
 collaborators include Kennedy end Ellis. Unit staff have also held public events at the National
 Science Museum (McNeill), made contributions to the British Science Festival (Thomas, Briggs)
 and the ESRC Festival of Social Science (Thomas) and delivered online panel discussions and
 webinars to world-wide audiences.       In terms of the latter, we contribute regularly to The


                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conversation, where articles by members of staff have had >3 million reads (e.g. Jolley, Brown).
 Several of our staff have contributed to national science public engagement initiatives including
 Psychology in the Pub, Café Scientifique and the Pint of Science Festival (e.g. Jackson, Smith).
 Our researchers are actively engaged in various forms of broadcast ‘education’, with
 accompanying social or print media. An example is Ellis’s involvement with the BBC sleep
 programme ‘Goodnight Britain’ and his subsequent work on Channel 5’s ‘The Big Sleep – with
 follow up articles in the Daily Mail and a national initiative for the public to keep sleep diaries to
 record the success of the interventions described (see ICS). Our research has been discussed on
 the BBC One show and has been the focus of dedicated TV and Radio documentaries and
 podcasts (Moss, Ellis, Wetherell). Other examples include Neave and McCarty’s work on sexual
 attractiveness and ‘dancing dads’, which was widely reported across broadcast and print media
 (e.g. BBC, The Guardian and The Telegraph). In 2020, Jolley’s conspiracy work was reported by
 The New York Times, The Guardian, The Daily Telegraph, BBC News and Huffington Post, with
 an estimated reach of over one million people. Finally, our academics have published books based
 on their research but that capture the public interest. Examples include the hugely successful ‘How
 We Are’ (Deary, 2017), ‘The One-week Insomnia Cure: Learn to Solve Your Sleep Problems’
 (Ellis, 2017) and ‘Making 'Imbeciles' of the Poor’ (McKenzie, 2020).




                                                                                               Page 27
