Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Swansea University

 Unit of Assessment: 7 Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
     1.1. Unit Context
 Biosciences has expanded greatly since REF2014 where we were ranked 8th, with 40% of our
 outputs rated 4*. We now have over three times as many permanent academic staff across all
 career pathways, with ~78% submitted to REF2021 (100% Category A). The transformation
 has been assisted by >£8M investment in infrastructure to support new research, attract
 increased grant income, and support PhD students and postdoctoral researchers. Our
 submission focuses on achievements made by successfully implementing the objectives set
 out in the REF2014, how these achievements are enabled and supported by the unit structure
 and collegial research culture, and how this leads to our new five-year strategic plan.

 Biosciences is one of six departments in the interdisciplinary College of Science (CoS) and
 supports subject-specific and interdisciplinary investigator-led, basic and applied research,
 guided by our over-arching strategic principles:

    (1) Continue to invest in our collegial research culture focusing upon non-hierarchical
        interaction and exchange of ideas and support.
    (2) Undertake environmental research with impact. We are committed to doing science
        with communities and for society, in line with the UN sustainable development goals
        and the Future Generations/Wellbeing Act 2015 of Wales.
    (3) Maintain and grow strong interdisciplinary collaborations in blue-skies and applied
        research.
    (4) Undertake internationally leading research and use Wales as a natural ‘laboratory’.

     1.2. Structure
 In 2014, Biosciences submitted 12 staff (11.2 FTE) to REF (Unit of Assessment 7: Earth
 Systems & Environmental Sciences). Building on the excellent outcome, and the research
 strategy described in REF2014 (REF5), we have expanded to a complement of 39 faculty
 members: 29 Research (REF Cat A staff), 7 Teaching and 3 Innovation. Our diverse group
 also includes 10 independent fellows, 24 postdoctoral researchers, 14 research officers and
 48 PhD students. Our research is supported by four preeminent facilities/interdisciplinary
 centres; the Centre for Biomathematics, the Centre for Sustainable Aquatic Research (CSAR),
 the biologging Visualisation Laboratory, and the research vessel and sea-going marine
 laboratory ‘Mary Anning’ (see also section 4).

 Our research activity is co-ordinated through four research themes (Figure 1) which have
 evolved from the groups established prior to REF2014 (The Centre for Sustainable Aquatic
 Research, the Dynamic Ecology Group, Swansea Laboratory for Animal Movement and
 Swansea Natural Products). Theme members meet several times each semester to share
 research highlights and develop collaborative research ideas and strategy. Every two weeks
 theme leads meet with the Biosciences Research Committee to develop and advance our
 broader departmental research priorities. All research themes include researchers from



                                                                                        Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 multiple laboratories, reflecting the collaborative nature of our research. Similarly, many
 researchers are affiliated with multiple themes (although each REF-submitted individual is
 listed under one theme for this exercise):




 Figure 1. Biosciences Research Themes, associated staff members (REF Cat A staff only) and
 outputs.

 Marine and Freshwater Systems builds on a strong history of aquatic research addressing
 fundamental and applied questions relating to sustaining ecosystem services. Key advances
 are, (i) identifying threats to the functioning of coastal and freshwater systems (Nature Comm.
 2019, Nature 2020); (ii) demonstrating that Europe’s rivers are congested with > 1 million
 barriers (part of a €6.2M project on river system management across 32 countries), (iii)
 proposing frameworks for habitat management based on a broader systems-approach, which
 include socio-economic factors (Nature Comm. 2019, Nature Ecol. Evol. 2019), and (iv)
 advancing theory and practice in coastal habitat restoration (Nature Comm. 2020).

 Behavioural Ecology and Evolution interrogates the basis of behavioural and morphological
 adaptation from molecular to macroevolutionary scales. Research highlights include (i) the role
 of animal movement and energetics in the evolution of life-history strategies (Science 2014,
 Current Biol. 2018, PNAS 2020), a theme also supported through an ERC starter grant; (ii) the
 genetic and phenotypic control of reproductive strategies (e.g., PNAS 2014, Nature Comm.
 2015); and (iii) the macroevolutionary consequences of traits including animal colouration and
 chemical defence (Nature Comm. 2014, PNAS 2015).

 Biodiversity and Ecosystems concentrates on the mechanisms and functions driving
 biodiversity patterns and ecosystem dynamics, to better inform management and policy from
 local to global scales. Major advances include (i) quantifying community composition at global
 scales associated with land-use, land protection and habitat fragmentation (Nature 2015,
 Nature Comm. 2016, Science 2019), as part of an assessment of conservation measure



                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 effectiveness, and our progress towards biodiversity targets (Science 2014, Global Change
 Biol. 2017); (ii) demonstrating the role of biodiversity in increasing ecosystem stability and
 multifunctionality (Nature 2015, Nature Comm. 2015, 2016, 2019); and (iii) assessing the latter
 over evolutionary timescales (Nature Ecol. Evol. 2017, Ecol. Lett. 2018).

 Natural Products and Environmental Resources aims to maximise the benefits of natural
 resources while minimising environmental disturbance through applied research. The main
 research thrusts are (i) algal biotechnology, including the €5.5M ALG-AD project to develop
 new technology to derive valuable products from food and farm waste; (ii) biocontrol and fungal
 biology (2 patents filed in the REF period); and (iii) invertebrate biology. Collaborations with
 businesses and policymakers are central to the research.

    1.3. Research objectives
        1.3.1. Review of REF2014 objectives
 We have successfully delivered on the major strategic research goals set out in the 2014
 assessment:

   i. To grow our staff, research income and student numbers.
   We recruited 23 internationally renowned scientists and ECRs to enhance our strengths
   in marine biology, ecology, biotechnology and aquaculture, as well as build new strategic
   research areas including molecular ecology and evolution. We reformulated our research
   themes to represent our core strengths in line with our new appointments. The themes now
   play a vital role in researcher development and provide a clear route for researchers at all
   levels to feed into our research strategy. This complements weekly initiatives, such as our
   seminar series (including departmental seminars, a bespoke Biomathematics series and
   postgraduate seminars), Bio-lunches (bringing postgraduates and staff together) and our
   SciArt club, all of which contribute to our vibrant research culture.

   We have achieved sustained growth in research awards, with an average +122%
   increase in annual grant funding. This corresponds to ~£600k per permanent academic
   member, almost double the £301k reported in REF2014. We have also increased the
   number of funding bodies from which we have attracted funding (e.g., European H2020
   funding with >19M€ from INTERREG, ERDF, WEFO, EMFF; >4M€ from MSCA Innovative
   Training Networks; 2M€ ERC Starting Grant, >£1.5M to CSAR for sustainable cleaner fish
   programmes for the salmon farming industry).

   ii. To deliver a truly integrated, interdisciplinary research environment
   SU College of Science (CoS) provides opportunities to collaborate within and between
   disciplines, for example, the founding of our Biomathematics centre which catalysed
   interdisciplinary doctoral research and was supported by 3 cross-disciplinary appointments.
   We have also delivered a £8.1M investment in preeminent core biological research
   infrastructure and research facilities (section 3.2), enabling our strong interdisciplinary
   collaborations (see 1.4).

   We have increased the scale of our applied research, with a focus on close individual
   engagement with industry collaboration (e.g. >£1.5M salmon farming industry to CSAR,
   €5.5M ALG-AD industry-based circular economy project creating wealth from waste), and
   wider strategic initiatives including SEACAMS (“Sustainable Expansion of the Applied



                                                                                          Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Coastal and Marine Sectors”) and £4.6M SEACAMS2, both funded by the European
   Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarship 2 scheme
   funded by the European Social Fund (ESF).

         1.3.2. Future objectives
 Capitalising on our successful growth during the past two REF cycles, our strategic aims for
 the next REF cycle are to continue to lead the national environmental science agenda
 and fortify our international reputation for excellence in environmental research, by:

    (1) Strengthening our international partnerships that align with UN Sustainability goals and
        key international environmental programmes.
    (2) Building on our leading role in Welsh environmental research, particularly that aligned
        with the Future Generations/Wellbeing Act 2015, the Welsh marine coastal economy
        and sustainable use of coastal resources, biophilic living and the green recovery from
        Covid-19.
    (3) Establishing a new core facility for research into natural products, bioremediation and
        the circular economy, and strengthen industrial collaboration and commercialisation
        routes. This will be achieved through a major focus on a Swansea Natural Products
        bid.
    (4) Expanding our environmental science remit beyond the current UoA to develop further
        collaboration with geography and engineering colleagues and capitalise on the
        establishment of the new SU Morgan Institute for Advanced Studies.
    (5) Gain meaningful and substantial institutional overhead return to PIs to enable
        researcher-led development of strategic research goals and developing departmental
        priorities.
    (6) Further support of our ECRs. This is particularly pertinent given the disproportionate
        impact of Covid-19 on staff at this career stage. Dedicated support will include targeting
        additional doctoral training funds, prioritising ECRs for internal PhD awards and
        establishing peer-to-peer coaching.

     1.4. Research impact
 Biosciences has adopted “Ecological Research with Impact” as the departmental ethos to
 address real world issues; and to create societal impact at regional, national and international
 levels through a) industrial collaboration, b) community engagement c) innovation and d)
 outreach. We have a history of engaging with external stakeholders, collaborating with 100
 industrial partners (including commercial, governmental and charitable organisations) in
 funded research projects within the REF period. Notably, all our Impact Case studies arose
 from active research collaboration with industrial partners.

 Swansea Biosciences is important regionally to Welsh science, informing best practice in
 ecosystem management (Welsh Government, National Resources Wales (NRW), and local
 conservation bodies). We also undertake activities with schools and colleges, fairs, the public,
 local radio and Welsh-medium TV. We contribute to successful, ongoing outreach activities
 including ORIEL Science, Soapbox Science and the Annual Swansea Science Festival, and
 we co-fund the Science Pavilion at the annual National Urdd Eisteddfod. UK-wide, our
 researchers interact regularly with learned institutions for outreach and community activities
 (panel members, journal editors etc.), with government policy bodies (e.g., Science and




                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Technology Committee on Japanese knotweed, Foreign & Commonwealth Office Science
 Advisory Group) and national media.

 Internationally, our world-leading research has industrial and policy impact, e.g., informing the
 redrafting of the European Common Fisheries Policy, generating new biocontrol products to
 sustainably control arthropod pests across the world, informing the development of marine
 renewable energy installations, and new EU-level procedures for river barrier adaptive
 management. Our work features regularly in the international press (BBC World News, India
 Today, NY Times, MSN Latin America, Russia Today), with media outputs in 65 countries
 since 2017.

 We have produced >750 publications in international peer-reviewed journals, which includes
 32 papers in Nature, Science (excluding Scientific Reports) and PNAS. Our publications have
 been cited >15,600 times, with 23% in the top 10% of most cited publications worldwide.

     1.5. Interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinary research is central to our research ethos and activity, with existing and new
 collaborations being supported through specific institutional funding calls. We also advance
 our interdisciplinary agenda with industry partners and government agencies (section 4). Focal
 points of interdisciplinary activity and capacity include:

 The Centre for Biomathematics established in 2016 to foster interdisciplinary collaboration
 with Mathematics, Medicine, Computer Science, and Engineering is co-directed by academics
 from Biosciences and Mathematics. This has facilitated seven inter-disciplinary, University-
 funded PhDs (3 completed) and two quantitative/computational ecologists were appointed in
 Biosciences and one lecturer in Biomathematics. Staff and students benefit from the new
 Computational Foundry, a £32.5M world-class facility for research collaborations. The centre
 holds monthly seminars with national and international speakers and has organised national
 workshops for students and ECRs and will host the prestigious International Statistical Ecology
 Conference (ISEC) in 2024 (the first ISEC organised in Europe since 2018). Finally, it has
 facilitated grant capture, including NERC funding to Fowler, and new interdisciplinary research
 addressing the Covid-19 pandemic (Wells and Lurgi), in collaboration with researchers from
 Medicine, Mathematics and Physics.

 A newly completed £200K zebrafish facility and multi-omics facility using fish as a model for
 human disease and pharmacology studies has expanded collaboration with the College of
 Medicine (Table 3.2).

 Collaborations with the physical and engineering sciences have been enhanced by our new
 £1.3M research vessel Mary Anning, which supports research informing decisions about the
 impact of proposed renewable marine energy installations, and coastal wave dynamics and
 coastline protection provided by seagrass and salt marshes. Basic and applied interdisciplinary
 research in nearshore hydrodynamics and coastal ecology is further enhanced by access to
 the 30m experimental wave flume of the SU Coastal Engineering Laboratory (Table 3.3).
 Further interdisciplinary collaborations are enhanced through the new (€0.5M) wind tunnel
 facility in Biosciences, designed to quantify the power output in vertebrate flight in collaboration
 with aeronautical engineers, and the secondment of a Computer Scientist for hardware and




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 software development for animal-attached tags in association with the biologging
 Visualisation Lab.

     1.6. Open Research
 SU has an Open Access deposit policy (2015), which requires all published research outputs
 to be deposited in the institutional Research Information System (RIS), which feeds the
 repository, Cronfa, with an Open Access copy of each full-text article. Biosciences has a 0%
 Non-compliant output submission (REF 2), as defined by the REF 2021 guidelines. The
 Science Research Hub and central library provide support to researchers with Open Access
 requirements and sharing compliance for UKRI funding. Open Research is a priority for
 Biosciences and we are leading initiatives with a dedicated data manager developing
 postgreSQL databases for sharing research data, internally and externally, including with
 regulatory government agencies and industries. Examples include a new fish tracking
 database across the River Tawe and Swansea Bay, and one for passive acoustic data on
 cetaceans along the Welsh coast, both shared with academic and non-academic partners for
 impact assessment of marine installations and fishery management.

    1.7. Research integrity
 Biosciences has played a leading role in the development of the SU Research & Ethics
 Governance Framework Policy 2015. Biosciences staff developed and deliver training
 courses for all SU PGR students on ‘Ethics and Research Governance’ and ‘Ethics and
 animals’, run 4 times per year since 2017. We also lead (Garcia de Leaniz) the College of
 Science Ethics Committee (with a dedicated website and departmental sub-committees), and
 key contributors (6 Bioscience members) to the University’s Animal Welfare and Ethics
 Review Body (AWERB), responsible for the implementation of the Animals (Scientific
 Procedures) Act and ARRIVE guidelines (Animal Research: Reporting of In Vivo Experiments),
 as well as elevation of relevant human-related research to the NHS ethics screening level.
 Furthermore, Biosciences staff are members of the Animal Welfare Research Network
 (AWRN). Garcia de Leaniz and Börger (Deputy Director) were founding members in 2016 of
 SU’s cross-disciplinary Research Institute for Ethics & Law (see REF5a). Biosciences
 developed an innovative online ethics evaluation system which allows ethical scrutiny of all
 research done in Biosciences, including 200+ student projects each year. This system has
 been working successfully for 4 years and has been implemented by other departments across
 SU. Finally Biosciences also achieves national impact, e.g., Wilson as a member of the Special
 Methods Tagging Panel, which regulates the tagging of birds within the UK; a responsibility
 devolved from the Home Office.

 2. People
     2.1. Changes since REF 2014 and investment in people:
 Since REF2014, the Biosciences recruitment strategy has been to invest in excellent research
 aligned with national and international priorities within our 4 Research Themes. Specifically,
 we have increased critical mass through (i) the appointment of early career staff (36% of new
 appointments) and (ii) attracting outstanding research fellows, which has enabled us to grow a
 complementary research base within our core research themes. We have attracted 7 external
 Independent Research Fellows, 3 of whom have been awarded permanent positions. We have
 also provided strong support for internal candidates applying for fellowships. Overall, 23 new
 permanent staff were appointed in the REF period, 17 of which were REF Category A staff.




                                                                                         Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Biosciences’ recruitment strategy is committed to equality in line with our Athena Swan agenda,
 for which the Department holds a Bronze award. We have actively sought workplace equality
 by explicitly encouraging applications from underrepresented groups in our recruitment
 advertising, by making all selection panels gender balanced by providing training on
 unconscious bias and by including consideration of career breaks in the selection process. This
 strategy has increase female permanent members of staff, from 20% in 2013/2014 to 41% by
 July 2020, while maintaining the percentage of BAME staff (20%). It has also increased
 success in carer progression for female staff, for whom permanent positions grade 8 and above
 have grown from 12% in 2014/15 to 36% in 2019/20 (Table 2.1).

 Table 2.1 Successful application for promotion during this REF period by gender and
 ethnicity (some promotions correspond to the same person in different years).
             Successful Promotion Applications - Biosciences
    2014/15-2019/20
    Level         Total       Gender                   Ethnicity
                               Male        Female        White        BAME        Not disclosed
  Senior            15           7            8           13             0                2
  Lecturer
  Associate         11           5            6            9             1                1
  Professor
  Professor          6           3            3           5              1                0
  Total             32           15           17          27             2                3


 New lecturers are appointed with a 3-year probationary period and a mentoring system pairs
 them with senior staff members who provide guidance on different aspects of their role such
 as research grant applications, teaching practice and administration. Research Fellows are
 granted individual office space, access to laboratories and facilities, supervision of research
 students and support to apply for research funding. To enhance career progression, specific
 support is provided for all Early Career researchers, including:
    -     Reduced teaching and administrative loads during their first year to allow them to
          establish as independent researchers. Administrative responsibilities start 6-12 months
          following appointment, increasing in responsibility with length of service. They move to
          a half teaching load in the second academic year and full load by year 3.
    -     Start-up funding for travel and/or equipment according to their research needs. Priority
          is given in competitive applications for internal funding and PhD allocation.
    -     Leadership opportunities such as chairing Research Theme meetings or the Athena
          Swan Self-Assessment Team (SAT), providing training in leadership and
          administration.
 Our Professional Development Reviews (PDR, see Ref 5a) include two annual face-to-face
 line manager meetings to support career development, remove barriers and acknowledge
 success. The PDR also provides the opportunity to request a change in career pathway and/or
 apply for promotion, for which there are regular workshops and a specific mentorship
 programme.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2.2. Support for Research Staff:
 Swansea University demonstrates its ongoing commitment to the implementation of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers by publicly reporting
 against Concordat action plans, and we have continuously held the European Commission’s
 HR Excellence in Research Award since 2010 (REF5a).
 Postdoctoral researchers are an important component of our Department (currently 29). Each
 researcher is assigned a mentor and their career progression is supported by the PDR system.
 Representatives of the research staff participate on committees including the Athena Swan
 (SAT), which ensures that their career progression opportunities are aligned with the
 Concordat. During this REF period, 9 fixed-term staff contracts have been moved to open-
 ended contracts after 4 years of continuous employment (linking with the Concordat) and an
 internal list of redeployment opportunities has been created to enhance research staff
 retention. Research staff attend training and networking events (e.g., Welsh Crucible
 programme for leadership development with particular emphasis on interdisciplinarity, attended
 by 1-3 ECRs each year during the reporting period). They receive institutional support to write
 fellowship applications through the new Florence Mockeridge Fellowship Group, currently
 attended by 4 researchers from Biosciences, where they receive eight months of training and
 development. Research staff attend staff meetings, supervise research students, attend and
 contribute to seminars, and organise Research Theme meetings. Several individual
 Fellows/postdoctoral researchers successfully progressed to permanent research/academic
 positions (Table 2.2).

 Table 2.2 Examples of destinations of postdoctoral researchers after finishing their
 contracts in Swansea in the REF period
  Position           Destination
  Lecturer/Assistant Exeter University (UK), Stellenbosch University (South Africa),
  professor          University of Sydney (Australia), Lafayette College (US), Solent
                     University (UK), University of Perpignan (France), Swansea
                     University
  Researcher/Fellow Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Aarhus University
                     (Denmark), Max Planck Institute (Germany) (x2), River
                     Restoration Centre (UK), CEFAS (UK), NRW (UK), University of
                     La Laguna (Spain), Autonomous University of Mexico (Mexico),
                     Swansea University (x4)

 An annual Departmental Research Budget covers maintenance of facilities, a £400 stipend to
 all self-funded PhD students and annual incentive awards to academics, used mainly to attend
 conferences or field work. For staff involved in research and teaching, access to research-
 only time is facilitated through the organisation of terms with reduced teaching and
 administration loads.

    2.3. Supporting research students:
 Biosciences has a vibrant student research community which has grown over the last 4 years,
 consisting of 93 PhD students (45 current) funded by BBSRC, EU (Interreg, MSCA, ERC
 programmes/College of science), KESS ESF under the Knowledge Economy Skills
 Scholarships scheme), Sêr Cymru/HEFCW, King Abdullah University, industrial sponsors (e.g.,
 Ocean Matters, 360 Aquaculture) and the Science without Borders Programme of the Brazilian



                                                                                         Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Government. The Department is (since 2019) an Associate Partner for the GW5-led South
 West Biosciences BBSRC Doctoral Training Programme (DTP).
 Biosciences has a strong commitment to internationalisation in terms of research students and
 during this period has launched several joint PhD programmes with the Universities of Texas
 and Grenoble (2017) and Cape Town (2018). We have been awarded two Marie-Sklodoswska
 Curie Innovative Training Networks, both as coordinators: AQUAINVAD-ED (2015-2019) -£2M,
 funding 8 PhD students (3 in Biosciences) and MIX-IT-IN (2017-2021) -£2.5M, funding 11 PhD
 students (2 in Biosciences).
 Biosciences students enrol in the College of Science Doctoral Training Centre (DTC), attend
 central and departmental training courses (including statistics, R programming, experimental
 design, communication and research ethics), and organise a very popular postgraduate
 seminar series, the ‘Wallace Coffee Talks’, with 56 speakers over the last three years.
 Biosciences PhD students also co-organise Research Theme regular meetings. Students’
 progress is annually monitored by an internal panel and progression is approved by the SU
 Progression Board based on reports from the internal panels and supervisory team, recorded
 monthly through a central Research Monitoring System. This rigorous procedure has resulted
 in 48 PhDs awarded within the period of their candidature between 2013/2014 and 2019/2020.
 During the assessment period 24 PhD students moved onto postdoctoral and Fellowship
 positions at HEIs or research institutes in the UK and internationally (e.g., Max Plank Institute,
 Universities of Oxford, Oklahoma, Guelph, Windsor, Alcala, NHS), academic or senior
 positions (e.g., lecturers in Saudi Arabia and Iraq, Director of Fisheries in Oman), government
 bodies (EA, UK councils) or to the private sector as SME founders (UK), senior researchers
 (UK and Estonia) or medical writers (UK). In addition, 25 to 30 MRes students graduate each
 year with 1 in 3 having subsequently moved into PhDs.
 Research students are represented in the Athena Swan SAT with the same staff equality and
 diversity measures applied to research student recruitment. All students are given training on
 ethics, health and safety and diversity and equality, including unconscious bias. There is also
 an active LGBT+ community which organises awareness events. Biosciences is also
 committed to the Race Equality Charter and has actively supported the Black Lives Matter
 movement, committing to the revision of teaching and learning materials, integration of
 discussion about racism and discrimination in tutorials and revision of library materials starting
 2020.
 The wellbeing and progress of postgraduate research students, particularly those in their last
 year, has been prioritised in the COVID 19 response of the Department. During lockdown
 regular ad-hoc meetings were organised with supervisors to reduce the impact of the
 interruption of activities. For the re-occupation of laboratories and fieldwork, under the new
 health and safety measures, we prioritised Postgraduate Research students and their research
 projects, at least equal to the remainder of the Department research portfolio. For example, the
 first 22 projects in restart included the work of 14 PGR students.

     2.4. Equality and diversity
 Our commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusivity accords with SU’s Strategic Equality Plan.
 Swansea University holds an Athena SWAN Silver Award (2017), is a Race Equality Charter
 member, and subscribes to Stonewall’s Diversity Champions Programme, creating an
 inclusive workplace for LGBTQ+ and non-binary staff and students. Swansea ranks 6th among
 educational bodies in Stonewall’s Workplace Equality Index, placing us in the top 50 of all
 UK employers (REF5a). Bioscience holds its own Athena SWAN Bronze Award (2018), and


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we are proud to work for a ‘Living Wage’ employer recognised for its commitment to the
 European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for Recruitment of Researchers
 (see also REF 5a)




 As a Department we are working to the Vice Chancellor’s goal to a 50:50 gender balance at
 senior decision-making levels. To do so we have taken active steps in designing an equal and
 non-biased recruitment process, attracting a more diverse pool of applicants, and improving
 the promotion process, to achieve equality at all levels. This has led to a sustained
 improvement in the percentage of female staff members up to professorial level (see details in
 Section 2.1). Currently female staff members have leadership roles as the Biosciences
 Academic Research Lead, Biosciences Programme Director, College Director of Teaching and
 Taught Masters Programme Director. After the Head of Department, the Research Lead and
 Programme Director are the next most senior decision makers in the department.

 In addition, and in line with SU Code of practice, all members of the UoA team with
 responsibility for decisions on the selection of outputs and impact case studies for this
 submission undertook mandatory equality training, including specialised courses on equality
 and diversity and unconscious bias. The submission comprises the one best-quality output
 from each Category A submitted staff member with the balance made up of the best-quality
 outputs from the available pool of eligible outputs that includes outputs of former eligible
 colleagues.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
     3.1. Research funding
 Research grants awarded have risen steadily during the census period, with a total of 129
 grants (13-27 per year) and £22.08M awarded (£3.1M yearly average). This represents an
 average increase of +122% in yearly amount awarded compared to the first census year (range
 +28% to +767%), with an associated increase in the number of funding bodies (see also section
 1.2). The department has also strengthened its links with industry, resulting in research income
 from the EU (e.g., ALG-AD with 12 other EU partners (2017); €5.5M), and Innovate-UK-
 BBSRC- NEWTON (e.g., Phycopigments, with Mexico (2016); £435,258).

 Grant capture is supported by a comprehensive University framework. The University
 Research, Engagement & Innovations Services (REIS) support grant capture, horizon



                                                                                         Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scanning, project management and commercialization activities. The College Research Hub
 (established in 2015), provides support for bids (pre-award, including bid development,
 demand-management, and quality checks) and administrative support for project delivery
 (post-award, including legal and contract services, IP expertise, and research governance).
 Through this process, Biosciences’ staff submitted 290 bid applications between 2014 and
 2020 totalling £84,692,000, that resulted in successful bids amounting to £22,082,305.
 The Hub’s pre-award assistance includes support for UKRI bids by quality enhancement
 activities, such as peer-review and mock interviews. We extend this support to non-Swansea
 researchers seeking fellowships with us.
 To support grant applications and collaborations, competitions for internal funding take place
 annually in the College of Science for seed funding (~£40,000/year in total). Although these
 are open to all staff, early career researchers are given priority. Early career researchers in
 Biosciences have been particularly successful in securing this funding (e.g., Arbuckle,
 Fürtbauer, Ortiz-Urquiza, Griffin permanent; Rose, Uren-Webster, O’Rorke fixed-term)
 resulting in several publications (e.g., Frontiers in Marine Science; Agriculture, Ecosystems and
 Environment, Journal of Applied Ecology). In terms of University pump-priming funding,
 Biosciences has also attracted funds from the Swansea University Research Grant Enabler
 (SURGE) (~£15,000 over the last 4 years), and the internal Global Challenges Research Fund
 (8 awards over the last 2 years, £193,000).

 The success of these support mechanisms is evidenced by the increase in funding from
 different external sources (Section 1), by the high proportion of Research Fellows hosted since
 2014, by EU and RCUK/UKRI funding won over the REF period by staff appointed to their first
 permanent position at SU (4 NERC Standard grants, 1 NERC Urgency grant, 1 MSCA-RISE
 and 1 ERC Starting grant) and by direct outputs of collaborations started (e.g., Interreg Ireland-
 Wales Aquacoast project). The growing support for research has also translated into national
 and international research awards (Table 3.1).

 Table 3.1 Main awards received by members of staff during this REF period.
  Award                                                                        Year
  Rios Vivos Award                                                                  2014
  Fellow Learned Society of Wales                                                   2015
  Top 50 Power Biologists for conservation                                          2016

  Fellow of Academia Europaea                                                       2018

  Humboldt Research Award                                                           2019

  PRIMA Fellowship                                                                  2019
  Ramon Y Cajal Fellowship                                                          2019
  Sabbatical Fellowship                                                             2020
  Dillwyn Medal                                                                     2020
  Research Fellowship                                                               2020
  Eureka Award for Excellence in Interdisciplinary Scientific Research              2020




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2014, SU has invested heavily in pump-priming funds. It established the Swansea
 University Research Grant Enabler (SURGE), which supported many proof-of-concept
 projects seeking to lever UKRI awards; a GCRF Funding Scheme, which helped us win a
 Royal Society GCRF award; and a Fellowship Group that mentors researchers to develop
 competitive bids. Biosciences has been successful in attracting funds from both SURGE
 (~£15,000 over the last 4 years), and the internal GCRF Funding (8 awards over the last 2
 years, £193,000).

 The College has a formal process of grant proposal review beyond the expected UKRI demand
 management. Experienced colleagues will provide multiple rounds of feedback and guidance,
 including mock interviews and panel discussions, and ECRs are provided with mentorship
 support from a senior academic. The Biosciences professoriate also meet regularly to identify
 actions on how senior members of the team can support others across the department.

 The College also facilitates interdisciplinary research activity through science cafés, away
 days, sandpits, festivals of ideas, and substantial seed-corn funding and investment in PhD
 studentships (>£600K per annum), especially where 50% match-funding is required.

    3.2. Research infrastructure
 We have invested >£8.1 million in a modern research infrastructure to support our research
 across the four themes and further develop research excellence. Investment in infrastructure
 and facilities included laboratories equipped with state-of-the-art technology (Table 3.2), a new
 18 metre research vessel (Figure 3.1), and animal experimentation facilities (section 3.4).

           RV Mary Anning                         Visualisation laboratory




                                                    Algal Research
           CSAR




   Figure 3.1. Examples of Biosciences research infrastructure
 This includes the acquisition of new specialist equipment, and the building/refurbishment of
 14 laboratories and research facilities (Table 3.2; Table 3.4). These build upon the £6 million
 renovation of the Wallace Building and general labs carried out during the previous REF cycle,
 and complement our other key research infrastructure, such as:




                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the Centre for Sustainable Aquatic Research (CSAR) facilities (a 750m 2 controlled
         environment building containing six wet laboratories, a dry laboratory, a quarantine
         facility and three dedicated fish laboratories);
        the Animal Movement Visualisation Laboratory, including a high-performance
         computer and an array of high-definition screens for data visualisation, and an
         electronics laboratory for the development of animal-attached technologies (funded by
         a Royal Society Wolfson Laboratory refurbishment grant awarded in the previous REF
         period);
        3 aquatic research labs, including specialised facilities for algal, fish, and aquatic
         ecology research;
        labs for field research in aquatic and terrestrial ecology and biodiversity.

 Table 3.2. Research infrastructures - newly built or refurbished for the Biosciences
 department (August 2013 – August 2020)
  Research Structures      Investment                     Description

  3 new/refurbished                           1 refurbished general use laboratory, 1 new
  Molecular Biology           £1,946,877      level II/GM facility, 1 new molecular ecology lab
  Laboratories                                (including eDNA facilities).



  4 new Controlled                            1 specialised facilities for aquatic research, 1
  Temperature Rooms           £1,226,400      terrestrial plant growth room, 2 rooms for
  (UNIGRO)                                    aquatic and terrestrial research.



  1 refurbished                               1 refurbished dissection room, supporting
  Dissection room              £10,000        research in ecology, wildlife epidemiology and
                                              OneHealth.



  1 new Marine                                The RV Mary Anning (18m, 40-tonne, 25kts top
  Research Vessel             £1,300,000      speed, 26 passengers, with dedicated marine
                                              laboratory facilities)



  1 new Aquaculture                           New integrated multi-trophic aquaculture
  building                     £424,338       building for sustainable finfish production and
                                              high value micro-algae.

  1 SmartAqua facility                        1 CRISPR lab (including Nikon SMZ 1270
  renovation                                  stereomicroscope), 1 new zebrafish/kilifish
                                              facility, 8 new recirculating aquaculture systems
                              £2,064,408      (2      ornamentals      systems,     2    marine
                                              cold/temperate systems, 1 tropical system, 3
                                              model fish racks); 3 LOLIGO fish swim tunnel
                                              respirometers.




                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Furthermore, our researchers have direct access to shared facilities such as the EPSRC UK
 National Mass Spectrometry Facility and, the £32.5 million Computational Foundry (2018)
 hosting the Computer Science and Mathematics departments and designed to facilitate
 interdisciplinary work, and access to Supercomputing Wales resources (Table 3.3), a £16m
 investment programme in high power computing facilities part-funded by the European
 Regional Development Fund (ERDF). These facilities are among the UK’s best in terms of
 processing speed and computing power, with access to high-speed network connections and
 full specialised technical support team. These facilities aid research in the new Centre for
 Biomathematics and the new Computational Ecology lab, in bioinformatics supporting new staff
 working in molecular ecology and evolution, and for big data modelling by staff using animal-
 borne biologging sensor technologies.

 Table 3.3. Research infrastructures in the College of Science and the Bay Campus,
 available and used by Biosciences research staff.
  Research                 Investment                          Description
  Structures
  Key Geography              £40,000        Isotope-ratio        Mass       Spectrometry
  facilities (Wallace     (maintenance)     laboratory; Microscopy suite for pollen and
  Building)                                 micromorphology;       Soil    &    sediment
                                            monitoring equipment and secure storage
                                            facilities; Wildfire temperature monitoring
                                            equipment.
  Key Medical School        £2,881,944      EPSRC UK National Mass Spectrometry
  Facilities (Singleton                     Facility (NMSF), provides comprehensive
  Park Campus)                              broad spectrum analytical services.
  Key Engineering         >£10,000,000      30m experimental wave tank (coastal
  Facilities (Bay                           erosion research); EPSRC Advanced
  Campus)                                   Imaging of Materials (AIM) centre (electron
                                            microscopy and x-ray imaging facilities).

  Supercomputing             £16,000,000        1 upgraded supercomputer hub at Swansea
  Wales                                         University (high-speed network connections,
                                                specialised technical support team, 13,080
                                                processing cores, 1 Petaflop of computing
                                                power).

      3.3. Support for impact
 Our research and innovation career pathway ensures recognition and support for impact-
 related activities. The University also provides AgorIP (see Ref5a) and RIF funding to support
 industry-cooperative research activities, particularly around developing impact. The College of
 Science provides a research fund for all Departments, with one round dedicated to impact-
 related activities, and Biosciences provides direct IMPACT funding support to give teaching
 relief for Impact-case study leads. The central REIS office provides impact training workshops
 to early career researchers with an external trainer and the department ran its own workshop
 in working with industrial partners. Furthermore, Biosciences has dedicated academic leads for
 Impact (Rowley and Butt) who, together with our three Innovation Professors (Proffitt,
 Llewellyn, Rowley), the Impact and Engagement Officer of the CoS, the central University Press
 Office and Impact and Engagement team in REIS support and advise staff on developing and



                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 maximising the impact from their research. This support, combined with our “Ecology with
 Impact” strategy around stakeholder collaboration, led to an impact register of 20 case studies
 Each case study received advice, guidance and feedback on further development; three of
 these reached maturity and where selected for submission to REF2021.

     3.4. Specialist research infrastructure and facilities
 The Department has expanded the specialist infrastructure and existing facilities to support the
 increased number of academic researchers across the 4 Research Themes, for example, the
 Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture (CSAR) and the animal movement visualisation laboratory
 (Table 3.4; Table 3.2; see also Section 3.2). Biosciences researchers further benefit also from
 sustained university-wide investment in new specialist infrastructures and facilities across the
 two campuses (Table 3.3; REF 5a).

 Table 3.4. Biosciences specialist research infrastructures and facilities - newly built or
 refurbished (August 2013 – August 2020)
   Research Structures       Investment                          Description
  1 new Multi-omics           £372,220          Transcriptomics,        epigenomics       and
  facility                                      proteomics analyses equipment enabling
                                                multi-omics capabilities from the single cell
                                                to whole organism level.
  1 new Seagrass               £50,000          New aquaria facilities for automated
  laboratory (Seagrass                          processing and mass production of
  Ocean Rescue)                                 seagrass material for restoration projects.
  1 new Applied Aquatic       £250,000          Fully fitted laboratory facility with
  Research & Algal                              specialised        analytical      equipment
  Biotechnology                                 (spectrophotometers, light microscopes,
  laboratory                                    HPLC, etc.).
  1 new Bird flight wind      £500,000          New specialised wind tunnel for measuring
  tunnel & animal                               flight dynamics and energy expenditure of
  husbandry facilities                          large birds (gulls, pigeons), with associated
                                                aviary to breed and train the experimental
                                                birds.

 Several of these facilities and infrastructures are unique in the UK, such as the state-of-the-art
 research vessel and marine laboratory which, can operate in shallow seas and coastal
 environments as well as offshore. Similarly, the wind tunnel is unique among UK universities in
 terms of the size of the birds that can be flown.

     3.5. Cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure
 Many external researchers use Swansea Biosciences’ unique facilities such as the
 Visualisation Suite for animal movement data and the CSAR aquaculture facilities. Thanks to
 the international partnerships of SU with Grenoble University and the University of Texas at
 Austin (REF5a), researchers from Biosciences have accessed resources and facilities from the
 Laboratory for Alpine Ecology (LECA), including long-term field sites and a research laboratory
 in the French Alps, which has led to collaborations including funding for three co-supervised
 PhD students and a partnership in a successful grant award by the French ANR national
 research funding body. Biosciences researchers use other external UK and overseas research
 infrastructure and facilities, including the sequencing, proteomics and bioinformatics facilities



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 JGI and EMSL in the USA, and the NERC sequencing facilities at Liverpool (UK); the high
 throughput sequencing facilities at Cardiff University and the Sanger Sequencing lab at
 Aberystwyth; the state-of-the-art facilities at Harvard for sequencing ancient DNA; and the
 isotope facilities at the CSIR in Pretoria, South Africa.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration, internationalisation and interdisciplinary research are at the core of our activity.
 This has been strengthened over this REF period by the collaborative agreements with the
 Universities of Texas and Grenoble, our joint doctoral venture with the University of Cape Town,
 joining the SWBio BBSRC DTP as associate members, and Erasmus agreements with EU-
 based universities (La Laguna and Vigo in Spain, Heraklion in Crete). Biosciences’ links with
 environment, agriculture and aquaculture-related industry and government agencies at national
 and international levels have resulted in both advisory and collaborative work (Tables 4.1-4.4).
     4.1. Collaboration
 Biosciences runs a very successful lunchtime seminar series which over the last 5 years has
 hosted 92 speakers from 16 different countries and 5 continents, of which 50% were women
 (from postdocs to Professors). The seminars are held every two weeks and are widely attended
 by members of staff, research students and undergraduates, and have initiated many new
 collaborations. The College of Science opened the International Visitor Scheme competition
 in 2019, with funds to invite international distinguished guests to give public and internal talks
 and to establish new collaborations. Biosciences secured funds to host Professor Justin O’Riain
 from the University of Cape Town and Professor Eric Pianka from the University of Texas. The
 successful nature of our collaborations is evidenced by 69% of our publications including an
 international collaboration, and 17% with (only) national collaboration.
 Researchers working on Invasive Species provide guidance at UK and international levels on
 the control of the highly invasive Japanese knotweed and Himalayan Balsam, as well as some
 of the 100 worst aquatic invasive species world-wide including rainbow trout, topmouth
 gudgeon, zebra mussel, signal crayfish . The impact of this work encompasses local action
 (through invasive eradication or control initiatives and creation of a dedicated SME), and
 international initiatives such as a horizon scanning of potential invaders and updating the
 European Alien Species Information Network.
 Key Marine Conservation work focuses on policy, governance and management for coral
 reefs and conservation strategies for seagrass and sea-turtles in collaboration with national and
 international government agencies and NGOs (WWF, Indo-Pacific Wildlife Conservation
 Society, Great Barrier Marine Park Authority). For this, members of the Department are part of
 national and international advisory groups.
 Conservation research on terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems has impacted international
 guidelines such as the IPBES Global Assessment Report on Biodiversity and Ecosystem
 Services, CITES Inspection Manual for Commercial Reptile Breeding, and the Tasmanian Devil
 Programme in Australia. Members of the Department advised international organisations on
 further wildlife conservation, for example identifying, mapping and quantifying impacts from
 instream infrastructure and identifying conservation priorities for freshwater ecosystems.
 Biosciences interacts with the Public Health Laboratories at Singleton Hospital next to the
 Singleton Park campus around teaching and research into zoonotic diseases, formalised
 through the award of an Honorary Professorship in Biosciences to Professor Edward Guy, Lead



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Toxoplasma Reference Unit at Public Health Wales. In February 2017, NRW established
 and commissioned its new National Analytical Laboratory (40+ staff members), adjacent to the
 Biosciences Department, which has facilitated close working relationships, support, and access
 to equipment, with NRW staff increasingly integrated into Biosciences research programmes
 and directly supporting research applications. We achieve further collaboration and support
 from NRW at its aquaculture and hatchery facility on the river Cynrig in the Brecon Beacons,
 where we have access to facilities and staff to support aquaculture and fresh water aquatic
 research. Our collaboration with NRW is further developed through an Honorary Professorship
 in Biosciences to Professor Kathryn Monk, Principal Advisor for Science at NRW. From 2018,
 we have been developing a close working relationship with the National Museum of Wales and
 its natural sciences teams, and the National Botanic Gardens Wales which has resulted in
 agreements to develop habitat restoration projects at sites in South and North
 Wales. Biosciences received Knowledge Exchange Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS),
 funded through the European Social Fund for 11 PhD and 10 MRes students, to develop
 collaborative projects with external companies. Companies provide cash contributions and in-
 kind support; 20 companies participated, contributing £160,600.

 Industry
 Research and Innovation-focused staff members collaborate with industrial partners on diverse
 projects including aquaculture, algal biotechnology, biocontrol, conservation and invasive
 species (Table 4.1). The Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture (CSAR) is an important resource
 in our collaborations with industry and has facilitated 15 large Research & Development
 projects since 2014 on sustainable fish farming and algal culture. CSAR won the Development
 Bank of Wales award for Outstanding Impact on Industry, Commerce and Innovation
 (2018) and was Highly Commended in the Leadership for the Future (Sustainability) section for
 the Leading Wales Awards 2019. Its work on developing cleaner fish as an alternative for
 antibiotics for the salmon industry has resulted in more than £2M funding from several national
 and international companies (Table 4.1). In addition to the industrial impact, members of the
 Department are part of the Welsh Advisory Committee for Aquaculture and have advised the
 Scottish Government on discards policy for shellfish species.

 Collaborative research into novel biocontrol products for agricultural pests has resulted in 2
 patents filed in the REF period, both have been licenced from the University by the collaborating
 business partner Certis Europe and are progressing towards registration and commercialisation
 (further details in impact case study).

  Table 4.1. Collaboration with industry and government
  Activity                                         Collaborators
  Guidance on control of invasive Japanese         Spin-off company (Advanced Invasives
  knotweed                                         Ltd.)
  Guidance on control of invasive Himalayan        Bridgend County & Borough Council
  balsam
  Distribution and control of aquatic invasive     EA, NRW, European Alien Species
  species (signal crayfish, topmouth gudgeon)      Information Network
  Distribution and control invasive brown trout in Falkands Government, GB Non-native
  the Falklands/impact on endemics                 species secretariat
  Advice on coral reefs conservation in the Indo- Australian Research Council Centre of
  Pacific area                                     Excellence for Coral Reef Studies



                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Working group on Periodically Harvested           Wildlife Conservation Society, University
  Closures                                          of Perpignan/CRIOBE, University of
                                                    Western Australia, California Polytechnic
                                                    University, The Nature Conservancy
  Advice on status, restoration and impacts on      NRW, Natural England, SNH
  seagrass
  Advice on marine conservation to coastal          Great barrier Marine Park Authority
  communities and local government                  Marine Monitoring programme
  stakeholders                                      (GBRMPA), Wakatobi National Park
                                                    (Indonesia), Guimeras Island
                                                    (Philippines)
  Sea turtle conservation action and                St Eustatius National Parks, British
  management                                        Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT)
                                                    Administration, United States Navy
  Guidelines for Inspection Manual for use in       CITES
  Commercial Reptile Breeding Facilities in
  Southeast Asia
  Advice on Tasmanian devil extinction risk due     Tasmanian Devil Programme in Australia
  to devil facial tumour disease
  Fire Influence on Regional and Global             NOAA, NASA
  Environments Experiment
  International Advisor for Steering Committee      US Department of Energy Joint Genome
  and joint lead for the Saprotrophic               Institute
  Agaricomycetes Sequencing Programme
  Advice on impacts from instream infrastructure    EA, Wildlife Conservation Society
  and conservation priorities for freshwater        Canada, The Nature Conservancy –
  ecosystems                                        Michigan, French National Agency for
                                                    Biodiversity, Wisconsin Department of
                                                    Natural Resources and United States
                                                    Fish and Wildlife Service
  Community engagement with freshwater              James Cook University
  ecosystems under Global Changes
  Baboon-human conflict and coexistence             SAPPI Forests (South Africa)
  projects related to bark stripping behaviour.
  Advice on Aquaculture strategies                  Welsh Advisory Committee for
                                                    Aquaculture
  Lumpfish as an alternative for sea-lice control   MOWI, Ocean Matters, The Cleaner Fish
  in salmon farming                                 company
  Advice on fisheries discards of Nephrops          Scottish Government
  norvegicus (langoustines).
  Patents for molluscicides, nematicides and        Certis Europe BV, Rentokil Initial, Lisk &
  mosquito repellents                               Jone, Syngenta, Puffin produce, CropIQ,
                                                    Tilhill, Sentomol, EcoVid, Maelor Forest
                                                    Nurseries, Hektas, Bioglobal, Phytoquest
  Support for academic-industry in developing       Bangor University, Aberystwyth
  low-carbon economy in Wales (SEACAMS)             University and SMEs
  IUCN Primate Specialist Group                     University of Cape Town



                                                                                        Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.2 Membership and contribution to academic and non-academic bodies
 Permanent academics at Biosciences have participated in national and international advisory
 boards, review panels and editorial boards during this REF period.

 They act as editorial board members of 29 peer review journals (including interdisciplinary
 and leading disciplinary journals such as Proceedings of the Royal Society B, eLife, Frontiers
 in Environmental Science, Methods in Ecology and Evolution, Frontiers in Genetics, Frontiers
 in Microbiology, BMC Evolutionary Biology, Bioresource Technology) and belong to 33
 national and international advisory boards and research award committees (16 national
 and 17 international). These include nationally UK-wide and Welsh advisory boards and
 committees at the academic and government level including NERC peer-review panel, British
 Council Newton Prize Expert Panel Reviewer. Five staff are members of the NERC peer-review
 panel, including two Core members and one is member of the BBSRC Follow-on Funding
 Committee. Internationally, a large part of the committee and advisory work (26 boards or
 committee memberships) relates to conservation of marine and freshwater ecosystems both at
 academic and government levels (e.g., Convention on Biological Diversity, Society for
 Conservation Biology-Freshwater Working Group, British Indian Ocean Territory MPA Expert
 Committee, Nordic Centre of Excellence Bioeconomy).

 During this period, Biosciences researchers have organised or co-organised 20 national or
 international conferences (examples in Table 4.2) and have delivered 40 Keynote/Plenary
 lectures and 142 invited talks in different conferences/forums. Conferences and workshops
 covered most of the research areas of the Department including biopesticides, invasive
 species, marine ecosystem modelling, conservation biology or welfare and behaviour (Table
 4.2).
  Table 4.2 Conference organisation
  Conference title                                                             Year
  2nd Symposium in Plant Biomass Conversion by Fungi (Netherlands)             2017
  Workshop on Basidiomycete Post-genomic Research, USA Genetics
  Society 29th Fungal Genetics Conference (USA)                                2017
                                                                               2017,
  International Congress for Conservation Biology (Colombia & France)
                                                                               2019
                                                                               2017,
  Advances in Marine Ecosystem Modelling Research (Plymouth)
                                                                               2020
  Aquatic Invasive Species management session (NEOBIOTA) (Dublin)              2018
  Symposium on Stream Connectivity, American Fisheries Society
  Conference, Tampa (US)                                                       2018
  European Congress for Conservation Biology (Finland)                         2018
                                                                               2018,
  Crossing the Palaeontology-Ecology Gap (Leeds-UK, Germany)
                                                                               2020
  International Biopesticide Summit (Swansea)                                  2019
  1st International Symposium on Welfare in Aquaculture (Swansea)              2019
  1st Annual Conference of Environment Platform Wales (EPW)                    2019




                                                                                       Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
 Over this REF period, Biosciences staff have responded to numerous national and international
 initiatives, mainly related to conservation and management of wild animal populations, human-
 wildlife conflict, invasive species management, sustainable natural products, poverty alleviation
 and education.
 These include the search for evidence-based solutions to human-wildlife conflicts in South
 Africa in cooperation with diverse stakeholder groups and policy makers. Published articles
 have been used by local government (City of Cape Town) to improve baboon management
 plans and policy. This research led to the development of “arguably the most successful
 example of mitigating human-wildlife conflict on the urban edge” (Institute for Communities and
 Wildlife in Africa [iCWild] Director).
 The results of the H2020 AMBER project which tackled the EC priority of river connectivity,
 summarised in 3 policy briefs, informed one of the EC Biodiversity Strategy Targets (25,000
 km free-flowing rivers by 2030). Research into the ecological consequences of the UK’s
 fisheries discards ban also began in response to the update of the European Commission’s
 Common Fisheries Policy, the 2015 implementation of the Landing Obligations.

 From a socio-economic perspective, collaboration with the Cabot Institute (Bristol) is
 revisiting the theory of human urbanisation to improve projections of human settlement changes
 that affect environmental phenomena (Table 4.1). Work with ESPA Sustainable Poverty
 Alleviation within the Coastal Ecosystem Services project investigates reef and mangrove
 conservation, merging economics, ecosystem services and socio-economics perspectives.

 Members of the Department have also participated in the creation or up-dating of national and
 international conservation-related guidelines and actions plans (Table 4.3). Bioscience
 staff worked with the Law Society of England and Wales to re-write Conveyancing document
 guidance on Japanese knotweed in response to a UK Government Science and Technology
 Committee request. Work on salmon stock assessment was used as evidence to ban salmon
 stocking in Wales in 2014 (Table 4.3).

 Table 4.3 Responses to national and international priorities and initiatives
  Human-wildlife conflicts, baboon project (Cape Town)
  Implementation of the Landing Obligations for Fisheries
  ESPA Sustainable Poverty Alleviation from Coastal Ecosystem Services
  Global Biodiversity Outlook and Technical Report Convention on Biological Diversity
  Essential Ocean Variables (Seagrass and macroalgae) initiative
  Global Ocean Observing System (GOOS)
  Biodiversity Action Plans for the British Indian Ocean Territory
  NRW-Welsh government salmon stocking policy
  PCP-PIRE (Panama Canal Project, Partnerships In Research and Education)
  Living With Environmental Change (LWEC) initiative in Tree Health and Plant
  Biosecurity
  UN GRID-Arendal global synthesis report on seagrass ecosystems




                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 Contribution to economy and society
 Economy
 An important part of our research is linked to economy and society. For example, SEACAMS 2
 is a strategic priority that integrates research and industrial opportunities to develop the
 low-carbon economy and expand the coastal and marine sectors in Wales. SEACAMS is
 a partnership between Welsh Universities. Through SEACAMS, Biosciences is providing
 support to 35 SMEs in diverse projects, for example aiming to increase biological activity in sea
 defences, develop alternative heating sources using the sea or non-destructive methods to
 scan the health of marine mammals.

 Similarly, SMARTAQUA is a large project (£1.4M) funded by WEFO-ERDF that supports small
 business working on non-food aquaculture (cleaner fish, aquarium fish, aquafeeds and
 laboratory fish), by creating a network of researchers, aquaculture boards and multinational
 business to support existing and novel initiatives. It has attracted over 90 novel interactions
 with business. Our researchers are also leading the ARCH-UK initiative funded by BBSRC, a
 multi-stakeholder aquaculture network for the UK whose main aim is to highlight aquaculture
 research to funders (UKRI) and facilitate knowledge exchange between the aquaculture
 industry and academia. Finally, we are furthering the understanding of the marine resources in
 the Irish and Celtic Seas, with a view to socio-economic development through BLUEFISH; an
 INTERREG Ireland Wales Territorial Co-operation Operation.

 At international level, our collaboration with the agri-forest industry in relation to biopesticides
 and the natural products sectors has resulted in patents for molluscicides, nematicides and
 mosquito repellents in collaboration with large companies (Certis Europe BV, Rentokil Initial,
 Lisk & Jone, Syngenta, Puffin produce and CropIQ). The impact of this work involves many
 other industry stakeholders representing the supply chain (e.g. Tilhill, Sentomol, EcoVid,
 Maelor Forest Nurseries, Hektas, Bioglobal, Phytoquest) (REF Impact case).

 Society
 Our researchers are particularly committed to communicating science to the public through
 festivals, (20 over the REF period including British Science Festival, the Cheltenham and the
 Leeds Science Festival, and the Green man festival), Apps and the media. In just over half the
 REF period, our permanent staff featured in >1200 items of media coverage (online, print, TV
 and radio) in 65 countries.

 We help organize the Swansea Science Festival; the largest free festival of its kind in Wales,
 which had over 9000 attendees in its first year. Citizen science initiatives include the use of a
 smartphone app (Barrier Tracker, developed under the H2020 AMBER project) to map all the
 river barriers in Europe for the first time. Barrier Tracker was used by 1,400 citizens helping
 to identify more than 6000 barriers in Europe. It was promoted by 38 media articles (e.g.
 BBC international, BBC Wales, The Observer) which shaped public opinion towards the effects
 of river obstacles. For example, citizen pressure, with the support of AMBER partners, resulted
 in plans for the construction of a large dam in the River Nalon being abandoned (presa de
 Caleao, Asturias, Spain) in 2019. The charity Project Seagrass has also developed a global
 citizen science project (SeagrassSpotter.org), to engage users with seagrass conservation
 initiatives, including the Global Seagrass Bioblitz (2019). The interdisciplinary nature and social
 impact of our research is also reflected in the collaboration with artists, bringing science and art




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 together to engage different communities (including schools) about the surrounding natural
 environments, particularly freshwaters.

 Biosciences has a strong societal and economic impact at national and international levels,
 spanning support for small businesses and collaboration with large international companies, to
 dissemination, training and involvement with different sectors of the public (Table 4.1).




                                                                                       Page 22
