Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 19 - Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Unit context and structure
York Politics is recognised for its plural understanding of the discipline of Politics and International
Studies and its outstanding contributions to disciplinary and interdisciplinary knowledge, with the
values of equality, diversity and inclusion at its core. We seek to make a positive contribution to
society and policy through a commitment to research for the public good. Our research strategy
after 2014 included extending our substantive areas of research, increasing interdisciplinary
research, deepening internationalisation of our research through collaboration, diversifying our
methods, expanding our impact and supporting the development of the next generation of future
research leaders.

Growth has been central to the delivery of our strategy. In the period between 2014-2020, York
Politics expanded from 23 to 41.8 FTE to enable the creation of new thematic areas of excellence
and new interdisciplinary centres, attract a dynamic postdoctoral and ECR community, and extend
international partnerships. Our research income has more than doubled since 2014, our income
portfolio diversified, and the number of research outputs increased. We have also used growth in
staff to consciously diversify our methodological base, create new interdisciplinary centres and
networks, sustain and deepen external partnerships, and stimulate income expansion to strengthen
the research infrastructure within the Department.

Disciplinary sub-field clusters provide expert intellectual support and career development and
networking expertise for all colleagues from PGRs to professors, and facilitate joint research
initiatives. All colleagues and PGRs belong to at least one:
     ● Comparative Politics and Public Policy (CPPP) makes major contributions to international
         debates on political parties, democracy, populism and authoritarian governance, regulation,
         austerity, devolution and environmental policy.
     ● International Studies (IS) has produced agenda shaping research on conflict, human rights,
         sexual violence, terrorism, migration, borders and global health.
     ● Political Economy (PE) pioneers a range of heterodox and critical approaches, including
         ordo-liberalism, trade policy, global development, food and housing.
     ● Political Theory (PT) world leading research spans contemporary political theory and the
         history of political thought, with an emphasis on addressing innovative questions in
         democratic theory, ideas of civil society, gender and historical injustice, and the political
         theory of political economy.

Research Centres also provide the framework for significant thematic and interdisciplinary research
and impact. The Department now hosts three Centres, two created in this cycle. The Centre for
Applied Human Rights (CAHR), managed collaboratively with Law, is internationally recognised
for its practice-centred research and extensively informs global and national practices, from local
communities to international nongovernmental organisations and institutions of world governance.
Notable achievements in this REF cycle include working closely with the UN Special Rapporteur for
Human Rights Defenders to shape global standards, policies and practices with key impacts
captured in the ICS Strengthening the Security and Protection of Human Rights Defenders at
Risk. CAHR won grants for major ESRC, AHRC and GCRF projects on refugee protection, creative
arts activism, transformative justice in Egypt and Tunisia, and the role of universities in post-conflict
settings. Its Human Rights Defenders Hub has been funded as a ‘global thought leader‘ by the Open
Society Foundation since 2016 (with $600k in period), in recognition of its pioneering protective



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

fellowship schemes, and it has received funding from the Sigrid Rausing Trust and Ford Foundation
to support its work with practitioners.

Politics also led the creation of the Interdisciplinary Global Development Centre (IGDC) with a
£1.5m strategic investment from the University (REF5a: 10), and new appointments (Grugel, Roy,
Kvangraven). IGDC coordinates a network of 100+ York researchers spanning York’s three
faculties, positioning Politics at the centre of University research strategy. With a mission to advance
a more equal, prosperous and sustainable future through transformative and inclusionary
knowledge, IGDC’s research focuses on questions of social justice, global health, and environmental
sustainability. IGDC has secured over £12m in research income for York from a range of funders,
including GCRF, NERC, ESRC, MRC, AHRC, British Academy and the Leverhulme Trust. Politics-
led research in IGDC includes GCRF-funded projects on the politics of inclusion and exclusion in
health budget design in resource-constrained low income countries, the gender politics of health
policies during Covid-19, barriers to the delivery of reproductive rights in migrant communities, and
developmental impacts of natural resources-based economies. IGDC has already produced a step-
change in our approach to international collaboration and partnerships, and its activities underpin
the ICS Delivering Dignity After a Health Crisis: Zika and empowerment health practices in
Brazil.

The York Centre for Political Theory (YCPT) was created in 2019 to strengthen our world-leading
political theory research, exploit the opportunities generated by staff growth and increase
methodological pluralism. Fostering cross-disciplinary links with History, Law, Philosophy, and
Sociology, YCPT builds on significant expansion of staff grant income. It hosts Stanton’s
interdisciplinary ‘Rethinking Civil Society’ project, funded by a Leverhulme Research Leadership
Award (£828k), with a new cohort of five postdoctoral fellows and a new partnership with the
University of Gottingen. YCPT leads paradigm-shifting work on silence as political agency and on
political competition (British Academy Mid-Career Fellowships), gender inequalities as historical
injustice (Justitia Amplificata), the conceptual foundations of populism (British Academy and
Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology), the normative foundations for global credit
(Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship), and critical political economy (two Marie Skłodowska-Curie
fellowships).

We have extended our international reputation for research on conflict, security, and post-conflict
societies, with a view to establishing a new centre in 2021. Our existing strengths in global post-
conflict politics, nationalism, new security challenges and borders (Caspersen, Eriksson, Hall,
Ritchie, C. Smith) have been complemented by expertise on post-war political parties and their
contribution to peace-building (Sindre); civil war, violence and gender (Hinkkainen Elliott, Gray), and
the interface between security, domestic politics and migration (Davies, de Jong, Turner). This group
generated over £1.2m in research income as well as a range of new partnerships including
collaboration with the Westminster Foundation for Democracy and UNICEF. The impact of our
outstanding research on post-conflict societies is reflected in the ICS Conflict Resolution in
Protracted Territorial Conflicts Through the Promotion of Inclusive Peace Processes. Our
concentration of cross-cutting expertise on migration and mobility (de Jong, Hall, Nah, Parker,
Turner) allowed us to win two ESRC urgency grants on the trans-Mediterranean Refugee Crisis (the
only institution to do so) and a £646K ESRC project on EEA nationals in the UK after Brexit (Parker
CI).

Meeting our research goals has required a diversification and strengthening of our methods
expertise. We expanded existing capacity in ethnographic, mixed methods, qualitative, critical and
political theory approaches to create new areas of critical mass in advanced quantitative methods.
The modest 2014 group (Leon, Vasilopoulou) has been boosted across all career stages (Davies,
Hinkkainen Elliott, Jurado, Keith, Vasilopoulos), enabling outputs deploying experiments, Dynamic
Time Series models, Structural Equation Models, Spatial Models, and multilevel and post
stratification models. We have strengthened our methodological expertise in co-production in order
to facilitate stakeholder inclusion, research use and impact. Examples include research co-produced
with North Yorkshire Police in the Home Office/College of Policing £1.1m Connect project (M. Smith

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

PI) and ongoing work led by CAHR with global Human Rights Defenders and the Tunisian
Transitional Justice Barometer. The GCRF funded ‘Redressing Gendered Health Inequalities of
Displaced Women and Girls’ (REGHID), (Grugel CI) enables IGDC to work with the Central American
Regional Office of the International Organization of Migration (IOM) and the Fundación Oswaldo
Cruz, Brazil to develop more effective delivery of reproductive health to migrant and displaced
women. Meyer’s ‘Twelve Stars’ project, meanwhile, draws on innovative online methods to inform
and disseminate views on the future of the EU through a collaboration between political philosophers
and a cross-European public. We also developed our creative arts methods, including: Gready’s
AHRC ‘Creative Activism in Development’; Roy’s collaboration in India with artists and filmmakers
for his AHRC, ‘Imagining Citizenship’ project; Parker’s film, ‘Precarious Trajectories’ deriving from
his ESRC project and de Jong’s ‘Tate Consortium’ project.

1.2 Research objectives and strategic plans
These organisational changes and research achievements reflect the success of the 2014 strategic
plan, which envisioned five key objectives:

   ●   Promoting York as a destination for high-quality ECRs and postdoctoral researchers.
       This cohort doubled, with evidence of individual excellence including the increased number
       and variety of individual PDFs won, including three MSC Fellows; four Leverhulme ECFs and
       5 early career staff have been awarded ESRC Future Leaders or New Investigator grants
       (see 2.1 below).
   ●   Growing and diversifying interdisciplinary research. Highlights of success include
       leadership in major innovative interdisciplinary projects with both STEM and Arts and
       Humanities, and creation of successful new centres and networks (1.4).
   ●   Increasing research income. Total research income increased by 147% in this period (from
       £1,997,646 in REF2014 to £4,943,209 in REF2021). Average annual research income rose
       by 75%, from £403k per year in 2014 to £706k per year, reflecting increased funding from
       core funders diversification across funders, an increase in number and proportion of staff as
       PIs/CIs on major grants (3.1).
   ●   Developing the academic reach of our research through increased dissemination in world-
       leading outlets. This submission includes nine authored books published by major university
       presses (five with Cambridge UP, three with Oxford UP, one with Penn State UP), as well as
       prominent commercial publishers. We have over 950 publications since 2013 recorded on
       our Pure database and we publish in leading general international journals, including
       American Political Science Review, British Journal of Political Science, European Journal of
       Political Research, Journal of Politics, and Political Studies, and leading subfield journals,
       including Journal of Political Philosophy, Political Theory, Journal of Common Market
       Studies, Journal of European Public Policy, Journal of Conflict Resolution, Journal of Peace
       Research, Electoral Studies, Governance, Review of International Political Economy, and
       World Development.
   ●   Developing non-academic reach by integrating our research and impact strategies: there
       is a full picture of the major extension of our organisational support and outcomes in 1.3 and
       4.2)
   ●   Embedding equality and diversity more systematically in our research culture,
       developing a range of governance and policy initiatives for researchers and PGRs, with
       outcomes including Athena Swan Bronze (2).

Beyond 2020, we remain committed to the generation of internationally leading disciplinary and
interdisciplinary innovative research that contributes to the public good nationally and globally, using
diverse and plural methodologies by:
    ● Continuing to champion both plural understandings of the discipline of Politics and
        International Studies and the discipline’s central importance to social science and global
        challenges.
    ● Sustaining and diversifying our research portfolio by continuing to recruit and nurture
        outstanding researchers at all levels of the profession.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   ●   Deepening all aspects of equality, diversity and inclusion in our policies and practices by
       funding and championing new initiatives that will place York as a leader in the decolonisation
       of research processes and outputs.
   ●   Sustaining and extending our research income growth and continuing to diversify the sources
       of our research income.
   ●   Deepening our established international academic and stakeholder partnerships and building
       new, equitable relationships to sustain and extend the reach of our research.
   ●   Extending and building on our successful HRD scheme to fund and create a new scheme of
       Practitioner Fellowships in order to further embed our research in policy.
   ●   Building on our successful strategy of creating research Centres by establishing a world-
       leading Centre to study the dynamics of conflict and peace-building, the York Centre for
       Conflict and Security, and developing our excellent research on gender and on migration.

1.3 Impact strategy, support and facilitation
Our impact strategy is founded on promoting outward looking research which engages with external
partners, tackles real world problems and supports co-production whenever possible. We have
invested in the creation of a senior departmental impact lead role, linked to our Department Research
Committee (DRC), to provide guidance, steer strategy, and liaise with the Faculty Impact Group;
established workload allowances to support staff pursuing strategically important impact and
external engagement activities; introduced a new scheme of research leave for impact, including for
Haagh and Nunes to support two of our impact case studies; and the creation of a departmental
impact priming fund of £30,000 per year to increase the scale of our external impact. In particular
CAHR and IGDC operate as institutional mechanisms to build external relationships and support
impact that directly contributes to more equitable, rights-based and inclusive futures for all. Both
have specialist support staff dedicated to knowledge exchange and partnership support, and in
CAHR Nah and Gready received a workload allowance for impact.

We embed impact in our research expectations across the Department through mentorship, training,
performance review, workload and promotion processes (2.1), incentivising colleagues to take
advantage of increased institutional support for research impact (REF5a: 49, 50), new UKRI impact
acceleration and GCRF funds, alongside increased professional support through the Social
Sciences Faculty Research Impact Manager (appointed in this period) and supporting team, who
provide guidance to individual colleagues and support wider capacity-building. Mainstreaming of
impact expectations, diversity of funding and support sources, strategic importance of impact to our
Centre initiatives, and wider institutional support together assure a sustainable and flourishing impact
culture (see 3.2 and 4).

Our selected ICSs build on the longstanding commitment to impactful research. Human Rights
Defenders flows from CAHR’s international profile in global human rights practice, reflected in
Gready’s founding editorship of the Journal of Human Rights Practice, competitively won internal
and external research funding, and the critically important people mobility provided by the Protective
Fellowships Scheme. The scheme has hosted 56 international Human Rights Defenders in York
since 2014, making a major contribution both to our international policy profile and to the
development of sustainable long-term partnerships. Delivering Dignity exemplifies our commitment
to co-production and stakeholder involvement. It flows from Centre investments (in this case,
IGDC), from Wellcome, GCRF and IAA funding, and from investment of resources in creating
equitable, global partnerships through inward and outward people mobility. Placing Universal Basic
Income on the Agenda of Global Health Governance also deployed new secondment
opportunities provided by the IAA and the department to allow Haagh to develop her profile as an
international leader in basic income policy through new partnerships and policy opportunities with
international organisations, including the World Health Organisation. Both Delivering Dignity and
Universal Basic Income benefited from financial support and networking from the University’s
Health and Well-Being research theme (REF5a: 12). Inclusive Peace Processes builds on York’s
established tradition of impact in this area, and particularly on Caspersen’s international expertise
on peacebuilding (notably, her 2014-16 British Academy project).


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.4 Support for interdisciplinary research
Interdisciplinarity has been a longstanding hallmark of our research. In this period, we achieved a
step change in our interdisciplinary research with 25% of our return being interdisciplinary. This work
is based on collaborations drawing on insights and working with colleagues from across Humanities
(History, Philosophy, Area Studies), other Social Sciences (Economics, Sociology, Urban Studies,
Health Economics, Law) and Sciences (Biology, Environment, Health Sciences, Psychology),
enabling our staff to make contributions to deepening academic understanding of complex, multi-
causal, multi-faceted problems, including climate change, food security, mental health and,
sustainable economic growth. Fresh investment in CAHR and IGDC provided additional
infrastructure and energy in promoting interdisciplinary research in the rights and development fields.
We further supported colleagues to win leadership roles in a number of University of York
interdisciplinary centres, and Politics leads on and participates in major interdisciplinary projects,
many with support from the University theme champions (REF5a: 4,10,12). As a result,
interdisciplinary work flourishes, with major contributions in the following areas:

Health and Wellbeing:

Nunes co-directs the Centre for Global Health Histories, a WHO Collaborating Centre for Global
Health. M. Smith was PI on the £1.1m Connect project on mental health policing, with collaborators
across Social Policy, and Health Sciences; Caspersen participates on a £830k MRC project on the
‘Health Consequences of Conflict in Colombia’, with the Centre for Health Economics (CHE);
Eckhardt was Co-I on a £770k NIHR project on ‘Smokeless Tobacco in East Asia’, with Health
Sciences; Grugel, is Co-I in ‘Thanzi la Onse (Health for All)’, a £6.6 GCRF/MRC-funded project, with
Heath Economics, which aims to improve population health and reduce health inequities in Malawi,
Uganda and Southern and East Africa (REF5a: 11e), and £2m ‘Redressing Gendered Health
Inequalities of Displaced Women and Girls in Contexts of Protracted Crisis in Central and South
America’.

Environmental Sustainability and Resilience:

Heron is part of the leadership team for the interdisciplinary York Environmental Sustainability
Institute (REF5a: 42), and Carter is on its Steering Group. Carter’s long standing institutional
leadership continued with projects including a £250k ESRC project on political parties and climate
change and a £200k ESRC funded project on Brexit and the environment (with researchers in
Environment and Geography). We have extended expertise into the areas of food security and
resilience. Heron is theme lead on Food for York Environmental Sustainability Institute, as well as
CI on the £3.4M BBSRC funded project, ‘IKnowFood’, focusing on the development of sustainable
supply chains, and on the £300k EC ‘Climate Change and Systemic Risks: Adaptive and Resilient
Europe’, both bringing together STEM and social sciences research. Grugel and Pena have
developed collaborations across the sciences and social sciences on natural resource economy,
environmental science co-production in South America and on the water-energy-food nexus, funded
by NERC, GCRF and British Academy. Grugel is also CI on the £10 million Leverhulme Centre for
Anthropocene Biodiversity (REF5a: 11d) and a member of its Research Strategy Group.

Migration and Borders:

Parker and de Jong jointly lead the Migration Network, which brings together a cross-disciplinary
team of researchers from across the University, working with external organisations such as
UNHCR, Counterpoints Arts, Save the Children and the Refugee Council to interrogate how borders
and migration are created, imagined and managed. The network’s projects include Parker’s ESRC
project on the Mediterranean European Refugee Crisis, Parker’s ESRC project on EEA nationals in
the UK, Lindstrom, Roy, and Parker’s ESRC project on Citizenship Futures, de Jong’s work on
Afghan interpreters, Hall’s work on ‘Decisions at the Data border’ and her White Rose funded
network on ‘Europe, Migration and the New Politics of Insecurity’.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Beyond these initiatives, Parker co-directs the Centre of Urban Studies, C. Smith co-directs the
cross-departmental York Asia Research Network, and de Jong and Nuti are members of the Centre
for Women’s Studies.

1.5 Open Research environment
Supported by the institutional commitment to open research and the training and oversight this
provides (REF5a: 15-17), we have developed an open access strategy that goes beyond compliance
through:
    ● Effecting a cultural shift in the Department that embraces open research, via a Research
       Away Day on Open Science and Open Science training events for staff and PGRs, including
       answering questions on Open Science and supporting Open Science goals in research and
       impact, applications and in peer review.
    ● Requiring staff and PhD students to submit data management plans for all studies to be
       reviewed by the joint Ethics Committee for Economics, Law, Management, Politics and
       Sociology in order to promote transparency and methodological rigour in research.
    ● Actively working with the Library’s Research Support Team to ensure that Data Management
       Plans in UKRI applications consider the best way to ensure that data is accessible to a wide
       audience.
    ● Increasing the number of staff and students who pre-register their studies, make their data
       and materials open and accessible, and publish their work as preprints through the White
       Rose depository and other appropriate outlets.
    ● Encouraging staff to target publishers with a limited embargo period for green open access.
    ● Ensuring that datasets are recorded on the York Research Database (PURE) and that all
       research funded by UKRI is, where appropriate, stored in the UK Data Archive.

1.6 Research Ethics and Integrity
Integrity in all research practices, from design to publication and impact, and compliance with the
highest disciplinary and professional standards is central to our culture. All our research aligns with
University principles and policy (REF5a: 14). To ensure robust external oversight, our research
ethics and integrity are overseen at Faculty level by a cross-disciplinary ethics committee, with
Politics representation. We have also developed a designated Ethics and Risk role to oversee our
research integrity, support PIs, and liaise with professional services, and lead in embedding ethical
standards in research on behalf of the DRC. All new staff and PGR students receive training in
research ethics and integrity, and PGR supervisors are explicitly responsible for supporting their
students in arriving at a clear understanding of good practice. Colleagues actively support PGR
students and PDRAs in ethics processes and address possible risks that may occur during the
research.


 2. People


2.1. Staffing and recruitment strategy
Our appointment strategy combines a commitment to research excellence, a plural understanding
of research methods, an appreciation of impact and innovation and the importance of a diverse
workplace. Key accomplishments of the recruitment strategy in this period include:
    ● Balanced growth across all four research clusters, driving expansion of research, methods
       and impact expertise and new interdisciplinary initiative. In addition, there is robust support
       for all researchers, through the more extensive and more flexible research/impact leave
       scheme, enhanced mentoring and research support, and increased support for PGRs that a
       larger staff group promotes.
    ● Recruiting globally outstanding early career scholars to academic posts. Many starting
       lecturers arrive at York having won important national and international professional awards,
       grants and prizes (see 4.2). Prior to coming to York, Roy held an ESRC Future Research

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Leader awards, and De Jong, Moore and Sindre held MSC fellowships and Nuti and
       Vasilopoulos won major PSA and APSA prizes respectively.
   ●   Appointing two newly created professorships in key areas to support strategic initiatives:
       Grugel in development politics and Davies in security, conflict studies and quantitative
       methods.
   ●   Identifying outstanding postdoctoral scholars, expanding the postdoctoral community across
       all areas of departmental research, assisting in the implementation of our Concordat
       commitments and nurturing the postdoctoral community in a way that provides a highly
       effective bridge between PGR and lecturer career stages.
   ●   Diversifying our staff – we maintained our commitment to gender parity in our chair (1/2) and
       lectureship appointments (11/22).

The growth complements a strong ethos of nurturing and retaining staff. We successfully support
postdoctoral researchers and teaching fellows on fixed term contracts to develop their research
portfolios for appointment to highly competitive lectureships, including four to lectureships at York
(Keith, Murray-Evans, Nah, Stuart-Buttle). The effectiveness of our career support structures is
borne out by our promotions record since 2014: 10 Staff have been promoted to SL, one from SL to
Reader, and 6 to Chair. Promotions outcomes also reflect our equality and diversity commitments:
promotions from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer/Reader were divided evenly between women and men.
Two thirds of internal promotion to Chairs were women (four out of six in total) and we now have 5
female Professors compared to 1 in 2014. 18 out of our return of 42 are women.

Our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion led to the establishment of an Equality and
Diversity Committee (EDC) (see 2.3), which inputs into our appointment strategy to ensure that we
actively encourage appointments from underrepresented groups. All interview panels are gender-
balanced and all panel members are required to complete diversity training. Outcomes from
appointment processes are regularly reviewed by EDC. We have an annual CV review process,
policies to ensure all staff apply for promotion at the appropriate time, and have introduced a flexible
and equitable deployment of research support resources (including additional study leave for those
returning from parental leave). These recruitment and career development initiatives were both
driven by and recognised in our Athena Swan award.

2.2 Staff management, development, and mentoring
Within an ethos of collegiality and mutual support, career development is underpinned by a set of
policies designed to equitably and flexibly support colleagues in their research careers framed within
the Departmental Statement on Research Performance Expectations (within the institutional context
REF5a: 31). ).

We pay particular attention to the needs of early career colleagues, who benefit from
  ● significantly reduced teaching and administrative allocation for new staff (50% in year 1 and
      25% in year 2);
  ● enhanced personal research allowance (+50%);
  ● a tailored programme of mentoring for new ECR colleagues during their two-year probation
      period, during which they have a senior academic to provide ongoing support, together with
      regular meetings with the Head of Department.

This approach has enabled new researchers to quickly accelerate their research outputs and
develop independent research standing. For example, within a year of appointment, Hinkkainen
Elliott won as PI an ESRC grant of £400k and Nunes became PI on a Wellcome Trust award; Jurado
and Vasilopoulou both won ESRC Future Research Leader fellowships and Heims, Gray and
Williams New Investigator Grants; Eckhardt was CI in over £2m of NIHR and other health-related
projects within three years of appointment.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

To ensure on-going career development, we support staff through:
   ● A comprehensive and transparent workload allocation model, with inbuilt flexibility to respond
      to research and impact priorities.
   ● A generous research and impact leave policy that enables staff to apply for two conjoint terms
      of leave from teaching and administrative responsibilities for every nine terms of teaching (or
      externally funded research), with the option of accelerated or special leave for time-sensitive
      projects. We also protect research leave entitlements from interruption by either parental
      leave or sickness leave, and part-time staff have equal entitlements to full-time colleagues
      (2.4).
   ● Active support for inward and outward secondments with non-academic institutions to
      promote impact: for example, Leon’s secondment as Director General of the High
      Commission against Child Poverty for the Spanish government; Barakat was Director of
      Research at the Brookings Doha Centre. Our staff also held major impact fellowships: for
      example, Haagh‘s year-long ESRC IAA Fellowship supporting her leadership role as chair of
      the Basic Income Earth Network and wider policy work with the World Health Organisation
      and other partners (underpinning the Universal Basic Income case) and Heron‘s year-long
      Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology (POST) fellowship with the House of
      Commons Committee on International Trade.
   ● All researchers develop individual development plans, identifying objectives across the short,
      medium, and long terms, within a broader personal and professional development strategy.
      This provides an effective way of ensuring that training opportunities are responsive to
      individual and collective staff needs. Through a rigorous internal peer review process, we
      encourage staff to publish in the highest quality journals;
   ● We support the continuous development of staff with new and advanced skills, both through
      internal support, for example enabling staff to develop new methodological skills, and
      successfully encouraging staff to apply for external funding to develop new kinds of research
      expertise. For example, Vasilopoulou was supported by a British Academy Skills Acquisition
      award to develop the advanced quantitative skills that underpinned her ESRC Future
      Research Leaders award (and subsequent promotion to a Chair). We also provide on-going
      research-related training sessions for all staff, and Centres and clusters also regularly provide
      training and research away days, including sessions on accessing funding and on operating
      in challenging or hazardous environments, specialist research methods and stakeholder
      research.

The period since 2014 has seen a major growth in the number of Postdoctoral Fellows (PDFs) in the
department. The Researcher Development Concordat is now embedded in our structures,
processes and practices (REF5a: 27). We have provided a productive and supportive environment
by building a strong community within the Department and ensuring that Postdoctoral Fellows are
supported in developing their careers when their projects are completed. During this period, we
have had 38 PDFs, some with Leverhulme, British Academy and Marie Curie Fellowships and others
attached to externally funded projects (a cohort double the size of the previous REF submission).
PDFs are integrated as full members of the department. We have a Postdoctoral Officer to ensure
that all PDFs are provided with consistent and comprehensive professional development and to
ensure implementation of the principles of the Concordat. We provide support for conference
attendance, writing academic papers, impact and engagement, applying for jobs and career
development and all PDFs have a workload allowance for independent research and publication.
Postdoctoral researchers are participants in at least one research cluster, are included in all staff
meetings with a research dimension, have access to a personal research allowance of £1000, have
a research mentor and participate in annual performance review to support career planning. We
strongly encourage postdoctoral researchers to publish on their own and with staff and over the REF
cycle, our PDFs have published over 50 articles on their own or with colleagues in the department.
The HoD and DRC chair meet annually with this group to discuss support or any issues of concern.
There is postdoctoral inclusion on DRC, its Strategy Group and EDC. This cohort is additionally
supported by the training and career support at University level provided by the Research Excellence
Training Team (REF5a: 32). As a result of this support, we have been able to recruit two lectureships
competitively from this cohort.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2.3 Quality of training and supervision of PGR students
PGR students are integral to our research culture and we are committed to sustaining the size, vitality
and quality of our PGR community. To signal our investment in talented PGRs, the Politics
Department funds departmental PhD studentships each year, alongside additional match funding as
required for ESRC White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP) studentships, and
studentships provided by centres. Our PhD students access funding both from WRDTP, sustained
by £17m from ESRC with significant institutional match funding, and the AHRC investment, White
Rose College for Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH), with £18m funding. In addition, our students
received funding from a large number of national and international scholarships. Our increased large
grant activity has meant that we have been able to grow the number of studentships made available
through projects, including Leverhulme, and the ESRC. Our PGRs have also held studentships in
four White Rose Consortium interdisciplinary cross-institutional studentship networks (with Leeds
and Sheffield). Beyond our Politics programme, we supervise students in a range of cross-
disciplinary programmes, including Environment and Politics, Global Development, and Philosophy,
Politics and Economics. Overall, we have seen a growth of high-quality students in this period, with
degrees awarded up by 13% compared with 2014. We currently have a PGR cohort of 40 students.

The PGR Director actively monitors recruitment processes to minimise possible selection biases and
reports on this to EDC. This has produced positive effects, especially on gender, with 50% of our
competitive awards secured by women. All our doctoral degrees and funding are available on a part-
time basis and have rights to parental leave and flexible working. From 2021 we will be encouraging
applications for ring-fenced awards for Black British students from the WRDTP, in partnership with
the Stuart Hall Foundation.

Supervision, monitoring and training:

Each student is supported by a supervisory team, which includes two supervisors and an additional
Thesis Advisory Panel member, drawing on expertise as appropriate from across Politics and other
disciplines. There are formal independent review points at 12 and 24 months (full-time) to ensure
students are meeting required progression criteria (REF5a: 31).

Our students benefit from a comprehensive training package, including core subject-specific training
modules in each year together with required modules in research design and ethics, and quantitative
and qualitative skills, provided by the Research Centre for the Social Sciences (ReCSS). All our
PGRs can access advanced methods and interdisciplinary training through the open WRDTP, as
required by their individualised training needs analysis, making available the wide range of specialist
training provided by Bradford, Leeds, Sheffield, Hull, Manchester Metropolitan, and Sheffield Hallam
Universities, beyond York. This programme provides an innovative training programme, built around
seven interdisciplinary training pathways together with specialist advanced qualitative and advanced
quantitative provision. It has been important in building a substantial regional doctoral community in
Politics and the social sciences. In addition to specialist collaborative studentships, all studentships
are required to have an impact/collaborative element. The interdisciplinarity, impactful and
challenge-led character of the WRDTP programme supports our research strategy for Politics, and
we actively contribute to the Civil Society, Democracy and Development and Security, Conflict and
Justice pathways, as well as to the DTP’s wider governance. In addition, through IGDC, we lead on
cross-institutional PGR training in development, including helping to create a cohort with cross-
disciplinary knowledge and skills. We complement this with disciplinary and specific professional
skills, including a well-structured departmental programme of training and mentoring for our
postgraduates who teach.

PGRs are represented on the DRC and actively contribute to the development of departmental policy
and practice. Each research cluster is co-convened by a PGR student, and PGRs are integral to
workshops, seminars, and training. Each PGR is eligible for up to £1500 over three years to attend
conferences, undertake training and development opportunities, and conduct fieldwork. We also
support postgraduate conferences and overseas institutional visits to engage with academic and
non-academic partners. ReCSS provides additional seedcorn funding specifically for the

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

development of interdisciplinary PGR student-led networks across the Social Sciences: Politics
PGRs led/participated on new networks on race, gender and multiculturalism, migration, the far right
in Brazil, and whistleblowing, among others. As part of the York Graduate Research School our
PhDs are part of a University wide, multidisciplinary community of PhD students which offers a broad
range of support and development opportunities (REF5a: 30).

The quality of our training and support is indicated by the successes of our students. Our students
held internships in a range of organisations, including the Cabinet Office, the UN Interregional Crime
and Justice Research Department and Centre for European Policy Studies). Our students have gone
on to hold Leverhulme ECFs, ESRC postdoctoral awards, postdoctoral positions at many
international institutions and lectureships in leading Universities. Many others are contributing their
expertise to research organisations, think-tanks, intergovernmental, governmental and private,
including voluntary, organisations.

We are acutely aware of the impact of Covid-19 on PGRs and have been actively ensuring that they
can continue their studies and that they are not isolated. We have increased the frequency of
supervision meetings (in many cases to weekly), we have strengthened mental health support,
provided support for remote working and we have provided 6 month extensions where work has
been disrupted by Covid-19.

2.4 Equality and diversity
With significant growth in this REF period we have ensured a research culture that values and
encourages contributions from all groups including ECRs, women, LGBTI+ and BAME staff. Our
approach is informed by a number of colleagues who actively research equality, diversity and
inclusion, and decolonising perspectives on politics and international studies (including de Jong,
Gray, Grugel, Nuti, Roy and Turner).

EDC includes the HoD, DRC Chair and REF Lead, its remit includes ensuring equality and diversity
is embedded in our research culture, policies and practices. The EDC Chair is a standing member
of DRC and the Department Management Team, promoting an integrated approach to equalities
issues across the array of departmental functions and ensuring that consideration of these issues is
central to all our planning. We have a deputy for E&D who liaises with the University’s staff equality
networks, including the LGBT Network Action Group (REF5a: 36). We have also created separate
Harassment and Disability officers. We have involved PGR students in our diversity policies with the
establishment of a PGR led Anti-Racism Working Group and a staff/student ‘women in politics’
group. All staff with significant HR responsibilities, including management and recruitment,
undertake equalities and unconscious bias training. We have a PGR representative specifically
dedicated to equality and diversity issues, EDC and PGR committee, to represent the diversity of
our postgraduate community and foster equality and diversity values in relevant policy.

We are fully supportive of part-time and flexible working requests, and staff are supported in moving
into and out from part-time status. Part-time staff have the full array of research support on the same
basis as full-time staff with no pro rata reduction, including personal allowance, mentoring, and
eligibility for leave after nine terms. We support colleagues and PGRs with caring responsibilities by
focusing scheduled research events to a 10:00-16:00 schedule. We have enhanced support for
maternity leave: besides offering a post-maternity mentor, the department offers staff returning from
maternity leave the option of one extra-term of research leave, two terms of reduced teaching load
or funded research assistance. Over the REF period, we have supported staff through 5 maternity
leaves. 2 out of those 5 members of staff have now been promoted to Professor. We have also been
able to use additional support with other protected characteristics in ensuring success in their
research careers, and have supported staff in illness and where caring responsibilities might have
detrimentally affected their ability to attain research goals. As required, this has included reducing or
removing teaching and administrative responsibilities and allowing for a staggered return to full
responsibilities. In response to Covid-19 we have set up an additional buddy system to ensure
continuous support to all staff during the crisis and we have been monitoring the specific gender


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

impacts of the crisis and ensuring flexibility in working practices where needed. The increase in our
staff numbers has been important in enabling us to provide this inclusive support.

The imperative of full inclusion of women throughout the Department has informed many of our
policies and work practices: active invitations to female speakers, at least equal number of female
research cluster leaders and gender-balanced committee membership. This is especially relevant in
committees responsible for key departmental policy, including the Department Management Team,
of which 5 (out of 9) are women. We ensure gender balance in our committees and senior
management roles. The Department’s current Head and Chair of DRC are women, and two Centre
directors are women. We recognise that, although we have made considerable progress in terms of
gender, much more needs to be done to increase diversity on other dimensions. It is a core strategic
goal to extend measures related to gender to other areas of discrimination. We are committed to
broadening diversity beyond gender and actively examining ways to decolonise research, working
with partners beyond the West and to ensuring that recruitment actively encourages applications
from discriminated groups.

Working within the University Code of Practice, our seven-person REF committee responsible for
final selection of the output portfolio includes 3 men and 4 women, with external critical input from a
gender-balanced group, and has had appropriate training. Our output selection is strongly aligned
with our equality and diversity commitments: 49% of outputs submitted by the department are by
women, who make up 43% of the census. Of our four ICSs, three have women in a lead academic
role. In accordance with the CoP, opportunities were provided to all colleagues to share relevant
circumstances on a confidential basis, and these appropriately informed our processes.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Income
Growth in research income formed a central objective of the post-2014 strategy: in the reporting
period, research income grew by 75% over the REF period, and by 97% in the period 2015-20. A
key element of this overall objective has been to attract more large-scale and collaborative grants.
We increased the number of PIs on major projects: in 2014 York had one PI on a project over
£200,000 and in this REF period it has been 10. Additionally, colleagues have been CIs for grants
awarded to the value of over £23m, reflecting the diversification of our portfolio and engagement with
a wider range of research challenges. CAHR has seen its income increase from £200k in REF 2014
to £1,209,839 in REF 2021. Across the institution, IGDC has won grants of £12 million and YCPT
has in a short period of time generated over £1m in grant income.

The largest increase in this period has been in UKRI/research council income, which grew by a total
of 291% increasing both the amount and proportion of our income that supports our institutional
overheads. In addition, we have significantly diversified our funding sources. Within UKRI, our Centre
and interdisciplinary initiatives positioned us to win grants not only from AHRC, BA, and ESRC but
from new sources in STEM funding, including BBSRC, MRC and NERC. We have also tapped more
effectively into funds from a wide range of UK and non-UK based charities and government, including
Leverhulme, UK Home Office, National Institute of Health Research, European Commission,
HEFCE, Open Society Foundation, Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust, World Peace Foundation,
Independent Social Research Foundation and the Nuffield Foundation.

Grant success is distributed across all research clusters and centres, led by colleagues at different
career stages. Major awards with a Politics PI include Gready (IS/CAHR) 'Transitional justice in
Tunisia and Egypt’, £480k (ESRC); Heims, ‘Re-evaluating Regulatory Capture: The Limits of Industry
Influence in Pharmaceutical and Consumer Financial Regulation’, £222k (ESRC); M. Smith,
‘Connect: Coproduction of Policing Evidence, Research and Training – Focus on Mental Health’,
£1.1m (HEFCE, Home Office); Stanton, ‘Rethinking Civil Society’, £828k (Leverhulme Trust). We

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

have also seen a major increase in participation in large multidisciplinary and cross-institutional
grants. These too extend across our centres and clusters, including Caspersen £830k (MRC);
Eckhardt (CPPP) £2m of NIHR and other health-related funding; Heron £3.4m (BBSRC); and Grugel
over £7m of GCRF/MRC/NERC projects.

The pipeline for these larger scale awards is sustained by a commitment to raising research income
shared by all staff members. 98% of submitted staff applied for external funding in this period, with
73% being awarded external grants. We have seen an increase in the number of staff submitting
research applications each year. It is complemented by significant achievements in winning
individual highly competitive fellowships, including Leverhulme, both at early and mid-career
(Bonefeld, Meyer, Murray-Evans, Forde), BA Mid-Career Fellowships (Brito-Vieira, Caspersen,
Moore), and ESRC Future Research Leader fellowships (Jurado, Vasilopoulou,) and ESRC New
Investigator Grants (Heims, Gray, Williams), as well as network awards and smaller grants from
ESRC, BA, GCRF, Leverhulme, Santander, and others.

3.2 Organisation and Support
Income growth has been underpinned by development of our organisational infrastructure to support
research and impact in this period. Research activity is overseen by the DRC, with support beyond
the Department from the newly developed Faculty Research Group and the University Research and
Enterprise Directorate. With membership encompassing all research clusters and including ECR and
PGR members, the DRC actively engages all stakeholders with the development of research
strategy and policy. The Department’s Research Strategy Group undertakes horizon scanning for
new funding opportunities and works with clusters and centres to develop proposals where
appropriate. Across the Centres there are 6 professional service staff working to support research,
centre administration and impact.

Beyond Centre investments, the key organisational ingredients of this growth and diversification
include:
    ● A significant increase in Department-wide professional research support. We doubled the
       FTE of our Research Facilitator to become a full-time post with an additional Finance Officer
       for support at both pre-award and post-award stages. This has enabled our Research
       Facilitator to engage in more strategic activity.

   ●   Politics at York has a consistent and transparent policy on research expectations on
       individual researchers, which is grounded in the University Policy on Research Expectations
       (REF5a: 22) and incorporates a clear expectation that all academic staff will actively pursue
       appropriate individual and collaborative research income generation to support their
       research. These are monitored through annual research plans and performance reviews
       (2.2).

   ●   We have a rigorous internal peer review process for all applications over £20k, which involves
       one staff member within relevant specialism alongside two senior members of staff, including
       the Chair of DRC, and complements the mentoring and informal support through clusters and
       centres.

   ●   The annual discretionary research allowance for staff is £1500 for starting lecturers and
       £1000 for other staff (including PDFs), with further support for attendance at major
       international conferences. In addition, research, impact and pump-priming funds are
       distributed by DRC Internal research support funding which was £50k pa in 2018/19. DRC
       also allocated a total of £418k through research allowances, and £161k of larger sums, for
       research and impact priming, complementing the resource commitment through research
       and impact leave schemes.

   ●   Politics researchers benefited from the significant enhancement of Faculty and University
       support winning competitive funding from University Research Themes (REF5a: 10) for


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       collaborative interdisciplinary work, University Research Committee Priming funding, GCRF
       and ReCSS funding. Research support has been further enhanced by the development
       of Faculty-level expert support, with the creation of the Social Sciences Faculty in 2015. The
       staff provide specialist support for interdisciplinary bids, large and complex bids (including
       GCRF) and for collaborative partnerships. Politics researchers have also benefited from £2m
       of ESRC IAA funding, amounting £194K. This had a significant effect on our impact portfolio,
       including new partnerships (section 4) and activities promoting ICSs.

3.3 Infrastructure and facilities
We have expanded and refurbished the department, to provide appropriate office space and facilities
for all staff. We have also created additional space and facilities for our PGR students, and
refurbished rooms for staff offices and common rooms, providing inclusive, communal spaces, where
research staff and doctoral students can meet informally. CAHR and IGDC have bespoke designated
office space.

Beyond the standard IT provided to all researchers, we support IT solutions for individual health-
related reasons and specific research needs. These include staff requiring video and film editing
capabilities when applying research methods, and mathematical modellers needing increased
computational power. Those requiring the most advanced solutions can access University IT facilities
(REF5a: 41) including the £2.5m Viking Cluster, the Advanced Research Computing Cluster and the
N8 Centre of Excellence in Computationally Intensive Research. Staff using film, photography and
visual media in their research benefit from the resources and expertise of the Department of Theatre,
Film, Television and Interactive Media. We have funded the purchase of specific software for
researchers as needed.

Researchers in the School are well served through remote and 24 hour access to the University
Library (REF5a: 39), including over 21,000 journals. The Library's Research Support Team provides
wide-ranging support, including a dedicated Politics subject librarian and facilitating our open access
strategy.

The department benefits from close proximity to ReCSS (Festenstein was the Director from 2014-
2020). A hub for interdisciplinary research development, ReCSS has provided additional nearby
research facilities in which to hold collaborative workshops, pursue network development activities,
and meet with external stakeholders. It has facilitated the growth of some major research
investments, including providing space for CAHR and the YCPT Leverhulme ‘Rethinking Civil
Society’ project. ReCSS also provides the York base for the WRDTP and its doctoral training
activities.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society




4.1 Research collaborations and partnership-building
We have supported the development of external research collaborations and increased partnership
with national and international policy makers and civil society research users, globally and nationally.
The mainstreaming of impact and partnership activities in our research, recruitment of well-
networked researchers, increased financial and organisational support for research and partnership
development outlined in 3.2, and the increased focus on challenge-led research have all provided
the impetus for a step change in the number, scope and effectiveness of our research collaborations.
These collaborations have enabled our research to make significant contributions in the practices of
global health governance, human rights, policing, global social policy, sustainability and post-conflict
peace building

Centres provide one of the key institutional driver for our partnership culture:

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   ●   CAHR built on its status as a global hub for human rights practice and research to develop
       an extensive range of new research partnerships. New collaborators in this period in this
       period (selected from a wide array) include the University of Hong Kong and Asia-Pacific
       Rights Network (for the ESRC/AHRC project on asylum in Asia and the Middle East),
       American University in Cairo, Amnesty International, Christian Aid, and the Tunisian Truth
       and Conciliation Commission (for the ESRC project on Transformative Justice in Egypt and
       Tunisia). GCRF work on universities and conflict/crises draws on partnerships with Los
       Andes University, Colombia, as well as Chiang Mai University, Thailand, University of the
       Western Cape and Makerere University.
   ●   IGDC initiated a large number of international research partners involved in its major projects,
       including the Overseas Development Institute, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz in Brazil, the
       International Red Cross, World Vision, the University of Malawi, the Malawi Ministry of Health
       and College of Medicine, Makerere University, Indian Institute of Technology, and Michigan
       State University.
   ●   YCPT established new partnerships with the University of Göttingen (which contributed an
       additional €275k to Stanton’s ‘Rethinking Civil Society’ project for mobility and fellowships),
       University of California Santa Barbara (for Bonefeld’s MSC project with Durkin on humanist
       Marxism), and the annual manuscript development workshop is a significant new contribution
       to the discipline, with a network of participants from Cork, Erfurt, Frankfurt, LSE, Nottingham,
       Oxford, SOAS, Southampton.

Our research on conflict and peace building has also led to new global collaborations including with:
Los Andes University, the National University of Colombia (Caspersen’s project on the health
systems consequences of conflict), GCR2P (New York and Geneva), Aegis Trust (Kigali), and
Protection Approaches (London) (Hinkkanen Elliott’s project explaining non-state armed groups’
perpetration of mass atrocities). Within Europe, Vasilopoulou’s and Jurado’s Future Research
Leaders awards on democratic challenges for Europe developed links both with Southern European
and EU-wide think tanks and research bodies. Locally we have worked with York City Council, the
York Hospitals NHS trust and North Yorkshire Police on policing and mental health including the
police closely in the managing and undertaking of a major research project.

In addition, the research environment for Politics and International Studies has been enriched by
new large-scale institutional partnerships. Politics researchers have used the new institutional link
with Maastricht (REF5a: 6) to develop cross-institutional networks on development policy, European
democratic crises from below, and Europe and the future of global rules and multilateralism. We are
active participants in the ESRC WRDTP (with Bradford, Hull, Leeds, MMU, Sheffield, SHU) and
AHRC WRoCAH (Leeds and Sheffield), providing an innovative collaborative training environment
for our PGRs: Nuti and Festenstein have been panel members and Festenstein chaired the
Academic Quality Committee. Heron is York lead for the N8 Agrifood project, a flagship £16m
initiative (REF5a: 6) with Durham, Lancaster, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, and
Sheffield, driving social sciences engagement with a multidisciplinary set of problems.

York researchers initiated a range of new formal national and international professional networks in
this period, including the ESRC seminar series ‘Rethinking Centres and Peripheries’ (PI Parker) and
‘Exploring Civil Society Strategies for Democratic Renewal’ (CI Pena), Young Scholars Initiative
‘Economics Development Working Group’ for the Institute for New Economic Thinking (Kvangraven),
‘Peacebuilding in Asia Scholars Forum’ (C. Smith) and ‘Politics after War’ Network (Sindre).

4.2 Societal contribution and engagement
Beyond our contributions in relation to human rights defenders, global health, conflict resolution and
global social policy captured in our ICSs, York researchers have contributed to policy and public
debates in a wide range of topics of public significance and interest. In building our engagement
portfolio, we have been able to deploy diverse funding sources (see 3.3).

Important policy engagements include:


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




   ●   University and IAA support to build a regional partnership with police services, the NHS, York
       City Council that became the £1.1M Connect project funded by The College of Policing,
       HEFCE and the Home Office. This project encompassed research, training, CPD, and
       evaluation to support the work of the police in dealing with mental health issues of both the
       police themselves and members of the public.
   ●   Ritchie has made a major contribution to debates on nuclear disarmament through extensive
       advice and briefing to Parliament, political parties, and NGOs, including providing invited
       evidence to the House of Lords Committee inquiry into ‘Rising Nuclear Risk and United
       Nations Institute for Disarmament’ and the Nobel Prize-winning International Campaign to
       Abolish Nuclear Weapons (ICAN) which described Ritchie’s research as fundamental to
       shaping the arguments that underpinned the United Nations Treaty to Prohibit Nuclear
       Weapons. Other important examples include Eriksson’s guidance to DFID’s office at the
       British embassy in Iraq on Iraqi conflict dynamics which informed their annual Joint Analysis
       of Conflict and Stability report, Gray’s work with the Organisation for Cooperation and
       Security in Europe, which included presentation of her research findings on domestic
       violence and conflict to government and military representatives in Ukraine, and C. Smith’s
       advice to the Indonesian Embassy in the UK on conflict prevention measures in West
       Papua.
   ●   We engage widely with policy-makers in relation to the human rights of migrant communities.
       De Jong leads the Afghan interpreters’ groups, which focuses on the rights of Afghans
       interpreters who worked for the UK armed forces and are now refugees in the UK, working
       with MPs and former serving military officers to raise their profile, providing evidence to the
       House of Commons Defence Select Committee and to the UN on their human rights. Parker
       briefed DFID on Mediterranean irregular migration and was a featured expert for UNICEF-
       Innocenti’s Research Watch feature on Children on the Move.
   ●   Gready pioneered the Human Rights City initiative in the UK, working with local government
       and other stakeholders to establish York as the UK’s first UN Human Rights City.
   ●   We have contributed an array of expert guidance on international trade, Brexit, and the post-
       Brexit order. Heron gave oral evidence on UK trade with the Commonwealth (International
       Trade Committee’s inquiry), and written evidence to DEFRA public consultation on the
       government’s 25 Environment Plan. Heron was also part of a team commissioned to write
       and present a consultancy report for DEFRA on UK food security after Brexit. Murray-Evans
       gave oral evidence on EU and UK Trade with Southern Africa, House of Commons Africa All
       Party Parliamentary Group inquiry into Economic Partnership Agreements, on UK trade with
       the Commonwealth after Brexit for the House of Commons International Trade Committee
       inquiry into UK trade options beyond 2019, and on Economic Partnership Agreements and
       continuing trade with South Africa, House of Commons International Trade Committee inquiry
       into continuing application of EU trade agreements after Brexit. Carter provided written
       evidence on the EU Withdrawal Bill and its Implications for Wales, National Assembly for
       Wales. Eckhardt appeared as a witness for the House of Commons International Trade
       Select committee, and Eckhardt and Lindstrom have provided research and briefing to the
       National Assembly of Wales on Brexit and trade. Vasilopoulou’s work on attitudes to the EU
       is widely recognised, and she has briefed both the European Parliament and European
       Commission. M. Smith also gave evidence to the Political and Constitutional Reform
       Committee Inquiry on the Future of Devolution.
   ●   We combine policy engagement with influential and effective interactions with a wide range
       of industry, community, government, public sector, NGO and third sector practitioners. Our
       ICSs on Human Rights Defenders and Delivering Dignity exemplify our international
       practitioner engagement and are complemented by a range of other examples. Heron’s work
       on food security and soy has engaged industry stakeholders including farmers and
       supermarkets from the UK, US, EU, Brazil, Argentina, Colombia and China.
   ●   Colleagues have provided briefings and research for diverse national and international
       organisations including the World Bank, NATO-STRATCOM, UK Army Welfare Service,


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       National Air Traffic Services, Demos, the Henry Jackson Society and Joseph Rowntree
       Charitable Trust.
   ●   International recognition of the value of our research to policy makers is reflected in the long-
       term secondments of Leon, as Director General of the High Commission against Child
       Poverty for the Spanish government, and Barakat, as Director of Research at the Brookings
       Doha Centre. Several Politics researchers have taken on significant advisory roles within
       NGOs, including Haagh (Chair, Basic Income Earth Network), Nah (Chair & Board Member,
       Protection International; Chair & Board Member, International Detention Coalition; Board
       Member & Steering Committee Member, Asia Pacific Refugee Rights Network; International
       Advisory Board Member, Ockenden International); Grugel (Trustee, International Service;
       Trustee, Hopes and Homes for Children); Gready (Trustee, International Service, Adviser to
       Silence Speaks at the Center for Digital Storytelling, Trustee, Child Soldiers International).

Our researchers are committed to engaging with diverse publics through a variety of media. Leon
built a national profile as a regular columnist for El Pais, the leading Spanish newspaper, prior to her
secondment into government. Staff are regularly interviewed and contribute to national and
international broadcast, print and online media including the BBC, ITV, The Guardian, Bloomberg,
Sky, among others. Our researchers have appeared on radio programmes such as In Our Time
(Stanton on the history of sovereignty) and Free Thinking (Roy on portable citizenship). Our staff
develop and curate high profile blogs (e.g. Kvangraven’s Developing Economics has over 14k
followers) and podcasts (e.g. Roy’s seven-episode series with the Anthill/Conversation on the 2019
Indian elections). Meyer’s Twelve Stars project brought together European publics with political
philosophers in live and virtual fora, to discuss visions of a future EU, with the resulting proposals
published in the run-up to the European Parliament elections in 2019. Arts engagement has
constituted a particularly important strand of our work. Much of our migration research has been
shaped and disseminated this way, including de Jong’s 2017 and 2018 Tate Consortium exhibitions
on the theme ‘Who are We?’. The Rethinking Civil Society project has not only commissioned new
short stories from the novelists Marina Lewycka and Anna Funder, poetry from Andrew Motion, and
artwork from David Shrigley, Dom Heffer, and Usarae Gul, as well as written pieces by Matthew
Parris, Husna Ahmad, Ken Loach, Sir Bernard Ingham and 50+ others alongside running arts events
with local artists and young people at Ferens Art Gallery (Hull). Staff and PGRs also actively
contribute to public engagement through University initiatives such as the Festival of Ideas and
Yornite.

4.3 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline and the research base
Particularly through our focus on pluralism and our commitment to early career staff, we are making
a significant and substantial contribution to the long-term sustainability of a vibrant discipline. We
have played a leading role in the wider sustaining of the discipline through a range of roles in
professional organisations, editing journals and national and international collaborations. Through
recruiting and nurturing researchers across career stages, within organisational structures which
promote a collaborative and rich research culture, we are building on our approach to support and
influence the discipline more widely. In this period, we have grown and developed centres as
collaborative hubs for interdisciplinary and collaborative research, and have promoted research
agendas that are responsive to national and international research challenges, particularly in
development, human rights, migration, environmental politics, and security, and to new intellectual
and methodological agendas across the discipline.

The range of journal editorships indicates our leadership in the discipline. Our staff edit field-leading
journals, reflecting key areas of expertise, including European Journal of Political Research, New
Political Economy, Environmental Politics, and International Political Sociology. Our recognised
expertise in human rights practice (underpinning Human Rights Defenders) is indicated in Gready’s
editorship of Journal of Human Rights Practice, and in basic income policy (underpinning
Unconditional Basic Income) in Haagh’s editorship of Basic Income Studies. Our editorships of
Critical Military Studies, Peace Economics, Peace Science and Public Policy, and Journal of Modern
African Studies shows the profile of our researchers at earlier career stages, while our well-


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

established specialism in history of political thought is indicated by editorships of Hobbes Studies
and Locke Studies.

Guest/special issue editorships include: South Atlantic Quarterly, Cultural Studies, Journal feur
Entwicklungspolitik, International Feminist Journal of Politics, Global Policy, Global Public Health,
Global Justice, Polish Political Science Yearbook, Research in Social Movements, Conflict and
Change, Lua Nova: Revista de Cultura e Politica, Politics and Religion. Editorial Board/International
Advisory Board memberships include: Cooperative Institute of Transnational Studies, Hobbes
Studies, British Politics, Policy Studies, Association for the Study of Nationalities, Ethnopolitics, East
European Politics, Journal of Gender and Diversity, Sociological Research Online, and Dutch
Journal for Gender Studies, Fathom, Charles Sanders Peirce Society, Global Discourse, Geography
Compass, Third World Thematics, The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics, Democratic Theory,
International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, CITY journal, Public Administration, John
Locke Society.

We make a leading contribution to UKRI, funding panels and advisory boards. Staff have acted as
Vice-Chair of ESRC Grants Advisory Panel (C) and are members of peer review colleges and
funding and advisory panels for ESRC, AHRC, British Academy and Newton Fund. Staff at all levels
of seniority acted as peer reviewers for an international range of funders, including ESRC, AHRC,
NERC, GCRF, Harry Guggenheim Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield, ESF, AXA, SSHRC,
Norwegian Research Council, Finnish Research Council, FCT-Portugal, DAAD, ERC, Australian
Research Council, Austrian Science Fund, Hungarian Research Council, Swedish Research Council
Research Grant Council Hong Kong, Irish Research Council, Independent Social Research
Foundation, and Wellcome Trust, as well as for all major journals and publishers during this period.
In addition, Grugel and M. Smith are Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences; Haagh and Parker
are members of the Royal Society of the Arts; colleagues have held a wide range of international
fellowships, including Bonefeld (Centro de Investigaciones sobre Economia y Sociedad Argentina
Contemporanea), Stanton (Senior Fellowship, Lichtenberg Kolleg, Gottingen), Nuti (Goethe-
Universitat, Frankfurt), Murray-Evans (Cape Town), Vasilopoulou (Zurich), Grugel (Pompeu Fabra,
Barcelona), Hall (Ottawa), Moore (Stuttgart), Vasilopoulos (ENS), Nunes (Sao Paolo), Pena (Scola
Normale Superiore, Florence), Lindstrom (CEU); colleagues gave over 100 keynote and high-profile
invited talks, together with a large number of national and international talks and papers.

York Politics also makes significant contributions to professional associations, including PSA
Executive Politics and Governance Specialist Group (Heims co-convenor), PSA Communism
Specialist Group (Keith, co-convenor), BISA Global Health Working Group (Nunes, co-convenor),
BISA Global Nuclear Order Working Group (Ritchie, co-convenor and founder), ECPR Standing
Group on Political Parties (Vasilopoulou, co-convenor). De Jong was a Board Member and co-chair
of ATGENDER - The European Association for Gender Research, Education and Documentation,
and chaired the jury for the BISA International Politics of Migration, Refugees and Diasporas 2018
and 2019 Book Prize. In addition, we are active contributors to collaborative PGR training, through
WRDTP and WRoCAH, shaping overall policy and panel membership of both bodies, and providing
distinctive advanced training.




                                                                                                 Page 17
