Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of East Anglia


 Unit of Assessment: 32 (Art and Design: History, Theory and Practice)


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and Structure
 For over 40 years UEA has been at the forefront of envisioning Art History as interdisciplinary,
 global in outlook, and open to innovative methodologies. We remain committed to extending the
 disciplinary canon by challenging traditional, habituated thinking on how best to study Art History
 and on what comprises its subjects and objects. Our contribution to the ecology of the discipline
 is grounded in research across a broad methodological, geographical, and chronological sweep.
 Our impact case studies, our outputs, and our people demonstrate the expanding reach and
 significance of our interdisciplinary working and the difference the Unit has made to place,
 societies, and economies.
 Art History continues to thrive at UEA and remains a central plank of the Faculty of Arts and
 Humanities and more broadly of the University through the prestigious research centres and on -
 site, world-renowned gallery that comprise this Unit. In 2014 a strategic review of Art History
 encompassing staffing/staff development, focus, and future direction also took on board REF 2014
 panel feedback. The review recognised our strengths in interdisciplinary research that blurs the
 lines between history, theory, and practice and supported us in achieving our strategic aims (see
 below) to achieve maximum research potential, public engagement, and impact during the current
 census period and beyond. Strategic investment has increased this Unit from 14.9FTE in 2014 to
 18.8FTE. Our PGR completions grew from 28 in 2014 to 35 in this census period.
 The Unit comprises staff from Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts (SCVA), Sainsbury Institute for the
 Study of Japanese Arts and Cultures (SISJAC) and the Sainsbury Research Unit (SRU), and
 colleagues from History (HIS), Languages (LCS), and the Department of Art History and World
 Art Studies (ART). Our period coverage is
 Antiquity-Medieval: Jack Hartnell (ART), Sandy Heslop (ART), Simon Kaner (SISJAC),
 Susan Whitfield (SISJAC).
 Early Modern-Modern: Dana Arnold (ART), David Gilks (HIS), Paul Greenhalgh (SCVA),
 Karen Jacobs (SRU), Ryoko Matsuba (SISJAC), Toshio Watanabe (SISJAC), Chris
 Wingfield (SRU).
 Modern-Contemporary: Eugenia Bogdanova-Kummer (SISJAC), Simon Dell (ART), Rye
 Dag Holmboe (ART), Ed Krčma (ART), Tania Moore (SCVA), Christina Riggs (ART moved
 2019), Nicole Coolidge Rousmaniere (SISJAC), Eriko Tomizawa-Kay (LCS), Nick Warr
 (ART), Calvin Winner (SCVA), Ghislaine Wood (SCVA).
 Research and Impact Strategy
 Strategic Aims During this Review Period
    •   To continue to augment our established reputation for challenging traditional thinking in Art
        Historical research;
    •   To be at the leading edge of the interface between exhibition practice research and
        historical research;
    •   To continue to develop our world-renowned research in Japanese arts and cultures;
    •   To strengthen the            collaboration between our research groups within
        multidisciplinary/geographical/period contexts, and to capitalise on the new
        interdisciplinary structures within the Faculty and University (see REF5a);
    •   To maximise our potential for grant capture, impact and engagement;
    •   To continue to expand and nurture our PGR community.
 Our impact strategy, refreshed in 2014, has grown in effectiveness and is concerned with
 durability, community, and communication in the widest sense. We envisage impact as a two-way

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 process and our case studies Ocean Liners and Fijian Textiles and Dress demonstrate effects at
 national and international levels including collaboration with museums, collections, audiences;
 engaging with people and communities; and engaging with professionals. The significance and
 reach of our research for user groups is germane to our strategy and pathways to impact are a
 core part of our activities and enhance the vitality of our research culture. A suite of international
 and national exhibitions, public lectures, and media appearances ensure our research reaches a
 wide audience (see section 4).
 All our Research Groups include staff from across the Unit and encourage interdisciplinary
 thinking across periods, mediums, and geographies and approaches that cross history, theory,
 and exhibition practice. (Outputs cited submitted in REF2 are undated; outputs cited as context
 are dated.) The vitality and porosity between the subjects and methods of our research is evident
 in the scope and range of output type within each group ranging from exhibitions to research
 monographs. Our combined research and impact strategy mean this Unit continues to make a
 substantial and sustainable contribution to interdisciplinary thinking and to improved
 methodological creativity in the following areas.
 1. Interdisciplinary and Transnational Art History
 This significant research group demonstrates how Art History at UEA continues to be at the
 vanguard of the discipline in terms of scope and approach, and includes some exceptional PhD
 students. It is a nexus for all of our research enabling collaboration and interaction across the
 whole Unit through regular lecture and seminar series, and research and social events. The four
 complementary sub-groups continue our commitment to look beyond canonical disciplinary
 frameworks and to blur the boundaries between historical and practice research.
        (a) The Graphic Arts
        This sub-group makes a powerful contribution to the understanding of graphic art in a trans-
        historical and transnational context through common concerns with the expression of ideas
        and processes of making. Our research covers medieval manuscripts to manga and
        includes three ground-breaking monographs and a major exhibition: Arnold’s recent work
        on the relationship between architecture and ekphrasis offers new ways of understanding
        prints and drawings of architecture using theories of perception and gendered spatial
        experience. Krčma’s substantial study of Rauschenberg sheds new light on how drawing
        negotiates the differences between media and responds to the literary imaginary.
        Bogdanova-Kummer’s extensive research makes important connections between
        Japanese C20th calligraphy and European and American abstractionists in the 1950s.
        Transnational exchange informs Matsuba and Rousmaniere’s innovative project on
        Manga. The significance and reach of our research is evident in our collaborations with
        major institutions worldwide, for example Arnold advises on a US NEH funded project on
        Vetusta Monumenta, Krčma contributed to the Tate and MoMA publications for the
        Rauschenberg exhibition (2016), and Bogdanova-Kummer, Matsuba, and Rousmaniere
        have changed the understanding of Japanese art forms both in Japan and the West.
        Impressive students include Alexandra Politis, supervised by Arnold, whose PhD on prints
        was in concert with the Soane Museum, now working for HaworthTomkins Architects.
        (b) Bodily Practices
        Moore and Winner’s archival and exhibition research shed new light on the notion of the
        body in the work of Frink, Giacometti, and Moore. Alongside pieces by Frink and Moore,
        Winner’s on-going development of the sculpture park that surrounds SCVA includes works
        that explore the body in landscape by Lynne Chadwick and Antony Gormley. This work will
        continue in the next review period and Winner will write a study of sculpture parks. Arnold,
        Jacobs, Hartnell, Riggs, and Wingfield bring historical depth to this sub-group, which is
        global in purview. Jacobs’ AHRC-funded (2011-14) work on women’s clothing and
        tattooing in Fiji resulting in a book and exhibition. Looking forward, Jacobs’ new
        GBP296,853 British Academy grant (2020-22) (Re)Defining Culture: Engaging Urban
        Fijian Youth in Sustainable Employment Opportunities in the Cultural Heritage Sector will
        expand this field of enquiry. Katrina Igglesden, an outstanding former PhD student of


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Jacobs who worked with her on the Fiji clothing exhibition, is the PDRA. Wingfield’s new
        project on Leather Technologies of the Kalahari (2021-22) part of the British Museum’s
        Endangered Material Knowledge Programme, will extend our contribution to the
        understanding of bodily practices and clothing.
        (c) Word and Image
        The core concern of this sub-group is the interaction between the verbal and the visual
        across a range of media, including the practices of art writing and art criticism. The
        photograph as document is a key theme as explored in the major monographs by Dell and
        Riggs, and by Warr through his exhibition research into W. G. Sebald. Riggs also shared
        her research in her curation of the exhibition Photographing Tutankhamun held at Lincoln
        (2017) and the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, Cambridge (2018). Arnold,
        Bogdanova-Kummer, Hartnell, Heslop, Holmboe, Krčma, and Whitfield exemplify the
        geographical and chronological sweep of this sub-group and the attention we give to
        detailed stylistic and technical analysis and the interface between word and image.
        Holmboe and Krčma extend the interest of this sub-group to include dialogues with
        practitioners. For example, Krčma held ‘in conversation’ events with Pavel Büchler and
        Alison Turnbull as part of the WARS seminar series (see section 4).
        (d) Architecture and Design
        Our established reputation for innovation in the study of architecture endures in the work
        of Arnold, Heslop, and Stefan Muthesius who retains an honorary professorship. We
        continue to see architecture and urban environments as a lens through which to observe
        wider cultural and intellectual trends in UK, Europe and beyond, for example Heslop’s
        GBP193,000 Leverhulme funded The Churches of Medieval Norwich: City, Community
        and Architecture and related exhibition. One of the many notable PhD students, Agata
        Gomółka, supervised by Heslop, is now Assistant Curator at Norwich Castle and Museum.
        Gilks joined this group to enhance our approach to the urban fabric, especially
        Arnold’s comparative work on London, Paris, and Tianjin. The latter has changed
        thinking in China about European concession architecture and Arnold is a member of
        a consultative group for a forthcoming exhibition on C19th China at the British Museum.
        Exhibition research continues to make a substantial intervention in Design History.
        Greenhalgh makes important pan-European connections and draws on his Coup de Fouet
        research network in his project on Art Nouveau: The Nature of Dreams. Wood explores
        social contexts for design in her exhibition research on Ocean Liners and Art Deco by the
        Sea. We have a longstanding commitment to the study of ceramics and Greenhalgh’s
        authoritative monograph Ceramic, Art and Civilisation is set to become a standard work
        whilst Kaner and Rousmaniere (see below) focus on Asia. Kaner was co-investigator on
        the AHRC-funded project on early pottery based at the University of York (PI Oliver Craig,
        c. GBP564,653 2014-17), which led to an exhibition at the Embassy of Japan in London in
        2016. Looking forward, Arnold is preparing a study of female agency in the writing of
        Architectural History. Wood’s next exhibition and publication, using SCVA’s recently
        acquired Sir Colin Anderson archive, extends her work British progressive design. We are
        also planning an Egyptomia exhibition and publication that will seek to decolonise this
        topic.
 2. Exhibition Practice Research
 Our strategy in the review period has been to develop the strengths in exhibition practice identified
 in REF2014. Our research in this area is supported by a discretionary grant of up to GBP225,000
 annually from the Gatsby Charitable Foundation. Funding of c. GBP125,000 has been raised for
 research-focused acquisitions including works by Sonny Assu, Rana Begum, and Julian Stair.
 Research in this group has expanded our canonical understanding of the blockbuster exhibition
 by challenging the need for a biographical or period survey that is the established norm. Wood
 and Matsuba and Rousmaniere combined innovative curatorial practice and exhibition design to
 present important new perspectives. Wood curated Ocean Liners: Speed and Style with Dan
 Finamore at the Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, Mass. It travelled to V&A London and opened


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 V&A Dundee reaching c. 400,000 visitors. Manga curated by Matsuba and Rousmaniere was
 the first display of small-scale ephemera created by contemporary graphic artists in the premier
 gallery at the British Museum. As a result, the exhibition narrative and display strategies broke
 new ground to deliver this challenging content to c. 200,000 visitors.
 Our national and international exhibitions combine historical research with exhibition practice. For
 example, Heslop worked with the Norfolk Record Office including curating the exhibition Drawing
 in the Archive (2017) and Greenhalgh’s Art Nouveau project draws on his involvement with the
 EU-funded Coup de Fouet research group. Moore and Winner’s work give us significant historical
 insights and future plans include an exhibition on the recent Morris bequest of British Abstract and
 Constructivist Art. Collections and colonialism in C19th and C20th and the decolonisation of this
 knowledge inform the work of Arnold, Dell, Jacobs, Riggs, Wingfield, Winner, and Wood.
 Winner and Wood lead the on-going re-cataloguing and decolonising of the SCVA collection, with
 contributions from colleagues from across the Unit, funded by the Gatsby Foundation
 GBP237,000. Wingfield is Co-I on an AHRC Research Grant Museum Affordances: activating
 West African ethnographic archives and collections through experimental museology
 (GBP800,000), 2018-21 Co-I with Nicholas Thomas, PI Paul Basu, SOAS and received
 GBP25,000 from the Internal ODA/GCRF funding for a project: a Dialogic and Decolonial field
 school on Heritage, Archaeology and Museums with Sol Plaatje University, South Africa (2020).
 Many of our exceptional graduates follow careers in museums. For example, Lloyd de Beer is now
 Curator of Medieval Art at the British Museum.
 3. Japanese Arts and Cultures
 This group mostly comprises staff from SISJAC, one of largest groupings working on this topic in
 Europe. Its world-leading research sets the agenda for Japanese arts and cultural studies outside
 Japan and also has considerable impact within Japan – for example Kaner’s significant
 contribution to the understanding of ceramics. Kaner convened the conference on Future of
 Japanese Cultural Studies outside Japan 2016; the Ishibashi Foundation Lecture Series (held
 annually in Japan, 2014-19) (related publication in 2021); and the Tokyo Futures Lecture Series
 and conference in Japan and UK, 2015, 16, 17.
 Collaboration with colleagues across this Unit (see above) and with those in Area Studies and
 History is well established. Tomizawa-Kay (Languages) works closely with SISJAC, especially
 Watanabe. Kaner and Moore collaborate on a transnational exhibition and publication of the
 Berlin based Japanese artist Leiko Ikemura (scheduled for 2020, postponed until August 2021).
 During this assessment period SISJAC broadened its research purview to situate Japanese Arts
 and Cultures within the context of East Asia. The strategy included Whitfield’s appointment as
 Professor of Silk Road Studies whose expertise on China complements Arnold’s on British
 architecture in Tianjin and sponsoring a peer reviewed AAS session on Cultural Heritage in East
 Asia (2018) where Arnold, Kaner, and Watanabe gave papers. The transnational context of
 Japanese art is explored by Bogdanova-Kummer, Tomizawa-Kay, and Watanabe. Tomizawa-
 Kay convened the International East Art History Symposium Deconstructing Boundaries (2015)
 and her work on the complex relationship between Japan and Okinawa prompted a major
 conference Okinawan Art in its Regional Context: Historical Overview and Contemporary Practice
 (2019).
 SISJAC collaborates with major international institutions, including the British Museum where
 Rousmaniere was seconded (2010-19) to work on the Japanese porcelain collection and the
 Manga exhibition. Rousmaniere advises the Royal Collections Trust on an exhibition about their
 Japanese collection rescheduled to 2022 (due to Covid-19). Rousmaniere’s translation of History
 of Art in Japan (2018) was recognised in the Japan Association for Translators Award. Outstanding
 PhD students include Mary Redfern, supervised by Kaner, now curator of East Asian Collections
 at the Chester Beatty.
 Future Strategic Aims
    •   Advance our reputation for pushing the disciplinary boundaries and frameworks of Art
        History through publications, PGR recruitment, grant capture, and PDRAs;
    •   Develop our strengths in the interface between historical and exhibition practice research

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        − a new appointment already made for next review period;
    •   Enhance our status as an internationally renowned centre for the study of Japanese Arts
        and Cultures − a new appointment already made for next review period;
    •   Expand our commitment to impact and engagement through our programme of exhibitions,
        Sculpture Park, and public facing events.


 2. People
 Staffing Strategy and Development
 Successive generations of art historians at UEA have set the agenda for interdisciplinary working
 across media and cultures and this ethos has been at the heart of staffing strategy and
 development in the census period.
 Staffing since REF 2014
 The staffing strategy of the Unit aims to strengthen our research areas through:
    •   Recruitment of both of internationally renowned, established scholars and early career
        researchers as an investment in the next generation;
    •   Support for the career development of staff through internal promotion and an individually
        tailored pathway known as a Development Year (see below) to enable colleagues to
        transfer onto research contracts;
    •   Mentoring and support schemes for staff development and research management.
 The staffing structure differs from 2014, as a number of colleagues have taken up prestigious
 posts elsewhere or retired. Importantly, Art History retains its individual identity within the
 University and continues to be well supported in achieving its strategic aims. Alongside Art History,
 since 2014 the University has significantly invested in the development of Area Studies with strong
 Africa and South America research groups. To maximise synergies and interdisciplinarity within
 the Faculty and the University, colleagues working in these areas are returned to UoA25, but links
 are maintained through collaborative projects and research events. Cross-departmental working
 has resulted in colleagues from History Gilks and Languages Tomizawa-Kay joining this Unit,
 which also benefits from a Leverhulme ECR Holmboe.
 In response to REF 2014 feedback, we have paid particular attention to the demography and
 opportunities for development of the staff in this Unit. The Unit comprises 8.4FTE women including
 2.4FTE professors, (Arnold, Bodgdanova-Kummer, Jacobs, Matsuba, Moore, Rousmaniere,
 Tomizawa-Kay, Whitfield, Wood) 10.4FTE men (Dell, Gilks, Greenhalgh, Hartnell, Heslop,
 Holmboe, Kaner, Krčma, Watanabe, Warr, Wingfield, Winner). Promotions since 2014 include
 Kaner to Professor (2018), Krcma and Hartnell from L to S/L (2017, 2020), Riggs to Professor
 (2018). Colleagues have access to substantial financial support and mentoring to develop their
 research profiles and professional development
 Our recruitment strategy since 2014 includes nine new appointments (five women, four men) −
 a substantial investment in the current climate. Ranging from ECR to professor, these posts
 strengthen research and impact in our strategic areas for growth. Expansion has been made
 possible by targeted investment in new posts, proleptic appointments, and the replacement of
 colleagues who retired or took up prestigious posts elsewhere e.g. Matsuda (to Tokyo University,
 retains an Honorary Lectureship), Riggs (to Durham University Oct 2019), Wilson (to UCLA).
 These staff changes enabled the Unit to make new appointments to meet the needs of our forward
 strategy and address the gender imbalance in the Unit: 31% women in 2014 rising to 45% in the
 review period. Arnold (2016) replaced Wilson as the Professor of Art History and continues our
 tradition of world-leading architectural history. Proleptic appointments for colleagues who took
 staged retirement enabled us to invest in the future of the discipline whilst maintaining our
 international profile: Hartnell (L, 2017), replaced Heslop, enhancing our expertise in Medieval Art,
 Krčma (L, 2015), replaced Corbett (part-retired, then moved to Courtauld 2016), developing our
 strengths in C20th and Contemporary Art, and Wingfield (S/L, 2018), replaced Mack, augmenting
 expertise on the histories of museum practices, especially in a C19th colonial context. Investment

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in SISJAC included four new posts, fully supported by the Gatsby Charitable Foundation:
 Lectureship in Japanese Art History Bogdanova-Kummer (2018), Research Associate Matsuba
 (2018), Watanabe’s professorial appointment (2015) has brought a substantial track record of
 research expertise, and Whitfield’s appointment as Professor of Silk Road Studies (2020) signals
 further investment and development of this group. Moore was appointed as Chief Curator of Art
 (2019), a new post funded by the Joyce and Michael Morris bequest (GBP750,000) to support
 curatorial research on the collection they bequeathed to SCVA. Two new Lecturers in Museum
 Studies and Japanese Digital Arts and Humanities (both female) have already been appointed in
 the next review period.
 The Development Year offers a personalised programme of support for colleagues employed on
 teaching or curatorial contacts who wish to develop a research portfolio. Support includes research
 mentorship, developmental feedback, activity planning, where applicable a reduced teaching
 workload, membership of the Early Career Researchers forum, and targeted internal funding
 schemes, including a GBP1000 research development grant. This opportunity for career
 development is open to all colleagues and has been a core part of this Unit’s strategy to recognise
 and develop research excellence particularly at the interface of Art History and Exhibition Practice.
 The achievements of Rousmaniere, Wood, and Winner as established practitioners in their fields
 and colleagues at earlier stages in their careers Tomizawa-Kay and Warr were recognised in
 their transition to research contracts.
 Equality and Diversity
 All appointments and promotions are undertaken within the framework of the University’s equality
 and diversity policies. https://www.uea.ac.uk/hr/employee-information/equality/equality-diversity
 The Equality and Diversity Office web pages contain policies, statements, procedures, and action
 plans relating to the provision of equal opportunities with respect to age, race/ethnic origin, gender,
 religion and belief, sexual orientation, and disability. UEA recognises the importance of supporting
 staff during periods of maternity, paternity, and adoption leave, offering occupational maternity
 pay in addition to statutory pay, and giving additional paternity leave of up to 4 weeks. UEA as an
 institution has silver recognition under the Athena Swan Charter and upholds the ‘Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers’. We support staff who are women and who
 identify as women to access the Aurora leadership programme. There is bespoke support for
 female research staff across the UEA and Norwich Research Park via RESNet, a grassroots
 contact and information network promoting gender equality and fairness across the Norwich
 Research Park (see REF5a).
 As noted above, the Unit comprises 8.4FTE women and 10.4FTE men. The professoriate
 (4.8FTE) is split equally between men and women. Significant research-related leadership roles
 have been broadly shared across genders. For example, Arnold is Faculty representative for the
 University GCRF steering group that allocates funding through the ODA QR allocation;
 Greenhalgh as Director and Wood as Acting Director of SCVA; Jacobs was head of the DTP
 CHASE for UEA and a member of the consortium’s selection panel for PhD funding (2020). Kaner
 is Executive Director and Rousmaniere Research Director of SISJAC. Kaner also chairs the
 University’s Japan Dialogues Group. In ART, Krčma and Riggs have co-ordinated research
 events and impact activities respectively.
 Mentoring, Staff Development, and Support
 Mentoring and support occur at different levels within the Unit, and the Faculty. Colleagues are
 supported by a Research Director who advises on bid development, organises annual output
 reviews, and personal development plans. An Impact Champion encourages the development of
 ICS, for which funding is available. A ‘Buddying’ scheme for ECRs was introduced in response to
 Covid-19. Senior colleagues mentor younger colleagues in their individual research and career
 development, including competing for prestigious fellowships and working internationally. In SCVA
 this extends to taking colleagues through all the stages of exhibition preparation. Individually
 tailored institutional management systems including annual appraisal and discussions around
 planned research activity relate Unit strategy to University priorities. Colleagues have access to
 regular research training and skills workshops, delivered at School, Faculty, and University level.
 These ensure that colleagues are informed about the latest developments from research councils,

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 governmental policy, and other funding bodies. The increasing importance of international funding
 schemes is supported by Arnold, who leads Faculty-specific GCRF information and networking
 events. Wingfield received GBP25,00K for a project from the ODA QR allocation.
 A range of university-led engagement and impact workshops delivered in collaboration with
 organisations including the National Centre for Coordinating Public Engagement, are available to
 staff interested in developing impact partnerships.
 Open Research Culture
 The Unit and University are committed to a flexible working and an open research culture that
 incorporates all staff, immaterial of contract type or contract duration (including part-time and
 short-term contracts). The University has implemented the UUK Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity, Open Access Policy, and Research Data Management Policy through a set of Guidelines
 on Good Practice in Research. Where appropriate, the Unit has benefited from the University’s
 General Research Ethics Committee and (since 2019) the new Humanities Research Ethics
 Subcommittee. Research papers or pre-prints are made available through Eprints, with individual
 colleagues also using online platforms including academia.edu. An Open Access agreement
 between the University and major publishers including Springer, Taylor and Francis, and SAGE
 and Open Access awareness and training events organized by the University’s Open Access
 officer enhance our lively, outward-looking research culture.
 Staff Research Development
 Category A staff have 40% of their workload dedicated to research. This includes six semesters
 of a combined workload where research counts for 30% of contracted hours, and the opportunity
 to apply for a six-month research sabbatical for every seventh semester. (Notably, UEA retained
 the full research workload allocation and rolled forward study leave that was temporarily
 suspended due to Covid-19.) Study leave applications have to outline clear research outcomes
 relating to the strategic aims of the Unit and the Faculty. The integrative nature of research through
 practice in the curatorial sphere also equates to 40% of the total workload of colleagues in SCVA.
 Our research development is also supported by internal funding schemes outlined in section 3.
 The institution’s probationary system gives ECRs (e.g. Bogdanova-Kummer, Hartnell) a reduced
 teaching and administrative workload, helping protect their work time and allowing them to focus
 on research. ECR colleagues are also invited to join the Early Career Forum, which meets five
 times per year providing a supportive environment for addressing specific issues and sharing of
 best practice. ECRs also have access to a ring-fenced funding pot, ‘Annual Adventures in
 Research’, designed to help them develop innovative and distinctive research programmes.
 The vibrant visiting fellowships programmes, with a global make-up, add considerable research
 diversity and vitality to the Unit attracting senior international academics and offering post-doctoral
 opportunities for the next generation of scholars. These include:
 SISJAC
    •   Robert and Lisa Sainsbury Fellows: up to three Postdoctoral researchers annually to
        prepare publications;
    •   Handa Jomon Archaeology Fellows: biannual award;
    •   Ishibashi Foundation Summer Fellowships (2018-20); month-long bursaries for c. 20
        MA/PhD/ECRs.
 SRU
    •   Visiting three-month Fellowships: Visitors have included Ceri Ashley (British Museum,
        2016); Vicky Van Bockhaven (Lieden, 2019); and Janet Berlo (Rochester, 2020).
 The Unit also hosted three visiting academics funded by the China Scholarships Council to work
 with Arnold as part of their career development; has one Leverhulme ECR Fellow Holmboe;
 Helsop’s Leverhulme funded project employed three Senior Research Associates: Kristie Baine,
 Clare Haynes, and Helen Lunnon and a Research Fellow Brian Ayers.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Month-long fellowships offer GBP2,500 to support traditional and/or practice research
 https://www.uea.ac.uk/research/fellowships/uea-archives-and-collections make our collections
 available to external researchers at all career stages e. g. 11 awards in 2020.
 Training and Supervision of Postgraduate Students.
 We see doctoral students as an intrinsic part of our research culture and completions in the Unit
 have increased from 28 in 2014 to 35 in this review period. We invite each student to join and
 participate in our research activities including reading groups, seminars, and work in progress
 where they present their work and meet peers, PDRAs, and scholars at different levels. Within the
 Unit, PGRs organise an annual themed symposium e.g. Shapes of Time: Recurrence in Material
 Culture (2017), Fields of Vision: Field Photography and Digital Imaging Across Disciplines (2018).
 Many of our remarkable doctoral students (see also section 1) go on to hold significant posts in
 the academy and beyond. For example, Sylvia Cockburn is Curator of Art at the Australian War
 Memorial in Canberra, Marie Durand is currently maître de conférences at the University of
 Strasbourg, Lisa McDonald is currently PDRA at the Glasgow School of Art, and Luke Edgington-
 Brown moved to a post-doc at Kyoto Prefectural University.
 Doctoral research students are allocated a supervisory team comprising either a
 primary/secondary, or a co-supervisory team including Unit staff and, as appropriate staff from
 other disciplines and/or other institutions or IROs through UEA’s role in consortia CHASE
 (Consortium for Humanities and the Arts in the South East) and the Eastern Academic Research
 Consortium (E-ARC). Students meet regularly with their supervisor(s) and progress is supported
 and relevant training signposted; after presenting a portfolio of work at a probationary panel at the
 end of year one (year two for part-time candidates), their progress and development continues to
 be nurtured by the supervisory team. To assist with career development and ensure EDI, our PGR
 supervisory training is updated every three years and new supervisors paired with more
 experienced supervisors to ensure candidates gain the requisite level of support. For example,
 Hartnell works with Heslop on an AHRC funded CDP with Museum of London.
 All of our PGR students are admitted to the Faculty’s Graduate School (FGS), led by an Associate
 Dean and a Programme Director. It plays a vital part in the development of a dynamic research
 culture for PGRs and provides a multi-disciplinary environment where students can develop their
 knowledge and skills through academic and research career training initiatives. FGS runs a
 Faculty-wide interdisciplinary seminar series attracting internationally renowned speakers and a
 ‘Learning to Teach’ strand that equips post-graduates to be employed as Associate Tutors e.g.
 Bea Leal and Lisa Newby. FGS funds, through a competitive bidding process, student-led
 conferences, as well as outreach and public engagement activities by research students, and
 offers annual prizes for the best published article, the best teaching, and for outstanding public
 engagement by a PGR. The vibrancy of our PGR community is enhanced by dedicated spaces
 with computing facilities and our specialist on-site libraries and collections. In 2018, CHASE was
 awarded GBP17,000,000 from AHRC DTP2 guaranteeing the future provision of studentships.
 The Faculty also offers studentships and the Unit has supported our PGRs with over GBP73,000
 of funding. The DTP offers all our research students the full range of training and seminar activities
 provided by the CHASE partners and enables the Unit to embed further a dynamic and
 intellectually stimulating research culture among its PGRs.
 We support our lively community of PGRs through additional subject-specific training and
 development including grants to support research and encourage participation in events outside
 Norwich. Krčma co-ordinates sessions on Fieldwork and Research Ethics; Collections; Art
 Historical methodologies; Cultural Heritage, while Wingfield convenes the African and Atlantic
 Reading Group. In an international context, Arnold is a member of a PhD supervisory team at
 McGill University Canada, Kaner was Senior Advisor for European Association for Japanese
 Studies PhD workshop, University of Belgrade (2018), and Krčma co-supervises a PhD at
 University College Cork.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research Income
 The Award Portfolio for the Unit has increased 165% and REF4b income increased 57% from
 2014.


        Award Portfolio                   2014                   Current census period
                                                                 (FTE 18.8)
                                          (FTE 14.9)
        Total for census period           GBP3,726,290           GBP9,879,970
        Average award per FTE in          GBP250,086             GBP525,530
        census period
        Annual Average award per FTE      GBP35,726              GBP75,075
        in census period


        REF4b spend                       2014                   Current census period
                                                                 (FTE 18.8)
                                          (FTE 14.9)
        Total for census period           GBP3,144,863           GBP4,946,758
        Average per FTE in census         GBP211,065             GBP263,125
        period
        Annual Average per FTE in         GBP30,152              GBP37,589
        census period


 Alongside larger AHRC, British Academy, and Leverhulme awards our strategy aims to expand
 our range of funders including Great Britain Sasakawa, Henry Moore, and Japan Foundations.
 Successes include:
    •       GBP428,000 − to support our strategy to promote knowledge of Japanese Arts and
            Cultures comprising Kaner GBP250,000 The Ishibashi Foundation and Kaner,
            Rousmaniere, and Watanabe GBP178,000 Toshiba International;
    •       GBP237,000 Winner and Wood Gatsby Charitable Foundation for Re-cataloguing and
            decolonising the SCVA collection;
    •       GBP193,000 Helsop Leverhulme Trust for Medieval Parish Churches of Norwich;
    •       GBP169,000 Greenhalgh Acquisition of the Tatlin Tower for the Sculpture Park;
    •       GBP80,000 Moore New Collecting Award 2019, from the Art Fund to acquire sculptors’
            drawings by contemporary women artists for the Sainsbury Centre.
 Our future strategy of interdisciplinary working in a global context is confirmed, for example:
        •    GBP297,000 Jacobs British Academy (2020-22) (Re)Defining Culture: Engaging urban
             Fijian youth in sustainable employment opportunities in the cultural heritage sector.
 Our research strategy encourages and mentors colleagues at all stages in their careers to apply
 for prestigious fellowships:
    •       Hartnell received the Dibner Fellowship in the History of Science and Technology, The
            Huntington Library, CA, 2019–20 (USD50,000) and a Visiting Research Fellowship at the
            Schoenberg Institute for Manuscript Studies, University of Pennsylvania 2018 (USD5,000).
    •       Krčma received a research travel grant from the Terra Foundation for American Art 2018
            (USD7,879).
    •       Riggs held British Academy (2015) and Leverhulme (2016) Research Fellowships totalling
            GBP125,000.
    •       Whitfield was awarded a Leverhulme Emeritus Fellowship (2018-21) after leaving her post

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        at the British Library and holds that award concurrently with her post at UEA.
 Internal research structures and support
 All colleagues have access to a range of internal funding schemes designed to help develop high
 quality research, at School, Faculty, and University level:


      Funding scheme                        Maximum award per     Amount     awarded     per
                                            person, per year      annum
      ECR Annual          Adventures   in   GBP2,500              Up to GBP10,000
      Research
      Childcare Conference Support          GBP500                Up to GBP5,000
      Publications Fund                     GBP1,000              Up to GBP10,000-15,000
      Research Training Fund                GBP1,000              Up to GBP10,000
      Small Awards scheme                   GBP500                Up to GBP10,000 -15,000
      School-level Research Funds           GBP500-1,000          Up to GBP15,000


 Engagement, Impact and Innovation activities are also supported at School, Faculty, and
 University level:


      Funding scheme                        Maximum award per     Amount     awarded     per
                                            project, per year     annum
      Engagement Fund                       GBP500                Up to GBP10,000
      Faculty Innovation Fund               Up to GBP2,000        Up to GBP30,000
      University Proof of Concept Fund      Up to GBP20,000       Up to GBP100,000
      University Development Fund           Up to GBP50,000       Up to GBP200,000
      Pro-Vice   Chancellor’s     Impact    Up to GBP20,000       GBP250,000
      Fund


 Alongside the Research Director, Impact Champion, and Unit of Assessment coordinator,
 research in the Unit benefits from the UEA Research and Innovation service (RIN), an experienced
 support team that aids colleagues in developing and submitting grant applications, and managing
 successful grants, including:
     • Delivering a range of research and grant-specific training sessions, often in partnership
         with academics with special expertise or major external funders;
     • Liaising with research councils, working on budgets, and administering the internal peer
         review process;
     • Financial and management support for awards;
     • Relationship managers and impact officers who advise on, and help develop, external
         partnerships with non HEIs.
 Facilities
 SCVA, SRU, and ART are located in an iconic Norman Foster building, which houses outstanding
 resources including the Robert and Lisa Sainsbury Collection featuring global art spanning 5,000
 years, the Anderson Collection of Art Nouveau, both the Joyce and Michael Morris and University
 Collections of British Abstract and Constructivist Art, Design, and Architecture, and Sir Colin
 Anderson’s papers and Tony Birks’ archive and 200 of his ceramics – both recently bequeathed
 and being researched by Wood and Greenhalgh respectively. It also has some of the most
 substantial temporary exhibition space outside London for in-house and touring shows, and a

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 lecture theatre and public spaces for our impact and engagement activities. SISJAC is located in
 a historic building in Norwich Cathedral Close, which provides a city centre venue for the Unit’s
 activities.
 All staff have a networked PC and office sharing among full time colleagues is kept to a minimum.
 Equipment is regularly upgraded.
 SCVA receives core annual core funding of GBP725,000 (total GBP3,625,000 in the review
 period) from UKRI and the Gatsby Foundation. This funding enables SCVA to supports our
 research and that of the external research community through its curatorial and collections
 management, loans of works to other institutions, digital resources, and facilitating and supporting
 requests and visits by the academic community to use its collections and archives.
 Our research also attracts donations, for example, 29 Frink sculptures were bequeathed as a
 result of Winner’s retrospective (see section 1), some of which enhance the Sculpture Park.
 Libraries
 Our vibrant research culture is supported by extensive archival holdings in SCVA, SISJAC, The
 Sainsbury Collection of art, two well-resourced specialist libraries, and the University Library:
    •   The Robert Sainsbury Library in SCVA comprises over 22,000 books and 70 periodical
        subscriptions, funding for a librarian, and an annual acquisitions’ budget of c. GBP20,000.
    •   The Lisa Sainsbury Library at SISJAC comprises over 40,000 volumes funding for a
        librarian, and an annual acquisitions’ budget of c. GBP15,000. SISJAC holds the Sir Hugh
        Cortazzi collection of antiquarian books and maps of Japan, and the Carmen Blacker
        archive.
    •   The University Library is well resourced with books, periodicals, and online databases. It
        has a GBP213 average annual spend per FTE (sector average GBP152). A dedicated
        subject librarian supports the Unit’s research needs.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The Unit makes a significant contribution to the broader research community and we stimulate
 and facilitate exchanges between academia and business, industry, public or third sector bodies.
 As part of our commitment to staff development and career progression, colleagues, including
 ECRs, are encouraged and mentored to develop these important aspects of their activities, which
 are recognised in the workload model. Our strategy in this review period and beyond is to grow
 sustainable, impactful relationships at international, national, and local levels. Highlights of our
 aims and achievements include:
 Local Networks and Collaborations
 We enjoy a strong local and regional position that is supported by UEA’s Civic University
 agenda. We organise two long-standing lecture series open to academics and the public, which
 enjoy a very popular regional following.
    •   WARS (World Art Research Seminars), established in 1970s and held in the SCVA
        lecture theatre, include lectures by colleagues, and national and international invited
        speakers e.g. Prof. Wojciech Bałus (Kracow), Prof. Kojiro Hirose (Osaka), Vivienne
        Koorland (artist, New York/Cape Town), Prof. Sam Lieu (Macquarie/SOAS).
    •   The Third Thursday Lectures organised by SISJAC are held in the Hostry at Norwich
        Cathedral bring the best scholars in Japanese arts and cultures to the city. Recent
        highlights include the Ambassador of Japan who gave the 200 th lecture in 2018.
 Our research projects directly benefit the local community e.g. Heslop’s Leverhulme-
 funded The Medieval Parish Churches of Norwich (GBP193,000) produced a history of the 57
 parishes in Norwich c. 1000-1540, and the people who lived in them. The project team included
 a partnership manager and supplementary grants from AHRC, Norwich Research Park, Town
 Close, John Jarrold Trust, Paul Bassham Trust expanded opportunities for



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement/dissemination, and conservation. Heslop also worked with the Historic Churches
 Trust to raise GBP70,000 for their ‘Flintspiration’ events in 2017.
 SCVA is a valuable local resource and throughout the Covid-19 pandemic the Sculpture Park
 remained open and substantial material was made available online supported by GBP40,000
 in grants from the Art Fund and Esmée Fairbairn Foundation. Winner was part of a research
 network ‘Repurposing the Campus’ meeting convened by UCL and University of Warwick (2020)
 focusing on university art collections and specifically campus sculpture parks and trails and plans
 to develop this public resource during the next review period.
 All of our exhibitions reached wide local audiences and were supported by knowledge transfer
 and public engagement activities, including symposia, lectures, and schools programmes. For
 example, SCVA celebrated the 40th anniversary of its world-renowned Foster building in an
 exhibition Superstructures, (2018) complemented by two-day conference and publication, and
 hosted shows on Radical Russia: Art, Culture and Revolution (2017), Magdalene Odundo
 (2019), and Roger Law (2019). Covid-19 impacted on our exhibitions programme in SCVA and
 touring, most notably Brian Clarke: The Art of Light, curated by Greenhalgh SCVA (2019), opened
 later than scheduled in New York Museum of Arts and Design (2020) and will still tour to Seoul
 DA. Moore was not able to re-curate the Bill Brandt and Henry Moore (2020) exhibition for SCVA.
 As mentioned, Heslop, Jacobs, Krčma, and Riggs curated shows in national and international
 venues.

 Our international research networks and partnerships have global reach. For example,
 Jacobs has collaborated with the national museum of Fiji, the University of South Pacific in Suva
 and its Oceania Arts Gallery. Wingfield works with colleagues at Sol Plaatje University, South
 Africa.
 Our strategy to develop our work in East Asia is evident in:
    •   Arnold’s collaborative work with Université Paris I and Tianjin University China where
        since 2009-present she has been Guest Professor and Co-I on three projects funded by
        the Natural Science Foundation of China (one on-going).
    •   Kaner is Co-I on AHRC-funded project on ceramics among hunter-gatherers (led by York
        University) and is on Advisory Board of ERC-funded project on Jomon and Yayoi
        demographics (led by Cambridge University).
    •   Kaner and Watanabe are Co-Is (Overseas), PI Professor Toshiharu Omuka, University of
        Tsukuba on a Japanese Research Council Award the Promotion of Joint International
        Research (2019-22), The Art History of Third Force 1890-1920. SISJAC is the international
        research partner.
    •   Matsuba in May 2020 initiated an ongoing partnership with Ritsumeikan University to
        create a digital archive of resources for Japanese Studies held in UK.
 Visiting positions complement our international networks for example: Arnold is a guest
 professor at Tianjin University, China, while Kaner was visiting professor at Research Institute for
 Humanity and Nature (Kyoto) 2015, 2016 and at University of Tokyo 2020. Krčma was a visiting
 lecturer Pontifical Catholic University, Rio de Janeiro 2016, and Rousmaniere held visiting
 professorships at Rikkyo University (2019) and at University of Tokyo (2018).
 Consultancies and Secondments
 Greenhalgh was consultant for the Latvian Art Nouveau exhibition, Jugendstils: Art Nouveau, its
 beginnings, influences, and original nature, at Riga Bourse Museum and SCVA loaned 35 Art
 Nouveau works. Jacobs’s expertise in Oceania has led to consultancy roles at Ghent University
 Museums 2013-17; Royal Memorial Museum, Exeter – Funded by Designation Development
 Fund, Arts Council England, for a new permanent Oceania display (2016); Father Damien
 Museum, Tremelo, and Father Damien Archives, University of Leuven, Belgium 2015-17; 2018-
 ongoing and Co-curatorial Consultant for the display of the SCVA/SRU exhibition Fiji: Art and Life
 in the Pacific at LACMA 2020. As noted above (section 1), Rousmaniere was seconded to the
 British Museum (2010-19). She is now a funded consultant for the Royal Collections Trust advising
 on an exhibition about Japanese holdings in their collections (2022).

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Cultural Heritage
 Our commitment to making a significant contribution to the public understanding of heritage in UK
 and beyond builds on colleagues’ networks and partnerships. Arnold’s historical research on
 Tianjin has informed the interpretation and preservation of the city, and its increasing popularity
 as a tourist destination through her association with the International Research Centre for Chinese
 Cultural Heritage Conservation at Tianjin University 2009-present. Gilks participated in meetings
 of the UK Committee of the Blue Shield − an international, voluntary organisation to protect cultural
 heritage during conflict (2018). Greenhalgh is a member of the EU-funded Coup de Fouet network
 that traces Art Nouveau throughout Europe. Heslop was a member of the Norfolk Committee of
 the Art Fund 2015-19 (Chair 2015-17) and is a Member of the Norwich Castle Academic Advisory
 Board for the Keep ‘Gateway to Medieval England’ project (HLF funded c. GBP11,000,000). As
 noted above, Jacobs’s expertise in Oceania has led to a number of consultancy roles in UK,
 Europe, and USA. Kaner is on International Expert Panel for two UNESCO World Heritage
 Nominations: Okinoshima and Associated Sites of Munakata Region (inscribed 2017), and Jomon
 Sites of Northern Tohoku and Southern Hokkaido (outcome 2021), and has also refereed WHS
 nominations from elsewhere, while Whitfield is a Member of the International Consultative
 Committee, Digital Dunhuang.
 Public Engagement and Knowledge Exchange inform our strategy for pathways to impact. We
 have developed strategies to effect change in thinking and understanding of Art History by a broad
 range of publics. Highlights include:
 Collaboration with Major Institutions:
        Tate Publishing commissioned Arnold A Short Book About Art (2015) and Krčma Tate
        Introductions: Robert Rauschenberg (2016). Krčma contributed an essay to the
        Rauschenberg exhibition catalogue for MOMA (2016), Hartnell published Medieval
        Bodies: Life, death and art in the Middle Ages (2018) for Wellcome Trust. These books
        received international and national press coverage and together have been translated into
        over 10 languages.
 Popular Writing:
        Arnold published a second edition of her best-selling Art History: A very short introduction
        (2020), (First edition translated into 20 languages). Jacobs and Wingfield published
        Trophies, Relics and Curios? Missionary Heritage from Africa and the Pacific (2015).
 Media and Literature Festival Appearances:
        Arnold, Hartnell, Riggs, and Rousmaniere appeared on TV (e.g. BBC4), and national
        (e.g. Radio4), and local radio. Our exhibitions have received substantial national and
        international media coverage stimulating interest in our historical and exhibition practice
        research by a broad range of publics. For example, Wood’s Art Deco by the Sea was
        featured in the BBC Art under Quarantine. Arnold and Hartnell appeared at Literature
        Festivals including Cheltenham and Oxford.
 Contributions to the Discipline
 Colleagues from across the unit make a major contribution to the discipline – examples include.
 Publishing
 Our commitment to the ecology of the discipline is evident in significant engagement with leading
 publications, via editorial positions, serving on editorial boards, or peer review. For example,
 Arnold is the Series Editor for Wiley-Blackwell Companions to Art History, comprising edited
 volumes c. 100,000 words of newly commissioned essays that remap the discipline in its broadest
 constituency, with 30 volumes published or in press. Kaner is series editor for Science of the
 History of Humanity in Asia and the Pacific (Springer) and Global and Comparative Perspectives
 on Japanese Archaeology (Archaeopress), and Co-Editor of Japanese Journal of Archaeology
 (Japanese Archaeological Association); Krčma was Founding Co-Editor of Enclave Review (Cork,
 Ireland, now closed), 2010-18. Hartnell is a member of the International Advisory Board, for British
 Art Studies (Paul Mellon Centre). Heslop co-edited a Special Issue of British Art Studies (vol. 6)

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2017 Invention and Imagination in British Art and Architecture 600-1500. Whitfield sits on the
 Editorial Boards of Manuscript Studies (Journal of the Schoenberg Institute of Manuscripts) and
 Brepols’ Silk Road series.
 Learned Societies and Arts Organisations
 As part of our commitment to the research community, we offer our expertise in the following ways:
 Arnold is on the Advisory Board of the NEH funded digitisation project of Vetusta Monumenta at
 the University of Missouri and the Society of Antiquaries, London. Hartnell was a member of
 Association of Art Historians Higher Education Advisory Committee. Heslop was President of the
 British Archaeological Association, 2016-19. Rousmaniere is on the Council for Oriental Ceramic
 Society. Watanabe was a member and then Chair of the Advisory Board, Tate Research Centre:
 Asia. During the review period he has been Chair of British National Committee, Vice President
 and Member of Bureau (Executive Committee), and Chair of the Statutes Revision Working Group
 of (CIHA). Whitfield is Vice Chair, International Association for the Study of Silk Road Textiles
 and Council Member and Chair, House and Events Committee, Royal Asiatic Society.
 Research Councils
 Colleagues at all career stages contribute e.g. Arnold is a member of the Advisory Board of
 AHRC and made a substantial contribution to the work of UKRI as an award panel member, as
 chair of two international panels for RCUK Newton Fund projects, and invited participant in UKRI
 Creative Industries workshops in China. Hartnell is a member of the Wellcome Trust Medical
 Humanities Expert Review Group and Interview Panel 2019–22 and has also evaluated Research
 Fellowships and University Awards for the Trust.
 External Assessment
 The expertise of colleagues in this Unit is clear in the invitations to act as PhD external examiners
 and external assessors both nationally and internationally. In the review period, Arnold examined
 2 PhDs at Université Paris I (Rapporteur du Jury), and at Politecnico Milano, Watanabe examined
 a PhD at University of Melbourne, and Wingfield examined 2 PhDs at University of Witwatersrand.
 Within the UK, colleagues examined PhDs at, for example, the Universities of Bristol, Edinburgh,
 Oxford, Manchester Metropolitan, Newcastle, and UCL.
 Arnold was the external advisor for the appointment of a Chair in Architectural Humanities in the
 Architecture School at Cardiff University.
 Conferences, Keynotes, and Lectures
 Our strategy to engage with the academic community and beyond is supported by our substantial
 contribution to conferences and delivery of public lectures both nationally and internationally. In
 addition to events noted above:
    •   The Unit organised, hosted, and contributed to the AAH conference (2015).
    •   Heslop convened the Medieval Churches of Norwich Conference (2017).
    •   Jacobs was on the organising committee of ASA (Association of Social Anthropologists)
        conference at UEA (2019).
    •   Tomizawa-Kay co-organised an international workshop at UEA Reflective Transition of
        Politics in Art (2017).
 The examples below are indicative of the commitment of colleagues at all career levels to the
 research community in the census period:
 Arnold, Bogdanova-Kummer, Hartnell, Kaner, and Watanabe have convened or responded to
 sessions at AAH, AAS, CAA, and Medieval Academy of America Annual Meeting
 Arnold, Greenhalgh, Kaner, Watanabe, Wood have given invited lectures and keynotes at
 international conferences in Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Hungary, Spain,
 Japan, UK, and USA;
 Dell and Hartnell gave keynotes in UK.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All colleagues gave invited lectures, conference and research seminar papers, and were
 roundtable or in conversation participants at conferences, in museums and galleries, and at
 universities in UK, Europe, Africa, Asia, and West Polynesia.
 In the census period our research, disseminated through, for example, publications, exhibitions,
 scholarly interventions, and public lectures, has engaged with the academic community and user
 groups at local, national, and international levels. We remain committed to the advancement of
 the knowledge and understanding of the history, theory, and practice of Art and Design in the
 academy and beyond, and to supporting the development of future generations of scholars.




                                                                                         Page 15
