Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University

 Unit of Assessment: 26

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and structure

In REF2014, Ulster submitted to 28A (Celtic Studies)/28B (Linguistics and Modern Languages)
panels, each submission with a separate focus. Post 2014, and following a strategic review, Ulster
focused on the synergies of expertise in languages and linguistics.

This new multi-campus, cross-Faculty unit was established to maintain sustainability of key areas
and enhance vitality by fostering cross-disciplinary collaborations. The unit supports specialisms in:

   •   Theoretical Linguistics
   •   Discourse
   •   Language Development and Disorders
   •   Irish Language and Literature
   •   Computer Assisted Language Learning (CALL)
   •   Language Policy and Language Rights.

Coalescing around these priority specialisms has facilitated a vibrant, multidisciplinary environment.
Traditional strengths of the Irish and Celtic Studies Research Institute (founded in 2005) in Irish
Language and Literature and CALL were complemented by those from the Ulster Centre of
Multilingualism (launched 18 June 2012) in Theoretical Linguistics, Discourse, and Language
Development, and interdisciplinary dialogue led to further collaborations in the areas of Language
Disorders and Language Rights.

The unit consists of staff across two faculties (AHSS and Life Sciences), four campuses
(Jordanstown, Belfast, Coleraine and Magee) and five schools (Communication and Media; Arts and
Humanities; Health Sciences; Applied Social and Policy Sciences; Education). Over the period, the
unit contained 16.2 core staff, 11 research associates, 28.88 fte doctoral researchers, 3 Professors
Emeriti and 3 Visiting Professors actively involved in research development. Strategic vision and
leadership were maintained by Folli (Research Director (RD) in Linguistics and Head of School
(HoS), Communication) and Ó Corráin (RD Celtic Studies) until 2017, and Fomin (RD of the
combined unit) after 2017.

The RD is responsible for strategic planning and day-to-day management with a recurrent budget of
£30K per annum. He consults with unit researchers on individual and collective research portfolios,
provides guidance on publishing, supports research trips, fieldwork and conferences, encourages
cross-disciplinary collaborations, impact, knowledge transfer and public outreach initiatives. In
conjunction with the Doctoral College, the RD coordinates PhD researchers aligned to the unit. He
organises annual research away days to review research performance, develop a thriving and
inclusive research culture, articulate and maintain a clear vision for impact. The RD and the
Associate Dean for Research and Impact (ADRI) oversee the submission of grant proposals.

Achievement of strategic objectives (2014-2020)

Achievement of the strategic objectives for the period has led to growth in all areas of activity. As
set out in our REF2014 submissions, these objectives relate to research practice, research culture
and public outreach. They are:

(A) To sustain the vitality of the unit’s research culture, capacity and productivity
(B) To develop the next generation of research practitioners
(C) To maintain international collaborations

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(D) To disseminate our research findings within and outwith academia
(E) To facilitate achievement of impact
(F) To ensure the unit’s research integrity

Below, achievement of objectives (A)-(F) during the assessment period is addressed.

(A) We sustained the vitality of our research culture to produce world-leading research, promote staff
and generate substantial research funding:

   •   Staff produced significant and ground-breaking work, including articles in top peer-
       reviewed journals, e.g. Language, ROLSI, Cognition, Linguistics & Philosophy, Natural
       Language Semantics, Linguistic Inquiry, Glossa, Discourse and Communication, Journal of
       Pragmatics. Staff authored 6 monographs and edited 19 collections covering novel topics in
       prestigious publishing houses.
   •   74% of staff availed of research leave
   •   43% of our staff were promoted to senior positions (40% of them female).
   •   We recruited new motivated talent (2 full time staff), and actively integrated doctoral
       researchers into the research community of the unit and the university (see Section 2).
   •   Staff generated more than £1.8m in research income, increasing spend by 13%. Our
       average research income increased by 60% (from £70,251 per fte to £112.982.83 per fte).

(B) We contributed to the development of the new generation of research practitioners

   •   PhD Researcher to staff ratio increased from 1.23:1 to 1.52:1.
   •   Staff supervising to completion increased from 50% to 74% of the unit.
   •   Staff managed 11 post-doctoral researchers on externally funded projects (increase from
       7 in REF2014);

(C) We fostered cross-disciplinary collaborations and partnerships (see Section 4 for detail)

   •   We built upon our existing research networks in the areas of Irish Language and
       Literature, Theoretical Linguistics and Language Development (e.g. Maritime Memorates;
       LAGB).
   •   We created new networks of excellence in the areas of Discourse and Theoretical
       Linguistics (e.g. Real Complaints; Xprag.de).

(D) We disseminated our research findings by organising and taking part in events for different
audiences. 75% of our recurrent budget was directed to support:

   •   Learned societies and individual researchers to organise and host national and international
       conferences (16 in-house; 10 outside Ulster) (10%)
   •   Public lectures, keynotes (over 50 in total) and invited external experts (10%).
   •   Conference presentations (40%)
   •   Bespoke workshops and symposia (e.g. NHS Speech & Language Therapists’ network;
       Parents’ multilingualism workshops) (5%)
   •   Outreach activities: e.g. Ulster Centre of Multilingualism open fora; the Festival of Ideas; the
       Festival of Social Science; events for indigenous language speakers (e.g. Éigse Loch Lao;
       Éigse Cholm Cille) (10%)

(E) We provided material and financial support (20% of recurrent budget) for the development of
impact across the unit specialisms, including the submitted case studies:

       Driving Societal Transformation through Language Reform in Northern Ireland:
       Language Rights and Multilingual Speakers
       Staff with specialisms in Irish Language, Language Rights and Policy, Language
       Development and Disorders have driven legislative and societal transformation in relation to

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       language in Northern Ireland (NI). Experts at Ulster played a direct role in the transformation
       of legislation to recognise Irish language rights in NI, leading to the language occupying a
       central role in the development of the New Decade, New Approach program for NI
       Government. Our work
       • has strengthened the profile of non-indigenous languages in post-conflict NI
       • influenced government policy on language of indigenous communities
       • driven the change of local council policies for minority languages
       • enhanced community relations through language
       • informed policy provision for Irish speakers
       • enhanced understanding of the benefits of bilingualism for communities, policy makers,
           practitioners
       • reduced the academic attainment gap of young multilingual speakers leading to
           increased integration

       Transforming Irish language teaching across Europe: New digital tools for teachers
       and learners
       Staff with specialisms in Irish Language and CALL developed open educational resources
       utilising new technology, removing barriers to accessing authentic learning materials and
       providing content and technical guidance for Irish language teachers and learners. The shift
       to digital teaching and learning of Irish was catalysed through
       • a transformative open digital platform exploited by over 5,500 learners
       • training programmes incorporating technical guidance in language pedagogy and know-
            how in the creation of multimedia resources for over 30 EU practitioners
       • creating a new community of practice contributing to the creation and promotion of
            authentic Irish and Scottish Gaelic linguistic data
       • partnerships with UK and ROI radio/television companies to increase the audience of
            Irish language listeners locally and internationally
       • development of language learning software and other digital artefacts to establish
            sustainable and productive links between disconnected communities of minority
            language speakers

(F) We ensured research integrity:

   •   We adhered to strict ethical guidelines for research involving human participants.
   •   100% staff completed Research Integrity & Ethics online training.
   •   We worked with Ulster Research Governance, convening consultative sessions for PhD
       researchers and staff, providing pro-forma for informed consent and participant information
       and an on-line ethics submission system.
   •   We appointed a Risk and Ethics Officer to oversee ethical approval procedures.

Future strategic plans (2020-2025)

Our ambition for the future is to enhance the work of the unit’s existing research clusters through the
following objectives:

I. Maintain and enhance a thriving and inclusive research culture
    1) Encourage and support academic co-operation within and across unit specialisms.
    2) Nurture interdisciplinary collaborations, both existing and emerging.
    3) Grow our pool of talented researchers through successful funding applications.
    4) Engage in knowledge exchange with a range of sectors, e.g. with the Museum, Heritage &
        Creative NI sector to address the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; with NGOs and
        government in relation to the Natural Environment and Climate Action.
    5) Engage with professional stakeholders to translate our expertise into bespoke services for
        health service, creative and education sectors.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   6) Involve users of research findings, such as parents/carers of migrant pupils, teachers, speech
      therapists, language legislators and officers, government officials, to ensure they play a
      greater role in shaping the direction of research.
   7) Commit to equality, diversity and inclusion in our research culture and practice. We will
      maintain and enhance our relationship with minority and marginalised language groups,
      considering issues of race, diversity and openness.

II. Promote individual and collective research excellence
     1) Review individual research plans regularly.
     2) Identify and develop innovative research themes to enable cross-institutional synergies and
        inter-disciplinary collaboration.
     3) Contribute to the development of the new generation of researchers, considering such issues
        as research integrity, EDI, and wellbeing.

III. Facilitate achievement of impact
     1) Support research projects that generate significant national and international impact and
         outreach.
     2) Cultivate substantive networks with both governmental and non-governmental bodies to
         influence public policy and public perception.
     3) Draw on the unit specialisms to support, organise and contribute to public events, campaigns,
         fora and festivals.


 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development

The unit staffing strategy is aligned to Ulster University’s staff policy driven by three priorities: (a)
creation of a supportive and inclusive research culture and environment, (b) enabling researchers to
develop their full potential, while (c) valuing and recognising their contribution. Since 2014, Ulster
has been recognized as a HR Excellence in Research institution. Ulster implemented the Concordat
for the Career Development of research staff and is committed to the principles of the European
Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their Recruitment. We are committed to
creating an inclusive, beneficial working environment that unlocks staff potential, and have
introduced practical measures to assist staff in research advancement and career development:

Recruitment: New staff are essential to sustainability, ensuring research quality and respecting
equality and diversity. During the cycle, two ECR (Gerard and Kennedy, both female) were
appointed and returned in the REF. Recruitment includes a substantial research component at short-
listing and interview. Compulsory selection panel training includes EDI training.

Employment: We are equally committed to recognition of our research active staff through staff
promotion, nomination for research awards and fellowships. In the past REF cycle, Folli was
promoted to Professor; Fomin to Reader; Rhys, Sevdali, Romoli, Ó Dónaill and McDermott to
Senior Lecturer (40% of them female). Romoli was awarded the Ulster Distinguished Research
Fellowship (2018). We encouraged applications for prestigious research awards externally. De Brún
was awarded an AHRC Leadership Fellowship (2015), while Fomin held an Alexander von Humboldt
International Network Award for experienced researchers (2016-7).

Research culture: Working in co-operation with our dedicated research development managers, staff
receive guidance and financial support:
   • To prepare and submit funding applications
   • To lead strategic research initiatives aligned to the unit’s impact strategy
   • To invite external colleagues to secure contribution from external sources.
   • To attend prestigious international conferences, as well as take on archival, fieldwork and
       laboratory research (up to 60% of the unit’s QR funding per annum used for this purpose).


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Professional development: Researchers are provided with multiple opportunities to develop and
enhance their research specialisms
   • 70% of staff participated in 3 or more initiatives delivered by Ulster Research & Impact
       including
           o RIGOUR - Research Income & Grant Opportunities for Ulster Researchers
           o SOARING - Significance and Originality in Academic Research: Interpreting New
                Guidance;
           o PGCHEP – Post-Graduate Certificate in Higher Education Practice, delivered by
                Ulster Centre for HE Research and Practice which includes research development in
                its syllabus.
   • University-wide career development opportunities are supplemented by those organised by
       the unit (research seminars, impact development workshops, internal peer-review, and
       collegial feedback on research outputs and grant applications).
   • Staff discuss research development strategies with the RD who awards internal funding to
       activities aligned to the unit objectives. The unit provided around £56,000 in research
       development funding in the REF cycle to staff.
   • Staff workload is managed by the Head of School (HoS) and RD who distinguish between
       staff with significant research responsibility (SRR) and those without. Staff with SRR are
       allocated 32% of their time for research. Staff who show potential to transfer to a teaching
       and research profile are provided with extra funding in support of research development. We
       recognise that ECR require more support – they are allocated approximately 5% of our
       recurrent budget annually for research development activities. Where possible, the workload
       model is adjusted to accommodate requests to concentrate teaching and administration in
       one semester to enable focus on research in the other.
   • Individual and collaborative research is supported by the University sabbatical policy which
       ensures all staff can apply for research leave to develop personally, while delivering research
       outputs beneficial to the unit and the University. 74% of staff availed of the University-wide
       generous research leave arrangements: (2019: McDermott; 2018: Mac Cathmhaoil,
       Romoli; 2017: Sevdali, Smith, Sewell; 2016: Rhys, Fomin; 2015: De Brún, Stapleton;
       2014: Hughes, Ó Corráin). This led to 5 externally funded projects, 3 documentaries, 4
       international conferences and 20 research outputs (including 6 monographs).
   • We supported Visiting Professorship appointments to facilitate significant research
       collaborations, e.g. Benwell (Stirling) worked with Rhys on the NIHR project Real
       Complaints, Mac Craith (Heriot-Watt) with McDermott on Language Identity AHRC project,
       Moscati (Siena) with Romoli in Language Development.

Staff development: the RD convenes individual research Personal Development Planning (PDP)
annual reviews. Advice is provided on research strategy, emphasizing the importance of Open
Access and Open Research Environment. The HoS reviews PDP plans and targets for research,
aligned to School-oriented Development Appraisal Reviews (DAR), achieving alignment between
PDP and DAR.

Research environment: the RD is part of the institution’s Research Fora to support University and
Faculty-wide research policy and development. The RD meets with the Associate Dean for Research
and Impact (ADRI) to review the successes and shortfalls of the unit performance. The ADRI works
closely with RDs and supports the relevant HoS on strategic appointments at recruitment level.

Early Career Researcher support: Our strategy entails recruiting and sustaining excellent young
researchers. ECRs contribute to our research clusters and are provided with mentoring support.
ECRs undergo 3 years of probation assessed annually by the HoS and RD to provide feedback,
indicate further development activities, and ensure balanced workloads. ECR have a reduced
administrative and teaching load during probation.

Support for career development
Individual research plans are reviewed annually. Staff, RD and HoS meet to discuss research
activities planned throughout an academic year, divided between research outputs (against the REF


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
criteria of ‘originality’, ‘rigour’ and ‘significance’), generation of impact, collaboration with internal and
external individuals and bodies, and grant applications.

Mid-term career staff are encouraged to include post-doctoral researchers in funding applications.
Eleven externally funded research assistants were employed. Working with Rhys: Joyce, Douglas
and Baron are employed on ‘Real Complaints’ (2019-2021), Kerrison on Real Complaints Impact
Development (2018); with Sevdali: Mertyris and MacLeod on Investigating Variation and Change
(2017-20), Kane and Logue on ‘Language Made Fun’ (2015-2020); with Romoli: Renans on
‘Semantics of Count and Mass Nouns’ (2016-7), La Morgia on ‘Alternatives in Meaning’ (2019); with
McDermot: Grant on ‘Hidden Heritages of the North-West’ (2018). The presence of post-doctoral
researchers enhances our research environment through their participation in research seminars
and conferences. Conversely, the affiliation with Ulster also benefited the PG researchers as they
progressed to academic appointments (e.g. Ulster provided match-funding to extend MacLeod
beyond his AHRC-funded contract; Grant was appointed as Lecturer in Ulster; Renans as Junior
Professor in Bochum (Germany), Kane as Research Associate by Queen’s University Belfast).

Support mechanisms for and evidence of the training and supervision of post-graduate
students
We work with the Doctoral College to support new supervisors with a development programme to
enhance understanding of their roles and responsibilities including workshops on effective
supervisor-PhD researcher relationship and common PhD supervisor challenges and potential
solutions.

The Doctoral College provides a comprehensive two-day induction programme for new PhD
Researchers, complemented by unit level induction with the RD, supervisors and research cluster.
PhD researchers benefit from allocated individual desk spaces; they actively engage with the
Doctoral College open space hubs for networking, building collaborations across year groups and
peer-led initiatives. They are given an annual bursary of £900 and further support from the unit where
necessary. The annual Richard K. Degenhardt Award is available to Celtic scholars (£1,500).

PhD researchers benefit from the Researcher Development Programme, including workshops,
online training and other opportunities and gain valuable experience to complete their PhD and
become professional researchers with transferable skills.

Researchers participate in the annual Festival of PhD Research and Three Minute Thesis (3MT)
competition (Flint in Ulster Final 2019). PRES results show that post-graduate researcher
satisfaction increased from 83% to 89% in Modern Languages and Linguistics in Ulster (84% national
rate).

The Doctoral college encourages that the PhD researchers are supervised by teams of two or three.
We ensure ECRs are integrated into experienced supervisory teams to avail of mentoring by senior
colleagues while contributing to the progress of doctoral students.

Out of 16.2 core staff, 14.2 led 24.66 fte PhD researchers to completion, with 2 ECR involved in on-
going projects. The unit’s PhD completion’s rate increased from 1.23 completed PhD per 1 staff in
REF2014 (28.33 fte: 23 staff) to 1.52 (24.66 fte: 16.2 staff).

From 2014, we recruited 28.88 fte PhD candidates, through a generous University allocation of
VCRS and DfE fully funded PhD scholarships (four per annum).

This cohort was complemented by 5 externally funded PhD scholarships – a key success of our
inter-institutional UK-wide collaboration strategy. The unit participated in two AHRC PhD training
consortia: Clarsach, joined by 12 UK Celtic departments, 2014-19, and Northern Bridge, joined by
Durham, Northumbria, Newcastle, QUB, 2018-2023.

Doctoral researchers avail of training provided by AHRC CDT consortia (including a development
grant of up to £8,000 per annum) and through the Irish Humanities Alliance.

                                                                                                      Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Staff foster a research culture among students enrolled on MRes Celtic Studies and MSc Linguistics.
14 Masters’ graduates progressed to PhD, 7 completed in the census period.

Through international networks, we attracted 16 international students (8 completed; 8 on-going).
For example, we enrolled PhD candidates from the MA in Celtic Studies (jointly delivered with UBO,
France, 2017-20) and through the Societas Celto-Slavica network (from University of St Petersburg,
Russia).

In Celtic Studies, PhD completions were on Irish translations and modern Irish literature, Irish
medieval writing, Irish folklore collection and Early Modern Irish poetical and religious traditions.

In Linguistics, they were on synchronic and diachronic syntax, multilingualism, language acquisition,
pragmatics, conversation analysis and discourse. Supervisory specialisms have been extended to
historical linguistics, language conflict and identity, language policy and planning, and learning
strategies in MFL secondary education.

Equality and diversity
Themes of equality and diversity are central to our research agenda. Much of the unit impact and
public outreach activities address the needs of the marginalised communities (e.g. Language Made
Fun project with Barnardo’s).

Diversity and inclusivity are valued, actively promoted and embedded in all research processes and
policies as outlined in our Code of Practice, which places people at its centre and ensures barrier
free processes to maximise inclusivity and participation in REF, we used it as our roadmap for
identifying SRR staff and selecting outputs for REF2021. The diversity of the international
backgrounds of core staff (40% come from outside of the UK/ROI) embedded in our recruitment and
career development strategy contributed to the success of the unit in the census period from the
point of view of the growth of our research portfolio and cross-disciplinary collaborations.

Women in the unit have a high profile: Folli (HoS 2014-7, Provost 2017-20) and Rhys (HoS 2018-
20) are in leadership roles, 40% of promoted staff were female. 50% of staff underwent equality and
diversity (EDI) training, with the unit’s target to achieve 100% for the next census period. 100% of
staff underwent recruitment and selection training that includes EDI component. The unit gender
balance is 7.2 females to 9 males, the age profile distributed across various age groups (Fig. 1):




Fig. 1. Ulster Modern Languages and Linguistics unit age profiles (on 31.07.2020)


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
During the period, 2 newly recruited members of staff were female. Staff returning from maternity
leave were supported through a sabbatical support scheme or teaching relief. 11 post-doctoral
researchers included 6 male (Kerrison, Mertyris, MacLeod, Joyce, Grant, Douglas) and 5 female
(Renans, La Morgia, Kane, Logue, Baron). Out of 28 (24.66 fte) completed PhDs, we supervised
16 female and 12 male, with over 31 PhDs currently registered (22 female and 9 male).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research funding

The unit attracted substantial amounts of research funding. Developmental workshops (e.g.
university-led initiatives such as RIGOUR, SOARING, and bespoke workshops on EU and NIHR
funding; research away days) were instrumental in preparing staff to focus on grant proposal
formulation and delivery. Research sabbaticals also directly contributed to the success of funding
bids by Sevdali, de Brun, McDermott, Romoli and Fomin.

Over the period, our research spend was in excess of £1.8m (£1,830,322.31, see Fig. 2).




Fig. 2 Ulster Modern Languages & Linguistics research income growth (2014-20)

Our average research income per fte increased by 60% (from £70,251 per fte to £112.982.83 per
fte).

Over £1.16m came from Research Councils, c. £323,000 from UK-based charities, c. £212,000 from
UK government bodies and over £120,000 from EU research funding.

Rhys won a £556,802 grant supported by NIHR Health Services and Delivery Research Scheme for
‘Enhancing the Patient Complaints Journey: Harnessing the Power of Language to Transform the
Experience of Complaining’ (2019-2021, as PI, with Stirling, QMU, Loughborough).

AHRC funding was provided for Research Leadership fellowship on Rethinking Revivalism (De
Brún, £76,089), ‘Investigating Variation and Change’ (Sevdali, £193,712), ‘WWI Migrant Voices’
(McDermott, £16,829). The Leverhulme Trust supported ‘Alternatives in Implicature’ (Romoli,
£20,912; with UCL: total £185,016) and Alexander von Humboldt Foundation supported Fomin in

                                                                                          Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2016-7. Further AHRC funding was received for the ‘English Evaluative Concepts’ (Gillespie,
£11,920), four Celtic Studies CDT ‘Clarsach’ (PI De Brun, Fomin, total £226,812) and one ‘Northern
Bridge Consortium’ (PI Fomin, Year 1: £9,668) PhD scholarships.

EU funding was secured for ‘Producing Open On-Line Learning Systems’, Ó Dónaill, Comer, Ó
Corráin, £64,983 (total EUR 288,621), ‘CLIL Open Online Learning’, Ó Dónaill, £38,286 (total EUR
348,438) and EUROCALL (Barr, £81,393), ‘Youth Work eLearning Partnership’ (Friel, McDermott,
£47,274). Comer, Ó Dónaill and De Brún have received the total of £40,650 from various Republic
of Ireland Irish language bodies.

Funding was received from The Leverhulme Trust to support a Visiting Professorship in ‘Atlantic
Post Print Manuscript Cultures’ (Mac Cathmhaoil, £88,052), ‘Plural Mass Nouns’, (Romoli, Folli,
£40,531, with York: total £134,267). The British Academy supported ‘Language Acquisition and Loss’
(Romoli, Folli, £8,029, with UCL), ‘Diaspora Communities’ (McDermott, £4,465). The National Trust
supported ‘Hidden Heritages’ (McDermott, Ó Néill, £25,000) and The Big Lottery funded ‘Family
Learning and Integration Hub’ (Folli, Sevdali, Rhys, Kennedy, £27,395). In 2015-6, McDermott was
Royal Irish Academy Charlemont Scholar to develop language policy for ‘contested’ languages.

Unit infrastructure
Administrative support for the unit is provided by two 0.5 fte Academic Excellence Executive
Assistants. A faculty facing Impact Officer from the Impact Team collaborates with the unit on the
impact strategy, sign-posting opportunities, and providing visibility of potential impact case studies.
She consults staff on developments and funding calls, supports impact-driven funding applications,
public engagement and communication plans. Our Research Development Manager advises on
funding opportunities and applications and our Research Contracts Manager manages grants.

At University level, the DVC for Research and External Affairs leads the University Research and
Impact Strategy through a monthly RD forum and the Doctoral College oversees doctoral
development programmes, PhD submissions data, and PhD events. At Faculty level, the ADRI leads
a monthly RD Forum.

Facilities
The unit is active across all four campuses of the University and facilities have been greatly
enhanced in each location. Each campus has extensive research holdings. Library allocation for
hardcopy and e-book purchase and journal subscriptions have been extremely generous with
Jordanstown, Magee and Belfast libraries spending £199,510 on Celtic Studies and Linguistics
during the census period. Special collections of Irish material, including rare books and pamphlets,
are available on the Magee, Belfast and Coleraine campuses. Linguistics researchers in
Jordanstown have a dedicated, well-equipped language development laboratory and specialist
library. 2019 brought the £1.3M Magee Library refurbishment, providing a state-of-the-art research
and collaborative learning space alongside the £11M teaching centre (completed 2018). Creation of
bespoke research hubs had a transformative effect on doctoral collaboration, promoting a rich, multi-
faceted research culture, hosting the regional final of 3MT (Doctoral College) and TOYP (UK’s Ten
Outstanding Young People) in conjunction with the UK Junior Chamber of Commerce. The relocation
of staff and students from Jordanstown to the newly built £365M+ Belfast City campus in 2021 will
enhance the physical and technological environment for research while expansive infrastructure
innovations will be delivered to both Belfast and Magee campuses via the City Deal initiatives
recently approved by the UK Treasury.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration is a key element within our research strategy. Networks are organised around our key
specialisms (see section 1). ECRs are given guidance on network building and international co-
operation.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.1 Research networks and partnerships

Ulster participates in the Irish Humanities Alliance, a Royal Irish Academy body that champions
humanities research and scholarship across the island of Ireland.

Ulster has cemented its reputation across our specialisms through national and international
networks and collaborations:

Irish Language and Literature:
Societas Celto-Slavica
Since the establishment of Societas Celto-Slavica (2004), we have collaborated closely with
research centres in Russia (Russian Academy of Sciences), Poland (Łodz, Lublin, Szczecin),
Germany (Heidelberg, Marburg, Leipzig) and France (Brest). Mac Mathúna (President) and Fomin
(Secretary) edit, with Mikhailova (Moscow), Johnston (Aberystywth) and German (Brest), the annual
journal of the Society, Studia Celto-Slavica, since 2018 published jointly by the Centre for Research
in Breton and Celtic (Brest) and Ulster. Volumes 7-11 of the series were published at Aberystwyth
(2015), Bangor (2018) and Brest (2018, 2019, 2020) from conferences held in St Petersburg (2012),
Bangor (2014), Heidelberg (2016) and Quimper (2018); the 10th Celto-Slavica colloquium will be
held in Szczecin.

Celto-Indica
Since 2007, Mac Mathúna and Fomin have collaborated with colleagues from Jawaharlal Nehru
University, New Delhi, India preparing an Irish-Indian interdisciplinary anthology of writing from the
earliest times to the present. The 712p. work, Mutual Regard: An Anthology of Indo-Irish Writings
was published (2018, New Delhi) with Mac Mathúna as General Editor and Fomin as Assistant Co-
Editor.

Maritime Memorates
This collaborative project was established with c.£165K from the AHRC between 2010-14 with
Fomin (PI) and Mac Mathúna (Co-I), along with the National Folklore Collection, UCD, and the
School of Scottish Studies Archives, Edinburgh. The results have been made available online
(www.arts.ulster.ac.uk/storiesofthesea), with initial findings published in 2016, Stories of the Sea:
Maritime Memorates of Ireland and Scotland (Berlin) and disseminated through public shows (Pan-
Celtic Festival (2014), Irish Music Festival (2014)), exhibitions (Trier 2014) and conferences
(Quimper (2018), Chichester (2019), Bangor (2019)).

Religion, Cosmology and Magic
Fomin and Mac Mathúna participate in the Power of Words in Traditional European Cultures
network, led by Borsje (Amsterdam), associate member of the unit. Partner institutions include Cork,
Amsterdam, Helsinki, Moscow, St Petersburg. Following a 2008 network conference held at Ulster,
Mac Mathúna (with Borsje) edited Celtic Cosmology: Perspectives from Ireland and Scotland
(2014). As members of the network, Ulster researchers spoke at Charms, Charmers and Charming:
Innovation and Tradition conference (Cork, 2016), and contributed to sessions organised at the
Celtic Studies International Congress (Bangor, 2019).

Language Policy and Planning:
McDermott collaborates with McMonagle (Hamburg), and NicCraith (Heriot Watt), through Ulster’s
Visiting Professorship scheme, on the issue of linguistic rights in conflict spaces. McDermott, Rhys,
and Sevdali collaborate with Corrigan (Newcastle) on outreach and impact activities relating to
multilingualism in Northern Ireland.

Theoretical Linguistics:
Sevdali’s ongoing collaboration with Anagnostopoulou (Crete) led to an AHRC-funded project
(Investigating variation and change), an international workshop on The Place of Case in Grammar
(Crete, 2018, https://www.ulster.ac.uk/conference/placig) and book contract with Oxford University
Press. Sevdali’s new collaboration with Macleod (Ulster) led to another AHRC-funded project
(Language awareness for Key Stage 3). Sevdali also collaborates with Sheehan (Anglia Ruskin),

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Walkden (Konstanz) and Alexiadou (Humboldt-Universität Berlin). Folli’s work with Alexopolou
(Cambridge) was published in Linguistic Inquiry and was the foundation for the collaboration with
Tsoulas (York) leading to the Leverhulme Trust grant Pluralised Mass: a window into linguistic
variation. Romoli collaborates with UC San Diego, University of Maryland, Leibniz-ZAS centre in
Berlin. He is a foundational member of Xprag.de, a new network in Experimental Pragmatics. The
unit works closely with the LAGB and was to host the 2020 meeting (postponed due to COVID).

Discourse:
Rhys’ collaboration with Benwell (Stirling) through Ulster’s Visiting Professorship scheme led to a
successful application to the Civic Impact Fund and to the development of a wider network of
researchers and stakeholders connected to NHS complaints, which ultimately led to a successful
application to the NIHR with researchers from Stirling, QMU and Loughborough with Rhys as PI.
She leads the CARDS/YORKTALK network (with York St John) to deliver CASP (Conversation
Analysis Skills and Practices) workshops. Stapleton’s sabbatical supported the development of
international collaboration with Sweden leading to a funding application on ‘Swearing and Power’ to
Riksbankens Jubileumsfond.

CALL:
Ó Dónaill built upon Ulster’s previous work in multimedia language learning by collaborating with
Gimeno-Sanz (Universitat Politècnica de València), Andersen (SDE College, Denmark) and Ó
Donnaíle (UHI) on innovations in applied language and language pedagogy. Ó Dónaill profiles issues
affecting less widely used and taught languages (LWUTL) languages through European Association
for Computer Assisted Language Learning (EuroCALL).

4.2 Collaborations with key research audiences

Language Made Fun
Since 2013, Sevdali, Folli, Kennedy, Rhys, and McDermott have concentrated the unit’s
collaborative energies on the area of multilingualism, generating significant economic, social and
cultural impact, as articulated in our impact case study ‘Driving Societal Transformation through
Language Reform in Northern Ireland’. Supported by grants from the Lottery Fund, Garfield Weston
Fund and Barnardo’s NI, Ulster developed and delivered an educational programme to support the
language needs of multilingual migrant children and promote maintenance of their home languages.
Findings were presented to the NI Assembly (2014) and disseminated in the special edition of
Teanga (2019).

Ulster Centre on Multilingualism
Ulster Centre on Multilingualism (UCoM) is led by Sevdali, Folli, Kennedy, Rhys, McDermott as a
consultation service for parents, early years practitioners, speech and language therapists and other
stakeholders. UCoM organise talks for social and health workers, parent and toddler groups,
adoptive parents considering adoption of an older child from abroad whose first language is not
English, teachers in Irish-medium education and major charities. Illustrative events include: “Two
languages? It’s a good thing!”, an information morning for bilingual parents (delivered at Holy Rosary
Primary School, Ormeau Community Centre, Fane Street Primary School, 2017-19); a bespoke day-
long workshop to HSCNI speech and language therapists on multilingualism and how best to support
multilingual clients and their families. Sevdali also contributed to the first British Council Survey on
Language Trends in Northern Ireland (2019). McDermott established strong connections with NI
migrant organisations (Craic NI, Active Citizens Engaged and North-West Migrants Forum), and
provides regular consultancy for the Racial Equality Unit, Stormont (NI Parliament).

Irish language sector
Staff in Irish regularly engage with BBC NI, RTÉ, TG4 to disseminate their research. Hughes
formulated the concept, co-authored and presented in the documentary on Martin Luther’s impact
on the Gaelic speakers of Scotland and Ireland (broadcast in 2017 on BBC in English and TG4 in
Irish). Hughes was presenter of four episodes on Irish colleges in Salamanca, Louvain, Paris and
Rome (broadcast in March 2015, September 2015, and April 2016 on BBC in English and RTÉ in
Irish). Hughes advised Farset Feirste – A Typeface for Belfast (PLACE, Belfast) on the development

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of a bilingual typeset for the citizens of Belfast. Hughes participated in several other TG4 and RTÉ
TV programmes showcasing Celtic cultures throughout the British Isles and Europe. Ó Dónaill was
commissioned by RTÉ to select and curate recordings from RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta’s archive and
build them into language learning materials. This has the twin aim of promoting literacy amongst
competent speakers and enabling audiences and learners in Ireland and internationally to better
understand the content. Fomin advised the BBC NI working on a documentary about the activities
of German folklorists in Ireland before WWII, while Ó Corráin and Smith participated in BBC NI
documentaries on the Irish bardic tradition.

Comer contributes significantly to public discussion on Irish language policy formulation through
regular broadcast interviews, newspaper articles and consulting NI parliamentary committees. He
led 40+ delegations from Conradh na Gaeilge to meet with the leadership of the main political parties
in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland to present the case for Irish language legislation in
Northern Ireland. In 2017 alone, Comer featured in 78 appearances in various media outlets,
including national newspapers (e.g. Irish Independent, 20/10; Irish Times 22/7; Belfast Telegraph
2/11), radio programmes (BBC News, 14/1, 3/3; RTÉ News 10/3; Radió na Gaeltachta 3/3; 17/11),
blogs and podcasts. He will be acting as key advisor in the establishment and rolling out of the Irish
Language Translation Hub which has been established within the Northern Ireland Assembly as of
2021 and has been appointed to form and lead an advisory group to establish linguistic standards
within the NI Assembly.

Annual National Geographic Festival of Science (Rome, Italy)
Since 2012, Romoli has been Director of the National Geographic Science Festival in Rome, jointly
supported by National Geographic, Nissan and Enel. The festival attracts over 65,000 visitors.

4.3 Contributions to the discipline

Staff have made significant contributions to the sustainability of research in Linguistics and Celtic
Studies both nationally and internationally. 32.3% of our publications were in the top 10% most-cited
journals and 18.8% of our publications are among the top 10% most cited worldwide. Contributing
to Ulster’s internationalisation strategy, more than 50% (105) of 200 research outputs produced in
the period have been co-authored with colleagues outside the UK, mostly Europe (65%), but also
the USA (15%), Asia and Australia (20%).

Language Policy and Rights: Taking a global approach with a focus on the international
frameworks developed by the UN, the Council of Europe and the EU, McDermott advocated for
better language rights whilst also critiquing shortcomings in the current system – particularly in
Northern Ireland and other post-conflict regions. This work generated significant social and cultural
impact reflected in our impact case study ‘Driving Societal Transformation through Language Reform
in Northern Ireland’.

Theoretical Linguistics: Ulster produced cutting-edge research on semantics, pragmatics, syntax
(diachronic and synchronic) supported through grants from various research councils (British
Academy, Leverhulme Trust, AHRC). We published extensively in top journals e.g. Cognition,
Linguistics & Philosophy, Natural Language Semantics, Linguistic Inquiry, and Semantics &
Pragmatics, and regularly presented at major peer-reviewed conferences (SALT, Sinn und
Bedeutung, Amsterdam Colloquium, NELS). Romoli produced innovative experimental research on
semantics and pragmatics, the knowledge of meaning and its interfaces with other linguistic
knowledge. The work of Sevdali, Folli and Harley was devoted to interfaces between syntax,
semantics and lexicon, and diachronic syntax. Folli continued collaboration with Alexopoulou
(Cambridge) on the nominal systems of Greek and Italian. Folli revisited Talmian’s typology and
proposed the existence of a syntactic parameter. Sevdali works on grammatical case. Supported by
Anagnostopoulou (Crete) and accompanied by Mertyris and Morgan, she created an annotated
treebank of Greek examples with nominals in the dative and the genitive (DiGREC).

Discourse: Stapleton focused on narrative theory using the innovative application of a ‘narrative
template’ to a shared community narrative, having dealt with conceptualisations of prejudiced

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
discourse and/or the operation of the ‘anti-prejudice norm’. Stapleton also extended her work on
swearing as an interpersonal activity to additional languages and contexts. Rhys continued to
develop a linguistically informed approach to conversation analytic research, providing insights into
the relationships between turn design, action orientation and institutional roles and contexts.

Language Development and Disorders: Kennedy works on aphasia and pre-school children’s
language acquisition from a multidimensional perspective, and how it affects their experience of the
environment. Her contribution to the Language Made Fun project was fundamental to the design of
the intervention and assessment tools. Gerard’s work on pre-school children’s language acquisition
demonstrates the influence of extra-grammatical factors and their relevance for children’s general
comprehension.

Irish Language and Literature: Crucial advances included Ó Corráin’s pioneering estimation of
the influence of the European intellectual tradition on Irish poetry from different periods. Smith
focused on poet-historians of the Middle Irish period and how they harnessed the rhetorical
techniques of Latin scholarship (900-1200 AD). Mac Cathmhaoil studied the great Irish dynasties
in their efforts to forge a sense of political unity based on shared cultural origins and the aesthetic of
Bardic poetry in the Early Modern period. Fomin and Mac Mathúna advanced early Irish
mythological cosmological research within the international The Power of Words framework.
Supported by Alexander von Humboldt fellowship, Fomin explored the work of German folklore
collectors in Ireland, discovering the profound influence that the print culture of the Arabian Nights
Entertainments exercised on the Irish oral tradition. Sewell was commissioned to produce new
translations of poetry by the Irish poets Máirtín Ó Direáin (2018: Yale UP; 2020: Wake Forest UP)
and Seán Ó Riordáin. Hughes published a biography of Patsy Dan Rodgers, the last king of Tory
island which received extensive national coverage (The Irish News, RTÉ, TG4, BBC Radio 1, Ráidio
Fáilte).

4.4 Exemplars of interdisciplinary research

Computer-Assisted Language Learning. Ulster is widely recognised for expertise in developing
CALL methodologies and has reinforced its international reputation for research in both face-to-face
learning in technology rich environments and the pedagogy of language learning in an online
environment (Content and Language Integrated Learning (CLIL) software). Ó Dónaill leads a
community of practice, extensively disseminating his research at events in Ireland (DCU, 2016),
Britain (HEA 2016, Brighton; Languages in Higher Education, Warwick, 2016; King’s College,
London, 2020), Sweden, Portugal, Spain (5th CALL Valencian Workshop, 2015), Malta, Chile (5th
WorldCALL, 2018). Supported by EU funding, the work was labelled a European Commission
“success story” and highlighted as an example of “good practice”. The significant international impact
is described in our impact case study ‘Transforming Irish language teaching across Europe: New
digital tools for teachers and learners’. This work is progressing via a consortium to work on the EU
funded CLIL Open Online Learning 2 project (2018-2023) to develop new technological and training
solutions for CLIL teachers internationally.

Neurolinguistics and brain-computer interface (BCI). A collaboration between Linguistics and
Artificial Intelligence investigated development of a BCI for language-based communication through
brain activity and the decoding of units of speech from neural signals. Neurolinguistic research
informed the experimental paradigms for investigating stimulus and linguistic effects on brain activity
as participants performed tasks in overt and imagined speech. Folli (with colleagues in Computing)
spoke at IEEE Systems, Man, and Cybernetics Conference (Italy, 2019) and published in iScience
and Sensor.

4.5 Responsiveness to national and international priorities

Working hand in hand with minority language and ethnic groups through creation of safe, shared
spaces for people to use and debate issues about their languages, we contributed to the positive
view of these groups, facilitating creative positive impacts on their creativity, cultural renewal and
sustainability (see Section 4.2. ‘Language Made Fun’).

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

We address global challenges in our international research agenda. In collaboration with Amity
University Haryana (India), we approached GCRF for the project ‘Heritage and Dignity in Language
Conflict and Mediation: A South Asian Focus with British and Irish Reflections’. We proposed to map
and describe incidents of language related conflict/violence and identify areas of governance where
policy interventions should be prioritised, building on our experience of similar issues in Northern
Ireland (see Section 1: Driving Societal Transformation through Language Reform in Northern
Ireland).

The Real Complaints project (Rhys PI) developed in response to a commissioned call from the
HS&DR division of the NIHR, reflecting national priorities for research on patient experience. It was
founded on prior primary research and impact work by Rhys and Benwell (Visiting Professor).

4.6 Indicators of wider influence

Staff play leadership roles nationally and internationally, serving on the editorial boards of journals
and actively organizing international conferences (16 in-house; 10 outside Ulster in the period).

Membership of national and international committees, research centres and peer-review
colleges
Fomin is member of Centre for Breton and Celtic Studies (University of Western Brittany, Brest) and
of the Irish Humanities Alliance (2017-2023) (Royal Irish Academy, Dublin). Sevdali, Folli, Gerard
and Kennedy are members of the Linguistics Association of Great Britain (LAGB) and Sevdali of
The Hellenic Academics Association of Great Britain. Rhys is member of International Pragmatics
Association (IPrA) and International Society for Conversation Analysis (ISCA). Romoli is Associate
Investigator at Australian Research Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders (Sydney)
and McDermott is associate member of the Intercultural Research Centre (Heriot Watt). Mac
Cathmhaoil is Visiting Fellow (Maynooth, 2020). Stapleton is Vice-Chair of the Interpersonal
Communication and Social Interaction section of the European Communication Research and
Education Association.

Peer-reviewing for research councils nationally and internationally
Fomin, Sevdali, Romoli and Mac Cathmhaoil serve on AHRC PRC; Folli is Irish Research Council
inner board member. Romoli, Mac Cathmhaoil, Sewell review for IRC; Romoli for Research
Council of Norway, NSF (USA), The Leverhulme Trust; Sevdali for RCH (Greece); McDermott for
the European Commission and National Science Centre (Poland); Rhys for the NIHR; Stapleton for
ESRC and Ó Dónaill for the EU Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action.

Editorial work
Staff engaged in extensive editorial work. Fomin and Mac Mathúna co-edited anthologies on Indo-
Irish literary and historical parallels (2018: New Delhi, 712 p.), Irish and Scottish Gaelic maritime
heritage (2016: Berlin), Studia Celto-Slavica 7-11 (2015: Aberystwyth, 2018: Bangor, 2018-20:
Brest). Fomin, De Brún and Ó Corráin co-edited 10th volume of Studia Celtologica Nordica in
honour of Mac Mathúna (2020: Uppsala). De Brún and Mac Mathúna co-edited Éigse Loch Lao 3
(2016). Ó Corráin and Ó Néill co-edited the proceedings of the 13th Irish Linguistics conference
(2014). Barr co-edited a volume on Sustainability and CALL (2017: Bloomsbury). Stapleton (2017)
co-edited a volume on advances in swearing research. Mac Cathmhaoil co-edited a 551p. volume
on aspects of the Ulster literary tradition in memory of Diarmaid Ó Doibhlin (2018). Smith co-edited
a volume on the song heritage of North West of Ireland (2016). Sevdali received a contract from
Oxford University Press to co-edit a volume on the place of case in grammar. Comer co-edited the
biographical account of Douglas Hyde’s journey to the USA (2019). McDermott co-edited a 261p.
volume on Ethnopoesis: Writing Heritage (2020).

Staff are members of editorial boards of peer-reviewed journals in Linguistics and Irish language.
Sevdali is member of The Journal of Historical Syntax Language Section. Romoli is editor of Journal
of Semantics & Pragmatics. Rhys is Associate Editor of Pragmatics. Ó Dónaill is on the board of
International Journal of Computer-Assisted Language Learning and Teaching (IJCALLT) and Léann

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Teanga: An Reiviú. Folli was on the board of Syntax until Dec 2020. McDermott is board member
of Anthropological Journal of European Cultures. Sewell is Literary Editor of Studi Irlandese.

Conferences
Our highlight was the five-day 15th International Pragmatics Conference (2017, Belfast, Rhys and
Stapleton), with 6 plenaries, 22 parallel sessions, and over 1,300 delegates. In Celtic Studies, the
unit organises two annual conferences. Éigse Cholm Cille is convened in Derry; topics included ‘The
Irish Scholars of Ulster’ (2015), ‘The O’Neill Legacy’ (2016), ‘The Fenian Tradition’ (2017), ‘Bardic
Schools’ (2018), ‘Ulster Religious Tradition’ (2019). In Belfast, Éigse Loch Lao convened
conferences on ‘1916 and The Irish Language’ (2015), ‘Irish Drama’ (2016), ‘Irish Language
Legislation’ (2017), ‘Irish Language Planning’ (2019).

Other international events included the 49th Annual Symposium of Atlas Linguarum Europae (2016),
‘Post-Print Manuscript Cultures in Ireland, Scotland and Iceland’ (2015), ‘Comparative Revivalism’
(2015), ‘The Great Famine and Language’ (2016), Irish Annual Conference of Folklore and
Ethnology (2018).

Fomin co-organised Societas Celto-Slavica colloquia (Bangor, 2014; Heidelberg, 2016; Quimper,
2018) and ‘Material Culture of the Celts’ (Tübingen, 2017). Mac Cathmhaoil led ‘The Influence of
Print on Manuscript Culture’ (Vienna, 2017). Smith co-organised ‘Ulster Heritage Conference’ (Cork,
2018). Sevdali led ‘On the Place of Case in Grammar’ (Crete, 2018). Romoli led ‘Asymmetries in
Language: Presuppositions and Beyond’ (Berlin, 2019).

The unit hosts Research Seminar Series, inviting internationally respected scholars, including Adger
(QMU), Alexiadou (HUB, Leibniz-ZAS), Hofstetter (Linköping), Maldonado (Edinburgh), Mac
Mathúna (UCD), Jivanyan (Yerevan, Armenia), Koontz-Garboden (Manchester), Mandelkern
(Oxford), Stalk (Ghent), Chondrogianni (Edinburgh), Maier (Tübingen), Cremers (University of
Amsterdam), Sudo (UCL), Kim (Kent), Martí (QMU), Meyer (Leibniz-ZAS Berlin).

4.7 Awards, keynotes, invited lectures

Ó Dónaill presented keynotes at 5th Valencian Workshop on Computer-Assisted Language
Learning: Telecollaboration and Social Media (Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, Spain, 2015)
and at Teagasc na Gaeilge ar an Tríú Leibhéal: Dúshláin agus Dea-chleachtais/ Teaching Irish at
3rd Level: Challenges and Good Practice (DCU, 2015).

Fomin presented the Annual Humboldt Lecture (Tübingen, 2016), plenaries at Semiotics in Celtic
Studies (Trier, 2019), and Translations in International Folklore (Yerevan, 2019).

Hughes gave the Barra Ó Donnbháin Memorial Lecture at Glucksman Ireland House (New York
University, 2019), Celtic Languages and Cultures Annual Lecture (Brest, 2018), and presented at
Linenhall Library (Belfast, 2017), Lehman College (New York, 2017).

Comer gave the Annual Seán Mac Airt Lecture (Queen’s University Belfast, 2015), ‘Irish in the new
state after 1922’ (New World Trade Center, Boston MA, 2016); an American Irish Historical Society
Annual Lecture (New-York, 2018), and keynotes at National Conventions of the Gaelic League
(2017, 2018, 2019).

Fellow of the Some Institute for Advanced Studies, the National Humanities Center, North Carolina
and the Berlin Wissenschaftskolleg, Visiting Professor at Abilitazione Scientifica Nazionale and UCL,
Romoli gave 34 keynotes in the census period at MIT, California San Diego, Leibniz-ZAS Berlin,
École Normale Supérieure in Paris, Göttingen, Università di Bologna, Università di Siena,
Amsterdam, Utrecht, Macquarie, Tübingen.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.8 Contribution to the economy and society

Ulster staff consult on Irish language learning materials and syllabi at secondary (CCEA) and tertiary
(Working Group on Teaching Irish, joined by 17 ROI 3rd level institutions) level. Ó Dónaill and
Comer were commissioned to assess the Irish-medium schools syllabus by CCEA NI (2018), while
Comer was appointed Chief Examiner in A-Level Irish (2019) and Mac Cathmhaoil was
commissioned to contribute to CCEA Irish A-level syllabus. Comer, in collaboration with Committee
for the Administration of Justice, reported on the use of Irish by NI councils.

Comer leads Conradh na Gaeilge: The Gaelic League, the main cross-border organisation for
raising awareness of the Irish language. Comer is President of Conradh and Chair of the Research
Committee. Ó Dónaill is a Member of the Research Committee and Business Committee. Comer
led the formulation of Irish language policy for the NI Government’s New Decade New Approach
document, advocating for an Irish language officers' scheme facilitating employment in the Irish
language sector.

4.9 Collaborative arrangements for PhD training

The unit prioritises the integration of our doctoral researchers into the wider academic community of
their respective disciplines. Celtic convenes a graduate seminar on Early Modern Irish and
Linguistics convenes the fortnightly Ulster Linguistics Research Seminar Series, both inviting
speakers from the UK, EU as well as Ulster staff. The discourse group host weekly Conversation
Analysis Reading and Data Sessions (CARDS) with external participants participating remotely. In
the cycle, PhD researchers presented at key conferences, such as ICCS (Glasgow, 2015; Bangor,
2019), IIEMCA (Mannheim, 2019), ICCA (Loughborough, 2018), IPrA (Belfast, 2017), SIEF
(Göttingen, 2017), MFIL (Manchester, 2019), International Association of Logopedics and
Phoniatrics (Taiwan, 2019), Boston University Language Development (2019), NELS (MIT –
Cambridge, MA, 2015). Some have published in peer-reviewed journals, incl. Lingua, Pragmatics,
Studia Celtica Fennica, Béaloideas: The Journal of the Folklore of Ireland, Discourse and
Communication. Ulster PhD researchers launched and edit a new internal publication, Intersections.
PhDs are financially supported to attend external summer schools, workshops and networking
events, e.g. in Breton & Celtic Studies (Quimper, 2016-9), Creteling (Crete, 2017-9), EMCA
(Edinburgh, 2018), Developmental Language Disorder Workshop (RCSLT, London). PhDs
organised workshops outside Ulster such as the doctoral/ECR workshop series CASP (supported
by LAGB) and were hosted by partners in Brest (through Fomin), Arizona (Harley), Crete (Sevdali),
Berlin (Romoli), Potsdam (Gerard), St Petersburg (Fomin) for periods of up to one semester.




                                                                                             Page 16
