Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: 16 (Economics and Econometrics)

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context & Structure

 The Economics Department at the University of Exeter is on an exciting upward trajectory of
 ambitious directed growth. It produces internationally high quality and impactful research across
 the majority of sub-fields of economics, with a strong emphasis on stretching the boundaries of
 the discipline and attracting interdisciplinary funding. The department has expanded 50%
 over the REF period: from 28 Full-Time Equivalent Positions (FTE) (categorised as research &
 teaching) in 2013/14 to 38 in 2019/20 and 43 in 2020/21. In parallel, quality indicators rose
 substantially, e.g. research income increased from £269,295 in 2013/14 to £828,918 in 2019/20,
 more than doubling per FTE. The choice to grow – including the size of the doctoral program –
 allows a heightened focus on precisely those topics and methods that have exceptional current
 and future potential. Pushing boundaries is not a conservative strategy, but one that holds the
 promise of major benefits for the department, the institution, and society at large.

 The rationale for growth and for boundary stretching is the aspiration to pursue intellectually
 rigorous, innovative, global research, undergirded by fundamental economic perspectives
 yet multi-disciplinary in nature and applied – meaning truly outward-looking. In practice, this
 includes environmental and natural resource economics; organisations and institutions; human
 capital and labour markets; individual, household, firm, and social decision-making; gender; and
 development economics. Given the complementary importance of methodology, staff in the
 department utilise a mix of approaches ranging from time-series and spatial econometrics, to
 experiments (both lab and field) and other causal inference techniques, to regression analysis of
 administrative and survey data, to machine learning and big data. External partnerships range
 from multi-national firms to small businesses, governments at all levels, and local farmers.
 Economics at Exeter is a dynamic department with a vision of excellence in academic output
 and training, as well as influence on society.

 Climate change and ecological change represent critical global challenges that leverage existing
 and growing strengths in sustainability research. Recognising the importance of
 environmental economics, in 2015, the Unit attracted the comprehensive Land, Environment,
 Economics, & Policy (LEEP) Institute, which regularly influences UK natural resource policy at the
 highest level. This endeavour was crowned with the 2020 appointment of the Dragon Capital Chair
 in Biodiversity Economics (Groom), for which £1.6 million has been committed to fund research
 addressing the correlation between biodiversity and the economy. Another central topic is
 inequity and development, where the Unit has again stretched boundaries. For instance, since
 2018, the Economics Department has hired an expert on social inequality and cooperation, who
 holds a PhD in evolutionary biology (Hauser); an expert on the ethics of AI who holds a PhD in
 computer science (Awad); and an expert on behavioural public policy from the World Bank, who
 works with the governments of Cameroon, Egypt, Iraq, Malaysia, Mexico, Kenya, and Latvia
 (Jamison).




                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Relationship to institution

 The Economics department sits within University of Exeter Business School (UEBS), thereby
 encouraging research and other collaborations that cross disciplinary boundaries. The other
 departments within the school are Finance & Accounting; Management; and Science, Innovation,
 Technology, & Entrepreneurship (SITE), leading to fruitful formal and informal interchange of
 ideas, data, best practices and joint students and projects. Tangibly, since 2018 this has led to
 five co-authored papers in leading journals in economics, finance, leadership, psychology, and
 management. In addition, Economics staff actively work with academics across the university (e.g.
 in Human Geography, Law, Philosophy, Politics, and Psychology), including a large health
 economics group in the College of Medicine and Health, and with others around the world - see
 the list of partnerships and resultant impacts in Section 4.

 Another concrete advantage for Economics of being situated in UEBS is the ability to benefit from
 its well-developed programs, processes, and resources. The School has recently become one of
 less than 1% of all business schools worldwide to be triple accredited, and the University
 has started an initiative called ‘Project Business’ to invest heavily in the future – including dozens
 of new staff positions – with a particular focus on Economics. UEBS has a centralised Research
 Strategy Group (RSG), led by the Associate Dean for Research & Impact, with members including
 the Directors of Research (DOR) for the four departments, the various Centre Directors, the
 Directors of Impact and of post-graduate research (PGR) for UEBS, and staff focused on funding
 and external partner engagement. This allows for a coordinated strategic focus and the prompt
 marshalling of logistical resources when necessary. This School-wide structure also promotes the
 communal accomplishment of goals and the importance of external impact – for instance
 highlighting work undertaken jointly by staff from Economics and SITE to help reduce waiting times
 in the NHS.

        Internal organisation

 Within the Economics department, the design is purposefully a single cohesive entity without
 formal divisions, encouraging intermingling and communication, including porous boundaries
 with the two research centres. LEEP (Land, Environment, Economics, & Policy), as mentioned
 above and led by Bateman and Day, has had major funding (£4.8 million) from the Natural
 Environment Research Council (NERC) and works closely with policy-making bodies such as
 Defra to shape the future of the environment in the UK and globally, in addition to publishing
 foundational research. The Tax Administration Research Centre (TARC), which is led by
 Kotsogiannis and has had major funding (£1.8 million) from the Economic and Social Research
 Council (ESRC), collaborates with HMRC but also has active engagements with the tax authorities
 of Bulgaria, Greece, and Rwanda. Individual staff members also engage regularly with UEBS
 Centres for Leadership, for Entrepreneurship, and for Simulation, Analytics, & Modelling, as well
 as with Index (the Initiative in the Digital Economy) – an outpost of UEBS that is based in London
 – in addition to centres and institutes throughout the university, such as the Institute for Data
 Science and Artificial Intelligence (IDSAI).

 Economics at Exeter prioritises a culture of collegiality, which means supporting colleagues and
 rewarding their successes, including cake for journal acceptances and hosting meals for all staff
 at local restaurants. A recently introduced annual ‘Research Day’ mini-retreat gathers the entire
 department to share best practices and topics they are most excited about. During the winter

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sequence of visits by job candidates there is always an open buffet lunch, which is an excellent
 opportunity for staff and PGRs to interact and catch up with one another, as well as get to know
 the candidate more informally. These opportunities (and the overall approach) are especially
 important since the goal is to facilitate outside-the-box exchanges and projects. There is a
 new series of informal ‘research & doughnuts’ presentations aimed at undergraduates, which
 provides a chance for staff to practice motivating and explaining their work to a keen but less
 technical audience – and a chance for students to engage with stimulating frontier research while
 they consider post-graduation options. Postgraduate research students are very much included in
 this culture and are encouraged to attend all department events such as lunches with job
 candidates.

        Growth trajectory

 The number of academic research staff has increased substantially over the REF period, with
 further growth planned (and approved). This has involved a change not just in size but in
 direction, actively guided by a dynamic new Dean (and Deputy Dean) and Head of Department
 (HoD). Nationalities of staff span the globe, from Canada to Colombia to Kenya to Pakistan to
 Mexico to Syria. All of this has directly expanded capacity, but it has also facilitated the desire
 and ability to push into new research territories.

 This upward trajectory is a strategic investment in excellence, as reflected in successful bids for
 grants and other funding which have risen at an average annual rate of 23.5% per FTE since
 2013 (see Section 3). Quality is also apparent in publishing: in addition to the best field journals
 across all areas of economics – and in other disciplines, such as Organisational Behaviour &
 Human Decision Processes, Artificial Intelligence, Nature Human Behaviour, Nature
 Communications, Nature Food, and Social Science & Medicine – since 2016, staff have published
 excellent papers in general-interest outlets such as:
     AER, Econometrica, QJE, REStud
     J Econometrics, AEJ: Applied, AEJ: Macro, REStat, JEEA, EJ
     Management Science, PNAS, Nature, Leadership Quarterly

        Strategy

 The overarching research goal of the Economics department is to produce outputs of the highest
 quality and influence. High-priority complementary goals include capacity-building, especially for
 PGRs and ECRs, and positive sustainable benefits for society. These high-level agendas, outlined
 in more detail below, build on and complement the overall strategies of the University and
 especially UEBS.

 The mission statement of UEBS is “to deliver outstanding and innovative business education and
 research that addresses the major challenges confronting businesses and society.” Its
 corresponding strategy involves distinctive and innovative high-calibre international research
 that engages with and fundamentally improves the world we live and work in. One component
 of this is transparency, including making datasets publicly available and a commitment (with
 resources) to data integrity and to open access publishing (more on both in Section 3). While fully
 utilizing and building on the impressive resources and reputation of the university, UEBS maintains
 a high degree of autonomy in terms of research budget, faculty hiring, PGR procedures, and ethics
 review, amongst others.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 UEBS has been growing rapidly, not just in Economics, and all departments are focused on novel
 but ambitious approaches incorporating technology & data science, multi-disciplinary research in
 areas such as sustainability and social organisation, and external partnerships to influence
 policy. Just as the school leverages its position within the university while maintaining a degree
 of independence, the department leverages its position within the school while also charting its
 own path involving quantitative applied work that pushes the traditional definition of the field in
 new directions. This agenda remains true to the skills and philosophy of the economics
 profession, while taking advantage of the broader UEBS framework to work and attract funding
 and publish across a variety of disciplines. For instance, Fonseca has worked on the topic of
 gossip with a colleague in Management (Peters), leading to outputs in both Games & Economic
 Behavior and in Psychological Science.

 The strategic approach to equitably hiring talented researchers from diverse backgrounds (see
 Section 2), has been validated by the capacity to rapidly respond to the COVID-19 pandemic (see
 Section 4), for example with high-quality applied policy-relevant work. For instance, a new hire
 (Sansone) published a paper on the [under-]representation of sexual minorities in STEM fields,
 which was prominently highlighted by outlets such as The Guardian and Times Higher Education
 and had the 73rd highest attention score on Altmetric for 2020, across all disciplines, despite only
 appearing in November.

        Sub-fields

 Exeter Economics has in recent history been best known for its highly regarded research in
 behavioural, social, and experimental economics, as well as in economic theory. This is
 evident in the profiles of many staff (Chakravarty, Fonseca, Grosskopf, Kaplan, Lindsay, Sarin)
 and continues to be an area of strength via hiring since 2014 (Chen, Hauser, Nei, Pearce,
 Reinstein, Robinson-Cortés). A strategic decision was made, after REF 2014, to move beyond
 existing strengths in order to distinctively stretch the limits of the field as a whole. Every
 department needs to do the basics extremely well but also take a stand and choose priorities. The
 criteria for the Unit, to be able to chart a realistic course toward world-leading excellence, were:
      a) building on strengths rather than starting completely fresh;
      b) directly engaging with the problems of the world; and
      c) catalysing innovative solutions by spanning disciplines.

 This naturally led to a focus on rigorous applied empirical research across a range of sectors,
 but especially those which are likely to grow and to use inputs and techniques from experimental,
 behavioural, and theoretical economics. Having accomplished the vital step of hiring high-calibre
 faculty; and having invested in facilities, infrastructure, support services; as well as a commitment
 to continued future resources, the Unit seeks to be an economics department specifically known
 for crossing disciplines to make deep intellectual and practical progress on policy-relevant
 questions related to business, the environment, social welfare, families, inequality, and growth.
 Key current and future growth areas include:
      Environment, agriculture, and natural resources: hires Bateman, Binner, Brucal, Day,
         Eisenbarth, Groom, and Heyes since 2014, joining McCorriston
      Development and institutions: hires Banerjee, Dyer, Ip, Jamison, Mahmud, and Meraglia
         since 2014, joining Fernandes, Kotsogiannis, and Zissimos



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Labour, health, and education: hires Mumcu, Oreffice, Quintana-Domeque, Sansone,
      and Zhang since 2014
     Macroeconomics and finance: hires Keller, Troshkin, and Weber since 2014, joining
      Cooke and Neira.

 These applied and emerging fields are rigorously empirical, in the sense that they make central
 use of existing and novel data from a variety of sources. The Unit has also invested in
 methodologists, from applied econometricians to specialists in machine learning (with hires
 Awad, Cavaliere, Kim, Kripfganz, and Kumar since 2014). UEBS hosts a new Research Methods
 Centre, described in more detail in Section 3, to support all staff and PGRs in making use of the
 latest techniques. Furthermore, Economics (Hauser) leads the business theme within IDSAI, a
 major university initiative linked to the Alan Turing Institute.

        Interdisciplinarity and applied work

 The pandemic has highlighted the necessity of looking toward the problems of the future,
 whether health or environment or technology or social inequality, and doing what is needed now
 to contribute to solving them. The fundamental questions of the next generation are likely to be
 difficult to answer cleanly, instead requiring new approaches to theory, a mix of data, and a
 thoughtful holistic conceptual framework to hold it all together in a compelling manner.

 One concrete metric where the Unit is pushing boundaries is the percentage of publications that
 are in journals not categorised as purely economics (by the Association of Business Schools;
 using Scopus data yields similar trends). The 3-year rolling average for this number has increased
 by 41% over the REF period. The majority of these are in other social science and business
 journals, as well as natural sciences, and they reflect changes on both the extensive (hiring) and
 intensive (selection of topic and collaborators) margins. Another relevant indicator is the
 interdisciplinary tag for REF itself, which has been applied to almost 40% of Exeter’s submitted
 outputs in UoA16.

 We will also continue the trajectory of managed growth, building on the hiring of eight new faculty
 (six junior and two senior) in the 2019-20 season, by recruiting top scholars at all levels. These
 will primarily be in the fields outlined above, but also in closely related areas with similar
 characteristics, such as applied theory (e.g. welfare economics); public policy; technology &
 innovation; and/or culture & economics. Impact-specific training is also being integrated for
 PGRs and ECRs.

 To accomplish all this and to mitigate accompanying risks, in addition to a basic flexibility of
 implementation and commitment of resources, it will be necessary to integrate ever more fully
 across UEBS and especially the University. For instance, Economics will make valuable
 contributions to the University of Exeter’s recently declared ‘climate and environmental
 emergency’ (which acknowledges the crisis of climate change and promises to help combat it) –
 and instigate stimulating new research in the process. Graduate students can and should take
 classes from a cross-section of departments. Increasingly research will be done in medium or
 large interdisciplinary teams, hence both students and faculty need to be ready to step into these
 roles. This can be achieved via experience (e.g. organizing informal networks to brainstorm, in
 preparation for urgent grants or policy requests); via seed funding of pilot projects and proofs-of-



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 concept; via mentorship and formal training; and via a collaborative joint approach to building a
 healthy and high-quality research culture.

 Central to this framework is an energetic and developing PGR programme (see Section 2),
 both to stay at the forefront of knowledge today and to train future researchers and practitioners;
 the Unit now offers a rigorous new 2+3 MRes+PhD programme, with internally-funded
 scholarships, in line with other elite departments in the UK and US.

 Section 2. People

         Hiring & Promotion

 The growth trajectory of the department has accommodated a recruitment strategy of searching
 for the best candidates across fields, referring not only to research but also to teaching, public-
 goods provision, and impact. With respect to the latter, recent hires arrived with a well-developed
 base of projects already involving applied translational activities and with high potential for impact.
 There has been a general focus on applied economics and multi-disciplinary work, as described
 in the previous section, but this has been explicitly broadly construed in pursuit of excellence. The
 successful recruitment campaigns have been globally competitive: the new hires listed above
 include staff with PhDs from Caltech, U Chicago, Harvard, MIT, Princeton, Stanford, Toulouse,
 UC Berkeley, and UCL; and with postdocs at Harvard, MIT, Oxford, and Yale.

 Hires have come at both junior levels (Lecturer, Senior Lecturer) and senior levels (Associate
 Professor, Professor). This involves thorough participation in the standard junior job market, but
 also selective active targeting of potential senior staff. As part of the latter process, the
 Economics department has worked proactively to promote gender balance among staff by creating
 a list of female candidates to approach in 2020 to see if they might be interested in joining the
 faculty, which began by manually looking through all publications in top research outlets in the
 previous five years. Two of the resulting discussions are live and proceeding promisingly. Even
 before that exhaustive search, evidence-based best practices such as diverse mixed panels,
 structured interviews, and head-to-head comparisons were standard. Consequently, the
 share of female candidates interviewed and flown-out during the most recent job market cycles
 was 40%, and 10 (out of 28) hires since 2014 have been women.

 Finally, the department is taking more advantage of its two Distinguished Research Professors
 (Cavaliere, Heyes), who are part-time at Exeter. Specifically they join the daily life of the
 department by giving research seminars & methodology workshops; by giving lectures in the
 MRes program; by mentoring staff and PhD students; by serving as internal reviewers for the
 annual research monitoring exercise; and by facilitating international connections via their
 networks. For instance, given that the only full-time senior econometrician has just retired,
 Cavaliere stepped in to guide early-career researchers on both substance and the publication
 process, and is involved in every step of the day-to-day process for recruiting. Meanwhile Heyes
 complements and contributes to the growing strength in environmental economics.

        Clarity and transparency

 Promotion criteria are well-defined in the award-winning Exeter Academic; the University’s
 career development programme. Within Economics, to pass the 3-year probation period, new

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lecturers are expected to produce one world-leading output or two internationally excellent
 outputs and to apply for grant income. To be promoted to Senior Lecturer (SL) (typically after a
 further two years), the same again is expected. In both cases, if the quantity and quality are in
 place before the expected time horizon – and if teaching and departmental service are equally
 above the bar – there is nothing to stop a flexible early decision. For instance, Hauser was hired
 as Senior Lecturer straight from a post-doc and was quickly promoted to Associate Professor after
 an impressive sequence of publications and other contributions. Other ‘home-grown’ successes
 in this period include: Chakravarty, who was also promoted to AP; Fernandes, who was promoted
 early to SL; eight others promoted to SL; and Pearce, who was hired as Lecturer upon completing
 his PhD at Exeter. There is no arbitrary a priori constraint on the number of promotions in any
 given year or of staff at any given level, which drastically diminishes competition between staff
 and also allows the optimal decision to be made individually in every case.

 UEBS is committed to supporting and nurturing its academic staff to succeed at all levels and has
 introduced bespoke annual individual development plans to facilitate such progression. These
 plans clearly describe a combination of what the individual objectives are; how they can be
 accomplished; and which types of additional support are required. The fundamental goal is for
 every single member of staff to succeed (see following sub-section), while maintaining a
 commitment to excellence so as to attract stellar talent. The staffing process at UEBS follows
 the core principle that everyone has a critical contribution to make, and that everyone should be
 supported to reach their full potential and ensure the school’s success. All hiring and promotion
 processes abide by recognised best practices for diversity & inclusion (see further below),
 including the responsible use of metrics. For instance, Exeter implements the principles of the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA).

        Development & Support

 All members of the Economics department benefit from a variety of resources and structures in
 place to allow them to flourish and produce their best work, fully aligned with the Researcher
 Development Concordat (see Institutional-level Environment Statement 2.10 and 3.5-7). Staff are
 matched with Academic Leads to provide individual mentorship and advice on career
 development, with respect to Exeter but also more broadly. Success can mean different things
 to different people, this includes anything from where to submit a particular paper or respond to
 editorial comments, to how to balance research with teaching and service responsibilities. The
 Academic Lead system, along the lines of a ‘critical friend’, provides a separate source of
 feedback from the line manager (typically the HoD), specific to career stage and circumstances.
 Meanwhile, the annual Performance & Development Review (PDR) is preceded by an individual
 contribution meeting (held with the HoD), and the goal is to embed a culture of continuous
 reflection and review, looking back but more importantly looking forward and valuing individuals,
 throughout the department.

 UEBS has recently begun conducting an annual review of academic performance among staff.
 This was partly implemented to ensure equity and consistency in the formal feedback process,
 and to ensure 360-degree accountability to the strategic aims of the school and of the individual
 departments. However, it is also able to systematically identify – using metrics in line with Exeter
 Academic, such as research output, teaching, external funding, impact, PhD supervision, and
 general citizenship – a small number of staff whose performance is below potential. In those cases
 (even for Professors) a Performance Improvement Plan is put in place, with clear goals to be met,

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with whatever support (e.g. individual coaching) is necessary to meet them. The annual review
 also identifies high performers, who can be directed to apply for the next university-wide rounds
 of promotion or for whom retention mechanisms can be instituted if needed. The “employee voice”
 is heard via regular formal staff surveys such as CROS and PIRLS (see Institutional Statement
 3.17) as well as informally via departmental meetings – including with the VC – all of which has
 been especially instrumental in developing supportive and tailored wellbeing policies during the
 pandemic.

 Individual outputs go through a review process that takes place annually and consists of receiving
 a descriptive rating as well as substantive comments from both an internal and external senior
 scholar. The final grade is determined by a diverse internal panel which ensures consistency
 across staff profiles, with an appeals process if necessary. These reviews are used for multiple
 purposes: informing performance evaluations – judging publications on their own merits rather
 than simply via journal reputations; allocating workload hours for high-productivity researchers;
 one input for guiding REF submissions; and providing concrete feedback to staff on their portfolios.
 This process involves a nontrivial commitment of resources, but it improves fairness by promoting
 objectivity.

 Annual responsibilities are determined by a workload allocation model, with hours clearly allocated
 for research, lecturing, tutoring / supervision, and service obligations such as committee
 membership. Additional hours are awarded for exceptionally high-quality research (e.g. to
 complete a revision that shows high promise), for high-quality externally funded research, and for
 work on impact case studies, each of which implies a lessening of other tasks. This approach has
 the effect of signalling but also encouraging the strategic goals of the department and the
 institution, and it catalyses transparent and effective discussions between staff and the HoD about
 the prioritisation of time. In addition, the University has a formal recognition scheme, aptly named
 ‘Above & Beyond’, for affirming and rewarding (monetarily or otherwise) those who surpass their
 assigned duties.

        Equality, diversity, and inclusivity (EDI)

 The University holds Athena SWAN Silver status for advancing the careers of women (see also
 Institutional Statement 3.14-17), and UEBS – which is in the process of applying separately for
 Athena SWAN accreditation – is a member of both the Globally Responsible Leadership Initiative
 and the UN’s Principles of Responsible Management Education. The School, which recently
 created a Chief Diversity Officer, has an Inclusivity Group, co-chaired by the Deputy Dean and the
 Director of College Operations, with two active staff members from Economics (Fonseca and
 Poen); the group’s PGR representative is also from Economics (Delafield). The Group reviews
 data and feedback from a wide variety of sources in order to monitor progress, to support and
 promote new policies and procedures, and to escalate ideas and issues to the university-wide
 inclusivity body. With regard to staff progression in particular, proactive steps are taken each year
 to evaluate pay equity and to address any gaps between groups. Meanwhile the selection of
 REF outputs follows a transparent process, including de-bias training for all panellists (who
 included female and BAME representatives), and the relative male/female ratio of submitted
 papers to male/female headcount is 1.05 for juniors (L/SL) and 1.03 for seniors (AP/P).

 The structured hiring practices described above substantially raised the percentage of female
 members of staff (from 17% in 2014 to 26% in 2020), doubling their numbers within both the

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 junior (L/SL) and senior (AP/P) levels. This approach has also increased the ethnic and nationality
 diversity of the department – which is important in its own right and serves the strategic purpose
 of stretching boundaries and encouraging non-traditional avenues of thought. All new staff go
 through an induction that involves well-being, EDI awareness, and knowledge of flexible work
 options. Researchers in the department also study directly relevant topics: gender and
 competition; sexual orientation and STEM fields; the unequal burden of COVID on minorities; etc.

 Work-life balance is extremely important, and hours tend to be very flexible including
 accommodation within teaching timetables and meeting schedules for those with caring
 responsibilities or health conditions; see Institutional Statement 3.4. For instance, the weekly
 departmental seminar, late on Friday afternoons, had been difficult for some staff and students
 with care duties and was proactively moved to earlier in the day. The generous parental leave
 policy of 52 weeks (26 at full pay) can be shared across parents. Given that COVID added extra
 burdens (teaching and care-taking) for everyone, various administrative tasks (e.g. annual
 performance paperwork) were streamlined or eliminated. Finally, there is a rejuvenated ‘study
 leave’ sabbatical policy to which eligible staff can apply in order to jumpstart new research projects
 and agendas, serving in part to proactively encourage exceptional ‘blue-sky’ research ideas. This
 is just one aspect of the explicit commitment to promote ambitious lines of work that may
 require extra time for investment and for yielding results, due to their interdisciplinary nature
 and/or engagement with external partners.

        Formal support structures

 Development opportunities include the School’s Research Methods Centre and the Centre for
 Excellence in Teaching & Learning (both described in more detail in Section 3). The department
 maximises inclusion through processes such as the aforementioned annual Research Day for the
 entire department to discuss their current projects and to share best practices such as how to
 present effectively and how to respond to reviewers. Media training for promoting research and
 gaining policy traction is also provided. Much development and support happens in less formal
 settings, and an abundance of opportunities are available for all staff. These include, for example,
 a bottom-up reading group on machine learning; interaction with Distinguished Research
 Professors (as mentioned above) and with seminar speakers from around the world; and multiple
 locally hosted conferences (see Section 4).

 The first point of contact for direct support is typically the Academic Lead or the Director of
 Research for Economics, but several others share responsibility for providing resources and
 guidance as needed – for instance the Director of Impact for the School and the newly created
 Director of Research Ethics, which expands the previous role of Ethics Officer – in recognition of
 its importance. All staff are given a baseline personal development account for conference and/or
 co-author travel, pilot data collection, and other development needs, but there are multiple other
 sources of internal funding available. These cover everything from journal submission and
 open-access fees, to copy-editing, to ‘seed corn’ funding for getting riskier but ambitious new ideas
 off the ground, to Impact Accelerator grants for building relationships with external partners. For
 instance, the latter scheme has given £10-20,000 each for collaborations on charitable giving with
 non-profits (Reinstein); on female entrepreneurship with an Indian micro-finance bank
 (Chakravarty and Kumar); and on applying market design principles with environmental
 organisations (Lindsay). The Director of Impact, partly by liaising with the IIB (Innovation, Impact,
 and Business) team within the university, supports impact via access to travel and financial

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support but also partnership opportunities – including logistical advice that can be especially
 important for ECRs as they gain experience.

 An active team of professional services staff supports grant applications and external partnerships,
 with separate groups who specialise in and have extensive experience involving diverse entities,
 as befits the strategy of stretching boundaries: EU funding agencies, traditional UK funding
 agencies; the business and government / non-profit communities; and trusts & foundations. The
 School’s internal peer review policy yields timely expert constructive criticism, ensuring that
 applications are as strong as possible, which primarily benefits the applicants but also maintains
 the university’s reputation with funders and donors. Finally, a new program aims to provide access
 to part-time undergraduate research interns, which not only helps faculty but also builds capacity
 in the students and feeds into the updated MRes programme.

 Early career researchers receive additional support that give them every opportunity to thrive,
 including a reduced teaching load and concomitantly higher time allocated for research, as well
 as the potential for ‘top-ups’ of their personal development account and access to a variety of
 separate funding opportunities set aside solely for them; see Institutional Statement 3.8. An
 example is the International Advisory Board (IAB) scheme, which is focused on business-oriented
 research and also counts toward performance expectations around research income. This is
 especially important for junior staff, for whom it serves as a natural source for modest but
 catalysing grants in the amount of £5-10,000. The recent focus on growth has produced a large
 number of active ECRs, who serve as a resource and sounding-board for one another.
 Furthermore, the new MRes programme (described below) supplies a growing pool of high-quality
 graduate students for ECRs and other staff to collaborate with. Finally, junior researchers are also
 in charge of inviting speakers for the departmental seminar series. This allows them to determine
 what research is most relevant, to build their networks and interact directly with senior international
 scholars, and to gain practical experience in working as part of an organisational team.

         PGRs (and Postdoctoral Fellows)

 Research students and postdocs are fully included in the intellectual life of the economics
 department at Exeter, and in particular can avail themselves of almost all the resources, including:
 training sessions through the Research Methods Centre; professional services support for grant
 proposals and ethics review; seminars and conferences; the annual ‘Research Day’ and other
 internal activities. In addition to the departmental Directors of Research and of Impact, there are
 dedicated senior staff for both the MRes program and the PhD program – with workload hours
 allocated for both roles and for doctoral supervision. Each student, following full inductions at both
 the university and school level, has at least two academic supervisors in addition to a shared point
 of contact for pastoral support. There is also a PGR director for UEBS as a whole, as well as an
 entire Doctoral College of professional staff within the university, in addition to the wide variety of
 resources available to all students (e.g. Wellbeing, Sports, Culture, and so on); see Institutional
 Statement 3.9-13. One recent innovation has been the introduction of a weekly graduate student
 workshop, where students are required to present regularly and can receive constructive
 feedback on work-in-progress (and valuable presentation experience) from a mix of fellow PGRs
 as well as faculty.

 In line with the strong focus on quality, the graduate research program has been completely
 revamped and updated over the last several years. Beginning in 2019, the Unit now offers a

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘2+3’ model with a full two-year MRes followed by the traditional PhD dissertation with a well-
 defined and structured upgrade and viva process. This is typical of the best international programs,
 especially in the United States, but is offered by relatively few UK universities. The first year is
 comprised of core work in micro, macro, econometrics, and research methods, while in the second
 year they choose from advanced field-specific modules in micro, macro, and econometrics /
 research methods. Students can also take advantage of specialised training offered by the
 research centres affiliated with the department (LEEP and TARC). A total of 71 students finished
 over the REF period, comprising more than 50% ethnic minority and almost 30% female, and there
 are currently 19 doctoral students from a wide range of backgrounds being supervised by
 Economics staff. The number of completions per FTE declined as the number of faculty grew (a
 strategic decision about what comes first), but it should now increase with the significant
 investments and improved selectivity. Furthermore, the new upgrade process comes early in the
 DPhil in order to provide feedback at a useful stage and to catch issues in time to overcome them,
 increasing the completion rate.

 Following best international practice, Exeter now offers three to five internal five-year
 scholarships per Economics cohort, available to all students and fully funded by UEBS, with a
 structured process allowing accommodation of all protected characteristics, including a diverse
 selection panel. These are complemented by university sources, as well as external studentships
 from the ESRC Southwest DTP, international sponsors such as governments and central banks,
 and elsewhere, leading to a planned (within three years) steady-state intake of 8-10 students per
 year. These various elements are already attracting high-quality students from a variety of
 backgrounds. All students are also provided with direct support in the form of desk space (near
 one another) and funding for travel, conference participation, and some data collection. In the
 most recent PRES feedback survey, 100% of students were satisfied with their supervision and
 available resources and 95% or more were satisfied with their progress and assessment; research
 skills; and professional development.

 Fixed-term postdoctoral fellows are expected to contribute to the research projects that they are
 affiliated with and funded by, and they are also encouraged (and supported) to pursue their own
 research when possible. One of the LEEP research fellows (Faccioli) has published multiple recent
 articles in highly recognised environmental economics journals, above and beyond her current
 grant projects. Meanwhile one of the TARC fellows (Grimshaw), who also received his PhD from
 Exeter, won the 2017-18 Hutton Prize for Excellence, which is awarded to “recognise and
 encourage the next generation of young professionals to put ethical conduct at the forefront
 of business, government and the professions.” A postdoc at LEEP (Lee) won a 2020 UKRI
 Research Translation Fellowship to perform simulated valuation modelling while embedded within
 Defra’s policy design team. Meanwhile recent PhD graduates receive extensive job market
 support and have gone on to academic placements (either postdocs or lectureships) at Freiburg,
 Innsbruck, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, Shanghai, and Warwick, as well as to
 non-academic jobs such as the IMF and the Korean Central Bank. They have also published in
 Econometrica, Experimental Economics, JEBO, JEDC, Economics Letters, and Management
 Science.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

        Income



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Befitting its growth and ambitious forward strategy, Exeter Economics has seen a substantial
 increase in research income. Official grant income rose from under £270,000 in each of 2013/14
 and 2014/15, to a high of over £1 million in 2017/18, and it has stayed above £820,000 annually
 in the last two years, thus more than tripling over the REF period (and more than doubling per
 FTE). The goal is to continue this robust positive trajectory, through further expansions in the
 faculty size but also through enhanced applications and success rates, including applied work with
 myriad external partners such as the United Nations, AstraZeneca, the Met Office, and
 governments from Australia to Brazil to Cameroon and beyond. Indeed, the total value of grants
 awarded has averaged over £2 millon per year since 2018.

 Previously this funding came essentially entirely from UK research councils, which naturally have
 continued to be major supporters. However, in recent years these have been augmented by funds
 from industry; from UK charities and independent bodies; from the EU; and from non-EU sources.
 This is a result not only of the tactical diversification in bids, but also of the much broader range
 of both fundamental topics and applied work being pursued. According to Scopus, the
 number of distinct funders named on at least three outputs between 2013-15 was only two (ESRC
 and NERC), while for 2015-17 it was five and for 2017-19 it was nine – adding bodies such as
 EPSRC, Wellcome Trust, ERC, the EC’s 7th Framework Programme, and the Ecological Society
 of America. This diversity arises from the goal of stretching boundaries but at the same time builds
 resilience for the future and maximises impact (see Section 4).

 The goal of the department is for all staff to participate in not only research and teaching, but also
 grant applications and creating impact. For funding, the expectation is that everyone, including
 ECRs, should aim to secure a minimum amount from external sources. To enable this, the
 department, school, and university provide an expert and comprehensive support structure via
 both senior faculty members and professional services staff, with particular attention paid to
 ensure equity and inclusion for everyone (see Section 2). There exists help not only with costing
 and other administrative requirements but also with inception of ideas, matching individual staff to
 active alerts of opportunities; arranging internal peer reviews in addition to their own substantive
 feedback on proposals; mock interviews; training; and advisory sessions. For instance, this was
 invaluable in the successful recent UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship cycle (£1.09 million to
 Hauser).

 Research Services, who coordinate applications to EU, UKRI, Leverhulme, and related funders,
 and ‘Innovation, Impact & Business’ (IIB), who coordinate applications with the private sector and
 with government entities, both support this activity; see Institutional Statement 4.5-10. Each has
 a staff member assigned to the Economics Department who gets to know the research interests
 of all economics faculty individually. There are also university-wide ‘Funder Advisory Networks’
 for each major funding body such as ESRC, with active participation by economists where
 pertinent including for Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF). These networks are co-led by
 an experienced faculty member and by a specialised member of the dedicated Research Services
 team of professional staff, so that the latest information about upcoming calls can be circulated,
 which is especially crucial given the trend toward increasingly large collaborations and short
 deadlines.

        Infrastructure




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond frameworks in place to optimise efficient generation of income, the Department of
 Economics strives to provide its staff with an environment which is conducive to maximising their
 potential. Investment in infrastructure therefore goes hand-in-hand with significant
 investment into attracting staff, as well as providing all staff with the resources and supporting
 mechanisms that they need to excel in their research (see Section 2). Much of this infrastructure
 is organisational, while some of it is more tangible. Regarding the former, UEBS hosts multiple
 centres to which all researchers have access. They provide a forum for knowledge-exchange,
 dissemination of results, collaboration, joint grant submissions, workshops, and seminars. Of the
 four which are most relevant for Economics, two are focused on training and capacity and two are
 substantively thematic.

       The Research Methods Centre aims to develop the core research methods base within
        academic staff and PGR students. It facilitates cutting-edge interdisciplinary interactions
        between staff and experts in research methods from other colleges, research centres, and
        outside the University. The centre arranges workshops, events, and speakers to introduce
        new methods as well as to develop existing methodological knowledge of the academic
        staff and research students. Events have included extended trainings on natural language
        processing, experimental methods, Bayesian statistics, qualitative analysis (including
        NVivo), Python, machine learning, online data collection, and the behind-the-scenes of
        publishing.

       The Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning promotes best practices in
        research-led teaching and supports research in teaching methods and practice by staff
        actively engaged in original pedagogical research (Cortinhas, Rogers). There is also a
        popular final-year undergraduate dissertation option for the best students, which leads
        some of them into graduate economics programmes.

       The Tax Administration Research Centre: Tax administration inherently spans several
        disciplines, and TARC was established at the outset as an interdisciplinary centre. This is
        one of the features of the centre that secured its initial joint funding of £1.99 million from
        the ESRC and HMRC in 2013; since then it has received over £1.03 million in additional
        funding. TARC researchers are drawn from Accounting (including the deputy director),
        Anthropology, Economics (including the director), Law, and Psychology. In 2018, a joint
        appointment was made between UEBS and Law. The Centre includes distinguished
        international fellows such as Michael Keen (IMF) and James Poterba (MIT), as well as
        hosting dozens of visitors, post-doctoral fellows, and doctoral students. In addition to
        producing academic publications, there is a strong focus on engaging with policymakers
        via reports, workshops, and masterclasses. TARC also publishes an international journal,
        the Journal of Tax Administration.

       The Land, Environment, Economics and Policy Institute. LEEP aims to develop
        knowledge and understanding to inform governments, businesses and communities about
        how land and the environment are managed and used; the policies that affect this; the
        impact upon people, and how policy should be better designed, appraised and evaluated.
        LEEP builds upon an established and internationally acclaimed track record of research
        excellence combining world-leading expertise in environmental economics and economic
        modelling. Together with international research partners, LEEP brings together experts
        from the diversity of economic and natural sciences needed to provide an integrated

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        understanding of the ways in which these complex systems interact globally. This truly
        multidisciplinary approach includes collaborations with other groups on campus (including
        the Circular Economy, Earth Sciences, and Politics) and externally. The most recent
        Professorial hire is Groom from LSE, who is the new Dragon Capital Chair in Biodiversity
        Economics, funded in part by a £1 million external endowment. The LEEP Institute sits in
        offices adjacent to the Economics Department, just refurbished with a £470,000 investment
        from the University and Business School.

 TARC and LEEP each host seminar series where internal and external scholars present their
 work. The department as a whole has a very active weekly seminar series where internationally
 renowned scholars are invited to give talks about their latest stimulating research and to meet with
 both faculty and post-graduate students. Across UEBS and University, staff are frequently invited
 to give and attend seminars in Education, Finance & Accounting, Management, Medicine, Politics,
 and Psychology. The department runs its own working paper series, including subsidised copy-
 editing services. In addition, the extensive university library has a budget to pay for full open-
 access rights for promising new publications (i.e. those of outstanding scholarship and/or with
 potential for media attention and impact); in the first six months of 2020 they paid over £5,000 for
 Gold access for five papers from Economics. Repository downloads for the department increased
 from less than 1000 in 2014 to more than 5000 annually since 2018. It also hosts a fully
 customisable online data-management planning tool, which facilitates compliance with various
 funder requirements but also generally proper data hygiene techniques.

        Facilities

 All staff are provided with offices on the main Streatham Park campus in Exeter, a Green Flag
 Award-winning space. The Occupational Health group facilitates productive and sustainable
 physical environments, including for those with disabilities. UEBS consists of three adjoining
 buildings, with most faculty offices in one of them while the others incorporate modern teaching
 and student facilities; administrative offices; a cafeteria; and the FEELE lab (see below) and other
 research-specific spaces. This proximity encourages easy interaction between all members of
 the community. All staff are provided with high-specification computers that can be accessed
 remotely. If required, staff receive specialised workstation computers to allow working with large
 data and can receive access to an on-campus high-performance machine (supercomputer). A
 specialist IT team supports staff in the building with hardware and software needs. Staff have
 access to a large range of software, journals and working papers, and databases (e.g. Bloomberg,
 Thomson Reuters).

 The Finance and Economics Experimental Laboratory at Exeter (FEELE) is a state-of-the-art
 laboratory for research in experimental social science, located in the Department of
 Economics. It has 32 networked terminals and two experimenter servers, in the process of
 transitioning to a cloud-based server, following a £33,600 investment by UEBS. Each terminal is
 equipped with sensors to measure skin conductance, heart rate, and facial expressions for
 emotional response. This allows researchers to move beyond traditional economics tasks that
 focus solely on decisions themselves, additionally engaging with neuroscientific and psychological
 processes that provide evidence on mechanisms. A full-time lab manager provides support for
 programming and for subject recruiting, so that staff and PGR students can make full use of this
 valuable resource. The laboratory also enables economics experiments to be an integral part of



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the teaching practice at UEBS. From 2016-19 an average of 4332 participants per year made
 hundreds of thousands of controlled choices in the lab.




        Research Ethics & Data Integrity

 UEBS and the Economics Department in particular take research integrity extremely seriously,
 leading by example not only in research but also in education, community engagement, corporate
 partnerships, and day-to-day operations. The FEELE lab adheres to the ethical standards of the
 Economic Science Association, as well as the ethical guidelines set forth by the ESRC.
 Researchers using the FEELE lab must obtain ethics approval from an institutional ethics board
 prior to collecting data. In 2017, the ethical review of student and staff research was greatly
 simplified for both applicants and reviewers via a new online e-Ethics system, and UEBS
 volunteered to pilot-test an improved version of the system before it is rolled out across the
 university in 2021.

 In 2018-19, UEBS conducted a comprehensive review of its operating procedures, creating a new
 Research Ethics Policy and establishing a new position of Director of Research Ethics. As part of
 this update, a Research Ethics Committee was formed, including representatives with highly
 diverse expertise in order to facilitate review of non-traditional and transdisciplinary
 projects. The committee was created to follow best practices outlined in the Research Integrity
 Concordat (see Institutional Statement 2.9), and it has already been successful in directing
 proposals toward the channel which properly reflects the level of risk of the research, as well as
 in streamlining the resulting review procedure.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

        Collaborating externally




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research staff at the Department of Economics collaborate on projects with a wide network of
 national and international academics, government institutions, businesses, public
 charities, and NGOs; the graphic above represents groups working with LEEP in particular.
 Economists at all levels also collaborate with colleagues inside the department and University.
 UEBS and Economics Department foster collaborations through events hosted at Exeter as well
 as encouraging and supporting staff to participate in the wider research community. Members of
 the department have interacted with the economics research community by: giving seminars
 (including 40+ keynotes and plenaries), presenting at conferences, as invited panellists, and by
 organizing conferences and conference sessions – including at summer schools for PhD students
 and ECRs, and as a co-leader of the BIOECON (BIOdiversity and Economics for CONservation)
 network.

 Exeter economists collaborate with a number of major external research partners. These have led
 to guidance and policy reports for the HMRC and the Rwanda Revenue Authority (Kotsogiannis),
 with the World Bank and the Government of Malawi (Jamison), and with the Behavioural Insights
 Team (Hauser). The Southwest Partnership for Environment and Economic Prosperity (SWEEP)
 is a cross-university five-year multi-million pound initiative funded by NERC and led by LEEP at
 Exeter. They are partnering with and coordinating between 200 firms, organisations, and
 government bodies in the local region. LEEP are also pioneering a methodological innovation to
 analyse land-use patterns and provide decision support services based on both satellite and
 economic data, in one of the first set of awards (2018) from the cross-disciplinary Alan Turing
 Institute.

       Collaborating within the field

 The Department is very active in hosting seminar series, workshops, and conferences; since 2014,
 the Department has hosted more than 200 research visitors for seminars and short-term visits.
 This is exemplified by the new Alan Krueger annual memorial lecture: the first speaker, Joshua
 Angrist (MIT) was scheduled to come in March 2020 and is now planned for 2021. Faculty at all
 levels, as well as research students, benefit from the strong international networks of staff and
 from the active and stimulating environment when academics visit, including global research
 leaders such as Abhijit Banerjee (MIT), Bruce Hansen (Wisconsin), Charles Manski
 (Northwestern), Daniel Hamermesh (UT Austin), and Gary Charness (UC Santa Barbara).

 Conferences were hosted in Exeter by TARC (yearly 2014 to 2020) and LEEP (2019) which
 included scholars, policymakers, and other decision makers from national and international
 institutions. LEEP also organized the SWEEP Expo in October 2020, which brought together the
 heads of multiple Government Agencies, MPs, and Directors and Executives from across more
 than 200 industry partners. The Expo integrated young staff and post-docs into leading events in
 order to demonstrate the transition from research to application and impact. Meanwhile,
 workshops related to behavioural and experimental economics were hosted in 2016 and 2017,
 and the department was scheduled to host over 100 national and international participants at the
 annual European meeting of the Economic Science Association (ESA) in 2020; this has been
 postponed by one year due to COVID-19. In additional to external scholars, behavioural
 connections included interdisciplinary activities with the Medical School which resulted in a
 large grant collaboration: £1,941,038 from the EC to support employment of older and disabled
 workers by small & medium businesses in Cornwall. The Department hosted the 2017 Corporate
 Finance Conference as well as workshops in Empirical Research in Financial Accounting (2017)

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Macroeconomics (2016). Funded internally by UEBS, with invited speakers such as Nobuhiro
 Kiyotaki (Princeton) and Hugo Hopenhayn (UCLA), the latter led to a collaboration between
 Hopenhayn and two junior members of staff (Neira and Singhania), which has resulted in a
 research paper that received media attention and is currently under revision at Econometrica.

 Staff members are also actively involved in research networks that promote particular research
 areas and bring together scholars and decision-makers in their respective fields. Examples
 include Institutions Trade & Economic Development (InsTED), led by Zissimos, and the University-
 wide partnership with the University of Queensland, Australia, established through the QUEX
 Institute. Through this partnership funding for collaborative research is available, and joint
 research interests in Economics have been established. Economics at Exeter is well placed to
 take advantage of this opportunity, in part due to the fact that the Environment & Sustainability
 Theme Leader for QUEX is a member of the department (Bateman). Staff are also affiliated with
 notable groups at Harvard (Women & Public Policy Program; Program for Evolutionary Dynamics),
 MIT (Jameel Poverty Action Lab), and Oxford (Global Priorities Institute).

        Global impact

 Demonstrable societal impact has been formalised in the submitted Impact Case Studies, which
 reflect a deep-seated cross-disciplinary approach, but staff are also influencing many other
 organisations, whether in local communities or in large national or international settings. For
 instance, Groom is guiding policy-relevant discounting procedures for the United Nations as well
 as the finance ministries of France, Netherlands, and UK. Jamison is implementing and evaluating
 behavioural interventions with ministries of education (Mexico), health (Cameroon and Nigeria),
 and small business (Egypt and Kenya). Other notable examples include:
      Eisenbarth: World Trade Organization
      Szabolcs: Bank of Canada
      Chen & Fonseca: HMRC
      Kotsogiannis: Tax administration in Greece
      Hauser: UK Government Equalities Office
      Troshkin: Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis
      Heyes: UN Environment Programme; Government of Ontario
      Lindsay & LEEP: reverse auction advice to water companies, the forestry commission, and
         DEFRA
      LEEP: Economic and biodiversity sustainability in Indonesia

 Exeter economists respond rapidly to wider phenomena, including COVID-19; indeed, the
 University of Exeter received the third-highest amount of funding nationally under the ESRC
 COVID ideas scheme. The pandemic has led to 34 unique new research projects among staff and
 collaborators, including seven papers that are already published. More broadly, showcasing the
 focus on impactful applied work, it has also led to policy activities (e.g. Quintana-Domeque
 advising the Barcelona medical council and Bateman co-authoring a report for the UK
 Government’s Natural Capital Committee on implementing a green recovery from the current
 recession); direct public outreach (e.g. Jamison writing in the Washington Post regarding
 lockdowns in developing countries); special attention to equity (e.g. heavily downloaded gender
 and ethnicity analysis by Oreffice & Quintana-Domeque, some of whose research on mental
 health was cited multiple times in Public Health England’s wellbeing surveillance report); and
 topical workshops bringing together academics and policy-makers (hosted by both LEEP and

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 TARC). Two different specialised COVID datasets on behavioural responses and the distributions
 of impacts, consisting of 7500 online respondents across six countries, were pioneered by
 members of the department and made publicly available for anyone to access.

 The Economics Department (in particular Rogers) has creatively engaged in research and external
 engagement on blockchain: working with Nchain, the global leader in advisory, research, and
 development of blockchain technologies, and with several well-connected alumni, the department
 is establishing a ‘FinTech Hub’ that both researchers and students will be able to leverage by
 connecting to major actors in the industry and to their data. This has also led to the development
 of a popular and innovative undergraduate module ‘Bitcoin, Money & Trust’ that includes a series
 of guest lectures from the blockchain industry, and to a new MSc in FinTech that launched in Sept
 2020.

 Members of staff are attuned to the needs of real-world organisations and actively consult for
 governments, NGOs, and firms across a wide range of subject areas (for example Groom: OECD,
 UN International Seabed Authority, World Water Council; Hauser: MoreThanNow, Behavioural
 Insights Team; Ip: Australia & New Zealand Banking Group, Australian Health Practitioner
 Regulation Agency, Fire and Emergency Services of Western Australia; Jamison: GiveWell,
 Jameel Poverty Action Lab, World Bank; McCorriston: UN Food and Agriculture Organization;
 Quintana-Domeque: Brazilian National Council of Technological and Scientific Development).

        Impact on the profession

 Through active editorial and referee work, staff are contributing to the economics discipline,
 but also to interdisciplinary research. In addition to reviewing for dozens of journals, the
 department hosts numerous Editors (Bateman: Environmental and Resource Economics;
 Kotsogiannis: CESifo Economic Studies; McCorriston: European Review of Agricultural
 Economics; Quintana-Domeque: Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics; Stiefenhofer:
 Mathematical and Statistical Economics); Co-Editors (Cavaliere: Econometric Theory; Fonseca:
 Journal of Economics and Management Strategy; Heyes: Environmental and Resource
 Economics; Kotsogiannis: Journal of Tax Administration, Public Finance Analysis; Oreffice:
 Review of Economics of the Household); and Associate Editors (Cavaliere: Econometrics Journal,
 Journal of Time Series Analysis, Journal of Econometrics; Chen: Leadership Quarterly; Groom:
 Food Security; Grosskopf: Journal of Economic Psychology, International Journal of Game
 Theory; Heyes: Journal of Regulatory Economics; Jamison: Behavioral Science & Policy; Kaplan:
 Journal of Behavioural and Experimental Economics; Quintana-Domeque: Journal of the Spanish
 Economic Association, Economics & Human Biology; Zissimos: European Journal of Political
 Economy). Members have also been invited to guest-edit multiple special issues on cutting-
 edge topics such as “market-based environmental regulation.”

 In 2012, the Exeter Prize was created as an annual award for the best published paper in the
 previous year within Experimental Economics, Decision Theory, and/or Behavioural Economics.
 This widely publicised prize brings recognition not only to the Unit, but also to the top
 research in the world. The winners visit Exeter and receive the physical and monetary prize at a
 full-day thematic workshop where other scholars present related work. Workshops often involve
 multidisciplinary research, e.g. the 2019 workshop, centred on a paper in a finance journal, was
 jointly hosted with the Finance Department. Previous winning papers have come from psychology
 and management in addition to economics. The quality and quantity of nominations, from eminent

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scholars worldwide, has steadily increased over time, with a record 43 outstanding publications
 from 2019 long-listed for the (virtual) 2020 edition of the prize.

 The impact of Exeter economists has been recognised across multiple dimensions, including the
 recent election of Bateman (h-index of 80 arising from over 27,000 total citations) to become a
 Fellow of the British Academy; Hauser receiving a prestigious UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowship; and a fellowship award from the European Association of Agricultural Economists
 to McCorriston. A paper by Chen was recognised as one of the three best in Leadership
 Quarterly for 2019, while a paper by Jamison in American Economic Review won the World
 Bank’s prize for policy-relevant fundamental research and was hailed by the Financial Times as
 having “received the most references in policy documents produced by governments and
 organisations outside academia” amongst all business school research published globally from
 2015-19. A website that gathers human decisions on moral dilemmas faced by driverless cars,
 developed by Awad, has been visited by over six million unique individuals from 230 countries
 and has been featured everywhere from museums to the front page of Reddit. The resulting
 paper, published in Nature, has an Altmetric attention score of 3400 and roughly one billion
 total views. These represent only a few highlights deriving from the successful research
 strategy of boundary-stretching, rigorous, impactful, exceptional-quality growth – and the
 exciting next steps are yet to come.




                                                                                         Page 19
