Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Middlesex University

 Unit of Assessment: Unit of Assessment: 14 – Geography and Environmental Science

 1. Unit context and structure
 Unit context and structure
 Our UoA14 undertakes internationally leading research which has a direct impact on policy,
 practice and society. Within geography and environmental studies, our research is organised
 within two, internationally-facing research centres: the Flood Hazard Research Centre (FHRC)
 and the Urban Pollution Research Centre (UPRC) founded in 1970 and 1978, respectively.
 Increasingly working together to deliver integrated solutions to complex challenges, the FHRC and
 UPRC consistently deliver impactful research and knowledge exchange activities through active
 engagement with policy developers, environmental regulators, public and voluntary organisations
 at national and international levels. 100% of our REF2014 impact case studies were rated 4*/3*
 and our REF2021 submission builds on and further develops this solid performance.

 Our research focuses on the risks and hazards (FHRC) and environmental assessment and
 resource management (UPRC) aspects of managing urban surface water quality and quantity from
 multiple perspectives, combining theoretical, methodological, practice and policy-related research
 on flood risk, diffuse urban pollution mitigation, urban ecosystem services, sustainable remediation
 technologies and public health and safety risk research. The co-location of these two established
 research teams within one department (Natural Sciences, within the Faculty of Science and
 Technology) facilitated the development of inter-disciplinary research approaches, with groups
 sharing research spaces and support infrastructure leading to, for example, our emerging
 expertise in urban geography. The success of this approach is evidenced both by our publication
 record (180 papers in peer review journals; 77% of which include authors from other institutions
 demonstrating the national and international reputation of and demand for our researchers and
 34% are classified interdisciplinary. Since 2014, we have secured £3.3M of competitive funding,
 enabling us to expand our FTE by 21% (to 18.8FTE enterable), from a total of 25 members of staff
 together with post-doctoral researchers, 60 Doctoral students and dedicated analytical and IT
 support teams. Our research environment is strengthened by collaboration with professional
 practice pathways colleagues, who contribute via their networks e.g. (identification of research
 needs and dissemination of outputs) as well as through supervision of doctoral students. Over this
 REF period, the University has continued to invest in laboratory capability, including refitting
 laboratories in our £36M Hatchcroft Building and purchase of state-of-the analytical equipment
 (£750k) and supporting software.

 Research and impact strategy
 Our research and governance structure is established in our Departmental research and impact
 strategy (2018; renewed every three years; co-chaired by Head of Department and Research and
 Impact Lead) and aligns with the University Research priorities of strengthening the impact of core
 areas, exploiting synergies and strengthening internal and external collaboration. A particular
 highlight of internal collaboration is the recent award of £2.8M covid-response funding from the
 Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) to evaluate the use of wastewater monitoring for
 SARS-CoV-2 as a public health tool within schools and prisons, involving researchers from
 environmental, biomedical, social and public health spheres. Looking forwards, our department
 has actively contributed to the development of the University’s 2030 strategy, where our research
 is at the centre of the core theme ‘Environment and sustainability’.

 Our strategy facilitates the delivery of international-level impactful research through a focus on
 three key activities:
 1. Increase intellectual capital
 Evidence of achievement: increase in FTE of 21% and 9 members of staff achieved promotion
 over this REF period. Mechanisms to support career development include a mentoring strategy
 between senior, mid-career and junior researchers to ensure and enhance succession. Internal
 funding (an indicative £2,500 per person per year) is available to support staff in developing new
 research ideas which lead to grant application/research papers), with opportunities for junior staff

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to ‘buy out’ from teaching time to complete and develop research activities. All staff have access
 to a staff development fund to enable annual participation at international conferences.

 2. Extend our international reach and reputation by enhancing our networking activities
 Evidence of achievement: We continue to work with key UK agencies such as the Construction
 Industry Research and Information Association (CIRIA), the Environment Agency for England,
 National Resources Wales, Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, and the
 Scottish Environmental Protection Agency (see also impact case studies) as well as develop new
 collaborations with the Natural History Museum, Network Rail, DHSC, the Royal Institution of
 Chartered Surveyors, non-governmental organisations (e.g. Thames21, Skye and Wester Ross
 Fisheries Trust), Tesco, Whirlpool, Yorkshire Water and Local Authorities (e.g. Barnet, Enfield,
 Westminster). Internationally, our success is evident by our lead roles in European research
 networks and international consortia (e.g. IUPAC, Water Europe, LAND4FLOOD and the
 NORMAN network). The latter includes our lead role in the development of a SARS-Cov-2 in
 sewage database to facilitate the rapid, open-access sharing of data.

 3. Build capacity for growth through increased funding and good use of existing resources
 Evidence of achievement: we have secured £3.3M of competitive research funding, re-fit
 laboratories to increase our specialist capabilities (e.g. establishment of a state-of-the art
 laboratory to determine SARS-CoV-2 in wastewater) and increased our analytical capabilities
 (investment of £750K in analytical instrumentation). Our laboratory facilities are fully maintained
 by dedicated analytical and IT support teams.

 Moving forwards, our vision 2021-2024 is to develop closer links between social and
 environmental research teams to undertake fundamental and applied interdisciplinary research
 and to facilitate the translation of research outputs into practice by working with policymakers in
 national (e.g. UK Government) and international (e.g. delivery of the UN Sustainable Development
 Goals) arenas. Our strategy for this is to use the mechanisms identified (above) to focus on
 specific areas for collaboration including:
     • Flood economic assessment and broader assessments of flood risks, particularly in
         international contexts and to continue to extend the scope of flood impacts considered.
     • Continued investigation of the socio-economic consequences of flooding and flood risk, in
         particular focussing on implications for flood risk governance.
     • Contaminants of emerging concern (CECs) - our roles in European Working Groups has
         enabled our research to contribute to the EU water legislation fitness check. Building on
         its key findings, our research will focus on how to robustly assess the risks CECs pose to
         receptors and to facilitate its use with national / international policy development.
     • Sewage surveillance as a tool to support public health teams in understanding occurrence
         and behaviour of infectious diseases at a building level.

 Progress in these actions will not only increase our impact but also directly contribute to our
 strategic aims of building further staff capacity, income, and attracting post-graduate students.

 Open science and research integrity
 We strongly support Open Science initiatives including ORCID registration (all submitted staff are
 registered), and all publications are green/gold open access. Where possible we make research
 outputs and tools publicly accessible. Examples of this are tools created as part of EU-funding
 (e.g. RISCKIT; Viavattene and Priest) and the UrbanAPP produced by Juntti and Lundy as part
 of the ADEPT project. Additionally, high-level depth-damage functions from FHRC’s Multi-
 Coloured Manual are publicly available to communities at risk via a bespoke website. The
 University has a comprehensive Code of Practice for Research, ensuring the highest standards
 of research conduct and integrity are fully integrated. All research must be submitted to our
 independent Departmental research ethics committee where all applications require two
 independent reviewers and research activities cannot commence until approval is secured. If an
 application requires more work, the applicant receives detailed written feedback and support to
 develop understanding of the requirements of ethical research practice. For more complex issues,
 including human subjects, we follow internationally agreed codes of conducts. In terms of

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 environmental samples, we are fully compliant with the Defra code of practice (e.g. movement of
 plants and soil) and the Nagoya Protocol, (for equitable sharing of genetic materials). Our
 researchers have access to established laboratory methods, and are supported by a dedicated
 team of well-trained technical tutors ensuring the highest quality observations, and reliable and
 repeatable results.

 Our long-term strategy is to further develop our multidisciplinary expertise and profile nationally
 and internationally, enabling us to develop innovative proposals for EU, research council and GRF
 funding as well for governmental organisations and private companies. Indicators to benchmark
 our progress in achieving these objectives over the next 3 years include:
     • Increase and diversify sources of external funding through active networking and
         consortium building.
     • Support and enhance the capacity of mid-career and younger researchers: staff promotion
         through continuing mentoring (e.g. paper writing, inclusion in research applications and
         appointment to leadership roles).
     • Recruit new research active staff: enabled by the development of a new suite of
         environmental programmes (strongly linked with Mauritius campus).
     • Continue to increase postgraduate research student recruitment and completion through
         a focus on funding applications that incorporate studentships

 Middlesex has prioritised research through investment in research active staff and supporting
 infrastructure, enabling us to sustain our strong success of research impact apparent in REF2014
 (100% of impact was rated as 4*/3*).
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy: Our staffing strategy is closely aligned to our research strategy, particularly
 with regard to developing our ‘newer to research’ staff members and ensuring a successful
 transition towards a new generation of research leadership. This strategy is informed by the
 objectives of promoting an inclusive approach to staff development which enhances individual and
 collective research capacities, and retains research leaders and staff. This has seen the internal
 promotion of 36% of staff in the intervening REF period. Of note are Lundy and Purchase’s
 promotion to Professor and Priest’s appointment to Associate Professor and Head of the Flood
 Hazard Research Centre. Additionally, Viavattene and McCarthy were promoted to Senior
 Research Fellow and Watt and Jones to Associate Professor. These internal progressions are
 testament to our strategy for career development, succession planning and strengthening the
 research leadership from within. This strategy is complemented by the creation of several new
 appointments since October 2013 at junior and senior levels, to enhance the research excellence
 of the Unit and in particular grow the environmental research areas of conservation and
 bioinformatics (Ropiquet), environmental genomics (Timmermans), environmental risk and
 microbiology (Cossu) and housing and urban studies (Stewart).

 The UoA collectively has had a low turnover of staff (two non-retirement leavers) in this REF period
 which has permitted continuity of research relationships and a strong collegiate atmosphere as
 well as ensuring the sustainability of the research environment. The majority of staff entered (13.6
 FTE) are based within the Department of Natural Sciences in the Faculty of Science and
 Technology, however recognising the breadth of Geography and Environmental Studies and
 Middlesex University’s emphasis on collaborative research, staff entered also include those based
 in other departments: Department of Design Engineering & Maths (E. Ball, Shayesteh, Yang),
 the School of Law (Juntti) and Centre for Work-based Learning (Weller).

 Also characteristic of the staff strategy is its close alignment with the research culture of the
 university. The majority of the entries are full-time members of staff, with only three staff on
 fractional contracts (Penning-Rowsell, D. Ball and Watt), all of whom are moving towards
 retirement. All are still fully embedded in the research of the unit and contribute to research
 outputs, the support and mentoring of junior colleagues and supervising research students.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Middlesex University focusses on a well-rounded approach to research, which benefits all
 students, with research-informed teaching a core focus. Middlesex University’s people mission is
 “transforming potential into success” for both students and staff. In 2014, the University undertook
 an institution-wide staff mapping exercise to ensure staff were aligned in terms of allocated level
 and development pathways. These pathways comprise either “teaching & research”, for those with
 a significant responsibility for research (returned in our REF submission), or “teaching &
 professional practice”, for those with a key focus on engagement with practice and their
 professional bodies. All are part of our inclusive research culture; we do not have teaching-only
 contracts. The need to balance research within the wider academic commitments of staff is
 recognised and built into the UoA staffing strategy and the workloads of staff. All staff are
 recognised as contributing to teaching, research and administration, although the balance may
 vary depending upon other roles. Careful timetabling of teaching provides staff with distinct time
 in which they are able to research, and the strong collegiate culture within the UoA provides the
 basis for a robust, flexible and supportive environment (e.g. cover for sabbatical leave,
 conferences, secondments, etc.)

 Post-doctoral Researchers (PDRAs), Research Assistants (RAs) and Visiting Researchers all
 bring additional vitality and research excellence to UoA14. PDRAs and RAs, employed on specific
 research projects, play an active role in departmental research; giving research seminars,
 producing of papers and seeking grant income. On leaving the university some of those employed
 have continued their academic journey in roles at other universities (Alexander, Owen) and others
 have moved into practice or public roles (Micou, Pardoe). Furthermore, in this period, Priest,
 Viavattene and Penning-Rowsell secured two competitively-funded EU Marie Curie Early
 Career Research positions as part of the SYSTEM-RISK project (676027), providing the
 researchers (Cumiskey, Holz) with the resources to work on dedicated research in the socio-
 economics of flood risk and Lundy was seconded as Guest professor to Lulea Technical
 University, Sweden.

 The support network for teaching and administration has been significantly redeveloped since
 REF2014. The roles of Departmental Administrators and Programme administrators have been
 created to assist with administrative requirements of teaching. The Department of Natural
 Sciences has also appointed six (Senior) Graduate Academic Assistants (SGAA/GAAs) and
 Associate Lecturers with nine Technical Tutors to assist with teaching roles, in particular in the
 laboratory environment. This additional resourcing has offered staff greater support with the
 delivery of teaching and not only impacts on the wellbeing of staff, but also has released time for
 research-related activities. Furthermore, the appointment of the SGAAs and GAAs, many of whom
 are also undertaking postgraduate research degrees (MRes or PhD) has added to the vibrancy of
 the research environment and provides a support and progression route for these junior
 appointments.

 In addition to the administrative support around teaching, research support is available at
 University level. Staff make full use of the Middlesex University’s Research and Knowledge
 Transfer Office when preparing research grant proposals, supporting staff through project set-up
 and post-award reporting. Furthermore, the FHRC has a dedicated research administrator (0.8
 FTE) funded principally by research income who provides additional research administrative
 support, mainly for FHRC research, but also to large projects within the UoA (e.g. DHSC funded
 TERM project).

 Staff research development and resources: Effective staff development has been achieved by
 a structured and inclusive approach which supports all colleagues’ development. Staff
 development occurs in two directions with top-down centralised University resources and courses
 as well as internal, bespoke development which is more aligned to the staff members’ research
 experience and needs. From the top-down perspective, all university staff have access to a
 comprehensive staff development programme which can be tailored to their own personal and
 professional needs. Research-oriented courses include topics such as: writing for publication;
 preparing funding applications; managing research projects, and ensuring that research has
 impact beyond academia. Additionally, there are also longer term (up to one year) programmes

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (e.g. Aurora, Future Leaders, Leading with Excellence Programme; Enabling Manager) which
 develop relevant leadership skills; a fifth of UoA staff have participated in one or more of these
 longer initiatives between 2014 and 2020.

 Staff complete a Research Plan, reporting on outputs, research income, engagement with
 practice, and other research activities and plans to build upon them. Individuals are offered
 development packages to meet identified needs and the focus is on assistance and mentoring,
 rather than monitoring. All academic staff meet with professors to discuss research ambitions, set
 goals, discuss progress, development needs and also to identify and address barriers to their
 research. This has proved fruitful for the mentoring of more junior staff (hence the high retention
 rates), the establishment of research collaborations and joint publications and the development of
 a strong environment, supportive of all researchers. On this basis relevant targets for the coming
 year are identified and research allowances allocated. The newly introduced Clear Review
 approach, implemented in 2019 and based on a frequent, continuous process of review and
 revision of staff objectives, has the potential to improve research potential as barriers to effective
 research are identified and resolved more quickly and research opportunities maximised. All staff
 receive dedicated research time and Department and Faculty travel research funds are available
 for all to attend conferences, which are allocated on a case-by-case basis. New members of staff
 are also provided with bespoke resources, particularly those developing areas of new research.

 Research student support: Research students are integrated fully into our research environment
 and we strongly value their contribution as part of the research community. They have dedicated
 open-plan office space to work on campus. Laboratory access during the week and at weekends
 (pre-COVID) is available for those students who require it for their research, providing a flexible
 approach to the access of resources for PhD students. Our PhD students are active contributors
 to the departmental weekly research seminar series, as both invited presenters (providing an
 opportunity for peer-review) and as participants. Middlesex University doctoral students are
 supervised by a panel of academics with clear individual and collective responsibilities for assisting
 the student. Each student has an allocated Director of Studies (DoS) and typically one to two other
 supervisors. This not only provides the student with the benefit of supervision with different
 expertise and ensures the availability of a supervisor, but also permits junior staff within the UoA
 to gain experience and training in supervision under the guidance of a more experienced
 colleague. Staff new to supervision or examination arrangements attend a structured training
 programme before being appointed to a supervisory panel. This ensures a high level of
 understanding of the processes of supervision and Middlesex University’s requirements and
 Research Degree Regulations.

 Between mid-2014 and mid-2020, 13 doctoral students completed their studies, with another 15
 currently in their writing up period or undertaking revisions post viva and on track to submit or
 complete by end 2021.

 Awards by year and type
                              2013 -   2014 -   2015 -   2016 -   2017 -    2018 - 2019 - Total
  Type
                              2014     2015     2016     2017     2018      2019   2020
  Professional Doctorates       1        0        1        0        0         0      0     2
  PhD                           1         0        3        3        1         1        2      11
  Total                         2         0        4        3        1         1        2      13

 The UoA has been successful in attracting external funding from private companies and students
 with competitive-scholarships from their home countries or students self-funding. As part of our
 international focus, staff are also engaged co-supervising doctoral students either internally with
 staff from other UoAs (currently 36) (e.g. Law, Psychology), but also students based externally to
 Middlesex University in a range of collaborative scenarios. Staff have co-supervised doctoral
 students with other UK universities (Garelick), France (Ropiquet, Viavattene), Italy (Viavattene)
 Germany (Priest, Viavattene), Austria (McCarthy), Sweden and Australia (Lundy), Kazakhstan


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Jones) and India (Purchase) and alongside visiting PhD students all contribute positively to, and
 benefit, this collaborative research environment.

 Research Students are supported through a newly-revitalised comprehensive Researcher
 Development Programme. Students are able to access a mix of face-to-face and online workshops
 covering topics aimed at preparing students for specific PhD milestones (e.g. Planning your
 Application for Ethics Approval, Preparing for your Viva), research and design oriented (e.g. From
 research question to design, Issues in Research Design), methodological (e.g. Interpreting and
 working with data sets,), writing (e.g. Writing a Literature Review, Writing and Editing a Doctoral
 Thesis) specific skills (e.g. Learning Python, Interview Recording and Transcription), more generic
 skills (e.g. Publishing in academic journals, Developing a career in academia, Intellectual
 Property) and for student wellbeing (e.g. Isolation and Alienation).These sessions run multiple
 times annually allowing students to attend according to their study needs. This flexibility permits
 the development of a bespoke package of training tailored to each student. Furthermore, there is
 also the opportunity to follow, as required, a wide range of modules from the taught university
 provision to supplement knowledge. Student progress is formally monitored by dedicated
 Research Degrees Administrators working closely with a specified UoA Research Degrees
 Coordinator (Garelick), supervisory staff and doctoral students to ensure the prompt removal of
 barriers to effective research. All UoA14 students are expected to participate in all relevant internal
 research seminars and training workshops, often presenting their work. They also participate and
 present at the University’s annual Research Student Conference which is a great opportunity to
 obtain, and give, feedback. The majority of FT doctoral students submit within a four year
 timeframe many with journal publications already published. The environment provides students
 with excellent training and launches them into successful careers. For example, Cumiskey
 secured a competitive post-doctoral fellowship from the Japanese Society for the Promotion of
 Science to continue and extend her research at the University of Kyoto, Thaler is Research fellow
 at University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna, post-graduation Tuckwell joined the
 British Antarctic Survey as an analytical chemist and Popoola is a Public Science Engagement
 Officer at the Wellcome Trust.

 Equality and diversity

 Staff diversity inclusion and equality of opportunity for research:
 Middlesex University is committed to ensuring staff diversity and robust arrangements exist for
 ensuring equality of opportunity. University-level equality and diversity policies are implemented
 and all staff are required to undertake development training in this area. Middlesex University was
 the first UK university to receive Corporate Gold/Embedded Charter Mark from UK Investor in
 Equality & Diversity. UoA14 closely aligns with the University’s EDI mission and supports is
 delivery. Overall, we are committed to a non-discriminatory approach and provide equal
 opportunity for employment and advancement for all of our staff within the UoA.

 We have committed time and resources to ensure we benefit from a diverse leadership within our
 staff and committees and have a positive gender balance. 67% of professors within the UoA are
 female (considerably higher than the AdvanceHE 2020 sector average of 26.7%) and 17% are
 from BAME backgrounds, above the 10.4% AdvanceHE average for BAME professors. This
 highlights that policies and practices to support internal female and BAME progression to the
 highest levels is working. We strengthened our research leadership pipeline by creating and
 supporting policies and initiatives that foster leadership that reflects the diversity of our staff. We
 require all staff to complete training on intentional and unconscious bias prior to involvement in
 the process of hiring and promotion.

 The research environment is enriched by the experience and expertise from our large contingent
 of international staff (non-UK nationality); which comprises half of the UoA staff submitted. We
 respect and value diverse life experiences and heritages and ensure that all voices are valued
 and heard; this supports research addressing global problems and the avoidance of UK-centric
 thinking. We created a diversity and inclusion network where research groups engaged staff at all
 levels in the supervision of research students (e.g. Purchase mentoring Wildeboer and Cossu)

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and knowledge exchange to promote EDI awareness. Our research students are also highly
 diverse, 62% of completed doctoral students are female, with 50% of completed and 61% of
 current doctoral students from BAME backgrounds (compared to 45.4% and 18.5% respectively
 for the 2020 Advanced HE SET sector average for research postgraduates). We offer formal
 publication advice to early career researchers who are identified as first author in collaborative
 work they lead. Where an undergraduate/Masters’ research project is of publishable quality, they
 will also do so as first author (e.g. Legall, Kett and Timmermans, 2016; Lekesyte, Kett and
 Timmermans, 2018). University procedures support and protect research students from
 disadvantage. For example, up to 12 month extensions and/or interruption to studies can be
 applied for by students who have suffered from significant disruption (e.g. due to ill health or other
 circumstances, such as the COVID-19 pandemic).

 Provisions and clear and robust policies exist across the university for flexible working to
 accommodate family, health or other circumstances, as well as opportunities to reintegrate staff
 on their return. Family-friendly policies exist across university functions including an on-site
 nursery for staff and students. All university staff with caring responsibilities can input these
 commitments into the timetabling process to avoid times which impinge on these obligations.
 Furthermore, staff development opportunities are scheduled with childcare responsibilities in mind,
 offering times which ensure availability of access.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion in the REF submission:
 Our commitment to EDI is reflected in our REF submission. 84% of staff have been submitted; of
 those not entered, three are on professional practice pathways, with the remaining one member
 of staff member not eligible (as below 0.2 FTE). There is almost a complete gender balance with
 those submitted being 52% male and 48% female; a more inclusive division than the AdvanceHE
 2020 sector subject-area (Geography, Environmental Studies) benchmark of 59.9:40.1%. Gender
 distribution of submitted outputs (47% female) is also near gender representative. Additionally,
 both of the UoA14 ICS were led by women. 14% of submitted staff are from BAME backgrounds
 (above the AdvanceHE 2020 average for Geography of 11.8%) with their selected outputs
 contributing 11% of the total number of outputs.

 The selection of publication outputs was conducted by a UoA Working group composed of five
 members. It was led by co-coordinators (a Professor and Associate Professor) appointed by
 Faculty following a competitive process, in addition to another Professor (promoted from Associate
 Professor during the REF preparations), and two mid-career researchers; one of whom acted as
 an independent and is entered into another UoA. Four members of this group were female, one
 was BAME and two white European. All undertook specific REF-related Unconscious Bias training
 and adhered to the selection principles and specific EDI guidance provided by the University’s
 REF Equality and Diversity Panel.

 The selection process for outputs was transparent and decision criteria identified and published.
 The selection of papers followed a series of steps: (1) Staff undertook an initial review and self-
 ranking of their papers based on the REF panel criteria (supported by more experienced
 colleagues where necessary). (2) All papers (including those from former staff members) were
 reviewed and ranked independently by at least two of the working group. Internal peer-review was
 considered appropriate due to the wide subject-area scope and the incomparability of metrics
 (such as impact factors) between areas. (3) The staff self-ranked and UoA working group scores
 were combined to firstly assign the top-ranked paper to each staff member and secondly to
 allocate other papers into ranked groups. (4) Papers in the top two groups (e.g. the highest
 scoring) were entered (c. 89% of outputs). (5) Those in the next grouping were re-reviewed and
 discussed by all working group members and final selections were made on the basis of (a)
 alignment to scope of geography and environmental studies, and (b) significance as demonstrated
 by policy or societal relevance, high citation-levels or outputs in high ranking journals. ICSs were
 chosen based on the strength of their documented impact and underlying research base.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Income: The research environment has enabled us to maintain our successful track
 record of attracting competitive research income. Between mid-2013 and mid-2020 £3.3M in
 research income was awarded; an average of c. £470K per year or £176K per FTE. Similar to the
 total funding reported in REF2014, this indicates the maintenance of income set against an
 increasingly competitive research environment. Project income has been awarded from a range
 of sources including: UKRI, European, government departments and other organisations. In
 particular, applied, impact-focused projects are a key strength. Research income generation is led
 by individuals and UoA Research Centres (e.g. FHRC, UPRC), but is strongly supported by the
 centralised Middlesex University Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO). The RKTO
 ensures all staff are made aware of funding opportunities, assists the application process and
 provides high quality post-award support.

 Collaborative research and the maintenance of long-standing relationships is another important
 feature of our research with income being part of wider research projects totalling £32.6 million.
 This underlines the reputation and research experience that UoA14 researchers contribute.
 Research projects are often interdisciplinary and focus on answering scientific issues with direct
 relevance to society. Research projects have included a wide range of collaborative partners with
 a total of 163 different organisations across 43 countries (of which 67% were universities/research
 institutes, 12% from the private sector and 9% government/public-sector organisations). Internal
 collaboration is also key to income generation with staff often bidding for funding cross-
 departmentally. Furthermore, the income generation strategy also aligns to the research
 mentoring ethos with collaborations developed between more and less experienced researchers
 to widen participation in funded research. All applications are discussed by UoA senior colleagues
 and are internally reviewed; providing a demand and quality control mechanism.

 Of particular importance between mid-2013 to mid-2020 is the award of competitive European
 research income principally in the areas of flood and water quality management. High-esteem
 funding has been awarded from EU FP7 projects (including, THESEUS: Grant agreement no.
 244104; EPI-Water: 265213; RISC-KIT: 603458; STAR-FLOOD: 793558; WeSenseIt: 308429)
 and latterly Horizon 2020 projects (SYSTEM-RISK: 676027) and CEDR-funded PROPER
 (31131229).

 Priest and now-retired (Tapsell, Green) won an €870K EU FP7 grant to investigate institutional
 settings in flood risk management. Part of a wider consortium of six EU countries the STAR-
 FLOOD project, Strengthening And Redesigning European FLOOD risk practices (€5.4M),
 analysed the effectiveness and legitimacy of flood risk management for delivering societal
 resilience. Following on in this area, FHRC won a competitively-awarded Environment Agency
 R&D project (£89k) Evaluating the effectiveness of flood risk governance which and has
 subsequently be re-commissioned to undertake additional funded work to provide practical tools
 to embed governance findings into practice in England and Wales.

 UoA14 staff (Viavattene, Priest) were part of a EU FP7 consortium (2013-2017) awarded a grant
 totalling €7.65m entitled Resilience-Increasing Strategies for Coasts – toolkit (RISC-KIT); €606K
 was awarded to MU. The project focused on producing open-source and ready-to-use methods,
 tools and management approaches to reduce risk and increase resilience to low-frequency, high-
 impact hydro-meteorological events. Viavattene and Priest focussed on improved methods for
 regional scale vulnerability and risk assessment; a scale often overlooked but essential for
 efficiency of resource allocation (see also impact case).

 McCarthy and Viavattene were key researchers of the €6.9m EU FP7 consortium WeSenseIt:
 Citizen Observatory of Water Project (with MU receiving €377K) which brought together innovative
 low cost sensor systems, social networks and mobile devices to develop local 'citizen
 observatories' for flood risk management. They evaluated whether citizen science can encourage
 public (and wider) stakeholder participation and leads to more informed decision making.

 Priest, Viavattene and McCarthy were awarded €547K from the €3.89m H2020 SYSTEM-RISK
 project, a prestigious Marie-Skłodowska-Curie European Training Network developing and

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 implementing a systems approach for large-scale flood risk assessment. Two Early Stage
 Researchers were funded for three years to evaluate the interconnections and interdependencies
 between flood management interventions and to investigate the indirect impacts of floods with a
 focus on businesses and supply chains.

 Lundy secured €179k (from a total of €516K) from the Conference of European Directors of Roads
 (CEDR) for the PROPER (Runoff Pollution Management and Mitigation of Environmental Risks)
 Project. In collaboration with partners from seven European countries, the project improved the
 state-of-the-art understanding of the impacts of road runoff on receiving waters, assessed the
 efficacy of sustainable treatment systems and developed prediction tools for use by stakeholders
 to mitigate negative impacts.

 A     series    of     projects     (FLOOD-CBA:       ECHO/SUB/2012/638445;          ECOSHAZ:
 ECHO/SUB/2014/693711; FLOOD-CBA2: ECHO/SUB/2015/713849/PREV32 and FLORIS:
 826561) with income totally €508K (total project values €2.2million) were awarded from EU DG-
 ECHO between 2013 and 2019. These all involved end-user partners and informed Civil
 Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations about flood risk assessment and management and
 better improved the flood preparation and response of local authorities in 10 European countries.

 Many of these aforementioned projects have built on the success of European research projects
 and networks established since REF2014 and before. They have built on the well-established
 international reputation of the FHRC and UPRC, in particular, and their strong integration into
 academic, policy and practitioner networks. In turn, this has raised the research profile of the
 University as an international leader in flood and water management.

 National-level funding sources are also important to UoA14’s research profile and projects
 designed to have a more immediate impact on policy and practice. These include long-standing
 research relationships and income generation from Scottish Environment Protection Agency
 (SEPA), the Environment Agency (EA), Welsh Government, Department for International
 Development (DFID) and National Institute for Health Research (NIHR). Since mid-2013, 22
 projects have been undertaken for, or in conjunction with, UK government organisations,
 principally concerning flood risk management, sustainable drainage and green infrastructure with
 income totalling over £630K.

 Retired FHRC colleagues (Sultana, Thompson) received total funding of £568K from the
 CoCooN programme of NWO (Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research) to lead a project
 empowering communities to better manage their natural resources. The CALCNR: ‘Community
 based Adaptive Learning in management of Conflicts and Natural Resources in Bangladesh and
 Nepal’ involved participatory action research in 70 sites with local community-based organisations,
 mainly in Bangladesh floodplains, and in community forests and hill areas of Nepal.

 There is also continued momentum in research income with an additional c. £1M funds in ongoing
 UoA14 research projects; highlighting the continued trajectory of competitive research income.
 For instance, this figure includes DHSC TERM (School wasTEwater-based epidemiological
 suRveillance system) Project. This £2.8M project led by MU (UoA14 Co-I’s Lundy, Garelick,
 Wildeboer, Priest) is looking for traces of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the wastewater of schools and
 prisons to establish whether this could provide a useful ‘early warning’ system of infection levels
 and provide new evidence on the safety of school reopening.

 In addition to the reported grant income (REF4b), Continuing Professional Development (CPD)
 programmes continue to bring additional income and is a critical pathway from research to impact.
 This includes c. £70K from the NEBOSH programme, c. £174K from FHRC flood training courses
 and since 2019, £60K from CPD training in Advanced Private Sector Housing Regulation (see
 Section 4).




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructures and Facilities: Middlesex University has continued to consolidate and expand its
 resources within the Hendon Campus, a process started in 2008 and continuing throughout this
 REF period; investing £250M since the mid-2000s.

 Around £12.7M has been invested in the current period (between 2013 and 2020) specifically to
 support research with a further £35.3M in dual use investments; from which researchers and
 students both benefit. This has been used to create one of London’s most impressive and largest
 HE facilities, providing an environment conducive to both research and teaching.

 UoA14 researchers are served by high quality and state-of-the-art facilities. They benefit from
 access to specialist infrastructure housed in our £36M Hatchcroft building and laboratories
 (opened in 2008). The building is the home of world-class science research at Middlesex
 University. In particular, staff and research students have access to State-of-the-Art analytical
 suites (for organic and inorganic analysis) as well as molecular, bioengineering, cellular pathology,
 oncology and Class II microbiological laboratories. Laboratory resources are overseen and
 maintained by a team of specialist technicians and a dedicated Technical Manager. Researchers
 therefore have direct access to a wide range of cutting-edge mass spectrometry and analytical
 facilities to analyse biotic and abiotic samples, including those obtained from environmental
 sampling. Instruments that are available include quardrupole-orbitrap mass spectrometry for the
 measurement of proteins and small molecules, liquid chromatography (LC)-mass spectrometry
 (MS), LC-MS/MS, ion trap time of flight (ToF)-MS, triple quadrupole-MS, matrix-assisted laser
 desorption/ionization-MALDI-ToF-MS for the identification of bacteria and antibiotic resistance
 related products, gas chromatography-MS and flame ionisation detection for the detection of
 environmental pollutants, inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy to measure
 elements including heavy metals, and MS and graphite and flame atomic emission spectrometry
 (equipped with a hydride generator) for the detection of trace elements. The advanced analytical
 facilities and research environment have supported a wide range of intra- and interdisciplinary
 research underpinning 19% of the submitted outputs. For example, in measuring contaminants of
 emerging concern within a range of environmental compartments, studying the impact of the
 pollutants on biota at cellular and proteomic levels and evaluating the efficacy of various
 sustainable remediation technologies.

 UoA14 has built expertise in the emerging fields of evolutionary, ecological, and environmental
 genomics. To support research within these areas investments in Next-Generation Sequencing
 technology were made and several NanoPore devices and an Illumina sequencer acquired. These
 sequencers allow high throughput and/or real time analyses of, for example, environmental DNA
 for biodiversity assessment or the characterisation of bacterial communities for antibiotic
 resistance genes. The equipment has stimulated interdisciplinary research, with members of
 UoA14 now collaborating directly with Biomedical Scientists and Microbiologists (e.g. £2.8M
 DHSC-funded TERM project). To ensure high-quality data is obtained, equipment for nucleic acid
 quantitation and quality control is available. This includes an Agilent TapeStation, Qubit
 fluorometer and NanoDrop spectrophotometer. Computation resources (Linux servers) are
 available for data analyses. These servers are maintained by a dedicated Server Support
 Technician. There is also shared access to a high-performance LightCycler real-time PCR system.
 The running costs of these laboratories are met through a combination of dedicated research
 funding and ring-fenced University funding.

 Staff and research students all have dedicated office space, equipment and administrative
 support, some provided at a Departmental or Faculty level and others (e.g. RKTO, legal and IPR
 advice, doctoral support) provided centrally. For example, UoA staff have benefitted from the over
 £7.2million spent on upgrading staff computers between 2013 and 2020. Our largest research
 centre, FHRC, has also relocated into new office space within this REF period.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The impact of our research is evident at both national and international levels with a strong
 contribution to academia (for research; see outputs) and direct links to policy support, changes in
 practice and which impact directly and indirectly on society (see impact case studies). Between

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2013 and 2020, UoA14 staff have collaborated with thousands of researchers, policymakers,
 environmental protection agencies and practitioners from 163 organisations located in 43
 countries over five continents. 77% of our c. 180 journal research outputs were collaborative of
 which 64% are with international partners. This level of networking has been directly supported by
 our staff development programme which supports conference attendance and our mentoring
 programme encouraging senior and junior colleagues to work together on emerging initiatives.
 Collaboration with colleagues on professional pathways has also played a key role in developing
 closer links and further impact with professional bodies and sectoral trade associations (e.g. IOSH,
 CIRIA).

 Contribution to the research base, economy and society: Members of the unit have long
 lasting international collaborations which have led to major projects (see also section 3) with
 colleagues in the unit in a leading or co-leading role (see Table 1). We collaborate with many
 national universities (e.g. Bath, Cranfield, Cambridge, Imperial, Oxford, Sheffield, UCL) and
 international institutions. We also work closely with academics in emerging research contexts such
 as Central Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, contributing significantly to research
 capability-building through research collaboration, in line with our mission of extending,
 synthesising and considering knowledge as a public (shared) good.

 Table 1. Major projects in which MDX takes a lead role together with partner countries.
 PI/Co-I                 Partners               Funder                  Project name
 Priest, Tapsell &       Belgium, France,       EU FP7                  STARFLOOD
 Green                   Netherlands, Sweden,
                         Poland
 McCarthy & Viavattene France, Italy, Poland, EU FP7                    WeSenseIT
                         Netherlands,
                         Switzerland, Spain, UK
                         (Sheffield)
 Lundy, Garelick, Jones, Spain, Germany,        EU TEMPUS               I-WEB
 Watt and Purchase       Cyprus, Kazakhstan
 Viavattene & Priest     Belgium, Bulgaria,     EU FP7                  RISC-KIT
                         Germany, Italy,
                         Netherlands, Portugal,
                         Spain, Sweden, UK
                         (Cambridge)
 Priest, Viavattene &    Austria, Germany,      EU Horizon 2020         SYSTEM RISK
 McCarthy                Netherlands, Italy, UK
                         (Bristol, HR
                         Wallingford),
 Juntti & Lundy          Brazil                 UKRI-CONFAP             ADEPT
 Lundy & Revitt          Denmark, Netherlands, CEDR                     PROPER
                         Portugal, Sweden,
                         Czech Republic,
                         Slovenia
 Lundy & Priest          UK (Bath, Centre for   NHS Track and Trace TERM
                         Ecology and Hydrology,
                         Cranfield, Joint
                         Biosecurity Centre)
 Penning-Rowsell         Germany, Greece,       EU DG ECHO              Flood-CBA
                         Spain, Portugal,
                         Romania
 Penning-Rowsell         Greece, Spain, Poland, EU DG ECHO              ECOSHAZ
                         Italy
 Penning-Rowsell         Greece, Portugal,      EU DG ECHO              Flood-CBA-2
                         Spain



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 McCarthy, Viavattene & Albania, Bosnia and      EU DG ECHO              FLORIS
 Priest                 Herzegovina, Italy

 Other collaborative projects where UoA colleagues play a key role (i.e. as chairs or named leads)
 include the EU NEREUS, LAND4FLOOD and NOTICE Cost Actions, Water Europe, the NORMAN
 network, the EU sewage surveillance feasibility study, Biocementation (Network Rail),
 Environmental and Health Challenges of e-waste (IUPAC) and Private landlords in England
 (ESRC).

 Professional associations and other bodies/organisations
 Indicative our strategy towards applied research, where we have a strong track record, our staff
 impact numerous national and international professional associations. Internationally, for
 example, Garelick is President of the Chemistry and the Environment division and Purchase Co-
 Chair of Chemical and Biophysical Processes in the Environment sub-committee of
 the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) and both play a lead role in a
 project with the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Lundy was scientific and
 technical advisor to the European Commission on water reuse (2018-2020), is UK representative
 on the IWA/IAHR Joint Committee for Urban Drainage and was a member of the BSI mirror panel
 contributing the development of the ISO urban water management standards. Nationally,
 Purchase is an executive member of the Committee of Heads of Environmental Science and
 member of the Policy Subcommittee of the Society for Applied Microbiology, and as such
 contributes to statutory consultations on a number of environmental research, practice and policy
 issues. Lundy was also a corresponding member of the academic panel supporting revision of
 the CIRIA Sustainable urban Drainage Systems (SUDS) manual. Priest, McCarthy and Penning-
 Rowsell are members of the Environment Agency’s Thematic Advisory Groups on Flood Incident
 Management and Modelling, Assets Management and Policy, Strategy and Innovation,
 respectively as well as being invited experts on the revision of the National Flood and Coastal
 Erosion Risk management Strategy for England. D. Ball is a Fellow of the Institute of Physics,
 Charted Fellow of the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health and member of the Society of
 Expert Witnesses. He was also chair of the Play Safety Forum. Kett is a Fellow of the Linnaean
 Society, secretary of its London Freshwater Group and member of the Institute of Fisheries
 Management. Stewart is a member of Chartered Institute of Environmental Health Housing Panel,
 Associate Member of the Chartered Institute of Housing, Fellow of the Royal Society of Health
 and co-chair of the London Public Health and Housing Network. McCarthy is a member of the
 Institute of Civil Engineers and the Institute of Civil Protection and Emergency Management. Watt
 and D. Ball (Chair of the Scientific Committee) were members of the Collaboration to explore new
 avenues to improve Public Understanding and management of Risk (CAPUR). Timmermans is
 Scientific Associate of the Natural History Museum. Involving academia-industry R&D partners
 (e.g. natural and environmental sciences, engineering innovation and management, eco-
 entrepreneurship, global business strategy), Yang works with private companies in the
 Architecture, Engineering, Construction and Operations (AECO) sectors to verify and validate the
 collective impacts from net zero operational carbon impacts of buildings. In partnership with the
 Charter Institution of Building Service Engineers (CIBSE), Yang also supported development of
 the Research Roadmap for the W098 Working Commission on Intelligent and Responsive Building
 for The International Council for Research and Innovation in Building and Construction (CIB).

 In addition to our impact case studies, many of our research outputs and projects have had a
 direct impact on policy. For example, the EU STARFLOOD project results (Priest) were used in
 the evidence-base for UK government National Flood Resilience Review 2016 and informed the
 commission of a joint Environment Agency/Welsh Government Project Understanding the
 Effectiveness of Flood and Coastal Erosion Risk Governance (competitively won by Priest) to
 adopt key findings and assess limitations of the current English and Welsh systems; the lessons
 of which are currently being implemented in flood risk management practice. Work undertaken for
 the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) allowed Viavattene to input FHRC’s State-
 of-the-Art research on flood risk assessment directly into the Scottish National Flood Risk
 Assessment 2018, enabling SEPA to meet the requirements of the Flood Risk Management
 (Scotland) Act 2009 and providing a key tool for Scottish flood risk decision-making. Viavattene

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Priest, in research for the Environment Agency, identified a methodology and data which
 allows the consideration of mental health impacts in flood risk decision-making which was
 implemented into policy in early 2021. UoA14 staff have also provided expert advice to the
 Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology’s Research Briefings on Health in Private Rented
 Housing (Stewart), Chemical Weapons (Purchase) and the use of wastewater monitoring to
 detect SARS-CoV-2, (Lundy, Garelick, Wildeboer) and acted as expert witness in 60 legal cases
 on risk management (D. Ball).

 Continued Professional Development activities are key mechanisms for our research to directly
 impact professionals, their practice and wider society. Examples include, the NEBOSH (National
 Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health) programme which since 2015 has trained
 almost 80 health and safety professionals. Since REF2014 FHRC staff (McCarthy, Viavattene)
 have delivered 27 courses (e.g. Introduction to Flood Benefits Appraisal, Flood Management
 Benefits: A Better Appraisal in Less Time) training 499 flood risk management professionals. From
 2019 Stewart has provided research-led and evidence-based training to over 60 housing officers
 from local authorities and the private sector. The only training of its kind, it attract participants from
 across the UK. Importantly, CPD courses are multi-beneficial as well as providing opportunities
 for our research to influence practice, they offer networking opportunities with practitioners, help
 identify future research needs and lead to successful research collaborations; particularly where
 consortia require end-user partners.

 Our research has also directly impacted society and communities. For example, the EU-funded
 WeSenseIT project (McCarthy, Viavattene) provided sustained engagement with communities in
 Doncaster UK over four years and initiated localised decision-making about flood risk
 management. The communities voiced their appreciation of such sustained engagement by the
 research team who attend to and incorporated their local concerns. Research examining
 approaches to creating local impact-based flood warning messages (McCarthy, Priest) is being
 utilised by the Environment Agency who are currently undertaking a national staged roll-out of the
 recommended changes. This is leading to communities receiving more tailored and context-
 specific flood messaging. Research by D. Ball included a review of COVID-19 and its
 consequences for children’s play and health and was subsequently used to promote good play
 practice in each of the four nations. Findings by Lundy, Revitt and Ellis are identified as “directly
 (contributing) to more and better outcomes in enhancing surface water quality in Wales” (see
 impact case study).

 Engagement with editorial and academic review activities and outreach
 Editorial activities of UoA14 staff - as Editor, Associate Editor or Guest Editor - include Biodiversity
 Data Journal, Coastal Engineering, EC Bacteriology and Virology Research, Environmental
 Geochemistry and Health, Environmental Hazards, Environmental Science and Pollution
 Research, Evolutionary Ecology, Frontiers in Earth Science, International Journal of Pure and
 Applied Zoology, Journal of Flood Risk Management, Journal of Bacteriology and Mycology,
 Water Security and Water. Our staff continue to, review grant applications for national (e.g. UKRI
 Future Leaders Fellowships; EPSRC, NERC) and international (e.g. Danish Research Council,
 Canada, Newton) funders. Mid-2013 to mid-2020 UoA14 staff have co-organised 24 conference
 sessions, workshops and working group meetings within the annual conferences of e.g. AAG,
 RGS-IBG and ICUD. This includes the presentation of c. 110 conference papers of which 28%
 were invited keynotes. In relation to wider outreach activities, the unit has successfully delivered
 sessions at a range of national community science festivals including New Scientist Live (2016 -
 2019), SMASHfest UK (2017 - 2019) and British Science Week (2019), as well as successfully
 leading a UK laboratory team to a silver medal at the World Skills Fair held in Kazan Russia in
 2019; providing support and development for students in primary and secondary education.

 Summary
 The interdisciplinary, applied nature of Geography and Environment studies research activity
 detailed above provides clear evidence of our impactful research and knowledge exchange
 activities. Since REF2014, we have continued to undertake internationally - leading research
 which has - through our extensive national and international networks – directly informed policy

                                                                                                   Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development and underpinned changes in practice. Our strategies to support and our investment
 in staff and infrastructure across this current REF period, ongoing planning for the next REF
 period, as well as continued staff development, will enable us to continue this strong, upward
 trajectory.




                                                                                       Page 14
