Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester
 Unit of Assessment: 34b
 A. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure
 Established in 1966, the School of Museum Studies is the only UK university department
 devoted to this discipline. Postgraduate only, with 19 Category A (18.5FTE) staff (including
 palaeontologist Unwin, submitted to UoA7) and around 80 current PGRs, it is the world's largest
 museum studies research community and has played a leading role in shaping the field globally.
 Museum studies at Leicester is an interdisciplinary field with strong ties to the museum
 profession; our PhD graduates are as likely to enter the profession as they are academia. Staff
 have backgrounds in history, art history, anthropology, geography, cultural studies and computer
 science. Our aim is to use our research to impact lives, policies and practices by interrogating
 the social agency, cultural ecosystems and digital transformations of museums, heritage and art.
 We are committed to tackling questions of power and difference.

 In this period, institutional commitment to our vitality and sustainability (Institutional Environment
 Statement [IES] 1.1) has resulted in a 68% increase in Category A staff. This was invested
 strategically to scale-up, diversify and deepen four areas of long-term focus:

       Research Centre for Museums and Galleries (RCMG) works in partnership with the
        museum sector in the UK and internationally to develop the ‘socially active museum’ as a
        research-led, socially impactful, inclusive institution (Dodd, Sandell, MacLeod, Golding,
        Bunning, Morse).
       Collective for Research into the Institutions of Art (CRÍA) interrogates institutions
        and practices constructing art and its histories (Knell, Marstine, Whitelegg, Boldrick,
        Shirley).
       Museums & Technologies (MusTech) engages in collaborative research on digital
        transformation in museums and heritage (Parry, Vavoula, Turner).
       Heritage Lives undertakes critical explorations of the intersections of heritage and
        everyday lives, focusing particularly on cultural diversity and social inequalities (Dudley,
        Gibson, Watson, Cai, Angel, Martinez, Tilche, Wakefield).


 The development of these expanded, mutually supportive, groups has led to:
       A 49% increase in research income (compared to REF2014) (£1.6m to £2.4m),
       A 250% increase in research monographs (four to 14)
       A 295% increase in PGR completions (20 to 77; HESA 15.5 to 54).


 These numbers, however, barely begin to describe the degree to which we have surpassed the
 objectives established in 2014.

 B. Achievement of strategic objectives 2014-2020
 Our strategic objectives for research and impact in 2014 recognised the role the School could
 play in providing global leadership to the discipline by offering a research-led model to an
 academic field shaped around professional practice. The following are examples of the ways we
 attended to those objectives. Other examples appear throughout this document.
                                                    1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     To expand international collaboration
 We have used this period of recruitment to extend our intellectual and geographical reach in all
 research groups:

       Bunning & Boldrick (USA)
       Cai (Malaysia)
       Martinez (Central and Eastern Europe)
       Tilche (India)
       Turner (Canada)
       Wakefield (Gulf states)
       Whitelegg (Brazil)


 As a School, our strategic focus has been on Asia and Latin America where the discipline is still
 emergent. The School has been active in Asia for 30 years and possesses a large Asian PGR
 community. Dudley’s career-long work in Myanmar, for example, and more recently in India,
 has involved local partnerships, working with the British Council and British Museum, the Indian
 National Museum Institute and the AHRC/Indian Council for Historical Research symposium on
 Rapid Urbanisation and Cultural Heritage in India. The recruitment of Tilche, a specialist in rural
 India, has strengthened this engagement. Partly through recruitment, we attempted to address a
 number of geographical and cultural lacunae in the discipline; for example, Cai, Wakefield and
 Knell published research on Malaysia, the Gulf States and Mongolia. Major investment in
 museums and heritage in mainland China made that country a core interest for the first time in
 this period: in 2015, MacLeod led academic and professional partners in Hong Kong universities
 to deliver a conference and book on museum design; in 2018, Marstine spent a semester as
 Research Fellow at Fudan University developing a collaboration on art, museums and children in
 care; in 2018 and 2019, Knell built a new research-led collaboration with Shaanxi Normal
 University leading to a series of conferences, public lectures, meetings with museum
 professionals, and fieldwork around contemporary museology and digital literacies. Parry and 12
 college-funded PGRs joined this project; Parry also worked with partners in Taiwan. In 2019-20,
 Cai worked with academics at Xiamen, Nanjing and Peking Universities to research heritage
 creation in Southeast China. Many of our publications were translated into Mandarin by our
 Chinese partners as part of this developing relationship. Chinese academics and professionals
 have been keen to emulate the School’s distinctive research-led approach to the subject. For
 example, CRÍA inspired the invention of a similar centre at Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts.

 Between 2014-2017, Knell led museums and academics in Mexico City in a series of research-
 based, British Council-supported, conferences, Cátedra Extraordinaria de Museología Crítica, on
 territoriality, political violence and social justice which brought together researchers and
 professionals from across the Americas. Whitelegg was recruited to strengthen our Latin
 America engagement. Collaborating with Fundaçao Bienal de São Paulo and the network of
 multi-use SESC (Social Service of Commerce) in Brazil, she worked on agency and memory in
 arts institutions. From 2016, MacLeod and Sandell collaborated with Fundacion TyPA in
 Argentina, repeatedly contributing to the biennial conference series, Reimagining the Museum,
 presenting a three-day research-led laboratory, and building a network with scholars in
 Argentina, Mexico, Colombia, Paraguay and Uruguay.

                                                 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      To produce research that speaks to contemporary debates
 Watson’s Origins of Nations, Tilche’s work on Indian nationalism and migration, and Knell’s
 two monographs, responded to rising nationalism and intolerance. Like Dudley’s British Council
 and GCRF-supported work on human displacement in Myanmar’s border settings, which gained
 particular resonance with the renewed expulsion of Rohingya since 2017, these studies
 positioned museums as institutions building peace and cohesion. Dudley, Cai, Tilche and
 Turner each contributed to burgeoning debates on indigenous rights and culture. Bunning’s
 Negotiating Race and Rights in the Museum was one of three School monographs discussing
 race published as Black Lives Matter protests erupted around the world. Boldrick’s Iconoclasm
 and the Museum was in press as Colston’s statue was toppled in Bristol; she became actively
 engaged in the debates that followed. Cai (2020), Marstine (2017), Knell (2020) and Wakefield
 (2020) considered museums, authoritarianism and censorship. Angel, Dodd, Morse and
 Sandell have engaged in ethical debates on the disabled, medicalised, criminalised,
 pathologized body as well as on health and well-being. Tilche led the GCRF-funded project
 ‘Mitigating the impact of Covid 19 among India's indigenous and nomadic communities’.
 Gibson’s UK-focused £1.5m AHRC project ‘Understanding Everyday Participation’ (UEP)
 considered social stratification, participation and the politics of cultural funding. Our PGRs
 researched refugees and asylum, violence against women in conflict zones, looting, the
 Rwandan genocide, state-capitalist tensions, art counterculture in China, etc.

     To design research around impact
 RCMG has led the development of the socially active museum (ICS1&2). It was invited by the
 National Trust in 2016 to lead a national public programme, Prejudice and Pride, which
 researched unknown or suppressed histories of same-sex love and desire, and gender diversity.
 RCMG worked across the entire Trust promoting risk taking and innovation in the Trust’s
 organisational thinking, practices and culture. Activity at twelve National Trust properties in
 England and Wales reached 353,553 visitors and generated over 500 press and media
 mentions. A series of short films disseminated through the organisation’s intranet raised
 awareness and built a commitment to LGBTQ equality across its 65,000 staff and volunteers. In
 2019, RCMG began a new collaboration with the Trust called Everyone Welcome which led to a
 University-wide strategic partnership (IES, 2.5).

 Morse, who works collaboratively on museums and health, was recruited to complement
 RCMG’s work on wellbeing and ageing in such projects as ‘Mind, Body Spirit’ and ‘Unexpected
 Encounters’. RCMG’s research on narratives of disability influenced major museum
 redevelopments: Hunterian Museum at the Royal College of Surgeons; Thackray Museum of
 Medicine, Leeds; the acclaimed Medicine at the Science Museum; Being Human at the
 Wellcome Collection; and policy and practice across the field. Its disability research was known
 to 84% of practitioners and has provided a model for socially-engaged research centres
 developed at the Louvre and National Museums Scotland.

 Like RCMG, the MusTech group has sustained a number of connected, collaborative, impact-
 led, funded projects. For example, Parry’s AHRC-funded ‘One by One’ (£0.47m) and ‘2 by 2’
 (£70K) have enabled him to initiate and lead international scoping and analysis of the museum
 workforce’s digital literacies and how they translate to digital leadership within the sector. This
 work directly informed the design and development of the UK government’s new Digital Culture
 Compass (2020). This national and global impact of this work is captured in an Impact Case
 Study returned to Leicester’s UoA34a submission (UoA34a, ICS2). Vavoula led research on the

                                                  3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of new conceptual frameworks for the analysis, design and evaluation of digital
 cultural heritage, enabled by €0.7m funding in three EU Marie Curie Actions and Fellowships at
 Leicester, £125,000 funding from NESTA, ACE and HLF Digital R&D Fund for the arts, and as
 Co-I on the School of Business’s AHRC Connected Communities funded ‘Affective Digital
 Histories’ (£413,405).

      To open up new research opportunities through intellectual leadership
 Sandell’s socially active museum and Parry’s digital literacies are two conceptual
 developments led by us. In The Museum’s Borders, Knell argued for the museum to be
 understood as a site of border negotiation critical to the operation of knowledge-based
 democracies. This built on his earlier articulation of a new Zeitgeist, ‘the global contemporary’,
 which offered a lens through which to imagine the newly purposeful Contemporary Museum
 (2019). This concept gained ground in a series of conferences and papers in English and
 Mandarin and is one of a number of studies that introduce a conceptual reorientation. Work in
 CRÍA, for example, has probed the boundaries of art and institutionalisation: Shirley (2015)
 gave a new exploration of the visual culture of rural modernity; Whitelegg (2018, 2020)
 examined the biennial and other non-collecting institutions; Boldrick (2019) showed how deeply
 ephemeral art disrupted museological assumptions; Bowry (Leverhulme ECF 2016-19)
 established a foundational relationship between the Early Modern garden and gallery; and with
 National Galleries, Knell gave the discipline its first monographic global study of a museum
 genre and opened up previously unseen fields of enquiry. Exhibitions, such Whitelegg’s
 curation of Signals: If You Like I Shall Grow (London, New York; 2017), which led Tate Modern
 to prioritise overlooked artists, works and histories for conservation and exhibition, transitioned
 discourse into practice.

 Similarly, Heritage Lives produced five field-shaping monographs: Dudley (2020) provided new
 critical approaches to displacement, difference and things; Cai (2020) and Wakefield (2020)
 examined the politics of cultural development; and Martinez (2018) and Watson (2020)
 considered the complex emotional interactions between museums, materials and publics.

      To foster an open and ethical research environment
 Openness and generosity are central to our mission. Since 1999, all RCMG reports have been
 OA, a model that has developed school wide. Preprints of journal papers, books/chapters, and
 PhD theses are deposited in the OA Leicester Research Archive. Our journals, Museum &
 Society and Museological Review, have been OA since 2003 and 2004 respectively, and in this
 period were transferred to the University’s open journals site, journals.le.ac.uk, giving them long-
 term sustainability. OA thinking led us to develop multimedia project microsites such as
 www.humankind.le.ac.uk and www.unrulybodies.le.ac.uk, and underpins our collaborations, in
 which museum and heritage professionals and volunteers become fellow researchers. We argue
 that this is an ethical necessity for research targeted at social, intellectual and professional
 transformation beyond academia. We also realise the practical benefits of the formal
 requirement for staff and students to submit research programmes for approval to the University
 Research Ethics and Integrity Committee, which ensures adherence to professional standards
 and legal requirements, as informed by the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity (IES, 2.7).

     C. Strategy for Research and Impact 2021–2028
 Our leadership of the field has been established through bold, grounded, conceptually strong,
 ethically driven, high-impact research. We aim to continue to lead and in doing so propagate

                                                  4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 open, ethical and mutually supportive modes of working both within the School and externally.
 Our research groups structure our engagement and give a granular level of vision to the
 School’s overarching aim. We are committed to growing their effectiveness.

       RCMG will develop new collaborative, externally funded research projects to advance
        socially purposeful thinking and practice by building on established strengths such as its
        involvement as founding partner of the new Queer Heritage and Collections Subject
        Specialist Network which focuses on LGBTQ heritage. The Centre will nurture new ECR-
        led strands of activity around social care, race and children’s rights.
       CRÍA will facilitate collaborative, externally funded, interdisciplinary research that bridges
        social art history with studies of institutions, organisations and infrastructure, nationally
        and internationally, focusing particularly on museum approaches to contested objects;
        contemporary art and institutional memory; and intersections of the contemporary art
        world with rural lives and communities.
       MusTech will grow externally funded and collaborative research as it develops its
        relationship with the University’s Research Institute for Cultural and Media Economies
        (CAMEo); Parry becomes CAMEo Director from 2021. Our aim is to establish Leicester
        as the global centre for research around museum and heritage organisational maturity
        (leadership, vision, process) and staff digital literacy (skills, agency, creativity).
       Heritage Lives will grow research at the interfaces between museums, heritage and
        everyday life, examining how these are defined by the contemporary and the historical. It
        will examine contested contexts of forced displacement and rapid social change; poverty,
        indigeneity and inequality; and public space and disparities in social and cultural capital.
        Its geographical focus is the UK, Myanmar, Gulf States, India and China.


 The School is planning for further investment as part of the University’s strategy to build on its
 research strengths. This will enable the development and extension of our research
 engagement. We plan to boost our vitality by using research overheads to seed-fund impactful
 and ambitious research which opens new research trajectories. We aim to enrich our research
 culture through international ECR and senior researcher residencies in the School, using these
 to strengthen research collaborations in Asia, Latin America and Africa.

 We will safeguard our sustainability by continuing to diversify our staff base and supporting
 equality of career progression through positive action in recruitment, bespoke mentoring and
 coaching; seeking philanthropic support for PGR scholarships and postdoctoral posts targeted at
 minority ethnic and other underrepresented groups; using the opening up of UKRI funding to
 international applicants to attract excellent researchers from the global south’s least developed
 countries and through the University’s Nairobi Alliance (IES, 2.1). We are also planning
 investment in our infrastructure around collections and technological research facilities using
 both external (e.g., AHRC CapCo) and internal funding (IES, 4.2).

 2. People

 A. Staffing: strategy and development
 We have successfully delivered on our goal of growing the scale, breadth and vigour of our
 research and impact while capitalising on the unique collaborative opportunities afforded by
 being a small unit. This has been achieved through proactive, strategic retention, recruitment
                                                  5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and development of exceptional Category A staff, enabled by a collegial, nurturing and
 supportive culture. Rooted in a School-wide commitment to excellence, interdisciplinarity,
 equality, creativity and mutuality, this values-led environment has been understood by
 successive leaderships as critical to our identity and success. It is underpinned by the principles
 foregrounded in the University’s EDI strategy (IES, 3.1) and by facilitating all colleagues to feel
 heard and supported. Our common senses of purpose, belonging and trust in each other, are
 cultivated as integral to everyday expectations, working practice and celebrations of success.
 Our Category A staff, all on open-ended contracts, come from a mix of backgrounds, e.g., 43%
 of those submitted have previously worked as museum or art gallery professionals; 23% come
 from outside the UK; and 89% have been employed, held fellowships and/or conducted
 extensive research, internationally. Our strong, diverse PGR community and RAs (below) are a
 vital part of this mix.

 Staff recruitment
 We sustain intellectual dynamism by seeking the best ECRs for a first permanent post, while
 centralising staff development (below) at all levels. Our 11 Category A appointments this period
 attracted globally outstanding, diverse candidates. Our most recent recruitment (2019) attracted
 179 applicants from 10 disciplines and 10 countries. We use targeted and open calls, as
 strategically appropriate: searches for specialists to drive our work on art museums and museum
 learning, led to appointments of Boldrick, Whitelegg (2015-16) and Morse (2017-18); wide
 calls, utilising multiple disciplinary tags in advertising, enabled us to enhance our scope while
 building existing strengths. Our process includes DORA-compliant output reviews conducted by
 an all-career-stage School group broader than the selection panel and representing multiple
 research approaches. All panel members maintain regular training in recruitment and selection,
 equality and diversity and unconscious bias. We always include a similarly trained colleague
 from a different School in panels, to challenge us against tending towards those who are ‘like
 us’.

 Staff development
 Continuing academic and career development, at all levels, is critical to sustaining our innovation
 and culture, as well as to retention and succession planning. It has enabled us to build upon the
 achievement of 2008, when we became the highest scoring unit in any discipline in the RAE:
 these staff now occupy senior positions in the School and University and have shaped
 subsequent strategic growth.

 All staff benefit from annual personal development discussions (PDDs), with more frequent,
 informal reviews for ECRs. Guided by the Leicester Academic Career Map (IES, 3.2), which
 recognises contributions to citizenship and leadership as well as research and teaching, all
 PDDs set objectives and include discussion of career trajectory and promotion planning. PDDs
 also intersect with biannual research meetings for all colleagues, led by the Head of School,
 Research Director and REF Lead. These provide dedicated space to discuss longer-term
 research agendas, support and development needs, immediate research and publication
 priorities, grant applications, and recruitment of funded doctoral students.

 New Category A staff undergo a three-year probation. Development is directly overseen by the
 Head of School supported by a formal academic mentor within the School. Mentors listen,
 advise and encourage across all areas of activity. They support ECRs to grow in confidence in
 their individual contributions, facilitate training and development in research and leadership
 skills, and input into probationary reports. We also support informal mentorship for staff at all

                                                  6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 career stages. These relationships – e.g., Sandell and Macleod – often progress into mutually
 supportive, long-term collaborations. We encourage colleagues to initiate mentoring
 relationships in particular areas of activity, beyond as well as across the School, e.g., Marstine
 was mentored in ESRC grant application development by Schürer (UoA28). Mid-career staff are
 encouraged to take on mentoring roles as part of their, as well as mentees’, development.
 Mentoring commitments are recognised in the workload allocation model.

 In addition to Category A ECRs, five funded postdoctoral fellows were appointed (Marie Curie,
 Leverhulme, AHRC). Our funded research has also supported 49 postdoctoral research
 assistants who, like PGRs, are mentored towards successful fellowship applications (e.g.,
 Bowry, Brouwer) and supported through University, College and School funds (below). We
 proactively build development and mentoring opportunities into our projects, e.g., Parry’s One
 by One project included a career development residential to help five RAs prepare for their next
 posts.

 Our ECRs run an active support group that includes two current teaching-focused fellows. The
 ECR group reports directly to School meetings and our Equality and Diversity (EDI) Working
 Group. ECRs are supported to undertake leadership roles in and beyond the School: e.g.,
 Leverhulme ECR Bowry was the institutional ECR rep on the University’s Research and
 Enterprise Committee; ECR Bunning directs our teaching and sits on the Management Team.

 Training is embedded institutionally and includes mandated modules (equality and diversity, data
 security, GDPR). Staff also attend University sessions on grant applications; research ethics,
 integrity and software; PGR supervision and examination; etc. In School Research Committees
 and at Research Away Days, we deliver bespoke development sessions on generating research
 impact, producing output excellence and building long-term external partnerships, as well as
 connecting with each other’s ideas. Our pedagogical support group also contributes to our
 research culture by introducing new and creative research methodologies into our research.

 Colleagues across all career stages undertake leadership training in line with the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers and the University’s Concordat Action Plan
 2017–2019. Since 2014, 10 staff across all grades have completed University and external
 leadership programmes; five subsequently took up senior leadership roles in and beyond the
 School (below) and four were promoted to Professor (Dudley, Gibson, Macleod, Parry).

 Supporting research and research impact
 We protect research time in a number of ways: workload model capture of externally funded
 PI/Co-I time and (IES, 3.2) a universal allocation of 40% research time; two ring-fenced
 ‘research-only weeks’ each term; a vacation duty-cover system to free up research time;
 additional time allocation for ECRs (e.g., 30% in Y1). Our close, direct support of all colleagues
 by the Head of School, Research Director and REF Lead, allow us to flex resource reciprocally
 and transparently across the School. We support each other across teaching and leadership as
 appropriate to make time for research (such as to enable completion of a monograph). All
 colleagues are able, at equal intervals approximately every 3.5 years, to apply for one semester
 of research leave; periods of ill health or parental leave have no adverse impact on eligibility. We
 have been awarded 16 person-semesters of research leave this period, underpinning output
 production and funding applications.

 All colleagues, regardless of contractual status, are entitled to an annual School research

                                                  7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 allowance (£650) to support research-related activity. We also strategically leverage College and
 University pump-priming funds (below), and share the benefits of grant capture by inviting open
 applications from School colleagues for funding from research overheads to support data
 collection, networking, impact, etc. We purposefully direct research support into areas of activity,
 regardless of grade, to propagate and develop a diverse research culture.

 Our REF output review panels, and informal peer reviewing of output drafts, grant applications
 and impact plans, include ECRs as well as other colleagues. This diversification across
 academic experience sharpens our critical insight and enables less experienced staff to increase
 their skills. Informal support within research groups aims to enable organic, rather than top-
 down, collaborations. Our Research Director and Director of Impact play pivotal roles in
 spreading enthusiasm and expertise.

 Postgraduate Researchers
 Our PGR programme empowers our students to become our peers, partners and successors.
 PhD graduates now working as academics, and our continued research collaborations with
 former PGRs, underpin our long-established relationships with Taiwan, Japan, South Korea and
 Hong Kong, and in this period have helped extend networks into Nigeria, Kenya, UAE, Mexico,
 Thailand, Sri Lanka, Malaysia and China.

 We offer robust training and expert supervision, enabling PGRs to develop a global view of their
 field and international network of peers and future collaborators. Our PGR Director (0.2FTE,
 three-year role) works closely with the Research Director and PGR representatives (who sit on
 our Research and Enterprise Committee). The Doctoral College (IES, 3.2/3.3) has regulatory
 oversight and provides generic career development and research skills training that
 complements our bespoke offer. Training encompasses a wide range of research methods,
 ethics, grant writing, teaching qualifications, wellbeing etc. Our PGRs may teach (including in
 sessions based on their research) and participate in assessment on our campus-based and part-
 time masters programmes.




                                                  8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                        Figure 1: PGR completions, REF2014 and REF2021.

 Figure 1 shows the exceptional growth in our PGR programme. The fourfold increase in
 completions includes 54 (70%) HESA-recognised graduates: over twice the UoA’s Russell
 Group average (25.6) in REF2014. 45% of our graduates were funded by UKRI, University of
 Leicester or international studentships, including employer/government sponsorship.

 We offer campus-based (full-time) and part-time PGR modes. 40% of international and 32% of
 home PhD graduates this period were museum, heritage and arts professionals studying part-
 time. In 2014, we introduced a practice-centred PhD route, encouraging professionals to
 undertake practice-enriching research projects. For example, Wilkins, director and co-founder of
 DigVentures, researches the innovative blended model of archaeology participation and
 engagement pioneered by the DigVentures platform.

 All PGRs have at least two supervisors, with arrangements tailored to the individual's needs, and

                                                9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with ‘open-door’ access to other School expertise and research conversations undertaken
 annually in reviews conducted by academics outside the supervisory team. Over 20% of
 completed projects were co-supervised with other Schools, universities and/or a non-HEI
 supervisor. Supervisors support each other within supervisory teams and through our regular
 supervisors’ forum.

 We are a member of the AHRC Midlands 4 Cities (M4C) Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP),
 and the ESRC Midlands Graduate School (MGS) DTP in which we lead the Museum Studies
 pathway. Additionally, we have won Collaborative Doctoral Partnership awards with Glasgow
 Life, Oxford University Museums and the British Museum. This period, we hosted 19 PGRs (11
 completed) through these funding routes. The DTPs provide training tailored to the needs of the
 cohorts; opportunities for networking; funding for research, conference travel or student-led
 events; and professional development opportunities including industry placements. Examples
 include: M4C funded Marabelli’s one-year stay at the Ashmolean Museum and her placement at
 the Vatican Museum (2019-20); Rodrigues’s organisation of an international roundtable on art
 museums and contemporary collecting practices; and Zardini-Lacadelli’s placement at the
 National Science and Media Museum.

 Our PGRs organise an annual PhD Research Week, structured as a summer school with PGR
 presentations, staff lectures, training sessions, workshops and field trips. PGRs also co-
 organise, with staff, fortnightly research seminars with external and internal speakers. Research
 seminars and Research Weeks are livestreamed as standard, enabling part-time PGRs to
 participate. PGRs may apply to the College’s PGR Fund for contributions to costs of travel or
 development of conferences and other events. Our PGRs have developed their own, School-
 hosted international conferences (Museums Alive! 2014; Museums (em)Power 2018) and
 exhibitions (e.g., Wright’s Asia-Africa research led her to curate the Korean artists Bang&Lee at
 Nafasi Art Space in Tanzania). They also edit the OA journal Museological Review and are
 encouraged to develop an online media presence, e.g., PGR Stienne became internationally
 established through her thesis-related Mummy Stories website.

 Equality and diversity
 We foster an environment in which people with diverse backgrounds and needs can thrive, and
 we value the richness this brings to our research. Additional to mandated institutional training,
 the School’s EDI Working Group provides biannual training for all staff and students. The
 group’s chair sits on our Management Team, foregrounding equality and diversity matters across
 all areas of activity. Our Disability Action Awareness Group actively addresses barriers faced by
 students and staff with disabilities of all kinds. Enhancing staff diversity in ethnicity is a high
 priority in the next period, through positive action in recruitment and our strategy of identifying
 and mentoring leading ECRs. We will address pipeline issues via PGR studentships and
 postdoctoral fellowships for Black, Asian and other minority ethnic researchers.

 We piloted the Athena SWAN Good Practice in the Employment of Women in the Arts,
 Humanities and Social Sciences programme, acquiring the Gender Equality Mark Bronze Award
 in 2014 and an Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2019. Our work to address the ‘leaky pipeline’ in
 women’s career progression has had a major impact. Our Category A staff are 77% female
 (similar to our PGRs); 90% of the seven staff promoted to Professor (Dodd, Dudley, Gibson,
 Macleod, Parry) or Associate Professor (Marstine, Vavoula) this period are female. 50% of
 heads in our 54-year history, and both of those covering this REF period, have been female.
 Female T&R staff are actively supported through peer mentoring to overcome gender-based

                                                 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 barriers in UK research funding (e.g., fewer women apply for large research grants) and
 publications. In this period, 60% of our larger research awards (>£130K) had female PIs; 10 of
 our 14 monographs were produced by women (including five female ECRs).

 The number of staff with a declared disability (13.3%) is above the national average (5% in
 2017-18) and the highest in our College. In addition to institutional policy – the University is at
 Level 2 in the Disability Confidence Scheme (IES, 3.1) – the Head of School, mentors, the
 workload allocation model and the Occupational Health Service are central to managing
 individuals sensitively and supportively, in order to maximise potential while assuring wellbeing
 and balancing workloads. 46% of Category A staff have had flexible working arrangements or
 other reasonable adjustments for at least part of this period, 38% of these because of caring
 responsibilities. Similar support is given to PGRs. We also ensure part-time and contract staff
 are fully integrated into the activities of the School, including Research Away Days and staff
 support and development systems. Contract staff are supported via end-of-contract
 conversations with access to career support and redeployment opportunities, and post-contract
 1-1 support from line managers and mentors in the School.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Our cumulative research income for this period was £2.4m (Figure 2). This represents growth of
 49% compared to REF2014. Per FTE we have remained in the top 10% for research income in
 the Media and Communication category (HESA).




                 Figure 2: Breakdown and growth of research income in this period.

 The drivers for income generation were the consolidation of research expertise and leadership
 around the strategic themes of our research groups, as well as the development of sustainable
                                                  11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations that enabled grounded, co-produced, sector-facing, impact-oriented research.
 Each research group has its own distinctive funding ecology. For example, RCMG’s institution-
 facing social impact research has benefited from charities; MusTech, which in this period has
 grown to match RCMG’s income, has made extensive use of EU funding (Figure 3).




                                     MusTech                RCMG
                                      £943K                 £917K




                                           Heritage Lives
                                               £449K                   CRÍA
                                                                       £100K


                               Figure 3: Income per research grouping

 In Heritage Lives, Gibson’s six-year (2012-2018) Understanding Everyday Participation project
 was supported by a £1.5m AHRC award (£563,287 FEC to the School), the largest in the
 Connected Communities programme. It elicited national and international debates around the
 exclusive nature of state cultural support and the social effects of participation. A series of British
 Council and British Academy awards totalling £112,000 enabled Dudley’s new research
 engagements in ODA-recipient countries including India (2014-17), Myanmar (2018-) and (with
 Morse) Morocco (2018-2020), working with museums in Ladakh, Jaipur, Yangon and Rabat.
 This research underpinned her development of ‘displacement anthropology’ as a novel lens
 through which to examine the mutability and potential of the material world in exile, migration
 and displacement. These interrogations of culture in everyday life fuelled the development of the
 Heritage Lives group.

 In RCMG, MacLeod’s sustained programme of research into visitor experience gained
 momentum through increasingly ambitious projects: Imperial War Museum North funding
 (£12,000) led to a National Trust award at Calke Abbey (£150,000) and to her joining with the
 University of Cambridge on an AHRC award (£450,000) for the CineMuseSpace project on Port
 Sunlight. These projects inspired her Design for Creative Lives monograph (2020) which argues
 that museum spaces can be developed as spatial-social forms that enable inclusive, democratic,
 creative empowerment and wellbeing. Similarly, MusTech’s projects, discussed earlier,
 demonstrate our ability to build and sustain funded research trajectories.

 Funding enables us to establish and nurture deep, strategic, collaborative partnerships to
 underpin the co-production of research and impact. For example, for its high impact work on
 LGBTQ heritage and history (ICS2), RCMG mobilised diverse funding including from Glasgow
 Museums, the National Trust, Museene i Sor-Trondelag, and the AHRC/Clore Leadership

                                                   12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Foundation. These sources concretised research-in-practice partnerships with leading
 institutions and directly impacted practice and policy. Similarly, Parry’s One by One and 2 by 2
 projects mobilised 21 academic and professional partners, NGOs and charities in the USA and
 UK. These have amplified relationships with change-makers in the UK and globally, transforming
 digital practice and potential.

 Infrastructure
 The School’s Research and Enterprise Committee (REC) includes all academic staff and
 postdoctoral researchers as permanent members. It acts as a forum for shared discussions and
 decisions on strategy, funding opportunities, collaborative working and PGR development. It is
 chaired by a Director of Research (0.3FTE role), who as a member of CSSAH REC ensures the
 School is integrated into the University’s and College’s research infrastructure, strategy and
 policies, and coordinates School activity on funding strategy and research development. She
 works alongside the Research Impact Lead (0.2FTE), who oversees impact strategies, pathways
 and capture; Research Engagement Lead (0.1FTE), who leads dissemination and outreach;
 PGR Director (0.2FTE); REF Lead (0.2FTE); and Ethics Officer (0.1FTE), who oversees
 research ethics training and planning for staff and PGRs and sits on one of the University’s
 Ethics Committees.

 The School’s Research Development Fund (RDF) uses research overhead allocations to offer
 staff at all career stages the opportunity to apply for up to £5,000 in a single year, for pump-
 priming grant applications, impact, dissemination and knowledge exchange. In this period, the
 School has used c.60% of its overheads allocations to seed fund new research directions and
 networks for staff, such as Knell’s investigation of Mongolian modernism (£2,222). 60% of this
 spending was directed to PGR/ECR research, e.g., ECR Morse received funding for her project
 on museum professionals and organisational change (£4,800).

 The School RDF is complemented by schemes at College and University level for staff and
 PGRs. For example, Tilche was awarded £8,159 from the University’s GCRF-QR fund for her
 project on COVID in India’s indigenous communities; Turner received £9,900 (also GCRF-QR)
 for her Zulu history project; and Marie Curie postdoctoral research fellow Mason was granted
 £1,920 for the development of follow-on grant applications. College and Enterprise and Business
 Development funding pump-primed Gibson’s symposium and book on the histories of cultural
 participation (2017) (£5,912). College funding also enabled field research for Boldrick’s (2020),
 Dudley’s (2020) and Knell’s (2020) monographs. In total, we received more than £0.8m from
 College and University pump-priming funding, stipends, match funding and small grants,
 including funds from University’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IES, 2.3). College and
 University funding for staff totalled £316K and for PGRs £492K.

 The University has invested in R-only staff in RCMG since the Centre’s establishment and the
 School funds its pump-priming and exploratory activity (£2,000/year). This has provided the
 Centre with the capacity to drive its own research impact-led agenda.

 In this period, the University has significantly strengthened its structures for supporting research
 – planning, partnership brokering, management, post-project legacy and impact – through the
 Research and Enterprise Division, the Innovation Hub, five Research Institutes, and Key Funder
 Working Groups (IES, 2.2/4.1). Parry’s research on digital literacies was supported by CAMEo’s
 administrative infrastructure. School academics have participated in cross-institutional
 interdisciplinary projects supported by Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS)-funded

                                                 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Tiger Teams’. Vavoula was a member of the award-winning ‘Vauxhall Gardens and VR’ tiger
 team in 2019 and is now leading a follow-on AHRC bid to explore VR design as a multi-
 disciplinary method for archive studies. Martinez’s international workshop ‘Academic
 Boundaries at Work’ was funded and hosted by LIAS.

 The School contributes significantly, and disproportionately to its size, to these University
 infrastructures: Gibson chairs the AHRC Funder Group, led the College research strategy as
 CSSAH Research Dean (2016-19) and leads UoL’s REF submission as DPVC Research (2019-
 21); Parry led the University’s Digital Campus initiative and Digital Literacy Framework, as
 DPVC Digital (2017-19); Sandell was Chair of the University’s REF Code of Practice Working
 Group responsible for producing Leicester's REF2021 CoP. We have provided one of the four
 Senate-elected representatives on the University Council – the University’s governing body – for
 eight consecutive years, through MacLeod (2014-17) and Dudley (2018-21).

 Facilities
 The School occupies a purpose-designed building, with two adjacent annexes added in this
 period, including an onsite café. These provide single-occupancy academic offices and spaces
 for conferences, seminars and workshops, excellent technological infrastructure for remote and
 face-to-face research and supervision, and reserved spaces for project meetings, collections
 and exhibitions work, display and experimentation. We have a dedicated PGR room with
 regularly upgraded computers.

 We have a diverse handling collection of objects that originated in the Wellcome Collection. In
 this period, this collection has been extensively documented, subject to PGR and staff research
 supported by College funding, and formed the pivot of a panel at our 50th anniversary conference
 (2016) on the materiality of museum documentation practices.

 The University’s David Wilson Library hosts the country’s leading collection of museum studies
 books and journals, including special and archival collections. At our request, it has expanded its
 non-English literature in this field in order to reflect our international community of researchers.
 Its Special Collections have hosted PGR and staff research in this period. For example,
 Vavoula’s AHRC Connected Communities Affective Digital Histories involved working with
 Special Collections to crowdsource memories of Leicester’s cultural quarter. PGR De Filippo
 conducted experimental research into visitors’ sensory and emotional engagements with rare
 manuscripts from the Special Collections; this involved the Library’s staff expertise and
 dedicated spaces, and led to a partnership with the universities of York, West of England and
 Trinity College, Dublin.

 Significantly increased IT integration across the institution has been key to strengthening
 research collaboration, support, dissemination and training since 2014. Key developments for
 the School have been the MyPGR system, which streamlines PGR administration and training,
 and supports the growth of our programme; the Open Journal platform on which we host our
 blind peer-reviewed OA journal Museum & Society; and the figshare-powered Leicester
 Research Archive on which we deposit OA research reports and papers.

 Our research infrastructure and facilities extend beyond the University through in-kind support
 from our collaborative partners. For example, the National Trust, Historic Royal Palaces, English
 Heritage and Historic England gave access to curatorial and equality expertise and a rich body
 of experimental professional practice, which enabled the establishment of the UK-wide Queer

                                                 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Heritage and Collections Network (of which RCMG was a founding partner) for which seed
 funding from the Art Fund was secured in 2020. India’s National Museum Institute, the University
 of Rajasthan and the government of the Union Territory of Ladakh all provided space and
 technical support for several symposia as part of Dudley’s ‘Things Encountered, Things
 Unbound’ project. Partners’ in-kind support is invaluable at PGR level too, enabling CDAs and
 externally-partnered PhD students to develop and test interventions in museum spaces, access
 operational archives, etc.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations
 Our international partnerships and research leadership underline our vitality and societal impact.
 In this period, we collaborated with 275 museum, heritage and art institutions, HEIs, creatives,
 community groups and charities, in 34 countries on six continents (Figure 4).



                                        Gov.Other
                                        Org. 2%
                             Associations4%               Universities
                                 5%                          19%


                         Creatives
                            8%



                 Community/Charity/Non-
                       profits
                         13%


                                              Museum/Heritage/Arts
                                                 Organisations
                                                     49%




                            Figure 4. Research partnerships in this period.

 Collaboration is at the heart of everything we do
 Every academic in the School has been engaged in collaborative research with sector
 associations and institutions, as seen in RCMG’s work, and with academic organisations. We
 use collaboration to build interdisciplinary teams, to incorporate different social/cultural/national
 viewpoints and experiences, and to champion research within the museum profession—to
 create and support practitioner researchers. These collaborations have been reported
 throughout this document.
                                                   15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Leading contributions to the research base
 Our unique departmental status keeps us focused on the conception and shaping of museum
 studies as an interdisciplinary field. In this discipline, the monograph continues to lead debate.
 The production of 14 monographs in this period reveals a research community willing to propose
 major new concepts and ideas, that is engaged in contemporary debate, but which also remains
 grounded in public-facing professional communities and institutions (see Section 1). Through our
 own PGR community, we sustain and extend this debate still further – museums and
 representation (Terry, 2020), ethics (Diaz, 2017), human rights (Bunning, 2019), social justice
 (Bergevin, 2019), accessibility (Plumb, 2018) – and as examiners we influence ECR
 communities internationally. In this REF period we examined 45 PhDs in 29 HEIs in seven
 countries.

 We lead debate around the world
 In 2016, our 50th anniversary conference, The Museum in the Global Contemporary, brought 261
 participants from 24 countries to Leicester. However, in this period our conferences have more
 often been developed collaboratively abroad. For example, in 2015, we organised The Agile
 Museum in Tokyo in collaboration with Japan’s National Museum and leading professional
 organisations, museums and universities from across the region. This was one of a series of
 conferences we organised in East Asia, which subsequently led to our engagements in mainland
 China which have included collaborative conferences such as Interaction, Integration and Flow
 in Xi’an in 2019. As already discussed, we have collaborated in organising conferences around
 the world. This capacity has been extended with recent recruitment. For example, Wakefield
 leads the biennial Museums in Arabia conference series. Our standing in our discipline means
 we are also asked to lead debate in conferences organised by other organisations; we gave
 more than 288 keynotes and invited lectures in 45 countries.

 We edit leading academic journals and book series
 Dudley was founding editor of Museum Worlds; MacLeod chairs the Board of Museum &
 Society; Vavoula is associate editor of International Journal of Mobile and Blended Learning;
 Gibson is on the editorial committee of the International Journal of Cultural Policy; Martinez sits
 on the editorial boards of the Anthropological Journal of European Cultures and the Journal of
 Ethnographic Theory; Parry on the editorial boards of The Science Museum Group Journal and
 the Chinese Association of Museums’ Journal of Museum & Culture. We edit three book series
 for Routledge: Museum Meanings (Sandell); Leicester Readers in Museum Studies (Knell);
 Cultural Heritage, Art and Museums in the Middle East (Wakefield). Gibson edits Palgrave’s
 New Studies in Cultural Participation. Martinez edits Berghahn’s Politics of Repair.

 Our work is recognised in prizes, awards and honours
 Sandell’s co-edited book Museum Activism was awarded the Canadian Museum Association’s
 Outstanding Achievement Award 2020 and RCMG’s socially-engaged collaborative research
 won the Third Sector Equality (Pink News) Award 2018, the Observer Ethical Award for Arts and
 Culture (2014) and underpinned the Museums Assocation's sector-wide policy ‘Museums
 Change Lives’ (2015). Martinez won the 2018 Early Career Award of the European Association
 of Social Anthropology for his Remains of the Soviet Past in Estonia. In 2019, PGR Stienne was
 recipient of University Alumni Association’s Future Leader award. In 2017, PGR Settimini
 accompanied the University’s Vice Chancellor to present at the G7 conference in Italy on
 ‘University Education for All’. In 2016-17, PGR Angel won a Fellowship at Cornell University
 Society for the Humanities (2016-17). In 2018, Marstine was awarded a Research Fellowship at

                                                 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fudan University, and in 2019, Whitelegg received a Visiting Scholar award from FAPESP
 Brazil. Shirley was selected to participate in the Wellcome Collection Ideas Hub in 2020. Knell
 was invited to give The William Smith Lecture at the Geological Society of London in 2015.

 We provide expertise and leadership to external organisations
 We are members of the AHRC Peer Review College (PRC): Gibson (2006-14), Parry (2009-17)
 and Vavoula (2018-24, and recognised for significant contribution in 2020) and the ESRC GCRF
 PRC (Dudley 2018-). Gibson was a member of the AHRC Care for the Future Steering
 Committee (2011-18); Parry of the AHRC/UKRI Towards a National Collection: Opening UK
 Heritage to the World (2019-), AHRC Image Gallery (2014) and the National JISC Horizons
 Group (2018-19). We sit on research award panels: AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award
 programme (Gibson, 2019), AHRC UK-US Collaboration for Digital Scholarship in Cultural
 Institutions Partnership Development Grants (Vavoula, 2019), AHRC Creative Industries in
 China (Gibson, 2018), Norwegian Research Council Culture and Media Studies Research Grant
 Panel (Gibson, 2019-20), British Council (Gibson, 2014), EU Marie Skłodowska Curie Actions
 (Vavoula, 2019-20). We have reviewed for research councils internationally, including Australian
 Research Council, Dutch Research Council, European Research Council, SSHRC Canada,
 Research Foundation Flanders, Croatian Agency for Science and HE, Danish Council for
 Independent Research.

 Contributions to economy and society
 Our research seeks to deconstruct, challenge and redirect the peculiar socio-political power of
 museums, heritage and art institutions; as well as expose new potential. It often leads to
 institutional change and policy initiatives, and by extension contributes to public debate and
 societal action.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion permeate our research
 Amongst our outputs, Marstine’s Critical Practice shows how artists’ interventions can redress
 exclusions, inequalities and relational frictions between museums and their publics. Sandell’s
 Museums, Moralities and Human Rights demonstrates how museums are implicated in the
 ongoing struggle for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex human rights.

 We strive to lead and support change in the museum, heritage and art sector. Supported by
 philanthropic donation, RCMG established the annual Activist Museum Awards in 2019.
 Inaugural awards were made to the International Slavery Museum, Climate Museum UK and the
 network for working class museum professionals, Museum as Muck. Parry is Chair of the Board
 of Trustees of the Jodi Mattes Trust for accessible digital culture. We contributed case studies to
 the University’s successful submission to become a Stonewall Top 100 employer (IES, 3.1).
 Sandell was appointed to inclusion advisory boards and working groups for the Wellcome
 Collection (2019-21), National Trust (2020) and National Trust for Scotland (2020-21).

 RCMG research on disability and LGBTQ rights (ICS2) has informed public opinion, enriched
 professional thinking and practice, supported disability and LGBTQ rights movements and
 organisations, and stimulated and informed new approaches to museum practice and policy.
 The Centre’s research collaboration with the Wellcome Collection’s new permanent gallery,
 Being Human, featured in the New York Times article ‘Is this the world’s most accessible
 museum?’ (2019).

 MusTech’s research on digital literacies directly informed the Smithsonian Institution’s work

                                                 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 towards the ‘Virtual Smithsonian’ initiative and its strategic aim annually to reach a billion people
 globally. It also formed the basis for the UK-wide Leading the Sector (LTS) executive training
 programme funded by the National Lottery Heritage Fund. The project has established ‘Digital
 Commons’, an online, international, collaborative space (see UoA34a, ICS2).

 We realise social impacts through public engagement
 MacLeod’s co-produced installation, HumanKind, at Calke Abbey was based on research
 challenging ideas of loneliness and social isolation. Shirley curated Creating the Countryside at
 Compton Verney in 2017 and Boldrick curated the Sculpture Court for Aberdeen Art Gallery’s
 acclaimed reopening. Tilche’s co-directed film Broken Gods was selected for the 2020
 DISTRIBUTE virtual film festival. RCMG’s Exceptional & Extraordinary included live performance
 events in seven leading UK medical museums. In all, we have co-produced 4 permanent and 19
 temporary public exhibitions, six research films, six live performances and festivals, 10 radio
 shows and audio-based media.

 Our work is informing government policy
 Morse contributed to the All-Party Parliamentary Working Group on Arts, Health and Wellbeing
 (2015-17); in July 2018, the government announced £4.5m for GPs to prescribe arts for health.
 RCMG’s Generic Learning Outcomes methodology (2004) has been adopted as a model to
 assess impact in REF2021 Panel Criteria and Working Methods. Gibson was one of two special
 witnesses for the Select Committee for Culture, Media and Sport’s Countries of Culture Inquiry
 (2016). PGR Brouwer’s research on children’s agency in engaging with difficult issues led to a
 six-month AHRC-funded postdoctoral placement with the International Slavery Museum in which
 she directly informed its interpretive strategy – work shared in Parliament.

 We contribute solutions to contemporary issues
 Tilche’s GCRF-funded project aims to mitigate Covid19 impacts on India's indigenous and
 nomadic communities through a series of podcasts spreading information in local languages
 about health and safety measures as well as rights and accountability. In July 2020, Vavoula
 and Anastopoulou published findings of a survey of museum educators on the role of digital on
 school visits post-lockdown; it has become the most viewed item on the University’s figshare
 research archive.




                                                  18
