Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 20

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a) Structure and Strategic Aims for Research

 Social policy and social work research within the School of Human and Health Sciences (SHHS)
 at the University of Huddersfield (UoH) is characterised by core areas of excellence in response
 to contemporary social problems, policy and funding priorities. Our research builds on
 achievements in REF 2014 and is fed by an expanding range and depth of applied research,
 knowledge exchange, impact and public engagement activities driven by an expansion in grant
 capture. We have worked hard to promote significant growth in the scope and quality of our
 research reflected in major advances in key areas that have achieved international recognition.
 With the development of a strategic, managed approach we have put in place the necessary
 arrangements to effectively harness our expertise to enable future growth in response to global
 challenges. Our research vision is guided by five strategic aims collaboratively developed and
 continually reviewed as a school to:

    1. Increase our capacity to do research – recruiting, developing and retaining staff
    2. Ensure that our research activity is sustainable – attracting external funding and investing
       in agreed areas
    3. Enhance external engagement with our research - building partnerships and collaborating
       with research end users
    4. Maximise the impact of our research – through learning and dissemination with policy and
       practice
    5. Strengthen our research culture – aligning our research activities with our shared values.

 Our research is driven by a commitment to create knowledge that results in real public benefit. In
 keeping with the University research strategy, our work is distinguished by our strong tradition of
 applied research and collaboration with service users and professionals to tackle real-world
 problems and achieve sustainable, safe, healthy and equitable lives for all. Our mission is to
 generate knowledge that will make a real difference to people's lives in organisations, services
 and communities; locally, nationally and internationally. We aim to drive improvements to practice
 and influence policy through effective engagement, coproduction and knowledge exchange with
 multiple stakeholders.

 Research in SHHS is organised around core areas of long-standing expertise and responsiveness
 to contemporary social issues and policy imperatives: inequalities and social justice, identity and
 diversity; inclusion and citizenship, participation and involvement; safety and security; prevention
 and support.

 Research is delivered through seven research centres and supplemented by investment in two
 cross-university specialist institutes that address Areas of Strategic Research Importance and
 extend the work of the Research Centres:

    •   Centre for Applied Child, Youth and Family Research (CACYFR) Director: Percy-Smith
    •   Centre for Citizenship Identities and Diversity (CCID) Director: Woodiwiss
    •   Applied Criminology and Policing Centre (ACPC) Director: Roach
    •   Centre for Applied Health Research (CAHR) Director: Caress
    •   Centre for Applied Psychological Research (CAPR) Director: Wager

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •     Centre for Cognition and Neuroscience (CCN) Director: Peebles
     •     None in 3 (Ni3) Director: Jones
     •     Secure Societies Institute (SSI) (established and directed: Armitage 2014-18)
     •     Institute for Skin Integrity and Infection Prevention (established 2014 by Ousey)

 Emphasis is placed on developing a portfolio of local, national and international research. We
 value our work with local partners (for example Kirklees Creative Health Partnership) and
 undertake research and evaluation for major national initiatives (for example Rapid Evidence
 Assessment for the Home office/Independent inquiry into child sexual abuse [IICSA]).

 Research in SHHS benefits from a culture of cross-centre, interdisciplinary cooperation that
 enables innovative perspectives and approaches to be developed in response to research
 questions (see 1c below for exemplars). Our integrated, interdisciplinary research programme
 across these organising units is focused around 8 key areas of research priority.

          Innovating theory and practice of child protection
          Reducing interpersonal violence and abuse
          Understanding and improving health and well-being
          Youth participation, citizenship and democratic engagement
          Understanding social and political identities in changing times
          Gender and sexuality
          Secure societies and policing
          Sustainable and inclusive communities

 These priorities have developed through consolidating existing areas of strength together with
 strategic investment in new areas in response to external policy and funding priorities such as
 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 3, 5, 10, and 11; and the EU’s Horizon 2020.

 b) Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact

 Research aims in REF 2014 concerned building on existing strengths in established areas (child
 protection, gender and sexuality, sexual abuse, national identities and citizenship, and crime
 prevention through environmental design [CPTED]) aligned to external drivers and the needs of
 research users to:

    i)        Make a significant contribution to enhancing knowledge in priority areas
    ii)       Contribute to policy and practice developments through stakeholder collaboration
    iii)      Use of multi-disciplinary approaches to increase understanding of complex issues faced
              by individuals, families, communities and societies.

 Priority research areas have grown and developed substantially during the 2014-2020 period with
 increases in grant capture, outputs and collaborations giving rise to new areas (as outlined above
 and detailed below). Other areas identified for growth in the last REF (management of long-term
 care, self-management of health problems, reproductive and child health and investigative
 psychology) developed to the extent they have achieved sufficient critical mass to warrant
 submissions, in their own right, to other UoAs (3, 4 & 24)




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have expanded the number and diversity of research collaborations with non-academic
 partners in policy and practice (see section 4b and c) including strategic collaborations with
 government departments (for example secondment to the DWP) and local partners (for example
 crime prevention partnerships with West Yorkshire Police). In line with the University Research
 Strategy we have actively sought opportunities to collaborate with international partners extending
 our international reach with over 65 HEIs (40 within QS500), government departments and
 international organisations such as UNICEF and World Bank (see section 1c below). Much of this
 growth has involved interdisciplinary collaboration, for example Jones’ Ni3 initiative reducing
 interpersonal violence in over 8 countries, Monro’s INIA (Intersex) collaboration across 21
 countries and Armitage and Monchuk’s application of Crime Prevention through Environmental
 Design (CPTED) in UAE and Australia (see Impact Case Study (ICS) and Section 4 for details).

 Our commitment to applied research that makes a difference has in turn given rise to an increasing
 focus on impact reflected in our Impact Strategy and 4 ICSs (see 1d and 3b below). We place
 considerable emphasis on supporting active stakeholder involvement, dissemination and impact
 through maintenance of vibrant partnerships (for example, the Yorkshire and Humber Applied
 Research Collaborative [YHARC] and International Coalition for Children with Incarcerated
 Parents [INCCIP] network). This has, in part, been facilitated by the development of a School
 Impact strategy, appointment of two Senior Research Fellows (0.5fte each) for impact, and
 investment in external impact advisors, from which 9 staff have directly benefited.

 Our major achievements for research and impact in this REF period are summarised below. They
 include major grants, international collaborations and research outputs including commissioned
 reports (for example for the EU and government bodies) and academic publications with: 20% of
 outputs in the top 10% most cited worldwide; 28% in the top 10% of journals; 21% of publications
 co-authored with international research partners; and, notable ‘best paper’ awards (see section
 4).

 Innovating theory and practice of child protection (Parton, Featherstone, Bywaters, Golding,
 Gallagher, Percy-Smith, Wood, Raikes, Considine): Continuing a long track record of
 internationally renowned expertise in child protection research this work has significantly
 developed since REF 2014, through major scholarly works (for example, Parton’s Politics of child
 protection 2014), diverse projects, international collaborations and the recruitment of Profs
 Featherstone and Bywaters. Featherstone’s pioneering work on developing social models of care
 has spawned significant publications including Protecting Children: A Social Model, 2018 and has
 been highly influential, leading to invitations to speak and advise on reforming child protection
 nationally and internationally (see Transforming Child Protection ICS). Ground-breaking research
 on Child Welfare Inequalities (Bywaters and Featherstone) has involved major grants from Nuffield
 (totalling £649,714, 2015-19) and contribution to an international 5mNKr project on poverty and
 child welfare with NTNU, Norway. The £2M Horizon 2020 COPING project on children of prisoners
 generated a wealth of significant publications (Jones, Gallagher, Raikes), doctoral research
 degrees, the INCCIP network and further projects including Constructive Connections: building
 resilience of families affected by the justice system with Salford University funded by NHS (Raikes
 and Percy-Smith, 2016-2018). Percy-Smith continues ongoing involvement in the national
 evaluation of deinstitutionalisation of children’s care in Bulgaria (Oak Foundation) in turn spawning
 a further PhD study. Other research includes Featherstone’s work on the Adoption inquiry (BASW,
 £60,000, 2016), ethnography of care leavers (Golding and Percy-Smith), with emerging ECR
 interest in resilience (Considine).




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Reducing interpersonal violence and abuse (Jones, Parton, Featherstone, Gallagher, Woodiwiss,
 Hearn, Reeves, Golding, Kirkman, Aplin): Since REF 2014 this area of interdisciplinary, cross-
 centre research has experienced significant growth with the establishment of the Ni3 Centre for
 reducing gender-based violence with grants from the European Commission (£340,000), GCRF
 (£4.3M), UN ($750,000) and University of Huddersfield (£237,000). This global initiative has
 developed a novel prosocial gaming education intervention and significant impact [ICS submitted
 to UoA4]. Ni3 builds on previous grants from UNICEF and DFiD (£282,000 Jones; £236,000 Percy-
 Smith) with impact on legislative changes in 5 countries in the Caribbean plus Tanzania. Resulting
 publications include international texts: An Integrated Systems Model for Preventing Child Sexual
 Abuse (2015, Jones), and Treating Child Sexual Abuse in Family, Group and Clinical Settings
 (2016, Jones). The Ni3 centre – which was winner of an NCCPE award (2016) - provides an
 exceptional environment for supporting research into inter-personal violence for staff and PGRs
 (3 new PGR opportunities created). The wider portfolio of research on inter-personal violence
 includes commissioned work for the Home Office on online CSA as part of the IICSA (2017), work
 on revictimisation and restorative justice approaches to sexual offending (Wager, UoA4), intimate
 partner violence (Kirkman), online abuse (Reeves, Hearn) and honour-based violence (Aplin).
 Woodiwiss’s work on narratives of child sexual abuse has involved collaborative work with
 Swedish partners, journal publications (BJSW) and a key text Contesting Stories of Childhood
 Sexual Abuse (2014). Hearn has a global reputation for his work on gender and sexual violence
 reflected in significant publications (for example, Revenge Pornography, 2017) and international
 key notes. The significance of work in this theme is reflected in the award of two OBEs in 2020
 (see section 4).

 Understanding and improving health and well-being (Bissell, Fox, Bartys, Smith, Burr, King, Gibbs,
 Heavey, Ellis and Burton [UoA3]): New areas of research have been explored at the interface of
 Health and Social Policy applying expertise in social theory and social epidemiology to
 contemporary health issues. These include Bissell and Fox’s multi-disciplinary research into health
 inequalities including eating disorders, social determinants of obesity and the relationship between
 poverty, low level anxiety and depression across the life course. Fox’s research has applied new
 materialist and posthuman social theories to sociology and health including the ground-breaking
 Sociology and the New Materialism (2017). Developments in Bartys and Burton’s work on
 reducing work loss due to ill-health involved a prestigious 12-month full time secondment by the
 Department for Work and Pensions to inform UK government work and health policy in the NHS
 (Improving Lives: Work, Health and Disability Green Paper 2016). This has led to further work for
 Public Health England developing a Knowledge Transfer Partnership with the global reinsurance
 company Swiss Re (Innovate UK, 2020) and a US Dept of Labour community-focused health and
 work service initiative. Other areas of emerging research include everyday and end of life care
 practices (Ellis, King, Heavey), emotional impact of professional work (Roach, Ellis) and cross-
 centre collaborations concerning social prescribing and the role of creative activities and nature-
 based interventions to support mental wellbeing (Burr, King, Gibbs, Percy-Smith).

 Child and youth participation, citizenship and democratic engagement (Percy-Smith, Mycock,
 Gifford, McMahon, Monchuk, Loughran): Since REF 2014, research on youth democratic
 participation has developed with the appointment of Percy-Smith and successful EU research and
 consultancy projects, for example, Landscapes of youth representation EU DG Education and
 Communities. Research has forged new understandings of participation and active citizenship (EU
 Horizon 2020 PARTISPACE £1.9M total grant, Percy-Smith and McMahon Co-Is; and EU DG
 Justice project with young Roma, Percy-Smith Co-I). A key focus has been on using participatory
 action research and public engagement to promote the participation of young people (see also
 Growing up under Covid, Nuffield, £249,000) and, through projects, to embed children and young

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 people’s participation into public sector governance, for example, local hospital trusts (Pennine
 Acute Trust £10,000), Children’s services (Renfrewshire Council, £23,000) and community-based
 organisations (Womencentre/Big Lottery £25,000, McMahon). Mycock (with Loughran) has been
 a key player in national forums for voting age reform (Leverhulme £119,000) including presenting
 evidence to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Votes at 16, Welsh and Scottish governments,
 Electoral commission and European Youth Forum. Mycock is a major player in national debates
 with the National Citizenship Commission. He supports the development of youth participation
 structures in Manchester, Liverpool and Kirklees and has a leading role as executive member of
 the Children's Identity and Citizenship in Europe (CiCe) network.

 Understanding social and political identities in changing times (McAuley, Mycock, McDaid,
 McGlynn, Christmann, Littler, Jackson, Gifford, Blakeley, Gill): Longstanding interests in Irish and
 British political identities, political violence and conflict have been sustained with significant
 publications: for example, Democratic Unionist Party and Ulster Unionist Party (McAuley), papers
 by McDaid and journal special issues on British Identities (Mycock). McAuley received ESRC
 funding for work on Civilian life and paramilitarism during the conflict and peace process in
 Northern Ireland as well as for a seminar series on Symbolism and Memory in NI politics. This
 work has been complemented by new work on Spanish nationalism (Blakely) and issues
 concerning Regionalism and Euroscepticism in British politics (Gifford and Mycock) including text
 on British Euroscepticism (Gifford). New areas of research have developed in response to current
 issues of radicalisation, terrorism and extremism including far right groups with significant scholarly
 works: Radicalisation and Counter-Radicalisation in Higher Education (McGlynn and McDaid,
 2019), Islamophobia in Britain (Jackson, 2018), Ideology and Discourse of the English Defence
 League (Jackson, 2014), Terrorism, hate speech and 'cumulative extremism' on Facebook (Littler
 and Jackson, 2019) and a report for the UK government Commission for Counter Extremism
 (Littler, 2019). These areas cut across research centre interests (ACPC/CCID) and include
 Rogerson and Christmann’s work on community relations (2015) and reporting of violent extremist
 activity (2017). This work informed recommendations to the Home Office PREVENT Working
 Group, Greater Manchester Combined Authority report on Preventing hateful extremism, National
 Counter-Terrorism Policing Safeguarding campaign and has given rise to replication studies in
 North America and ongoing international research on terrorist recruitment tactics. Research on
 social and political identities and citizenship resonates across work with youth participation (see
 above), gender (see below) and ethnic identities (Sikh, Gill).

 Gender and sexuality (Monro, Yeadon-Lee, Woodiwiss, Hearn, Fox, Wood): This established area
 of work has developed significantly with key publications and international, interdisciplinary
 research, funded by the EU and involving collaborations with QS500 universities (for example,
 Radboud, Ghent, Helsinki) and non-academic agencies (see Section 4). Monro has developed
 significant international, interdisciplinary research partnerships building on key publications:
 Bisexuality (2015); Queer in Africa: LGBTQI Identities, Citizenship and Activism (2018) and
 articles on transgender citizenship (2017). Hearn’s work focuses on gender, sexuality, diversity
 and intersectionality with major text on masculinities (Men of the World, 2015); and extensive
 publications for example on Transnational Perspectives on Gender, Sex, and Race (2018) and
 Gender, State and Citizenships (2020) in the prestigious New Handbook of Political Sociology.
 Fox’s work applies new materialist and posthuman social theory to studies of sexuality and
 embodiment. Major projects include Monro’s EU Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie funded
 INIA (Intersex) (2020-2024) and EUCIT (Intersex/DSD Human Rights and Citizenship 2016-2019)
 projects; the latter informing NHS policy discussions concerning irreversible surgical interventions
 on children. This work is part of a wider portfolio including cross-European research on LGBTQI
 equalities and human rights on tackling discrimination (Fundamental Rights Agency, £18,900,

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2014), gay/lesbian adoption and fostering (Wood), a BA/Leverhulme funded project with
 international partners on supporting LGBT young people (Woodiwiss 2017-19), and evaluation of
 the yOUTh project with Sheffield Hallam University, (2017-22, £38,000 Big Lottery).

 Secure societies and policing (Roach, Armitage, Monchuk, Rogerson, Ignatans, Christmann,
 Cartwright, Atkin, Reeves, McMahon, Flynn): Growth of this theme since REF 2014 has
 culminated in the establishment of the Secure Societies Institute (Armitage) to harness cross-
 university capacity, supported by University investment of £371,134, from which significant
 partnerships and impacts have arisen (see section 3). Research has continued to focus around
 CPTED (Armitage, Monchuk) including evaluations (2015, 2016, 2017), systematic reviews (2016,
 2017), and training needs analysis (2017) for partners in practice. This work has achieved
 significant impact on both policy and practice at a national and international level for example in
 UAE and police training and building regulation changes in UK [see Designing out crime ICS].
 Wider research in this theme includes reducing crime on public transport hubs (EUDGMOVE,
 £273,160 total, 2014/2017) that have informed the development of transport hub policies across
 EU member states and initiated further EU research (MOVE/A4/2016222). Responding to
 terrorism, violent extremism and hate crime is a growing area of interest across centres
 (ACPC/CCID) focusing on the PREVENT agenda (see Christmann in Political identities section
 above). Newly developed research on problem-solving in policing is reflected in grants (SWYPCC
 £254,022, Armitage, partnership with UCL) and a major text: Decision Making in Police Enquiries
 (Roach, 2019). Commissions from regional partners have extended our portfolio for example:
 Young offender’s social media use (West Yorkshire PCC, £147,000, 2018, Christmann) which has
 informed the Home Office Violence reduction strategy. Flynn’s research on Wildlife crime
 commissioned by WWF-UK has been used to advocate for improvements to sentencing in
 England and Wales and provided guidelines for sentencing wildlife offences in the Malaysian
 courts (submitted as an ICS to UoA 17).

 Sustainable and inclusive communities (Brown, Jones, Smith, Halsall, Golding, Bartholomew, Gill,
 Christmann, Rogerson, Gaynor, Percy-Smith and Monchuk): this new focus has emerged as staff
 interests and expertise have increasingly aligned to contemporary global challenges such as
 gender equality, decent work, social inequality and sustainable cities and communities (SDGs 5,
 8,10 and 11 respectively). For example, research concerning the role of social enterprise and
 economic futures (UK India Education Research Initiative, Halsall) has generated publications and
 impact concerning new models of social enterprise, social capital and sustainable community
 development. Brown’s research on housing and homelessness (for example a project on the
 impact of poor-quality housing working with Northern Housing Consortium and All-Party
 Parliamentary Group for Housing in the north) has been complemented by research and
 publications on the integration of asylum seekers (Smith, Brown, for example, Asylum Migration
 and Integration Fund/EU grants £176,000 and £276,000). The focus on inclusion is reflected in
 work on racial and gender equality and inclusion (Jones, Golding, Gill, Bartholomew), for example,
 Jones’ Text: Catching hell and doing well; children and social inclusion projects (Percy-Smith,
 Monchuk, Smith); commissioned research on community cohesion (Rogerson and Christmann)
 and publications on educational inclusion (Gaynor) and prisoner resettlement (Christmann). Fox
 has applied social theory in publications on sustainability and climate change policy.

 These achievements have been matched by developments in methodological expertise with a
 focus on ethnographic and phenomenological approaches (Burr, Reeves), feminist narrative
 research (Woodiwiss, Smith), template analysis (King, Bartys), participatory action research
 (Percy-Smith, Monchuk, Monro) and digital approaches (Monchuk, Smith, Ellis) each
 generating publications and impact (see for example Good work, good health ICS).

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c) Interdisciplinary approaches

 Social Policy research at the University of Huddersfield continues a long tradition of
 interdisciplinary collaboration in response to key research questions, many including cross-
 university and international collaborations. Noteworthy examples include our work on responding
 to interpersonal violence with collaborations across social work, education, criminology and
 psychology (for example Ni3 project and IICSA review). Research on radicalisation, extremism
 and hate crimes draws on political science, psychology and criminology. Gender and sexuality
 work cuts across social policy, sociology, political science, law, education, social work, health and
 social theory. Welfare inequalities research draws on health, sociology, social work and
 community studies. CPTED research involves collaboration with the School of Art, Design and
 Architecture. These interdisciplinary collaborations have been beneficial in developing novel
 research approaches (for example prosocial gaming in Ni3) in turn building capacity and opening
 up new research opportunities for staff/ECRs. Staff are actively encouraged to share ideas and
 collaborate across centres. The School is active in University sandpit events to catalyse
 interdisciplinary cooperation in response to global challenges to prime large bid preparation, for
 example Development challenges in post-conflict societies (McDaid).

 d) Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 Strategic aims for research (see above) are articulated through research centre strategies linked
 closely with University strategic research aims. We are aspirational, with ambitious goals to:

       Increase and sustain external funding year-on-year from diverse sources
       Build on and extend research priorities in response to policy and funding
       Expand research collaborations with an emphasis on international and QS300 HEIs and
        partners in practice
       Develop capacity by increasing the number of research active staff
       Raise our research profile by maximising engagement and impact
       Increase the proportion of staff publishing at 2* (to 100%) and 3* (to 75%)

 Research goals are pursued through a diversity of opportunities including support for big bids (for
 example ESRC Centre on Youth Participation), developing international partnerships (for example
 INIA) and supporting ECR involvement in research (for example Monchuk’s involvement in
 Nuffield Growing up under Covid project). University support in pursuit of strategic aims is focused
 through Areas of Strategic Research Importance and backed by investment (for example
 Vulnerable children and families: £355k to help establish the Ni3 centre; £379K to establish the
 Secure Societies Institute). These have in turn generated further benefits (for example, Ni3 £4M
 GCRF grant and subsequent $750,000 from UN, PhDs and research outputs). The school has
 made strategic targeted investment in new appointments to build capacity in research and
 enterprise (see staffing below).

 The School consolidates and continually refines its core research priorities, supporting new areas
 for development, re-aligning as appropriate in response to social and political issues. In particular,
 we seek to develop innovative, interdisciplinary collaborations such as the newly established
 ‘healthy housing’ research group and newly developing portfolio of work around creativity and
 health (bids to MRC and NIHR with local partners). Our priority going forward is to strengthen
 collaboration with research end users and support for delivering and monitoring impact through
 for example use of action research methodologies, external impact training and increasing role of
 public engagement and impact leads. Primary aims of our impact strategy are to:

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


           Align our research with the needs of stakeholders ensuring our research is responsive
            to contemporary issues
           Build meaningful research partnerships for enabling collaboration and knowledge
            exchange
           Create knowledge that is accessible and understandable to research users and
            beneficiaries and results in real public benefit.

 e) Research culture

 Open Research

 As a School that prides itself on its commitment to impactful applied research, we develop and
 nurture an open, collaborative research culture that embraces and engages partnerships with
 different stakeholders. This in turn further nourishes and supports staff research interests and
 enterprise. For example, Bartys has developed a virtual open access knowledge exchange
 platform Good Work, Good Health to act as a 'one-stop shop’ for evidence-based policy and
 practice in the field of work and health [see Good work, good health ICS]; and the international
 INCCIP network was established to enable research to directly support children with parents in
 prison [see COPING ICS]. We encourage collaboration in research through a commitment to user
 involvement and coproduction drawing on expertise in participatory research and run a vibrant
 public engagement programme (see section 4).

 The School supports the concordat’s principles on Open Research Data and broadening
 opportunities for high-quality research findings to be widely disseminated and freely available in
 line with University of Huddersfield’s OA policy. For example, interview transcripts from the EUCIT
 intersex project have been made available as open access. Staff are provided training in OA and
 mandated to submit outputs to the Pure information system.

 Research Integrity

 We maintain adherence to high standards of research integrity according to University guidance
 which adheres to GDPR and the UKRI Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Oversight is
 provided by the School research ethics and integrity committee to ensure research is conducted
 to appropriate ethical, legal and professional standards. Professional standards are maintained
 through regular staff development training provided centrally in the University and supported by
 School research integrity champions with specialist support (for example with data management)
 provided centrally.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 a) Staffing strategy

 Recruitment and promotion

 Our staffing strategies are directed by the University’s commitment to excellence in research,
 enterprise, knowledge exchange, teaching and learning. Recruitment and promotion of research
 staff at all levels is undertaken strategically to support sustainability in priority areas and growth in
 response to external policy and funding streams. REF-eligible appointments are made whenever
 possible with all academic staff required to hold, or register for, a Doctorate once appointed.

 Since REF 2014, to strengthen research leadership and capacity across the UoA, we have made
 five new professorial appointments (Percy-Smith, Bywaters, Featherstone, Fox, Brown), four
 promotions to Professorship (Roach, Monro, Burr, Armitage), two promotions to Reader
 (Woodiwiss, Halsall), one promotion to Principal Research Fellow (Bartys) and one promotion to
 Senior Research Fellow (Smith). This UoA (total 40.5 FTE) includes 17 grade 10 staff (13
 Professors), 5 Readers, 1 PRF and 1 SRF, in addition to Senior Lecturer/Lecturers. 15 staff are
 part-time. We seek to retain staff where possible with 96% of staff on permanent contracts and
 the remainder moving to indefinite contracts. Our current research staff includes 51% women,
 23% BAME, 6% non-binary and 6% with a declared disability. The School’s sabbatical policy
 enables staff to apply for study leave to enable their own development.

 Staff development

 The University adheres to the UK Research Concordat to support the Career Development of
 Researchers and is committed, as recognised by UoH’s European Commission’s HR Excellence
 in research award, to the implementation of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of
 Conduct for the recruitment of researchers. We provide an effective route and support for
 researcher progression. For example, Smith began as a PGR and is now a permanent SRF. New
 teaching staff benefit from a probation period with lighter teaching loads and protected research
 time and all ECRs are aligned to research centres. This submission includes 10 ECR staff
 receiving their PhD since Aug 2016. Support for developing research is provided through
 mentoring, bid training, writing for publication workshops and writing buddies. Staff are
 encouraged to cost ECRs into bids and ECRs are encouraged to actively engage in bid
 preparation with support from senior staff. Staff are encouraged to network and raise their profile
 through conference attendance supported by dedicated School staff development funds
 (£148,000 invested in this REF period) with priority given to ECRs and staff not normally benefiting.
 In line with UoH’s commitment to become an environmentally sustainable HEI, staff are required
 to provide an environmental impact statement and consider alternatives to flights in application for
 funds. Mandatory training is provided for all staff on issues such as Equality and Diversity and
 Data Protection. Fifty-nine staff across the School (12 from UoA) have undertaken leadership
 training with the Chartered Management Institute to ensure we have the knowledge and skills to
 manage research effectively. Staff research career development is reviewed at annual appraisals
 (see section 3). The School rewards staff for research through promotions and increased
 allocation of time for research in response to proven performance (grant capture/publications).

 Fellowships

 We currently have 11 Visiting Research Fellows and 28 Visiting Professors from the public,
 voluntary, private sectors and HEIs who contribute expertise working with staff to realise strategic

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 objectives. Fellowships are awarded for an initial period of five years with possibility of extension
 dependent on evidence of contributions to the University. All staff are expected to become
 Fellows/Senior Fellows of the HEA and one staff member is a National Teaching Fellow. 6 staff
 have Visiting Research/Professor positions at 10 overseas universities including: Radboud,
 Örebro, University of South Africa, Lund, Melbourne, and Huron University College.


 b) Research students

 Recruitment

 We foster a vibrant PGR community with close alignment to Research Centres and aspire to
 providing world-class PGR training and mentoring. We maintain an active pipeline of excellence
 from our undergraduate programmes, through our postgraduate taught programmes, to PGR and
 subsequent academic posts. All prospective PGR students are interviewed with a primary focus
 on quality, significance and fit with research priorities. PGRs require a minimum of upper second-
 class honours degree and each year we offer highly competitive fee waivers and scholarships for
 exceptional candidates. We have sustained PGR numbers since 2014 with 73 Doctoral degrees
 awarded (17 to staff) in this REF period of which 4 were Prof Docs with 275 PGR students currently
 enrolled (including 11 staff members). The School has supported three PGR students through the
 University Alliance DTA, involving a fee-waiver bursary of £15K p.a. and access to training at
 Alliance Universities. In addition, the UoA provides two scholarships funded as part of the YHARC
 to bolster work in the emerging cross-centre theme of Creativity and Health. Where possible, PGR
 opportunities are costed into projects (for example, INIA supports 2, and Ni3 supports 3, fully
 funded PGRs).

 Supervision, Training and Support

 Our PGRs benefit from outstanding support, training and development (mapped to Vitae).
 Supervision teams are allocated according to relevant expertise with at least one supervisor
 having already successfully supervised to completion. We actively support the inclusion of new
 supervisors to gain experience. New supervisors must undertake initial training with regular
 mandatory update training for experienced supervisors. Monthly supervision sessions are
 standard for FT students (bimonthly for PT students) with meetings documented to enable
 progress monitoring. We offer pastoral support to all PGRs via a personal tutor and work actively
 with disability support services to ensure our provision takes full account of the needs of students
 with personal learning support plans. A structured induction is provided, including skills and
 training needs assessment, to identify development and support needs, and reviewed on an
 ongoing basis. School PGR training has recently been revised to offer a wider portfolio of sessions,
 catering for introductory as well as more advanced training needs through master classes, on a
 range of approaches to research and analysis. Training in research ethics and integrity is
 compulsory. PGR students can access any relevant School module and there is a fortnightly
 workshop organised by PGRs where staff offer support with research, writing, presenting, impact
 and post-doctoral transitions.

 Integration

 PGR students are included as members of research centres and encouraged to fully engage with
 research activities and events including delivering research seminars. Many PGR activities are
 student-led, for example, the School’s annual postgraduate Engage conference and a successful
 one-day event on food poverty. PGRs are incorporated into school governance through student

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reps who sit on the PGR committee and the School Research Committee. The role of Dean of the
 Graduate School was undertaken through the REF assessment period by King from this UoA
 which ensured PGRs were firmly embedded in University governance. The Postgraduate
 Research Experience Survey is used to monitor student experience and improve the PGR
 function, for example, issues raised by students has led to a refresh of PGR training. Overall 82.8%
 of PGRs were satisfied with their supervision (2019) compared to a national average of 80%.

 Development and progression

 Annual student progression reviews (biennial for part-time students) are carried out by academic
 staff (including external reviewers for staff PhDs), independently of the supervision team. PGR
 student progress is monitored via the University Postgraduate Progressions Board which
 highlights anomalies to the Director of Graduate Education. Viva voce examinations are conducted
 whenever possible in the familiar School research meeting room. Professional development of
 research students is supported via opportunities for undergraduate teaching assistance (with
 University training) and opportunities for contribution to staff research projects. Research students
 are also invited to act as mentors for final year undergraduate students. All PGR students are
 encouraged to write for publication and presentations at national and international conferences
 and are supported through the PGR student support fund, which also provides financial support
 for project costs. The quality of our PGR provision is reflected in doctoral students who have won
 prestigious awards or gained significant post-doc positions. For example, Monchuk has been
 supported from research assistant to permanent position as Director of External Engagement.


 c) Equality and diversity

 We actively strive for an inclusive culture and are committed to enhancing equality and diversity
 at all levels, reflected in staffing gender balance. All staff are required to undertake training on
 diversity and unconscious bias with additional training for staff reviewing outputs and preparing
 the REF submission. Output selection followed a common approach according to the University's
 REF Code of Practice and were reviewed once the final EIA had been completed. We sought to
 minimise bias by involving multiple internal and external reviewers on the same output, whilst
 ensuring diverse representation across the submission (50.5% Female; 49.5% Male). All
 research-related policies and procedures and recruitment/promotions data are reviewed annually
 with anomalous trends highlighted for action. Our staffing policies support flexible working, career
 breaks, part-time working and accommodate carers’ responsibilities whenever practicable.
 Academic vacancies are advertised as suitable for job share, part-time or flexible working, to
 enable home/work balance. The duties of those on parental leave are fully covered (also for some
 time after return, with accommodation of the needs of breastfeeding mothers).

 We work towards external equality and diversity accreditation to ensure best practice, for example,
 the University:
      Is recognised as a Disability Confident Employer (Level 2)
      Has received the organisational Athena Swan Bronze Award with progress towards a
        School-level award
      Is a member of Stonewall’s Diversity Champion scheme which enables implementation of
        the Workplace Equality Index.
      Is an Advance HE Race Equality Charter signatory
      Is a member of the HE Advance Aurora development programme for women.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School has appointed a dedicated Director of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion and is establishing
 a new Equality and Diversity champions group linked to the University Equality, Diversity Inclusion
 Enhancement committee to advocate on equality and diversity issues across the School. The
 University’s BAME Staff Network represents interests across the University and we are proactive
 in our commitment to enabling equality through identifying leadership potential and career
 progression of under-represented groups. For example, the INIA project recruited two researchers
 from underrepresented groups (both are intersex and BAME) via a competitive process.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a) Income and strategies for securing research funding

 We seek to maintain a high quality, sustainable, externally-facing, interdisciplinary research
 environment that delivers focus and critical mass in priority areas while enabling growth in new
 areas of research. All research centres have sub-strategies that include income generation. We
 adopt a multi-pronged approach to generating research income through a range of funding modes
 including unsolicited bids, responsive mode tenders, framework/partnership arrangements (for
 example with Kirklees Council) as well as opportunities for consultancy, contract research, master
 classes and knowledge exchange (see section 4). We adopt a strategic, managed approach to
 research development, harnessing our expertise in response to global challenges and changing
 national/international policy and funding priorities, reflected in investment of over £800,000 of
 university funds to support research development, for example in the Secure Societies Institute
 and Ni3 centre.

 Our responsiveness to changing opportunities is reflected in winning COVID funding (Nuffield
 Foundation £249,000, Percy-Smith with Ecorys; and UKRI £322,307, Brown Co-I with Royal
 Holloway). These were complemented by £19,688 of University funding made available early on
 in the pandemic for research including ‘impact of poor-quality housing’, ‘changing meanings of
 outdoor space’, and ‘feminist responses to survival strategies during lockdown’.

 We encourage confidence and ambition in bidding reflected in tenders for large funding initiatives
 (see major awards listed below). Senior researchers and support staff act as a collective multi-
 disciplinary observatory, regularly horizon scanning and circulating ITTs. Staff are also supported
 in identifying funding opportunities themselves from a diversity of sources including UKRI, EU
 funding streams, government departments, charitable foundations as well as commercial
 opportunities via tender platforms and consultancy with partners in practice. MODUS Research
 and Innovation Ltd are contracted to provide support in bidding for EU funding. We align ourselves
 to respond to global challenges and international opportunities, whilst simultaneously seeking a
 balanced portfolio including work with local partners driven by local priorities.

 Research income has almost doubled (£8m) in grant value since 2014 in spite of health,
 psychology and sport/exercise research (included in REF 2014 UoA22) being submitted to
 separate UoAs for REF 2021. The efficacy of our research strategy is reflected in significant
 success securing major funding awards on a competitive basis. These have included:

       Ni3: Reducing gender-based violence (GCRF £4.3M, Jones) 2016-2021
       Intersex: New Interdisciplinary Approaches [INIA] (EU £2.3M, Monro) 2020-2024
       Children's Identity and Citizenship in Europe [CiCe] network (Jean Monnet Network
        £260,000, Gifford and Mycock) 2020-2023
       Youth styles and spaces of participation (EU Horizon 2020 £128,000, Total grant £1.64M,
        Percy-Smith Co-I) 2015-2018
       Best practice in Counter-terrorism for multi-model passenger terminals (EU DG MOVE

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        £273,160, Armitage) 2018-2019
       Politics, participation and pandemics: Growing up under Covid-19 (Nuffield Foundation
        £249,380, Percy-Smith Co-PI) 2020-2021
       Refugee integration projects (Asylum Migration and Integration Fund £173,000 as part of
        a £1.5M grant and £276,000 as part of a £4M grant, Brown) 2019-22

 We regularly secure competitive awards from a diverse range of funders nationally, regionally and
 locally, including Police and Crime Commissioners (for example, West Yorkshire Police ‘Impact of
 social media on youth violence’. £147,000); Local authority departments (for example Kirklees
 Council, ‘Study of care leavers’ £49,000); Health bodies (NHS England ‘Study of Transformation
 of Health Visitor services’, £47,000 and Public Health England ‘Conversations about Work in
 Healthcare’, £38,000); Government departments (for example Rapid evidence review for Home
 office/IICSA, £25,000); Charitable foundations (for example Votes at 16 study for Leverhulme
 £119,000); and Third Sector (for example Womencentre study £25,000).

 Our flexible and agile research funding strategy enables us to be responsive to changing
 circumstances across the policy and funding landscape, reflected in the emergence of the
 Sustainable and Inclusive Communities research theme. Despite budget cuts in local authorities
 we have maintained income levels from government sources by increasing responsive mode
 tenders and leveraging networks and partnerships (see below), whilst increasing RCUK and EU
 funding (as illustrated above). Our strategy for securing future funding focuses on further
 development of international partnerships in response to global priorities and increased focus on
 accelerating impact e.g. through COST actions.

 A key part of the school’s future research strategy is to increase consultancy activity by
 responding to commercial research opportunities (see sections 3b and 4b). The school has
 invested in a Business Development Officer to develop ‘new business’ in conjunction with two co-
 Directors of External Engagement. Staff are encouraged to identify possibilities for developing new
 research partnerships (including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, for example Bartys).

 b) Infrastructure

 The SHHS strategic framework for research seeks to significantly increase and sustain the
 quantity and quality of research by a) harnessing the values and drivers that motivate people to
 do research and b) providing the necessary investment, infrastructure and support for success. A
 number of groups and committees help to drive, monitor, support and coordinate research activity:

       The School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC) reports into the School
        Management Team (SMT) and is responsible for translating University strategy and
        procedures into practice and overseeing delivery of the School research strategy.
       The School Research Ethics and Integrity Panel (SREIP) reports into SREC and is
        responsible for ensuring good research governance and ethical standards.
       The Postgraduate Research Committee and PGR Progressions Board reports into SREC
        and is responsible for delivering the School PGR function.
       The REF Management Group reports into SREC and is responsible for delivering on the
        School REF agenda.

 There are three key elements to the strategic framework that together provide the necessary
 infrastructure to support the delivery of research excellence:



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supporting people

 All staff are expected to engage in research and are allocated time for research within the workload
 allocation model according to academic role and research plan agreed as part of Personal
 Development and Performance Reviews (PDPR) with further allocation according to salary offset
 from grants. PDPRs identify training and support needs (for example bid training) and
 establishment/monitoring of targets for income, outputs and impact. Our mentoring strategy
 ensures customised mentoring is provided by senior researchers to support individual staff to
 develop skills and confidence as researchers. We run regular bid training workshops including
 grant writing, finding funding, publishing (for example ‘shut up and write’ workshops), impact, and
 career development, and proactively develop opportunities for staff to gain research experience,
 for example, by writing them into bids. Staff are also supported to access external training (for
 example Monro attended an EU Project Management workshop in Berlin).

 Supporting the research process

 Our research office together with Research and Business Development Managers/Officers
 (RDM/BDM) provide support for all stages of the research cycle. Agresso information systems are
 used for financial/project management and linked to the University repository (PURE) to enable
 open research data. All grant applications are subject to compulsory peer review and all research
 is subject to review by SREIP. The BDM/RDM work closely with research leads to identify
 research/consultancy opportunities and help put bid teams together. Internal research funds are
 available on a competitive basis as ‘seedcorn’ funding for development of larger bids available to
 all academic staff (with a primary focus on encouraging early- and mid-career applicants) within
 the School, awarded strategically to complement existing priorities. Internal funding has included
 a dedicated COVID-19 rapid response call (see 3a above). The University provides additional
 support for internationalisation of research thorough URF funds and coordinated at School level
 by the appointment of an Associate Dean International. Research Centres receive funding to
 support business development and events; some indirect costs/underspends of successful grants
 are recycled to centres for further investment.

 Supporting engagement and impact

 As an early signatory to The NCCPE ‘Manifesto for Public Engagement’, the UPP Civic
 Universities Agreement and the University Policy Engagement Network (UPEN), the School has
 engagement, knowledge exchange and impact firmly embedded in its research strategy as we
 seek to realise our values as a civic university (reflected in awards for Enterprise and
 Employability). The School’s commitment to engagement and impact is reflected in the
 appointment of a Director of Partnerships and shared Directorship of External Engagement
 (Monchuk and Mycock) with Monchuk being successful in securing an ECR place at the NCCPE
 Engage Researchers’ Academy 2019-20. We have a dedicated marketing function for research
 within the School and engage with diverse audiences on and off campus (for example Cafe
 Scientifique, Leeds Salon), making increasing use of webinars; through ESRC Festival of Social
 Science events (see 4c below) and our annual PGR Engage conference. Staff and students have
 co-produced and delivered research and community engagement projects, including youth crime
 prevention and local democratic engagement events. Our students undertake a wide range of
 work placements across the region which in turn open-up possibilities for new research
 collaborations (for example Kirklees Council). All research centres run seminar series coordinated
 as a whole-school programme of events to support interdisciplinary working and are well attended
 with as many as 120 participants per seminar. Presentations are often given by practitioner


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partners, for example, from the National Crime Agency. Seminar series are complemented by the
 School Public Lecture series (attracting audiences of 300+ from local communities) and a new
 Annual ‘Race’ Lecture, with distinguished speakers such as David Olusoga, held as part of our
 Black History Month programme of events.

 We place considerable emphasis on supporting active stakeholder involvement, dissemination
 and impact through collaborative research approaches, maintaining vibrant partnerships and
 networks (see section 4, for example NIHR YHARC, Kirklees Creative Health Partnership). We
 seek to ensure that our research agenda remains in touch with contemporary issues faced by
 society and our vision, mission and values for maximising the reach and significance of our
 research is reflected in our School’s Impact strategy (see section 1). We actively engage research
 users and beneficiaries (citizens, sponsors and partners) at all stages of the research process
 wherever possible, (for example Growing up under covid project). The School hosts a public
 partnership group to inform engagement and impact and increasing numbers of staff are utilising
 coproduction and participatory research approaches (supported through methods training) to
 enhance engagement in the research process.

 c) Facilities

 UoA20 staff are largely accommodated in one of the three School buildings and where possible
 co-located around subject groupings. Further investment in the estate is confirmed as part of our
 future strategy including a state-of-the-art National Health Innovation Hub to support future growth
 in this area of strategic research importance (with £45m allocated to the School). Since REF 2014,
 the School has invested in a state-of-the-art PGR suite and provides dedicated administrative
 support for the PGR function in addition to central support from the Graduate School. PGR
 students are provided with dedicated shared office space with workstations, access to free
 printing, storage facilities, meeting spaces with data projection facilities, private study room, and
 kitchen area. PGR facilities are co-located alongside the research support office and academic
 research staff, enabling informal networking and the development of a vibrant and supportive
 research environment. Ongoing pastoral and logistical support has been provided during the
 pandemic to ensure flexible arrangements for staff and PGRs. The University library facilities offer
 first class facilities supported by faculty librarians, online search systems (Summon), remote
 access to journal/book collections and University Press to provide a platform for outputs, for
 example the report from Monro’s EUCIT project and the in-house Crime Security and Society
 journal.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our research seeks to maximise impact by working collaboratively to develop knowledge that
 informs policy and practice and supports professionals and citizens to bring about lasting changes
 in society.

 a) Research collaborations

 We form strong collaborations internally across the University and externally with national and
 international partners including world-class research leaders and Universities (QS500). Our
 Associate Dean International is key in formalising links with partner organisations including
 establishing Erasmus exchanges (for example Bologna) and Memoranda of Understanding (for
 example, Sydney Institute of Criminology) to enable collaboration; many resulting in joint bids,
 projects, papers and conference presentations. Our research standing is reflected in the scope of
 our International collaborations involving 18 staff who have partnerships with over 65 HEIs
 internationally, 24 involving externally funded research and the majority involving writing
 collaborations, many inter-disciplinary, for example, with Cape Town, Groningen, Sydney and
 British Columbia. Notable collaborations on externally funded research projects in priority areas
 include:

       Leading edge research on Gender and Sexuality including the University of Huddersfield
        led Horizon 2020 inter-disciplinary INIA project involving 21 partners from 10 countries
        including 13 QS300 HEIs: for example, Ghent, Zurich, Helsinki, National University Ireland,
        Manchester and non-HEI NGOs and government stakeholders. This follows earlier ESF
        funded work (2014) involving collaboration with University of Antwerp and Lillehammer;
        the EUCIT project with Italian colleague Crocetti and Swiss partners (2016-18) and writing
        collaborations (Routledge texts) for example with Universities of Capetown, Pretoria,
        Western Cape, and Bombay MIT.

       The GCRF funded Ni3 research initiative has involved collaborations with Makerere
        University, Uganda; Indian School of Design and Innovation, Mumbai; University of
        Technology, Jamaica and has given rise to new collaborations with Iowa State, Buffalo and
        Toronto Universities (QS500). This work has built on prior research collaboration with
        Universities of West Indies and Mzumbe, Tanzania on UNICEF/EU funded research.

 Other examples include the Horizon 2020 PARTISPACE project on Youth Participation with 8
 QS500 HEIs including Goethe, Bologna, Gothenburg and St Gallen; and Halsall’s UK India
 Education Research collaboration with University of Delhi resulted in the setting up of an Institute
 for Social Enterprise in India. All of these collaborations have elevated the profile of our priority
 research areas giving rise to major publications, impact work and subsequent research
 partnerships.

 National collaborations include partnerships on externally funded research (for example, with
 Universities of Birmingham, Sheffield, Goldsmiths, Canterbury Christchurch, Bristol, Royal
 Holloway, UCL and Cambridge); leading the development of the BSA Curriculum in Applied
 Sociology (Queens, Bangor, Edinburgh, Nottingham Trent, plus non-academic partners);
 workshops and seminars (Salford, Nottingham Trent) and writing (for example Cambridge, UCL,
 Edinburgh, Sheffield, York, Lancaster, Salford, Leeds, Manchester and Surrey). We are a partner
 in the NIHR YHARC working with NHS organisations, Local Authorities, Universities (Leeds,
 Sheffield, York and Bradford), and NGOs to tackle inequalities in health and well-being. We have
 active working relationships with top independent, international research and consultancy

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organisations, for example ECORYS, on significant EU consultancy commissions (Percy-Smith,
 Armitage).

 We have forged international and national collaborations supporting PGR research for example
 University of West Indies, New Bulgarian University (UoH funded), Maastricht and Northumbria.
 The University of Huddersfield has also been part of the UA doctoral training alliance involving
 joint supervision with Nottingham Trent University.

 b) Links with key users, beneficiaries or audiences

 We pride ourselves on our collaborations with non-academic partners. Notable International
 collaborations with non-academic partners include: UNICEF (Eastern Caribbean, Tanzania,
 Netherlands) on various child abuse projects with NGO and government partners developing
 violence prevention interventions; The International INCCIP network of NGOs in N.America,
 Africa, S.E.Asia and N.Zealand supporting children of incarcerated parents; Council of Europe
 (Mycock) and Halsall’s development of certificated course in Social Entrepreneurship with key
 international partners including University of Delhi, World Bank and KPMG.

 We have especially strong working relationships with local authority departments (for example
 Kirklees and Greater Manchester Combined authority), Health Trusts/organisations (for example
 South West Yorkshire), Police and Community Safety Partnerships (for example West Yorkshire,
 The Met Police); Regional networks (for example Yorkshire Together Early Intervention
 Partnership; Youth organisations (for example Manchester and Kirklees Youth Councils, Scottish
 and Welsh Youth Parliaments, Northern Ireland Youth Forum); Third Sector and Community
 Organisations (for example Barnardos, Womencentre, Creative Minds and over 50 others
 concerned with children, crime prevention or reducing gender-based violence). These have all
 been instrumental in building our research profile in key areas whilst developing impact with non-
 HEI partners in practice.

 Collaborations with non-academic partners have involved active engagement of partners as co-
 researchers, for example, Percy-Smith’s UNICEF Tanzania study involved community-based
 action research with community groups and professional stakeholders; and the INIA project
 involves a wide range of non-academic partners including 7 NGOs, activists and medical partners
 in co-designing the programme. Reflecting the importance of partnerships in practice, the
 University strategy (2019-2026) seeks to increase the number of new partnerships and
 publications written with non-academic partners. Examples include: Armitage co-authoring with
 West Yorkshire Police on Crime Prevention through Environmental Design research; Percy-Smith
 with UNICEF staff, Flynn with WWF officer; Brown’s COVID-19 and housing research publication
 co-authored with Northern Housing Consortium staff; Rogerson/Christmann with Victim Support.

 We have an expanding portfolio of collaborations involving consultancy commissions including:
 Independent reviews (for example Managed Approach to street based-sex working, Safer Leeds,
 Roach; Rapid review of online abuse, IICSA, Armitage); Evaluations (for example, Renfrewshire
 Council Children’s Champions board, Percy-Smith), and collaborations as academic expert (for
 example JoiPolloi Change-makers Digital Platform, Mycock; and Action Research coordinator for
 Bulgarian De-institutionalisation national evaluation, Percy-Smith).




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c) Contributions to economy and society

 We seek to maximise impact from our work in a range of different ways. We place considerable
 emphasis on responsiveness to policy and practice agendas and supporting effective
 dissemination and knowledge exchange activities to enable access to, and use of, knowledge and
 expertise. Examples include: presenting evidence to a range of Parliamentary Select Committees
 and All Party Parliamentary Groups (Poverty and Child welfare; Votes at 16; Refugees; Housing)’
 Lord Farmer’s review of social work in prisons, Home office security services and counter-terrorism
 police, David Lammy MP’s report on property crime, and Liberal Democrats’ Crime and Criminal
 Justice Working Group to inform their policy paper: Doing What Works to Cut Crime (2014);
 presentation to the Swedish Parliament; contributing to GLOBSEC think tank workshops in
 Slovakia on radicalisation and the threat of Islamic State; providing information to the US State
 department and Institute of Peace on combatting terrorism; Knowledge exchange in Social Work
 (contributions to Research in Practice, Making Research Count and ‘Academics in Practice’
 providing CPD to staff in organisations); and Crime Prevention through Environmental Design with
 UK Police forces. In addition, we make increasing use of social and public media (for example
 Social Media and Violence Research Group; The Conversation, blogs and twitter feeds). Many
 partners have developed capacity through experience as co-researchers (for example youth
 researchers on the EU PARTISPACE research). Other examples include New South Wales
 Police, China and Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council (Crime prevention, Armitage) where
 research has led to new planning recommendations ensuring adherence to ‘Secured by Design’
 principles; UNICEF research (combatting violence against children) has informed violence
 prevention strategies; CiCe has informed Council of Europe policy on citizenship education
 (Mycock); and findings from the EUCIT project helping to foster a government call for evidence
 about intersex/differences in sex development and informing a review of NHSE Clinical
 Commissioning Policy concerning irreversible surgical interventions on children.

 Professional development and improving practice: involving consultancy with partners to directly
 inform practice development, for example: Use of body cameras by G4S on home visits for
 Migration Yorkshire (Smith); Development of the Mental Health Accommodation Strategy for
 female migrants for Kirklees Council (Smith); development of a quality assurance tool for research
 and evidence concerning children of offenders for Barnardos (Christmann); provision of specialist
 expertise on a systems approach to dealing with violence against children to Heads of UNICEF in
 Honduras (Jones); CPD development initiatives with HEE on mentoring and governance (Halsall
 and Snowden); development of hate crime tools for StopHate UK and Victim Support
 (Christmann); development of crime prevention badge with West Yorkshire Police and Yorkshire
 Scouts (Monchuk); Invited expert on Home Office National Burglary Taskforce (Armitage) and
 International learning events across research and practice (for example, INCCIP practitioner
 conference, Raikes).

 Our commitment to public value and citizen engagement is reflected in an increase in Public
 Engagement activities involving a wide range of workshops, book launches, speaking
 engagements and debates. These include 11 ESRC Festival of Social Science events (for
 example Votes at 16/Youth Voice, Mycock 2014-19; Making Families: Stories of adoption and
 belonging, Wood, 2014; Supporting LGBT Young People Woodiwiss, 2017; and Empowering
 young people in crime prevention, Monchuk, 2016-17 which has led to further work with West
 Yorkshire Police; European Researchers’ Night (held twice), a public lecture series (currently
 online with topics including wildlife crime, domestic abuse and health inequalities); International
 Women’s Day events; democratic engagement events; public seminars off campus (for example
 children seeking asylum, migrant women’s I-Poems); and consultations (for example with NHS

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 England and the Law Society for the INIA project). We are increasingly using diverse forms of
 social and public media including commentaries in newspapers (for example the Telegraph), on
 radio (You and yours) and TV, blogs (views from the north), video (Building Safer Communities)
 and The Conversation (on topics such as Masculinities in political leadership and National terrorist
 attacks).

 Engagement (often invited) with professional associations enables use of our expertise to inform
 policy and practice in a range of areas from transgender health to mentoring and coaching and
 child protection to policing and crime prevention. Noteworthy positions include: Invited academic
 expert on the EC Expert Group on Innovation and Technology for Prevention of Organised
 Property Crime, Invited expert on Home Office National Burglary Taskforce, and China Safer
 Cities Programme (all Armitage), Honorary Member of NSPCC Council (Parton); Special Advisor
 to European Mentoring and Coaching Council (Snowden); contributor to the global MenEngage
 Alliance (Hearn); Me Board Member of the European Professional Association for Transgender
 Health (Monro); Academic Reference Group for Child Protection and Abuse Investigations with
 the National Police Chiefs' Council (Gallagher); Executive Members of the Children's Identity and
 Citizenship European Association (Gifford and Mycock); Council member of the Association for
 the Study of Death and Society (Ellis); Board Member of Fair Housing Futures (Brown).


 d) Contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Many staff are actively involved in academic networks achieving recognition through roles such
 as BSA study group convenors (n=6) for example, New Materialisms (Fox), Sexualities
 (Woodiwiss); Annual Conference Lifecourse Stream Co-ordinator (Ellis 2020); Qualitative
 Methods (King). Fox is Member of BSA Advisory Forum and representative on the International
 Consortium of Applied Sociology Organisations. Hearn is Member of BSA and ISA RC32 Elections
 Nominations Committee. Mycock is co-convenor of the Politics Studies Association Britishness
 Specialist Group; McDaid is a Member of Society for Terrorism Research. Percy-Smith and
 McMahon are invited partners on an international research collaboration coordinated by University
 of Aalborg (QS324) with Edinburgh (QS23) and Bologna (QS188) to produce a substantial
 anthology on Youth, Participation and Inequality (Policy Press). Bywaters manages two Jiscmail
 lists: Child welfare inequalities (150 subscribers) and Social work and health inequalities (446
 subscribers). Fox led development and launch of BSA Curriculum in Applied Sociology (2017-18)
 now available to all UK universities. Many staff hold fellowships of learned societies including
 British Academy of Social Sciences (Jones, Featherstone); FRGS, FRSA (Halsall, Mycock),
 FRHistS (McDaid), Society for Evidence-Based Policing (Roach); Institute for European Union
 Studies, USA (Jackson), Honorary Associate of the TAOS Institute, USA (Parton).

 22 staff have presented over 80 invited keynote plenaries at major international conferences in 30
 countries across Europe, North America, India, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America, S.E.Asia
 and S.Africa. Examples include Inaugural INCCIP conference (New Zealand, Jones), Global
 Citizenship Education conference (Italy, Percy-Smith), Society of Police and Criminal Psychology
 Annual conference (USA, Roach), ICSM Symposium on Men and Masculinities (Turkey, Hearn),
 US Institute of Peace Conference Combatting extremism (Christmann), Crime prevention through
 environmental design (Australia and Korea, Armitage); Non-normative Sexuality and South Asian
 rhetoric (India, Monro); UNWomen Beijing+25 Conference 2020 (Hearn).

 Major international conferences organised include the 3rd International INCCIP conference
 (Raikes 2019, UK); International Research and Practice for the Prevention of Gender-based
 Violence (Jones 2019, India); Intersex Activism, Human Rights, and Citizenship (Monro, 2018,


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bologna); Universities Association for Lifelong Learning Annual Conference (2017, Snowden); UK
 India Education Research Initiative Symposium on Social Enterprise, (2017 and 19, Halsall).

 Other contributions include roles as members of scientific organising committees: BASPCAN 9th
 Congress (2013-2015, Gallagher, Chair); Nordic Conference on Men and Masculinities (2017,
 Hearn); EU Conference on Gender Equality in Higher Education (2018, Hearn); ‘Troubling
 Narratives: Identity Matters’ international conference (2014, Yeadon-Lee) as well as leading an
 ESRC Seminar Series: Irish politics, (McAuley, 2015-17). In addition, staff have been instrumental
 in convening major study streams and chairing symposia, for example, BSA Environment and
 Health conferences (Fox, 2016/17); IMISCOE conference on Migrant Families, Children and Youth
 Panel Convenor (2019, Smith); Inaugural conference of the BSA New Materialisms study group
 (Fox, 2019); BSA Social Aspects of Death, Dying and Bereavement (Ellis, 2014-2019); BSA Social
 Divisions/Social Identities Annual Conferences, (Halsall, 2014-2019); BSA Early Career Forum:
 The Listening Guide in Feminist Narrative Research (Smith, 2019); 24th IPSA World Congress of
 Political Science, Poznan, (Monro, 2016).

 Editorial positions

 Significant book series editorships include: Beyond the Risk Paradigm (Parton); Routledge
 Advances in Feminist Studies and Intersectionality (Hearn). Journal editorships include: Social
 Sciences (Parton); Norma/Men and Masculinities (Hearn); Health (Fox); International Journal of
 Workplace Health (Bartys); Personal Construct Theory and Practice (Burr); Families,
 Relationships and Society (Featherstone). Editorship of 2 journals hosted in-house: The Police
 Journal (Roach); Crime Security and Society journal (Armitage). These are complemented by
 Journal special issue guest editorships for example ‘Contemporary Perspectives on Islamophobia’
 (Social Sciences, Golding); ‘Digital technology and child protection’ (Child Abuse Review,
 Gallagher); ‘International perspectives on planning for crime prevention’ (Built Environment,
 Monchuk); ‘Researching death, dying and bereavement’ (Mortality, Ellis); ‘Trans policy and
 practice’ (Critical Social Policy, Monro); ‘Sociology, environment and public health’ (Public Health,
 Fox); ‘Crime prevention’ (Policing Journal, Armitage); ‘Dilemmas of Englishness’ (Political Studies
 Review, Mycock).

 Staff are editorial board members for a wide range of over 50 journals including: Child Abuse
 and Neglect; Children and Youth Service Review; Children and Society; Children’s Geographies;
 Critical Studies on Terrorism; Educational Action Research; European Journal on Criminal Policy
 and Research; Gender in Management; Gender Studies; Gender, Work & Organization;
 International Journal on Child Maltreatment; Men and Masculinities; Journal of Occupational and
 Organisational Psychology; Leadership; Sexual Aggression; Sexualities, Sociology.

 In addition to the above, staff regularly review for a wide range of over 110 different journals
 including British Journal of Criminology, British Journal of Politics and International Relations,
 British Journal of Social Work, Ethnic and Racial studies, Health and Social Care in the
 Community, International Journal of Transgender studies, Policy and Administration, Policy and
 Politics, Political Studies, Public Policy and Administration and Sociological Review. Staff are
 regularly invited as expert reviewers of book manuscripts and proposals for publishers such as:
 Palgrave Macmillan, Policy Press, Routledge, Oxford University Press, Sage, Emerald, Springer
 as well as reports for example, Mental Health, Men, and Culture for WHO (Hearn).

 The expertise of our staff is reflected in the range of invitations to peer review proposals for funding
 bodies such as: ESRC (n=17); NIHR (4); Leverhulme (3); Nuffield (2), National Lottery Community
 Fund UKRI (4), Home Office, Scottish Government, European Commission (Horizon 2020 and

                                                                                                 Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ERC) and 10 different overseas national funding councils for example, Australian Research
 Council and SSHRC Canada.

 During this cycle staff have acted as external PhD examiners for 76 PhDs at overseas and UK
 universities including: Australian National University, Stockholm, Capetown, Edinburgh (2),
 Manchester, Sheffield (3), Leeds (3) and 28 other QS500 UK and overseas HEIs.

 External recognition of our work is reflected in a range of awards and prizes (n=20) of
 international as well as national significance including:

 International

       Winner Brian Farrell Book Prize (Best book on Irish Politics), Political Studies
        Association, McAuley 2015
       Doctor honoris causa, Lund University, Hearn 2016
       Wayman Mullins best journal article of the year award, Society for Police and
        Criminal Psychology, Roach et al. 2017
       Best Article Award 2018 (Gender and Sexual Research Network of the Council for
        European Studies) and CiCE best journal paper 2017 both for papers on
        Transgender citizenship, Monro.
       Best Publication Award 2019 - Children's Identity and Citizenship European
        Association, McGlynn and McDaid 2020
 National
       Kay McDougall prize for article of the year on Child Protection for BJSW,
        Featherstone et al. 2014.
       President’s Award – Society for Back Pain Research Annual Conference paper,
        Bartys 2014
       Best Paper, Emerald Literati Network Awards for Excellence for paper in Qualitative
        Research in Organizations and Management, Hearn 2016.
       Winner of the National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement Health and Wellbeing
        Award for Ni3 project preventing domestic violence, Jones 2016
       Winner of the 2018 Political Studies Association Sir Bernard Crick Prize for
        Outstanding Teaching, Jackson 2018.
       ESRC Outstanding Societal Impact Prize, for Changing practices and supporting
        parents for infant post-mortems, Ellis, 2019
       OBE for services to vulnerable women and children, Jones, 2020
       OBE for services to law enforcement, Richardson, doctoral candidate and Head of
        Safeguarding at National Crime Agency, 2020.




                                                                                         Page 21
