Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: City, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: A4 Psychology, Psychiatry & Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context

 City’s submission to Unit of Assessment A4 comes entirely from our Department of Psychology,
 a longstanding constituent of the School of Arts & Social Sciences (SASS). The Department’s
 mission is to generate world-leading research on mind, brain and behaviour that brings lasting
 benefits to society. We espouse an egalitarian ethos of “mutual excellence” that is both nurturing
 and challenging. For REF 2021, we are returning 39 research and education (R&E) colleagues
 (34.9 full-time equivalents (FTEs); 49% women) across seven research groupings. However, we
 recognise the invaluable support provided by additional colleagues with educational role profiles,
 who help ensure that our researchers benefit from sufficient dedicated research time. Strategy
 for this unit emerges from interactions at three interconnected levels: University, School and
 Department (Figure 1).




   Figure 1. Unit structure in the Institutional context. Arrows show lines of
   communication in the development and implementation of strategy.



 A distinct unit-level voice is articulated by the Department’s Research Committee, with
 leadership from the Head of Department (HoD), Research Committee Chair and REF Lead. The
 Research Committee oversees a ring-fenced annual budget (£81k in 2019/20), and both the
 Committee Chair and the REF Lead influence upwards via seats on the School Research
 Committee. Hence, our management structure integrates unit-level policies with those of the
 School, and we will often refer to both levels here, alongside University provision (expanded
 upon further in REF5a).



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 We use groupings to organise our researchers and promote collaboration and grant capture. We
 distinguish between
 groups/units, operating
 largely within the
 Department, and centres,
 which, while based in the
 Department, are
 established with specific
 (often cross-disciplinary)
 strategic goals in mind and
 thus incorporate staff from
 across the institution. In
 general, we recognise that
 leaders in high-performing
 research environments
 deserve (and thrive under)
 a system of accountable
 autonomy. Hence, we see
 the formation of research                                         Figure 2. Evolution of
 groupings as an interplay between organically developing staff    department research
 initiatives and a facilitative strategic culture that looks to    groupings, highlighting
 promote collaboration and competitively assign internal seed      the creation of new
 funding in order to reward and develop the best ideas. As         strategic centres (grey).
 outlined in greater detail below, new research centres
 (illustrated in Figures 2 and 3 with grey backgrounds) are key in
 the implementation of our research strategy.




                                                                         Figure 3.
                                                                         Current
                                                                         allocation of
                                                                         staff to
                                                                         research
                                                                         groupings.
                                                                         Staff
                                                                         recruited
                                                                         since 2014
                                                                         are shown in
                                                                         bold italics.




                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 1.2 Strategic achievements in research and impact

 At REF 2014, we presented a strategy to generate world-leading research and impact that
 prioritised:

    1) Sustaining high-quality recruitment to support existing research groupings and their
       cross-fertilisation
    2) Facilitating the acquisition of external funding
    3) Promoting collaboration
    4) Strengthening forms of dissemination, specifically targeting potential beneficiaries of our
       translational research.

 In this section, we highlight successes in achieving the specific objectives relating to these four
 priorities. Because our initiatives have tended to serve several strategic goals at once, we do not
 always attempt a strict mapping from each point above to subsequent actions, but we hope that
 the links will be fairly self-evident. We use bold to highlight sections linking to specific points in
 the REF5b panel criteria document.

 At heart, our research and impact strategy has been a simple one: recruit the best in terms of
 talent and collaborative potential, then provide support and incentivisation in order to retain staff
 and encourage them to let their strongest ideas flourish (Priority 1). To achieve this, we believe
 that the allocation of internal research resources needs to be (i) competitive, promoting quality,
 and (ii) nimble, reacting to trends and developments as they emerge within the diverse subfields
 of psychology, but also (iii) developmental, supporting new staff, and (iv) sustainable,
 underpinning programmatic research that can translate into large-scale societal impact.
 Examples evidencing the success of this strategy include the various internal School and
 University funding schemes from which we have benefitted (see Section 2). In total, 17 members
 of staff have received over £200k since 2014 from schemes such as pump-priming, knowledge-
 exchange awards, and impact-development awards. Maintaining a staff base that is both
 excellent and highly motivated supports our overarching aim of achieving world-leading research
 and impact, as is apparent in our outputs. With journal-level metrics already high at REF 2014
 (average journal impact factor for submitted papers around 5, up from just over 1 in 2001), in this
 cycle we have tracked improvement at the article level. For our submitted outputs (considering
 articles out at least a full year), mean Scopus cites per year show a near doubling, from 4.9
 (REF 2014) to 8.8 (REF 2021). Although citation data alone lack nuance as a measure of article
 quality, they evidence the ever-increasing visibility that our research enjoys. This visibility is
 further promoted by the productivity of our researchers: submitted staff have on average
 published 18 peer-reviewed journal articles each since 2014.

 These achievements are facilitated by our highly active Research Committee, whose
 composition reflects the Department’s diversity in terms of gender, research interests and career
 levels. In addition to disbursement of departmental funds, the Committee supports the HoD and
 other senior staff in promoting the strategic development and uptake of School and University
 opportunities. One example is the centrally funded £66k refurbishment of the transcranial
 magnetic stimulation (TMS) lab, achieved via a competitive business case in 2016 and
 complementing a much wider (£832k) improvement of our research facilities (see Section 3).


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 These internal processes build grant-writing confidence and expertise while underwriting the
 pilot data and infrastructure that make larger external grants feasible. Such policies have borne
 fruit. The over 150% increase in our external grant income (i.e. audited spend) during this
 assessment period (compared to REF 2014) evidences success relating to Priority 2.

 We have consolidated our existing strengths through strategic investment in excellent staff (see
 Figure 3). This has substantially broadened the scope of the research activity within each
 grouping. For example, our Cognitive Neuroscience Research Unit has recruited expertise in
 neural-level modelling (e.g., Pinotsis) and brain connectivity analyses (e.g., Dima), while our
 Decision-Making group has introduced Keramati’s machine-learning approach to understanding
 cognitive planning. As promised in our REF 2014 strategy, both groups have also developed
 new MSc programmes to act as PhD feeders. Existing groups have also helped to transfer
 expertise across generations in the pursuit of supra-individual research programmes. For
 example, our Autism Research Group, founded by Bowler in 1996, now includes two subsequent
 generations of former postdoctoral researchers and PhD students as permanent academic staff
 (Gaigg, Lind and Gaigg’s former PhD student, Lambrechts).

 Key to the enactment of our REF 2014 strategies has been the creation of three new research
 centres, which, among other things, embed our expertise within both local and wider
 communities to foster translation of knowledge (Priority 4). For example, the new Centre for
 Psychological Wellbeing & Neuroscience’s community launch event in 2015 helped to create an
 active social partnership in Hackney and, in particular, engaged charitable and public-sector
 organisations such as Mind. Hence, the Centre has become a conduit for the dissemination of
 knowledge and the translation of research findings into policies and treatments. The Centre also
 incorporates a counselling service (the Applied Psychology Clinic) for staff and students of City.
 Critically, its interventions are subject to research evaluation, funded by the British Psychological
 Society (BPS).

 Our impact-focused centres spread and amplify the embedded expertise that is evident
 within our selected impact case studies. These showcase our established (and highly
 applied) Organisational Psychology group. Zibarras’ case study illustrates our extensive work,
 both historical and ongoing, on recruitment systems that promote efficiency, fairness and
 diversity (with 60,000+ junior doctors and 180,000+ medical school applicants assessed since
 2014 via tests originating in our research). Silvester’s case study deals with the reform of
 parliamentary governance and emerged from her work at the interdisciplinary Centre for
 Performance at Work, which existed from 2008 to 2015 in collaboration with City’s Business
 School. Finally, Flaxman’s case study illustrates widespread adoption of his mindfulness
 interventions in the workplace (e.g., the programme is used by 25 NHS trusts, among numerous
 organisations in at least four countries). Importantly, Flaxman’s success has foreshadowed key
 strategic developments since 2014. Applied mindfulness research has grown (via the
 recruitment of Edginton, Mahmood and Tobias-Mortlock) into a new Centre for Excellence in
 Mindfulness Research. This Centre was launched with several events including a panel titled
 “Mindfulness, Wellbeing and Performance in High-Stakes Contexts: The New Frontier”,
 reflecting the expansion of our mindfulness agenda to new occupational fields such as the
 armed forces. Gaigg provides an important link between this mindfulness impact agenda and our
 Autism Research Group, which has recently created and distributed an “Evidence Based Guide
 to Anxiety in Autism” for local education authorities. This followed a pilot eight-month

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 randomised controlled trial showing how an online mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT)
 self-help programme could reduce anxiety in autistic adults.

 The language of impact now suffuses discussions at all levels of the Department, with regular
 reports and updates via the Dean’s and HoD’s newsletters, and at staff research days and
 departmental meetings. The latter supplement more occasional workshops with impact
 consultants. This cultural shift, encouraged via mechanisms including workload allocation, yearly
 appraisals, training opportunities and availability of administrative support, is just as important as
 specific restructuring decisions in fostering knowledge co-production. This is illustrated by the
 numerous individual staff initiatives around consultancy, advisory positions, spinouts etc.
 detailed in Section 4. In tandem with these cultural changes, this REF period saw substantially
 expanded use of new media for research dissemination, e.g., the Twitter accounts of the
 Cognitive Neuroscience Research Unit (@CNRU_City) and the Autism Research Group
 (@cityarg). The Department’s account (@CityUniPsych) is facilitated by a Senior
 Communications Officer to raise our research profile and has over 900 followers.

 The new centres also promote strategic aims for basic research, particularly increased
 collaboration (Priority 3). During this REF period, Pothos (as HoD) created a new Centre for
 Mathematical Neuroscience & Psychology by recruiting mathematically excellent researchers
 (Allefeld, Keramati, Pinotsis, Rigoli, Yearsley). This initiative shows how, as a relatively small
 department, we seek to exploit circumstances (here, high-profile research placing us on the
 maps of the best mathematical–psychology early career researchers (ECRs)) to drive strategic
 progress (here, developing critical mass in a highly influential but fairly niche and infrastructure-
 light area, where we can realistically compete with and even outperform the bigger players). This
 Centre is cross-cutting, representing an accessible resource that invigorates all of our existing
 research groups with enhanced modelling skills. Critically, the Centre also promotes
 interdisciplinary collaboration with other departments (such as the School of Mathematics,
 Computer Science and Engineering) and research hubs (e.g., City’s Data Science Institute)
 across the University and beyond. Indeed, two of the Centre’s recruits are physicists by training.

 Enhancing interdisciplinarity is a core strategic goal for all of our centres – exemplified, for
 example, by strong links between the Centre for Excellence in Mindfulness Research and staff in
 the School of Health Sciences and SASS’s Centre for Food Policy. Naturally, our staff
 reciprocate as active members of the research centres hosted in other departments, such as
 Plagnol’s involvement with Sociology’s Centre for Research on Work and Society. These
 interactions are supplemented by widespread advertising of seminar series across departments
 and schools, and by staff initiatives and central events, such as research speed-dating lunches.
 Results include:

    •   Gaigg’s 2016 collaboration with Eduardo Alonso from the Department of Computer
        Science, securing £70k from the Baily Thomas Charitable Fund to investigate learning
        and reward processing in autism.
    •   Yarrow’s BBSRC grant on decision-making in sports (contributing approx. £300k to this
        REF’s spend); a collaboration with Joshua Solomon from the Department of Optometry,
        arising from the “Eyeball Kids” vision-science journal club. Links between these
        departments have now been recognised and promoted internally through seed funding
        (£11k) following a pre-proposal meeting with Wellcome to develop Haenschel’s

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        collaboration with John Barbur, which investigates perceptual visual dysfunction as a
        biomarker for schizophrenia and a predictor of wider mental health.

 Collaborations also abound within our research groupings, evidenced by numerous co-authored
 publications and joint grants. Around 15% of our submitted outputs are authored by two or more
 colleagues from within the Department. Some of the more productive collaborations include
 those from:

    •   The Decision-Making group, between Hampton, Pothos and Yearsley (five co-authored
        publications in this REF period) and between Corr and Plagnol (four publications)
    •   The Human Memory group, between Howe and Knott (seven publications and an ESRC
        project grant)
    •   The Cognitive Neuroscience Research Unit, between Calvo-Merino and Forster (eight
        publications), Calvo-Merino and Gaigg (five publications), and Forster and Yarrow (three
        publications and a Leverhulme Trust project grant)
    •   The Autism Research Group, between Bowler and Gaigg (19 publications).



 1.3 Research integrity and open science

 Alongside our pursuit of research excellence, we remain mindful of the dangers to science
 posed by the current system of incentives, which can promote unethical behaviour. We actively
 support City’s adherence to the Universities UK concordat to support research integrity, as
 evidenced by events such as our 2018 workshop “The Replicability Crisis in Biomedical Science:
 Issues and Solutions”. This supplemented central University initiatives (such as a 2018 research
 integrity workshop led by James Parry, Chief Executive of the UK Research Integrity Office, and
 the 2019 Good Practice in Research week). Several of our staff (Hampton, Mahmood, Tapper,
 Yarrow, Yearsley) contribute to the City & Birkbeck hub of the UK Replicability Network, and
 Yarrow and Yearsley have held University steering group and School impact champion positions
 respectively (see REF5a). Furthermore, our collective culture encourages the publication of
 negative findings to challenge established orthodoxies (e.g., Lind’s 2019 Journal of Abnormal
 Psychology article “The Self-Reference Effect on Memory Is Not Diminished in Autism”) and
 recognises problems in the literature addressable via pre-registration. Many staff now pre-
 register via journal registered reports, OSF or AsPredicted; at least six have published papers
 acknowledging these routes and Kappes has received an OSF Preregistration Challenge Award.
 Naturally, all our research activities undergo ethics review and adhere to BPS recommendations
 and the General Data Protection Regulation.

 We encourage our staff to progress towards an open research environment, for example
 by incorporating data-management presentations into research away days. This REF period has
 seen a leap forward in open-science activities, capitalising on the University’s research output
 repository (City Research Online) and research data depository (Figshare), where several of our
 staff, who now universally hold ORCiD IDs, make regular deposits. A recent study (Robinson-
 Garcia et al., PeerJ, 2020; 8: e9410) suggests an 88% green open-access rate at City versus a
 UK median of 74%. Staff also make use of external depositories such as GitHub and OSF to
 share code and data, and some go much further: Dima established and co-leads the NIH-funded


                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 international ENIGMA Lifespan Working Group, which focuses on healthy developing individuals
 and thus far has secured the collaboration of 59 international institutions to recruit 11,550
 participants aged 3-90. This project helps to define normal variation according to sex and age to
 distinguish it from pathological development and has already led to seven publications. Our
 Research Committee also reinforces Research Councils UK’s and Wellcome’s policies by
 inviting applications to fund open-access fees (for sufficiently high-quality journals) where
 funding is otherwise unavailable.

 1.4 The next five years

 Moving forward, in support of City’s Vision and Strategy 2026, our strategy will retain a focus
 on our people and the resources we provide for them. Key strategic goals (and some of the
 policies that support them) include:


    1. Recruit, retain and develop the very best staff. We believe staff want to join and
       remain at departments where their research requirements – in terms of lab space,
       equipment, research assistants (RAs), and access to PhD students – are met. We will
       therefore continue to prioritise capital investments in research infrastructure (see Section
       3), offering staff the resources to thrive, and also promote and assist the acquisition of
       external funding, via both competitive seed funding (see Section 2) and a highly
       collegiate approach to internal grant review (implemented via the University’s new
       Worktribe system; see Section 3). We will also build excellence from the bottom up,
       particularly seeking to refresh the large and vibrant pool of PhD students who have
       supported our research during this REF period. Objectives include:
           o Departmentally, we want to join or lead a UK Research and Innovation Doctoral
               Training Partnership or Centre for Doctoral Training.
           o The Cognitive Neuroscience Research Unit will attempt to leverage our new
               status as a college of the University of London to establish a formal agreement
               with other London institutions ensuring access to fMRI, in order to safeguard
               recruitment and retention of staff by complementing existing in-house access to
               EEG, tDCS, TMS etc.
           o The Centre for Mathematical Neuroscience & Psychology aims to build a PhD
               programme via application to the Leverhulme Trust’s triennial Doctoral
               Scholarship scheme in collaboration with colleagues in the School of
               Mathematics, Computer Science and Engineering. This objective segues into our
               second goal.

    2. Promote collaboration and interdisciplinarity. A central policy will be continued
       support for year-long research sabbaticals that provide opportunities to maintain and
       develop international collaborations (see Section 2). We believe policies like these
       underscore our particular success with funding bodies that prioritise interdisciplinary
       research (e.g., the Leverhulme Trust’s project grant awards to Pothos and Yarrow). More
       locally, we will continue with our weekly seminar series (which currently alternates
       internal and external speakers), our bi-annual research days, and our engagement with
       cross-disciplinary research meetings. Objectives include:
           o Departmentally, we plan to form at least one new interdisciplinary research centre
                (potentially focussing on behaviourally informed management, to build on existing
                links between our behavioural economists and City’s world-class School of
                Business).

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


             o   The Autism Research Group will develop, in collaboration with the School of
                 Health, an evaluation of the acceptability, feasibility and effectiveness of a parent-
                 led intervention based on the Group’s extensive experimental work on memory in
                 autism spectrum disorder. This objective segues into our final goal.

    3. Promote impactful research. We already enable impact via management policies such
       as a clear workload allocation for impact case study development, but we will further
       promote it by increasing the weighting of these activities and making active use of the
       School’s Business Development Manager, who leads on organising stakeholder-
       engagement events and is supported by a Research Impact Officer. We will also
       continue to support and capitalise on internal impact-funding competitions, which we
       describe further in Section 2. Objectives include:
           o Departmentally, we will build impact skills into PhD and ECR training, for example
               supplementing individual staff research mentors by creating a new impact mentor
               role for the Department.
           o The Autism Research Group will complete a clinical feasibility trial in collaboration
               with the ADHD and Asperger’s service of Northamptonshire Healthcare NHS
               Foundation Trust to assess integrating online MBCT tools with current mental
               healthcare pathways for autistic adults.
           o The Organisational Psychology group will pursue a Parliamentary Office of
               Science and Technology–BPS fellowship to further enhance embedded
               knowledge-exchange activities.
           o The Human Memory group’s Centre for Memory & Law will build on recent
               translational work (e.g., Howe, Knott & Conway, Memory and Miscarriages of
               Justice, Routledge, 2018) by rewriting a major BPS-commissioned policy piece,
               Guidelines on Memory and the Law, in collaboration with the Law Society, and
               following up with knowledge-exchange activities targeting barristers.
           o The Centre for Psychological Wellbeing & Neuroscience will further formalise
               collaboration with key community stakeholders, targeting collaborative awards
               with Mind. The Centre’s Applied Psychology Clinic will scale up counselling
               psychology interventions to better influence key national bodies such as the
               National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE).
           o Finally, the Centre for Excellence in Mindfulness Research will make strategic
               use of Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) funding to develop bespoke
               mindfulness toolkits and promote knowledge transfer partnerships with
               widespread stakeholder engagement.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Our recruitment policy follows on directly from our research and impact strategy (Section 1)
 and leverages our high-quality research infrastructure (Section 3). We seek to appoint
 individuals with strong research achievements and potential who either strengthen existing
 research groupings, ensuring their sustainability, or can be placed in more than one research
 grouping, thereby promoting wider collaboration. This REF period has thus seen growth and
 consolidation in staffing, with 35 new academic appointments (FTE 26.6) against 18 (FTE 12.9)
 leavers, targeting areas of strategic priority such as mathematical psychology (e.g., Allefeld,
 Keramati, Pinotsis, Rigoli, Yearsley) and applied mindfulness (Edginton, Mahmood, Tobias-


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Mortlock). At REF 2014, we outlined how we had used the University’s phased strategic
 investment in research excellence to appoint professors, providing leadership across key
 research groupings including behavioural economics and human memory. With these leadership
 and mentorship roles in place, our succession planning entered its next stage during this REF
 period: we focused on the recruitment of ECRs with strong track records relative to their career
 level who were well placed to capitalise on our embedded expertise. Hence, new recruits were
 appointed mainly at lecturer level, ensuring the sustainability of the discipline. However, robust
 internal development and promotion procedures (see below) have ensured that the Department
 balances experience with vibrancy in every research grouping. Our R&E staff are 23.1%
 lecturers, 28.2% senior lecturers, 25.6% readers and 23.1% professors. All are on permanent
 contracts, which remains the norm for our department. This period saw seven of these staff
 promoted from lecturer to senior lecturer and nine to reader (with two promotions to professor in
 late 2013). Currently, around a quarter of our submitted staff meet the REF ECR criteria.

 Within psychology, we seek to develop staff across their entire career trajectory. All new
 members of academic staff are offered a mentor. The mentor’s role is to monitor development,
 advise on research strategy and encourage integration. For example, Forster’s mentorship of
 Fett led to their joint (£9m) application (“Biobehavioural Markers of Adolescent Attention and
 Depression”) to the Wolfson Foundation. A reduced teaching, administration and dissertation-
 supervision load is applied for the period immediately following recruitment, particularly when an
 individual is transitioning from a PhD or postdoctoral position (typically a reduction of 50–75%
 workload relative to experienced colleagues). Practical advice is also provided about sources of
 financial and other support available in the Department and the University, as well as wider
 national and international schemes. The University provides associated training programmes, for
 example in grant application and project management (see REF5a). These are supplemented by
 more targeted support at a School level, for example via a series of impact-development
 workshops and expert consultations in 2018.

 The Department’s policies help to foster the research activities of new and existing members of
 staff. Many new staff members receive start-up funds, enabling them to get their research off the
 ground quickly. One example is the construction of our third EEG lab (see Section 3.2), to
 facilitate the work of Pinotsis. All members of staff can also apply to the departmental Research
 Committee as well as to University-level and School-level research schemes. These serve
 ECRs and mid-career researchers respectively with basic-research pump-priming, but also
 support knowledge exchange and impact development at all levels of staff seniority. Awards
 may, for example, support small projects to collect pilot data for larger grant applications to
 research councils or charities, or facilitate workshops and events with stakeholders to promote
 impact. Indeed, separate pots are ring-fenced for impact-development activities. The
 following types of University or School internal award have supplemented the substantial support
 available at the Department level during this REF period:
    •   ECR research pump-priming (Dima, £7k; Fett, £10k; Kappes, £5k; Plagnol, £4k;
        Yearsley, £4k)
    •   Mid-career research pump-priming (Edginton, £5k; Knott, £5k; Plagnol, £4k)
    •   HEIF funding (Bowler, 5k; Corr, £12k; Edginton, £15k; Flaxman, £20k; Jones-Nielsen,
        £5k)
    •   Impact-development funding (Gaigg, £31k; Tapper, £6k)

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   Annual research competition (Calvo-Merino, £11k; Freeman, £12k)
    •   Industrial strategy seed funding (Calvo-Merino, £23k)
    •   Enterprise seed funding (Haenschel, £3k)
    •   Knowledge-exchange seed funding (Tapper, £3k)
    •   Research enterprise award (Calvo-Merino, £15k)
    •   Dean’s strategic development funding (Haenschel, £11k)
    •   Learning enhancement development funding (Reimers, £3k)
 Departmental policy allows staff members to concentrate their lecturing duties in a single
 teaching term, providing uninterrupted time in other terms to devote to research. Staff can also
 expect funding from the departmental Research Committee for one overseas and one
 UK/European conference per year where they are presenting papers.

 Both full-time and part-time members of academic staff are entitled to a full year’s sabbatical
 free of teaching and administration duties after seven years of service. A full year is considered
 the appropriate default position because single-term sabbaticals are rarely sufficient to
 reinvigorate (as opposed to simply service) a research agenda. Applications, which must outline
 a promising and viable research plan, are universally encouraged. In this REF period, 17
 members of staff (15 of those submitted plus two who have subsequently left) have taken
 sabbaticals (15 taking a full year), which averages to around five months’ sabbatical taken per
 submitted member of staff. We view sabbaticals as key to both rebooting research programmes
 and developing and maintaining international collaborations. For example, Hampton’s 2018/19
 sabbatical was used to visit colleagues in Leuven and Paris, and it is no coincidence that during
 this REF period he has secured substantial collaborative shares of two major European grants:
 an ERC Consolidator Grant and an ERC Advanced Grant, worth €1,955,270 (including €186,634
 to be based at City) and €2,494,279 (€151,404 at City), respectively. We also encourage
 exchanges between academia and business – for example, Zibarras’ 2015–2017 0.4 FTE
 secondment to Work Psychology Ltd.

 Research plans and achievements form an important part of the annual appraisal process.
 The University performs an Annual Research Quality Monitoring (ARQM) assessment of outputs
 against REF criteria, and the resulting score facilitates appraisal discussions and action plans –
 for example, adjusting workload, or pairing or grouping more senior colleagues for renewed (co-)
 mentorship. Demonstrated research and impact achievements (e.g., grant capture, ARQM
 scores and the development of impact case studies) are weighted heavily in decisions to
 promote staff to senior lectureships, and are the key criterion for promotion to a readership or a
 chair for those with R&E role profiles.

 In addition to academic staff, we have employed numerous research fellows and assistants in
 the period since REF 2014. Our research environment is attractive, as evidenced by the
 international fellows who bring their fellowships to City in order to be mentored by our staff (e.g.,
 Basieva’s Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship with Pothos; Christensen’s Royal
 Society Newton International Fellowship with Calvo-Merino). Our research culture has also been
 enhanced by internally funded research fellows, such as J. Cook, funded from a central
 University competition. Cook subsequently took up a lectureship at City before moving on to
 become a Birmingham Fellow, evidencing our commitment to helping our young researchers
 build careers in science.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 REF5a describes the University’s thorough implementation of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. The School lends its weight via a generous research
 sustainability funding system whereby principal investigators (PIs) who attain fully costed
 external funding are allocated a discretionary account (over 8% of research income; see Section
 3) that can be used to bridge and support research staff (e.g., Yarrow’s bridging of postdoc Jalali
 and PhD student Kohl into their subsequent postdoctoral positions). Researchers are
 encouraged to engage with facets of teaching that reinforce their research roles – for example,
 supervising undergraduate or MSc dissertations under the mentorship of their PI. Appraisals for
 research staff always consider their career development needs in addition to their performance
 on the research project. Indeed, we regularly recruit lecturers from our PhD and RA pool (e.g.,
 Gerson, Lambrechts and Yearsley in this REF period; Gaigg and Lind in the previous one),
 completing the process of integration and demonstrating the faith we have in the staff and
 students we develop.

 2.2 Equality, diversity and inclusion

 Of our R&E academic staff, 49% are women. Although this balance is variable across the four
 academic ranks, there is no strong evidence of a changing bias with increasing seniority (χ2 test
 p > 0.05). Our outputs have been selected by building on data from annual research
 evaluations, which incorporate equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) best practice, including
 requirements on panel diversity and retrospective equality impact assessments (see City’s code
 of practice). When considering outputs associated with staff employed at 31.07.2020, 42% were
 linked with women (who constituted 48% of our FTEs). Internal funding has been equitable –
 for example, 65% of the internal awards listed above in section 2.1 went to women. In response
 to an optional survey question, our staff, who represent 13 distinct nationalities, reported
 variation in terms of ethnicity and sexuality, evidencing our commitment to promoting research
 excellence by encouraging diverse perspectives. As expanded upon in REF5a, the University
 received its Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2016. The Psychology Department has contributed
 substantially to a School-level application (submitted in 2020) with the self-assessment team
 and, subsequently, the EDI Committee, chaired by a member of our staff (Jones-Nielsen;
 Associate Dean for People and Culture (ADPC)). The ADPC sits on the School promotion panel,
 to help ensure staff who work part time or flexibly are offered the same career development
 opportunities as those who work full time. For academics, this means that they are entitled to
 apply for promotion in the same timeframe as full-time academics, with flexible working
 arrangements or fractional working time fully considered.

 The Athena SWAN process has generated substantial introspection and action within both
 School and Department. This is not surprising, given the department’s research and wider
 interests in EDI issues (e.g., Edginton’s co-founding of the SOFAR mentorship network for
 female academics; Plagnol’s TEDxBerlin talk “Mothers, Work and Well-Being”; and Zibarras’
 advisory role for Rare Recruitment, a company that recruits diverse applicants into high-stakes
 positions). The School has hosted Athena SWAN lectures (e.g., “Nawal El Saadawi in
 Conversation”) and events (e.g., the 2018 panel discussion “Navigating the Gendered Terrain of
 Promotion: An In-Depth Look at Women’s Experiences”) and created a new set of transparent
 workload principles informing the Department’s workload model. Athena SWAN is now a


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 standing item on the School Executive Committee agenda and a regular item at the Psychology
 Department meeting. Psychology staff (e.g., Tapper) have completed the Aurora leadership
 programme, and, like Jones-Nielsen, many Psychology women occupy or have occupied
 prominent leadership roles within the Department and wider School during this REF period (e.g.,
 Associate Dean for Education (Knott) and HoD (Edginton)).

 The Athena SWAN process has influenced all aspects of recruitment, training and promotion.
 The School uses inclusive language along with specific wording to attract women and minority
 ethnic candidates, and the selection panels for all hires (and promotion panels) include at least
 one woman and one man (with University policy requiring explicit justification should this not be
 possible). Seven of our staff reports having attended the University’s Inclusive Leadership
 training, aimed at countering unconscious bias in line managers. A recently created and
 circulated School “Staff Guide” includes information on family friendly and other equality-
 supporting policies. It includes flexible working and long-term leave policies, and information on
 appraisals, career progression etc. The guide is now given to all new staff as part of their
 induction.

 City improved its provisions around parental leave during this REF period, providing 20 weeks’
 full pay and a further 19 of statutory maternity pay, plus return-to-work bonus payments. At
 Department level, line managers are encouraged to meet with staff who are about to go on leave
 and just before their return to offer guidance and support. Policy dictates a return-to-work
 meeting during one of ten paid Keeping in Touch days, and discussions around managing
 workload expectations are proactively supported using guidance from the School’s HR manager.
 Similar supportive arrangements apply when individuals return from periods of ill health or
 dependent leave. Furthermore, a recently introduced City policy for research-excellent returners
 entitles staff whose academic contribution indicates a trajectory of 3–4* outputs to take an
 additional term’s leave to focus on research.

 Mechanisms taking account of parental leave and part-time working are also embedded in
 promotion criteria to avoid subjectivity and bias – for example, the aforementioned ARQM
 scores embed discounts to the expected number of outputs according to REF norms. Financial
 support, mandated by School policy, exists for staff members who have accrued additional
 childcare (or other caring or health-related) costs due to attending research conferences
 and/or training-related activities; it can be claimed via the Department’s Research Committee.
 More generally, the University, School and Department see staff and research-student
 wellbeing as one of their key responsibilities. Local activities (e.g., the School’s Family and
 Friends Fun Day and regular Croissant Mornings, and the weekly mindfulness drop-in sessions
 organised by our own Centre for Excellence in Mindfulness Research) supplement the
 University’s staff counselling service (by self or line-manager referral) along with workshops,
 courses and programmes to support wellbeing.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2.3 Research students

 Alongside our thriving community of 88 professional doctorate students, at 31.07.20 there were
 16 full-time and 13 part-time PhD students registered in the Department (i.e. around 0.75 PhD
 and 2.25 DPsychs registered per R&E staff member). The 41 PhD students who have completed
 since REF 2014 continue our upward trajectory across REF periods (2008 = 18, 2014 = 27).
 Moreover, we have awarded over 250 DPsych awards (mainly in Counselling Psychology). A
 continuing healthy cohort of research students is the bedrock of our sustainability strategy:
 supervising them enables research outputs and helps to build the next generation of research-
 excellent scientists. To this end, research groups are encouraged to develop taught master’s
 courses (see Section 1), which can identify potential doctoral students. We currently offer five
 MSc courses: Research Methods with Psychology; Clinical, Social and Cognitive Neuroscience;
 Behavioural Economics; Organisational Psychology; and Counselling Psychology. These help
 us to identify and recruit exceptional talent from City’s diverse intake of students based on both
 academic excellence and fit with an appropriate supervisor, with students situated within
 concentric research communities (their supervisor, their research grouping and the wider
 doctoral cohort). These support networks are reinforced through appropriate office arrangements
 (e.g., shared offices for students in the Autism Research Group).

 Because graduate research students are so integral to the research life of the Department, we
 provide internal resources via Department, School and University studentships. At least 15
 full studentships or fee waivers have been awarded since 2014, supplemented via City’s alumni
 networks (e.g., a fee waiver studentship from the Worshipful Company of Saddlers). We also
 pursue and attain external funds in order to both build research links and finance our students
 (at least six such full studentships since 2014 from the Leverhulme Trust, Mental Health
 Research UK, the MRC, Oakam, the Office of Naval Research Global, and the US Air Force).
 Finally, we leverage our international reputation to attract PhD students for shorter periods (e.g.,
 one-year Erasmus visits) and have recently established and formalised a joint international
 PhD programme (with Sapienza University of Rome) supported by Italian ministry funds, which
 currently funds two students. We also encourage student grant capture as part of their training
 (e.g., Macchia’s £5k grant from the South East Network for Social Sciences).

 PhD students are always assigned a second supervisor, and the quality of ongoing
 supervision is ensured via a web-based system used to record research meetings, known as
 Research and Progress. Students’ research skills are developed through access to modules
 from our MSc Research Methods with Psychology programme, which includes training in data
 analysis using both MATLAB and R, and sessions on techniques ranging from eye-tracking to
 brain stimulation. Students can also register for modules within the School’s more general MSc
 Research Methods programme, which provides a wider lens on social-scientific research
 practices. Students are encouraged to attend such modules and have also had access to central
 training and development events, which formed part of the Research and Enterprise
 Development Programme. This includes events tailored specifically to research students, such
 as the annual Researchers’ Symposium, where doctoral students present their work through
 posters and papers. Since City joined the University of London, students have also gained
 access to the cross-institutional Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network.



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 As outlined in REF5a, wider PhD training is now coordinated centrally through City Doctoral
 College. Alongside other training opportunities, PhD students who teach complete the Learning,
 Teaching and Assessment module from City’s MA Academic Practice (with attendance
 mandatory, but paid, since 2018). At the Department level, a graduate research-student seminar
 runs fortnightly, and annual graduate research-student review days provide a forum where all
 students present a summary of the year’s work to their fellow students and to other members of
 the Department, informing the upgrade process from MPhil to PhD. These requirements give
 students experience of presenting their work orally and an opportunity to receive constructive
 feedback. This practice is also reinforced by the policy of fully funding each student to attend
 one international conference, provided they are presenting. Our PhD training is effective: while
 our students pursue PhDs in psychology for varied reasons, often going on to applied positions,
 a significant proportion (at least 17 of those graduating since 2014) have attained post-docs
 and/or lectureships, often at prestigious national (e.g., Imperial, King’s College London’s Institute
 of Psychiatry, University College London (UCL)) or international (e.g., Brown University)
 institutions.

 Our DPsych programmes are somewhat distinct from the PhD programme and include
 compulsory structured taught and training components (e.g., clinical leadership workshops)
 along with appropriate supervision arrangements to meet the research and professional needs
 of the students and professional accreditation bodies. The work of these students contributes to
 our research portfolio and provides further links to practising psychologists, forming a natural
 network for the promotion of impact activities and service-user engagement. Indeed, since 2019
 the DPsych Research in Action conference includes service-users, who contribute to the design,
 evaluation and dissemination of research. Just as for PhDs, the final DPsych assessment is by
 individual viva voce with at least two examiners, including one external to the University. Annual
 review arrangements are in place for both the DPsych and the PhD programmes.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 During this REF period, our research income from external grants was £2.63m, compared to
 £1.03m at REF 2014, representing a 155% increase. This steady growth in funding appears
 highly sustainable going forward: our staff won external awards worth around £2.9m during this
 assessment period, rising from approximately £1.9m during REF 2014. There is wide staff
 engagement in grant capture, with over half our submitted staff contributing to successful
 external applications during this cycle. Our overall grant success rate (around 23%) is solid,
 given the highly competitive funding environment, but improving this success rate is something
 we prioritise. We do so by using the Worktribe grant management system and the support of our
 active research officers, in order to create a culture of supportive peer review – our workflow
 ensures that all applications are reviewed internally, with the extent of that review process
 reflecting the size of the grant. The policy also incorporates flexibility to recognise the wider
 collaborative support networks used by many staff.

 In addition to a large central Research and Enterprise Office, our staff (who comprise around a
 quarter of the School) enjoy ready access to SASS’s four-person R&E team, who specialise in

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 research support as well as impact and business development. Their activities include targeted
 cascading of relevant grant calls. Research staff motivation is further enhanced through the
 provision of a substantial research sustainability account, valued at 8% of grant income plus one
 third of the full economic cost funding specifically received for PI time. These funds can be used
 to purchase equipment but also (for example) to fund participant payments or bridge RAs in
 order to maintain research in the periods between successful grant bids. These sustainability
 funds reward grant success and provide enhanced autonomy for those who achieve it, but are
 supplemented (for all academic staff) by the Department’s Research Committee (see Sections 1
 and 2) which regularly funds participant costs.

 Our staff have attained funding from numerous sources during this REF period, at international
 (e.g., NIH), European (e.g., ERC) and UK (e.g., ESRC) levels. In addition to public research
 organisations, we have attracted funding from learned societies (e.g., the British Academy),
 charities (e.g., the Leverhulme Trust), industry (e.g., Thomas International Ltd) and the armed
 forces (e.g., the Office of Naval Research). Awards won during this REF period include Knott’s
 three-year ESRC grant (£352k) to examine emotion-specific memories; Ayton’s two-year
 investigation of institutional investors’ decision-making, funded by the Institute and Faculty of
 Actuaries (£221k); and Yarrow’s three-year Leverhulme Trust project grant to investigate
 speeded decision-making (£216k). At 31st July 2020, live applications for research funding had a
 total value of around £2.3m. Our external funding is directly linked to our outputs and
 impacts. For example, Pothos and Yearsley’s output “The Rational Status of Quantum
 Cognition” (Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 2017) was funded by a £112k
 Leverhulme Trust award to Pothos, while Flaxman’s impact case study was supported by grants
 including £10k from the British Academy to address psychological health in schoolteachers.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 The University, School and Department have all made substantial internal investments during
 this REF period (over and above direct external grant purchases) to ensure that our facilities
 remain cutting edge. In 2018/19, a major redevelopment brought all psychology labs within our
 core facility (the modern Rhind Building, which is fully wheelchair accessible) alongside a
 considerable expansion of space and facilities. The lower ground and ground floors of the Rhind
 Building were fully repurposed at a cost of £832k, providing 68.4m2 of new lab space (35.5m2
 of specialist labs, including a third EEG lab, plus 27.9m2 of large multipurpose labs and 5m2 of
 additional general-purpose cubicles). Labs undergo continuous updates to their computer
 equipment, including E-Prime and MATLAB software for experimental control. We continue to
 maintain software licences supporting online research, for example the popular Qualtrics survey
 software, and also house a psychometrics library. We seek central University funds for specific
 equipment needs via business cases. For example, in 2016, our transcranial magnetic
 stimulation lab saw a £66k investment, including new stereotactic guidance kit, booster modules
 permitting the full range of rTMS and patterned TMS protocols, and a specialist psychophysics
 screen. Similarly, in 2017, the University invested £18k in the purchase of a new BioNomadix
 psychophysiology recording suite for the recording and analysis of physiological signals such as
 heart rate, breathing rate and muscle tension. A subsequent business case saw the £15k
 purchase of a data-tracking system called Pragmatic Tracker.



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 These facilities are maintained by two centrally funded full-time programming/technical
 support staff (a 100% increase in technical FTE specifically attached to the Department of
 Psychology since REF 2014), who actively facilitate the full range of research we undertake
 (e.g., by programming experiments, engineering bespoke electronic peripherals, and managing
 our SONA participant recruitment system). We also enjoy access to the library and wider
 facilities outlined in REF5a.
 All full-time PhD students are provided with their own desk, bookshelves and filing-cabinet space
 in a shared office. Each student has their own networked PC with statistical, word-processing
 and bibliographic software, and email and internet access. There is a shared telephone. Each
 student also has access to £1k to cover incidental costs connected with their research, such as
 participant expenses and the purchase of equipment and test materials. If further needs arise,
 applications can be made to the Department’s Research Committee for additional support.
 Table 1 shows our current dedicated laboratory facilities. Although some labs are designated as
 specialist facilities (in which case particular members of staff act as managers and primary
 users), all staff can make use of all of our facilities, which promotes a culture of collegiality
 and collaboration.

 Table 1. City Psychology Department’s dedicated research facilities.
  Location Primary Group Name                Further Details
                          CNRU            Cognitive       Phlebotomy lab supporting genetic assays
                                          Genetics Lab
                          CNRU            Belief          Three computers for experimental work
                                          Formation Lab
     Lower ground floor




                          Decision-Making Cognitive       Flexible layout for decision-making work
                                          Science Lab
                                          #1
                          Decision-Making Cognitive       Two touchscreens with high-temporal-
                                          Science Lab     precision Linux setups for psychophysical
                                          #2              testing; one high-performance analysis
                                                          workstation
                          General use     Cubicle         Two sound-proofed testing cubicles
                                          Cluster #1
                          CNRU            EEG1            64-channel active EEG housed in a
                                                          Faraday cage with a associated
                                                          preparation area; specialised visual
     Ground floor




                                                          psychophysics test equipment
                          CNRU            TMS Lab         MRI-guided TMS kit with extensive
                                                          support for psychophysical testing and
                                                          physiological recording
                          CMN&P           EEG2            96-channel active EEG system with
                                                          associated preparation area



                                                                                                     Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                   Centre for       Eating          Behavioural lab incorporating food
                   Excellence in    Behaviour Lab   preparation facilities
                   Mindfulness
                   Research
                   Autism           Autism          Three labs, two connected by a one-way
                   Research Group   Research        mirror, incorporating two eye-trackers and
                                    Group Testing   extensive psychophysiological recording
                                    Suite           equipment (EMG, GSR, ECG etc.)
                   General Use      Cubicle         Five sound-proofed testing cubicles
                                    Cluster #2
    Second floor




                   Human Memory     Cognition &     Reception area, adult testing room (three
                                    Development     workstations), two baby booths (one
                                    Centre          Kemler Nelson head-turn preference
                                                    setup, one multi-screen setup) plus a play
                                                    observation room, all interfaced into a
                                                    central control room
                   Centre for       EEG3            64-channel EEG housed in a Faraday
                   Psychological                    cage with associated preparation areas
                   Wellbeing &                      and specialist peripherals for tactile
                   Neuroscience                     stimulation
                   CNRU             Action          Workstations plus head-mounted eye-
                                    Observation     tracking equipment
                                    Lab
                   Decision-Making Cognitive        Flexible layout for individual and group
                                   Science Lab      decision-making work
                                   #3
    Fourth floor




                   CNRU             Brain           tDCS/tACS stimulators, audiovisual
                                    Stimulation &   psychophysics kit, and signal verification
                                    Audiovisual     hardware (e.g., oscilloscope, light meter,
                                    Psychophysics   sound meter)
                                    Lab
                   General Use      Eye-Tracking    Tobii Eye Tracker interfaced with multiple
                                    Lab             interchangeable rigs for experimental
                                                    control
                   General Use      General Labs    Flexible layouts; wearable/portable
                                    1&2             Actiheart monitors
                   General Use      Cubicle         Five sound-proofed testing cubicles
                                    Cluster #3
 CMN&P: Centre for Mathematical Neuroscience & Psychology; CNRU: Cognitive Science
 Research Unit




                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In addition to our dedicated lab spaces, we enjoy priority access to the computer lab located on
 the fifth floor of Rhind, with approximately 40 networked PCs equipped with both E-Prime and
 MATLAB and serving both teaching and research purposes. Staff can also access central
 facilities including a large multicore cluster for parallel computing, which supports our
 computational modelling work. In general, the provision of physical laboratory space (24
 separate rooms plus 12 cubicles), testing PCs and specialised equipment ensures that our
 research groups are well provisioned to carry out their research. Moreover, the design of our
 dedicated research space is mindful of the supportive role that our labs can play in allowing our
 staff to engage with stakeholders and develop impact – for example, the Autism Research
 Group’s coordinated testing suite permits cutting-edge research while conveying a sense of
 critical mass and team-level expertise to their many visitors.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration

 The Department is built around the energy and commitment of our staff, who have either already
 achieved or actively aspire towards leadership in their fields. As outlined in Section 1, intra-
 institutional collaboration is the norm (e.g., the School of Health Science’s use of Flaxman’s
 Acceptance Commitment Training with nursing students transitioning into roles at Barts Health
 NHS Trust, funded by the Burdett Trust for Nursing). Looking beyond City, our researchers are
 highly active on the national and international scenes, with collaborative work scaffolded by our
 generous sabbatical and conference-funding policies and by our willingness to fund invited
 speakers at our external seminar programme (among other mechanisms; see Section 2). The
 vast majority of staff (95%) report national or international collaborations yielding grants or
 papers during this REF period, with a mean of around four such collaborations. Examples and
 their outcomes include:

    •   Howe’s collaboration with Henry Otgaar at Maastricht University (co-supervision of
        PhD/MSc students and at least 40 peer-reviewed publications since 2014)
    •   Rigoli’s collaboration with Raymond Dolan at UCL (a British Academy grant and 16
        publications since 2014)
    •   Ayton’s collaborations with groupings coordinated by King’s College and the University of
        Leicester (co-investigator on two grants each in the region of £1m)
    •   Yarrow’s collaboration with Derek Arnold at the University of Queensland (six
        publications, and partner investigator on Australian Research Council Discovery Grants
        worth AU$163k and AU$199k).

 Strong collaborative links are also evident in our development of impact, to which we turn next.

 4.2 Impact development and wider contributions to the economy and society

 Many of our staff balance their basic research with a strong commitment to the development of
 societally meaningful impact engaging diverse communities. Some of this work is
 showcased in our impact case studies, which demonstrate how we have improved the
 functioning of key UK institutions (such as national government and the NHS) and enhanced
 mental health across a range of UK and international organisations. This material is not repeated

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 here, but many further examples can be garnered from this REF period. Examples include Corr’s
 collaboration with the Business School’s Centre for Charity Effectiveness, working with
 Aberdeen Standard Capital to yield important guidelines for charities hoping to make effective
 financial investments. In this vein, we often use the esteem generated through our research to
 leverage subsequent impact. This is sometimes achieved through consultancy, e.g.:

    •   Tapper’s work for the Shoreditch Trust (on the evaluation of an intervention programme
        for pregnant women with complex needs) and Saatchi & Saatchi (on the development of
        their campaign for Weight Watchers)
    •   Zibarras’ work for Oakam (developing alternative psychology-based methods of
        evaluating traditionally unscorable credit consumers and improving their financial
        resilience).

 We also look to commercialise our work in the public interest, e.g.:

    •   Reimers’ development of the Quodl smartphone app for the higher-education sector
        (gamifying the learning experience to improve student retention)
    •   Corr’s behavioural economics spinout company, Behavioural Fusion, to which Plagnol
        and Reimers also contribute.

 Unpaid advisory positions offer a related pathway to impact, with our research centres acting as
 a focus, e.g.:

    •   Tobias-Mortlock’s many invited speeches, including one at the Mindfulness All Party
        Parliamentary Group hearing on the Armed Forces, Policing and Emergency Services,
        which led to her appointment to the Naval Service Mental Health Steering Group. She
        also advises the Mindfulness Initiative, a UK think tank dedicated to investigating the
        benefits, opportunities and challenges of bringing mindfulness training into public life.
    •   Edginton’s presentation on mindfulness in ageing and dementia at a parliamentary
        briefing in 2019. She also sits on the advisory board of the charity Shine.

 Our staff also advocate through policy papers and trade conferences, and influence
 professionals, e.g.:

    •   Ayton gave the keynote at the 2019 Australasian Actuarial Education and Research
        Symposium and has had his research cited in the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries’ reply
        to a recent consultation invited by the UK Pensions Regulator
    •   Plagnol collaborated with the European Trade Union Institute for Research, yielding both
        an academic publication and a policy brief to the EU
    •   Reimers gave an invited keynote at Finance@Google 2018, presenting behavioural
        science to financial sector digital marketers, and presents the Guardian Masterclass on
        making better financial decisions
    •   Howe and Knott were invited to present “The Science of Memory and Its Impact on Legal
        Proceedings” to Mishcon de Reya, one of the largest litigation law firms in the UK, while
        Conway delivered a keynote address titled “Memory and the Law” to Combar (the
        commercial bar association’s) North American Meeting in 2019.


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We also target specific user groups directly, through both professional society publications (e.g.,
 Zibarras’ publications in Medical Education, the journal of the Association for the Study of
 Medical Education) and print media (e.g., Tobias-Mortlock’s 2019 practitioner report titled
 Mindfulness in the Military).

 Another route to engaging end users, which has been particularly supported by the School’s
 Business Development Manager, has been to organise and host workshops and related public
 events, such as the launches of our various new research centres (see Section 1). These are
 often followed up via the development of targeted lay guides, such as Gaigg’s “Evidence Based
 Guide to Anxiety in Autism” (initially launched in April 2019 in West Sussex, where 1,500 hard
 copies were distributed to all 500 primary and secondary schools to support staff development,
 and now widely available online, with over 6,000 downloads as of March 2020).

 Sometimes, we explain our science directly to the public, e.g.:

    •   Dima’s installation (Illusions: A Window to Your Brain) with glass artist Dr Shelley James
        (Paths to Utopia Exhibition at Somerset House, 2016)
    •   Edginton’s contribution to the “Me, Human” Science Museum residency.

 Our work also inspires people, as when Calvo-Merino’s research into experimental aesthetics
 with the London dance community (initially as participants) resulted in a production by Jack Philp
 Dance motivated by the dancers’ interaction with her research (Psychoacoustic, presented for
 the first time in January 2016 at The Place, London).

 Finally, we achieve impact through providing specialist expertise to well-placed external
 partners, as in Yarrow’s ongoing collaboration with Kate Mandeville (World Bank and London
 School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine). This yielded eye-tracking research that fed into the
 government-commissioned Stirling Review of the evidence on plain tobacco packaging (itself the
 major evidence for the Chantler Review, a report to Parliament that presaged the government’s
 decision to legislate on this issue). More recently, these authors’ 2019 BMJ paper led directly to
 an improved conflict-of-interest policy at NICE, increasing transparency and supporting vital
 decision-making regarding the health technologies (e.g., drugs) that the NHS adopts.

 4.3 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline and indicators of wider influence and
 recognition

 Our staff are highly collegiate at a trans-institutional level, recognising and engaging in the (often
 unheralded) scholarly chores that sustain the quality of national and international systems of
 research. We are committed reviewers; all our staff report reviewing, typically for multiple
 journals, during this REF period, and it was clear from these reports that we are both sought out
 by the most competitive journals and willing to pay our dues by engaging constructively with the
 bulk of research of a more variable quality submitted to less prestigious outlets. For staff with a
 Publons profile, verified review activity in the past 12 months was on average at the 81st
 percentile (assessed at 6th February 2020). We also engage reciprocally with the wider
 community as examiners, with staff reporting completing a mean of 2.1 external PhD
 examinations each since 2014. We are responsive to national and international funding
 initiatives, often advertised via targeted email cascades originating from University and School

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 research administrators. For example, Gaigg’s £126k Autistica grant was a response to a
 specific call to improve understanding of underrepresented groups of autistic individuals.

 Our staff manage the dissemination of knowledge effectively: several staff have founded and/or
 acted as Chief Editor of journals since 2014, e.g., Conway and Howe, Chief Editors at Memory
 (Taylor & Francis); Corr, Founder and Chief Editor at Personality Neuroscience (Cambridge
 University Press); and Gaigg, Editor in Chief at Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders
 (Elsevier). A further 11 of our staff act or have acted as Associate Editors or Editorial Board
 Members in this REF cycle, and several have served on conference organising committees
 (e.g., Forster for the British Association for Cognitive Neuroscience). We review at all stages of
 the research pipeline, with staff reporting, for example, well over 100 collective reviews for
 funding agencies including the BBSRC, the EPSRC, the ESRC, the Leverhulme Trust, the
 MRC, the NIHR, Wellcome and agencies from at least nine further countries. Our staff also act
 as grant-awarding panel members and as working-group chairs, steering grant-making policy
 (e.g., Bowler and Gaigg, respectively, for Autistica UK).

 Our staff are highly visible to both academics and the public. That they are held in esteem by the
 wider academic community is evident in various ways. Several staff report one or more invited
 academic keynotes since 2014, e.g.:

    •   Calvo-Merino’s talk at the 2018 International Association of Empirical Aesthetics
        Congress (2018), where she received the Alexander Gottlieb Baumgarten Award for
        Outstanding Contributions of Young Scientists
    •   Hampton’s speech to the Italian Association of Cognitive Sciences (2014)
    •   Pinotsis’ presentation at the Krembil Institute’s Canadian Computational Neuroscience
        Spotlight (2020).
    •   Pothos’ Winer Memorial Lecture (Purdue University, 2014)
    •   Tapper’s address to the 43rd annual meeting of the British Feeding and Drinking Group
        (Swansea, 2019)
    •   Willig’s speech at Qualitative Research on Mental Health 7 (Berlin, 2018)

 We are also academic leaders (e.g., Corr’s 2017 presidency of the International Society for the
 Study of Individual Differences) and award winners (e.g., Calvo-Merino’s Early Career Award
 from the British Association of Cognitive Neuroscience; Conway’s Lifetime Achievement Award
 from the Research Board of the BPS; and Willig’s BPS Qualitative Methods in Psychology
 Section’s Lifetime Achievement and Contribution to Qualitative Methods researcher prize). We
 also support the discipline more broadly by taking key organisational roles at a variety of learned
 societies (e.g., Knott’s position as Honorary Secretary to the BPS Cognitive Section (2015–
 2017) and Mahmood’s role as Social Media Manager for the Association for Business
 Psychology).

 Staff visibility is also evident through interactions with the press, who regularly cover our
 research or seek our commentary and expertise. We are sought out for public information
 programming (e.g., Tapper’s collaboration with the BBC’s Trust Me, I’m a Doctor programme to
 run a study on mindful eating). Our staff commentate for lifestyle and news outlets (e.g., Ayton’s
 frequent discussant roles for BBC Radio 4). Our research is often picked up by the mainstream
 press (e.g., the reporting of Freeman’s 2017 and 2019 work on the “visual ear” in at least 25

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 news outlets including The Guardian, The Metro and the New York Times). It is also blogged
 and tweeted about, and shared widely: a review of Altmetric data for our submitted outputs
 (completed 11th February 2021) showed that they had received median attention scores at the
 86th percentile compared to outputs of the same age.

 In sum, we are demonstrably collaborative, impactful, conscientious and visible – we are proud
 of our achievements since 2014 and we look forward with confidence to the next REF cycle.




                                                                                         Page 22
