Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 27 (English Language and Literature)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Research and impact work in the School of English at Kent covers both Creative Writing and the
 whole range of anglophone literature from medieval to contemporary, including American and
 Postcolonial. The School is distinctive for its emphasis on social and political intervention; its
 focus on sustained international activity; and its commitment to practice research and a
 creative-critical crossover approach. All three areas were strategic priorities across the REF2021
 census period. These priorities have been accomplished by our staff through innovative research,
 the engagement of global audiences, and the generation of impacts in areas such as policy advice,
 health and wellbeing, and civil society activism.
 Collectively, our research is driven by the need to understand the narratives that make us and the
 narratives we must make to democratise our futures. The School is united in the belief that such
 research has never been more vital. At a time of political, economic, and environmental crisis,
 characterised by structural marginalisation and disenfranchisement, capacities for sharing,
 hearing, creating, and understanding narratives need to be developed and extended. This need
 is understood across academic disciplines, as story and testimony become increasingly critical to
 research methods across a broad range of fields. English research at Kent has been, and will
 continue to be, pivotal to this broadening of the stories we have to tell.
 Unit context and structure
 The submission covers all research staff in the School of English and one colleague from the
 Centre for Journalism (Cocking; 1.0 FTE), whose work on travel writing is closely aligned with
 research in English. At the REF staff census date, the UoA employed 42 independent researchers
 (38.2 FTE), including 12 Professors, 5 Readers, 14 Senior Lecturers, and 11 Lecturers. The
 majority of its research activity is channelled through nine Research Centres, which serve as the
 focal points of the School’s research and impact work. Seven of these Centres are housed directly
 within the School; two (Medieval and Early Modern Studies [MEMS]; American Studies) are multi-
 disciplinary ventures with other academic schools at Kent.
 Four of the nine Centres are period-focused: MEMS; Studies in the Long Eighteenth Century;
 Victorian Literature; and Modern Poetry and Poetics. A further five Centres are transhistorical in
 conception: American Studies; Colonial and Postcolonial Studies; Creative Writing; Gender,
 Sexuality, and Writing; and Indigenous and Settler Colonial Studies. All Centres represent
 research specialisms central to the School. All have a wide membership that includes core
 research staff returned to the REF, colleagues from other Kent schools, Emerita/Emeritus staff,
 and external scholars. All researchers in the School are members of at least one Centre; many
 are members of two or more.
 Together, these nine Centres have proved an effective infrastructure for the generation of
 innovative research. All are seedbeds of new ideas and projects, attract doctoral researchers, and
 ensure the external visibility of the School’s achievements. The School’s latest Centre, the Centre
 for Indigenous and Settler Colonial Studies (ISCS), is indicative of the role they play in the
 development of the School’s research. ISCS is dedicated to a fast-expanding field in the global
 academy (which is still underrepresented in the UK) by combining Indigenous Studies and Settler
 Colonial Studies under one roof, and placing the lived conditions, experiences, and cultures of
 indigenous peoples worldwide at the heart of its activities. The first such Centre in Britain, it is not
 only interdisciplinary (joining Humanities and Social Sciences researchers) but inter-institutional,
 connecting Indigenous and Native Studies departments in the UK (Goldsmiths; UEA; Leicester;
 Nottingham), Ireland (UCD), the USA (Wisconsin), Canada (Alberta; British Columbia), and New
 Zealand (Waikato), and including their staff among its 20+ members, alongside researchers from
 the School. The Centre publishes a fully open access online journal (Transmotion); provides a
 home for the largest single project related to Indigenous Studies in the UK to have received
 Research Council funding (‘Beyond the Spectacle’; Funder: AHRC; Award value: £1m; Funded


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 period: 2017-20; Lead: Stirrup); and is preparing a major Leverhulme Centre application (worth up
 to £10 million) in 2021.
 Research strategy
 The School’s research strategy is designed to coordinate work across all Centres and encourage
 collaboration between them. Revised and updated annually to ensure that it continues to meet our
 needs, it has enabled the School to achieve its aims, established at the beginning of the census
 period, of creating an infrastructure to support large-scale grant applications, including the
 appointment of a Research Support Officer (RSO). The School is now host to several high-profile
 research projects that cross the range of its periods and areas of interest. The strategy also
 allowed the School to achieve the objectives outlined in the submission to REF 2014, which
 included:
    •   Continued support for high-quality outputs: in the current assessment period, we have
        published 79 books (of which 26 were monographs, 25 edited books, 11 novels, and 17
        poetry volumes), 100+ refereed journal articles, and 150+ book chapters;
    •   A substantial increase of external funding: compared to REF2014, we have more than
        doubled the unit’s research income;
    •   A significant growth of our community of research students: since the last REF,
        completions are up by almost 300%;
    •   An increase in the recruitment of postdoctoral researchers: six such posts were created
        in the School through external income since 2014;
    •   The strengthening of our research links with non-HEIs: since 2014, we have entered into,
        or renewed, formal agreements with a number of institutions, including Canterbury
        Cathedral, the Institute of Contemporary Arts, the National Maritime Museum, and the
        University of Columbia Global Center in Paris.
 These achievements helped sharpen the School’s distinctive research profile based on our three
 strategic priorities of giving our work social and political relevance, a sustained international
 dimension, and a rooting in creative thought:
    •   Tying literary and cultural analysis to forms of social and political intervention has been
        central to several key funding awards in the census period, including ‘Beyond the
        Spectacle’ (Stirrup), which is recovering the forgotten Native American contribution to the
        history and culture of modern Britain; ‘Islamo-Gangsterism’ (ESRC, £450k, 2019-22;
        Rooney), which empowers communities in Lebanon to resist the crime-terror nexus; the
        Global Uncertainties Leadership Fellowship ‘Imagining the Common Ground’ (AHRC-
        ESRC; £422k; 2012-16; Rooney), which investigated the effects of arts activism on social
        cohesion in Cairo, Cape Town, and Delhi; and ‘Hostile Environments: Policies, Stories,
        Responses’ (British Academy; £50k; 2019-20; Herd), which seeks to change national and
        international asylum practices.
    •   The School’s sustained international activity is evident in its many research
        collaborations with partners across the globe (listed in detail in section 4 below) and in its
        joint international programmes. Our international programmes that ran during the census
        period include two EU-funded joint doctorates with non-UK universities: TEEME – Text and
        Event in Early Modern Europe (European Commission [EC]; 4.6m€; 2011-2019; Klein;
        partners: FU Berlin, Porto, CU Prague), and MOVES – Migration and Modernity’ (EC;
        3.9m€; 2019-23; Klein; partners: as on TEEME, plus Montpellier III). TEEME was a self-
        standing doctorate while the MOVES programme is built into a major research project on
        the history of migration that works with NGOs and charities in five different countries to
        combat anti-immigrant sentiment in the EU. Through these two doctoral programmes,
        which have offered fully funded Fellowships to 51 students from over 30 countries and five
        continents since 2011 (with 33 of those 51 studying for a Kent degree), English became
        the first School at Kent to award international joint degrees at PhD level from 2014 (23
        successful Kent completions by 2020).
    •   Practice research undertaken by our Creative Writers is fully embedded within the
        School’s wider research and impact activities. Research in Creative Writing at Kent gives

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        rise to formally innovative work that expands existing methodologies and genres (e.g.
        Thomas’s writing for young audiences in the Worldquake trilogy Dragon’s Green, The
        Chosen Ones, and Galloglass; Flusfeder’s reimagining of the historical novel in John the
        Pupil; Smith’s engagement with translation theory in The Books of Catullus) and
        contributes to historical and subject-specific fields of inquiry (e.g. Gaffield on ekphrasis in
        Tokaido Road; Lehane on medical humanities in Ephemeris and Bettbehandlung; Sackville
        on the Spanish Golden Age in Painter to the King). One of our core convictions is that
        creative and critical practice should inform each other, and that both strands of intellectual
        enquiry are enriched by the exchange. Several colleagues are both critics and creatives
        (e.g. Modernism specialists Herd and Virtanen [poetry]; Postcolonial scholars Rooney
        [films and stage plays] and Gurnah [Prof. until 2017; novels]). Other examples of the
        critical-creative nexus include the Refugee Tales project, which brings together the
        analysis of the language of exclusion and the articulation of the migrant experience in
        poetry and story; four separate PhD programmes in practice research (18 completions
        since 2014), which require candidates to combine creative and critical work; the
        collaboration with the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, which has generated PhD
        projects; and the weekly Creative Writing Open Seminar, in which Creative Writing and
        literature staff develop common research interests.
 New strategic goals for the post-REF 2021 period have been formulated in the light of the School’s
 new institutional location and of national developments.
 Institutionally, the University has reorganised its academic structures in response to a changing
 HE landscape (see REF5a). Since November 2020, the School sits in the Division of Arts and
 Humanities, which is designed to break down disciplinary boundaries, encourage more
 collaboration, reduce the administrative burden on individual schools, provide faster and more
 responsive decision-making, and strengthen a collective Arts & Humanities identity. This new
 Divisional context plays to several of the School’s key strengths, including its critical-creative and
 practice-led research. Immediate strategic changes resulting from this reorganisation are the
 widening of our practice research remit to include film, media, music, and drama, allowing School
 staff to create synergies with colleagues in the creative arts and extend our work in cross-art forms
 and interdisciplinary collaboration.
 Nationally, English research at Kent recognises the need to have an active voice in wider debates
 across the sector such as the campaigns to decolonise the curriculum, to increase equality and
 diversity among staff and students, and to combat precarious employment. The School has
 already taken action in all of these areas, and we will draw on our historic and contemporary
 commitment to publicly engaged critical and creative practice to remain at the centre of these and
 future debates. New strategic goals have therefore been set to allow the School to continue
 making the case for the centrality of literary studies to social and intellectual life. From 2021, we
 will:
    •   build on and enhance further our public-facing work to show how understanding narrative
        in its various forms is pivotal to national and international public agendas (Abu-Manneh,
        Bolaki, Cregan-Reid, Gilmore Kavanagh, Norman);
    •   strengthen our interdisciplinary collaborations, and consolidate the national,
        international, academic, civic and political networks in which colleagues in the School of
        English play a central and active role (Herd, Kemal, Stirrup, Whittle);
    •   play an active role in the development of one of the University’s new cross-disciplinary
        Signature Research Themes, Migration and Movement (Abu-Manneh, Herd, Klein,
        Stirrup, Whittle);
    •   embed innovation and enterprise fully in our priority areas of practice research and
        social, political and international work by collaborating closely with the newly created
        Institute of Cultural and Creative Industries (iCCi), whose Director is a staff member from
        English (C. Richardson);
    •   open access to scholarship through digital innovation, for instance through establishing
        scholarly editing (print and online) as a new research priority through investment in the
        editorial project on the Collected Works of Christopher Marlowe (2019-2025; under

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         contract with OUP; Loughnane, Dustagheer, C. Richardson), which builds on the success
         of Loughnane’s associate editorship of the New Oxford Shakespeare (2016-17), and is
         complemented by other ongoing editorial work (Ryan, Virginia Woolf’s Flush; C.
         Richardson, Arden of Faversham; Loughnane, The Complete Works of Cyril Tourneur;
         Klein, Hakluyt’s Principal Navigations).
 The School will also continue to respond to innovative research directions in the wider subject
 area that have the potential to engage all nine existing Centres. When colleagues form such
 initiatives, they are invited to apply for the status of an interdisciplinary cluster and receive financial
 support from the School (£500 per annum). Five such current clusters will continue their work into
 the immediate post-REF2021 period: Environmental Humanities (led by Cregan-Reid); Animal
 Humanities (Ryan); Cultures of Performance (Dustagheer, Loughnane, Wright); Medical
 Humanities (Bolaki, who is also Director of Kent’s interdisciplinary MA programme in Medical
 Humanities); and Digital Humanities (Falk).
 An example of the School’s investment in the last of these clusters, on which we will expand in
 future, is the course on coding and digital text analysis, led by Falk, in which 17 academic and one
 professional service staff took part in July and August 2020. The course covered core coding skills
 in the Python programming language, which participants then applied to text generation, text
 analysis, and authorship attribution problems. This type of training develops digital skills within the
 School and supports areas such as textual studies and scholarly editing, experimental creative
 writing, and distant reading and book history.
 Across all of its research activity, the School has encouraged a more open research environment
 throughout this REF cycle, in line with institutional policy (see REF5a). All researchers have their
 outputs listed in the Kent Academic Repository (KAR), and many of these are accessible in AAM
 versions whenever allowed by the publisher. Some major outputs, such as DiPlacidi’s monograph
 Gothic Incest (2017), have been published under gold open access. Online journals published in
 the School, such as Transmotion and Datableed, are fully open access. Beyond traditional
 publications, researchers are supported to make findings accessible via public and creative
 methods such as exhibitions, festivals, performances, blogs, workshops, study days, talks, and
 public conferences. All publications emerging from funded projects are fully compliant with the
 open-access requirements stipulated by their funders (e.g. our European funded projects will all
 use the new open access platform Open Research Europe as one of its main tools of
 dissemination).
 The School is equally committed to the highest standards in research ethics and integrity. Since
 our research is increasingly multi-disciplinary in nature, the role of a Research Ethics and
 Governance representative (REG) was created in 2015. All projects and engagement activities
 are reviewed by the REG and submitted for approval to the Divisional Research Ethics Advisory
 Group (REAG). In working with all researchers in the School, including research students, we are
 actively seeking to inculcate a culture of research integrity, transparency, and professionalism
 across all our activities.
 Impact strategy
 Our overriding strategic goal in the area of impact is to maximise the benefits of the School’s
 research for a wide range of users and beneficiaries beyond academia, including readers of fiction,
 poetry, and journalism; vulnerable populations in the UK and elsewhere; practitioners in the
 cultural and creative industries; curators of (and visitors to) museums, archives, and galleries;
 audiences of radio and TV programmes, festivals, and performance events; government advisers
 and policymakers; education experts; broadcasters; opinion makers and influencers.
 The varied forms of outreach and public engagement through which staff research is disseminated
 to these user groups include large-scale public walks in solidarity with refugees and asylum
 seekers (Herd); exhibitions such as Bolaki’s Prescriptions (2016) at the Beaney Art Museum
 (Canterbury), or Waters’ Picturing the News: The Art of Victorian Graphic Journalism (2017), an
 online collaboration with the National Portrait Gallery; and creative events such as the Kamishibai
 (Japanese paper theatre) version of Gaffield’s Tokaido Road poems, produced for families and
 children and touring schools and museums across the UK in 2015, and the 2016 ‘stitch-off’
 organised around eighteenth-century embroidery patterns at Chawton House Library, part of ‘The

                                                                                                     Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lady’s Magazine Project’ (Leverhulme; £181k; 2014-16; Batchelor). They also include public
 readings of poetry and prose at national and international literary events and festivals (Creative
 Writing staff); and radio and TV programmes, podcasts, audiobooks, and other types of media
 (Cregan-Reid, C. Richardson, Batchelor, and other staff).
 To align our impact work fully with our research priorities, the School applies three main criteria
 intended to ensure maximum coherence across all major projects:
    •   The School prioritises research that creates benefits for vulnerable populations such as
        refugees, migrants, neglected communities, indigenous people, or the mentally and
        physically ill.
    •   Where possible, the School creates impact through policy advice, aimed at policy
        change.
    •   The School’s impact work should benefit international as well as regional audiences.
 Our four impact case studies demonstrate the success of this approach. ‘Refugee Tales’ (Herd)
 and ‘Rebuilding Civil Society in a Divided Middle East’ (Rooney) both focus on vulnerable
 individuals and on policy change: ‘Refugee Tales’ has influenced House of Commons debates
 and shadow cabinet policy on indefinite detention for refugees and asylum seekers in the UK;
 ‘Rebuilding Civil Society’ has informed policy-making on Palestinian rights through briefings of
 politicians and debates in parliament. Our other two case studies, ‘Improving Health and Wellbeing
 through a Sustained Literary History of the Body’ (Cregan-Reid) and ‘The Lady’s Magazine’
 (Batchelor), have both generated significant health benefits: ‘Improving Health and Wellbeing’ has
 changed the pedagogy of health professionals through research in environmental humanities; ‘The
 Lady’s Magazine’ has created therapeutic and mental health benefits through its ‘COVID crafting’
 response to the worldwide pandemic. All four of our case studies have reached national and global
 audiences.
 Going forward, we will sustain the generation of impact by refining our approach across the School
 and all Centres. This will include the continuous development of our support mechanisms aimed
 at assisting current and future staff in planning impact; for example, through dedicated guidance
 documents such as handbooks on grant applications, on establishing international partnerships,
 and on working with external stakeholders, national bodies, and partners outside academia. We
 will also consolidate similar types of impact work across different Centres and projects, in order to
 work in a sustained and mutually beneficial way with our external partners (for example, through
 workshops with the heritage sector).
 Our wider infrastructure will be further developed through the collaboration with iCCi, the
 University’s Signature Research Themes, Eastern ARC (a research consortium established in
 2014 between the universities of Kent, East Anglia, and Essex), and the AHRC-funded Doctoral
 Training Partnership CHASE (Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts in Southeast England).
 An additional goal is to diversify our funding sources by building on our success with UK Research
 Councils, UK charities, and Horizon Europe, and by exploring new funding streams, for example
 through knowledge exchange activity and interdisciplinary collaboration (which will enable access
 to funders outside the Arts & Humanities).
 Examples of planned impact for the post-2021 period include working with health practitioners and
 the NHS through the application of our medical humanities research in the context of Kent’s newly
 formed Kent and Medway Medical School (Bolaki) and the role of literature in the defence of
 human rights (Herd).

 2. People
 We believe in literary studies as a broad discipline that starts with the attention to specific texts
 and artefacts but reaches out into wider social, political, cultural and historical contexts. To
 maintain this dual focus on text and context, all new staff are recruited either to a period-focused
 or a transhistorical Centre, with the expectation that many will join a Centre in both categories.
 Staffing strategy
 Over the REF2021 period, the School achieved its aim of creating a more diverse and inclusive
 working environment. At the staff census date, the School had almost full gender balance (21

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 male; 20 female staff), including 6 female and 6 male Professors. The international nature of our
 work is reflected in the background of our research staff: colleagues are from 12 different countries
 and four continents; 39% are from outside the UK. Staffing levels in the UoA have been sustained
 at 38.2 FTE and a headcount of 42 (REF2014: 38.1 FTE submitted, at 97% inclusion rate;
 headcount 40). Since 2014, 10 research staff have left the School (6 male, 4 female), seven of
 whom retired; 12 new staff have joined (6 female; 6 male).
 The School is committed to staffing each Research Centre with a critical mass of colleagues,
 ensuring continuous research and impact work, and enabling the generation of collaborative grant
 applications. Over the census period, we have chosen to prioritise the recruitment of new
 researchers with emerging or established reputations for excellence who will complement existing
 strengths in the School with new and different skills, help balance the departmental demographic,
 and shape the future of the discipline. This approach led, for example, to the appointment of
 Virtanen in 2015 to a Lectureship in Contemporary Culture, covering modern poetry alongside the
 graphic novel; of Lehane in 2016 to a Lectureship in Creative Writing, covering poetry and medical
 humanities; and of Falk in 2019 to a Lectureship in Eighteenth-Century Studies and Digital
 Humanities. The School also actively seeks to enhance its staffing base through project-funded
 posts and schemes such as the Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (which has covered 50% of
 the appointment of Hoene 2016-19).
 In our staffing strategy, we are fully committed to the Researcher Development Concordat (2019)
 and aim to implement all of its principles across environment and culture, employment, and
 professional and career development.
 ECRs receive particular support in the first three years of their appointment, at times exceeding
 institutional policy (see REF5a). All have both a formal probation supervisor and an informal
 mentor; a reduced teaching and admin load (50% in year one, 25% in years 2 and 3); and a
 probation plan covering all contracted activities, including research. Through these and other
 mechanisms, the School has been able to create a supportive environment, make long-term
 investments in individuals, and nurture talented researchers, as evidenced by the following:
    •   Six ECRs included with reduced outputs in REF2014 (Flusfeder; Gaffield; Hickman; Lyons;
        R. Richardson; Sackville) went on to produce major outputs (monographs, novels, poetry
        volumes) in the census period, for which double-weighting requests have been made.
    •   Three ECRs who left the School since 2014 have moved to full-time posts at prestigious
        institutions elsewhere (Collins to King’s College London; Bugeja to Malta; McIlvenna to
        Melbourne).
    •   Four postdocs employed during the census period on temporary contracts have been
        successful in finding long-term employment (Claes at Ghent; DiPlacidi at Kent; Grange at
        Oxford; Hoene at Maastricht).
 Alongside its special support for ECRs, the School fosters collegiality across all levels of seniority
 through flat hierarchies and a detailed workload allocation model (WAM) that allows colleagues to
 balance the demands of research, teaching, and administration. The WAM is based on 40% of
 each contract being devoted to research and is reviewed annually to ensure that its weightings
 still reflect actual workloads. All staff are also entitled to apply for one term’s research leave after
 seven terms of teaching (on condition that plans for grant applications are being actively pursued),
 and to nominate one research day a week during term time.
 Other groups of staff are fully integrated into the School’s research culture. Emeritus/Emerita and
 Honorary staff continue to play an important role in the School by mentoring junior colleagues,
 helping to organise conferences and symposia, and advising on grant applications. Visiting staff
 are invited to all research events and encouraged to present their research to the School at a
 public seminar.
 During 2017-18, in the context of the University’s Academic Workforce Profiling Project (see
 REF5a), the School ended its longstanding practice of employing hourly paid lecturers in an effort
 to combat casualisation in the workplace. In their place, eight colleagues (5.0 FTE) were recruited
 on open-ended Education, Scholarship & Professional Practice contracts. All such staff receive
 special mentoring under a dedicated University policy to enable them to change their contract type

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to Education & Research and be recognised as independent researchers in the REF, if they qualify
 and wish to apply. This has enabled Nagai (Lecturer since 2018) to be entered as a fully eligible
 member of the School’s research staff.
 To ensure that the School’s research objectives continue to be met, we encourage a culture of
 transparency and communication across all research specialisms. We achieve this through bi-
 annual research and impact support meetings between all independent researchers and the
 Director of Research and the RSO. These meetings serve as a platform to record achievements,
 plan new initiatives, and to put colleagues in dialogue with each other whenever synergies become
 apparent across period and subject boundaries. They are also used as an effective way to identify
 potential opportunities for new funding applications, individual and collective, and decide on the
 right type of assistance and course of action.
 Further financial and academic support for research staff includes:
    •   an annual allowance from QR (averaging between 800 and 1500 GBP per colleague per
        annum across the census period) to fund research activity (such as conference
        attendance, archival work, national and international research trips, and international
        fellowships);
    •   a School-run Large and Complex Grant scheme (annual budget: up to 50k), offering
        teaching and administration buyouts to prepare ambitious grant applications (which has
        enabled the recent funding success of Stirrup; and is funding Batchelor to prepare a major
        AHRC application on women and craft in the eighteenth century for 2021);
    •   Grant Writing Weeks organised by the School (at least once a year), during which time is
        set aside outside the teaching calendar to offer peer review, one-to-one support from the
        RSO, and dedicated sessions just for writing;
    •   various funding schemes at Division level, including an Incentivisation Fund for
        collaborative grants and a dedicated fund for Public Engagement with Research;
    •   Grants Factory workshops (35 a year) organised at University level in which experienced
        researchers across the disciplines offer advice and deliver the latest news from research
        councils and other funding bodies.
 One indicator of the success of these staff support mechanisms are the 35 internal promotions
 since 2013/14 (21 to Senior Lecturer, 9 to Reader, 5 to Professor). Before applying for promotion,
 all applicants are mentored by the School Promotions Panel (SPP; comprising Professors and
 others in key School roles, including a minimum of two women), which advises and supports staff
 in their career progression. The SPP writes supporting reports for all staff in the promotions
 process, and offers mentoring to those staff who have either not submitted an application, or not
 been promoted, in the last five years.
 Research students
 The School has succeeded in its aim, stated in the submission to REF2014, of achieving a
 substantial increase in the number of research students. Over the census period, we have
 recorded a headcount of 118 completions (107.00 FTE), which represents a growth of almost
 300% since REF2014 (when the total was 27.84 FTE). This increase is a direct result of the
 School’s policy to raise the quality of the support offered to research students, to enhance our
 global visibility, to ensure the success of individual programmes by providing adequate resource,
 and to invest in joint international provision. Completions are spread across all our Centres (with
 the exception of ISCS, which was only founded in 2019), with the highest numbers in areas that
 have seen the most significant funding success and degree of external recognition: MEMS (39
 completions), Creative Writing (21), and Colonial and Postcolonial Studies (17).
 The School’s strategy is not only to grow numbers but to grow them sustainably by ensuring that
 the supervisory capacity and expertise, the available infrastructure (study spaces, common rooms,
 equipment, etc), and the staff workload devoted to supervision match the numbers of PGR
 students recruited. Limits have been set at six full-time research students (or pro-rata equivalent)
 per one supervisory staff as main supervisor. All research students are supervised by a team of
 two or three that includes a supervisory chair (an experienced colleague who has been formally


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointed to this role by the University). Whenever required by the thesis topic, these teams are
 cross-disciplinary, stretching beyond Faculty (now Divisional) boundaries.
 The School highly values the contribution that research students make to our research culture and
 integrates them fully into its academic and administrative structures. All are invited to contribute
 to the various research seminar series in the School and to collaborate with staff on dedicated
 annual postgraduate conferences. As a group, research students also elect representatives to
 voice their interests at School meetings and help shape School policy.
 Academic and financial benefits offered by the School to all our research students include:
    •   A subject-specific internal training programme, taking the form of weekly workshops on
        research methods, archives, critical approaches, academic publication, employability,
        public engagement, and impact;
    •   A funding forum organised by the Director of Research, providing the entire postgraduate
        community with targeted advice on relevant funding calls;
    •   Funding of £400 per year for research-related expenses such as specialised training, the
        presentation of papers at conferences, or visits to archives (which can be augmented
        through competitive applications to the Divisional top-up fund for PhD students);
    •   The opportunity to acquire teaching experience during years 2 and 3 and enrol in
        Associate Fellowship Scheme training;
    •   The opportunity to take up work placements at the School’s partners outside academia
        (depending on the programme, these include, e.g., the Institute for Contemporary Arts;
        Turner Contemporary Margate; the Globe Theatre; the British Library; the National
        Maritime Museum; Kent Refugee Action Network; and, for TEEME and MOVES students,
        equivalent institutions in Berlin, Porto, Prague, and Montpellier);
    •   Regular contacts with publishing industry professionals, who advise Creative Writing
        students on editorial roles within the publishing world, on how to submit work to publishers,
        and on how to approach literary agents.
 These offerings are complemented outside the School by the University, the Graduate and
 Researcher College, and the CHASE consortium, by the following:
    •   Kent’s European centre in France – the Paris School for Arts and Culture – is available
        for various activities and events, such as conferences and symposia (including the annual
        Paris summer school and the annual Paris MA Festival and Conference);
    •   The University’s Knowledge Exchange and Innovation team facilitates staff and
        postgraduate partnerships with businesses and public institutions;
    •   The Graduate and Researcher College offers advanced skills training (both subject-
        specific and generic) and runs the introductory Researcher Development Programme (see
        REF5a);
    •   CHASE offers a range of specialised training and development opportunities which are
        open to all research students in the Arts and Humanities at CHASE institutions, not only to
        those who are AHRC-funded.
 Since 2014, many research students have received full funding, either from the AHRC through
 CHASE (22 scholarships 2014-20), from the University (23 scholarships 2014-19), or from the EU
 (26 scholarships 2014-19). Reflecting the success of the School’s various support mechanisms
 and the quality of its supervision practice, Kent PhDs are competitive on the job market, with 30+
 graduates since 2014 having secured lectureships at universities in the UK and 11 other countries,
 won 10+ postdoctoral fellowships in the UK and abroad, and started careers outside academia
 nationally and internationally, in areas such as IT, NGOs, the creative and cultural industries, the
 rare books trade, and professional services.
 Equality and Diversity
 The School has a dedicated Equality, Diversity & Inclusivity (EDI) representative and actively
 ensures that no students or members of staff are treated unfairly on the basis of any of the
 protected characteristics recognised in the UK’s Equality Act. The EDI representative participates

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in all relevant committee meetings and has a standing item on the agenda of all School Meetings,
 which take place five or six times a year. All staff are required to attend a Promoting Inclusion
 workshop, are regularly invited to sign up for further EDI training, and encouraged to attend EDI
 events organised by the University’s HR Learning and Organisational Development team. As with
 all central events in the School, these meetings are scheduled within core hours and in fully
 wheelchair-accessible locations so that all staff, including those with caring responsibilities or other
 equality-related circumstances, are able to attend. The School also takes a lead role in an annual
 cross-campus conference on research into LGBTQ+ issues, Researching the Rainbow, and is
 currently preparing an Athena Swan application for a bronze award for submission in November
 2021.
 Within the REF period, two female and two male colleagues have held the position of Head of
 School. Since the creation of the roles of two Deputy Heads of School in 2017, three of the post-
 holders were female, two were male. Many of the key administrative posts in the School – including
 Director of Research, Director of Education, and Director of Graduate Studies – have been held
 by female colleagues. Among the eight trained appraisers in the School, four are female and four
 are male. The School’s overall gender profile ensures balance in future appointments to all of
 these roles. Six female and three male staff have participated in the University’s Leadership in
 Areas of Significant Responsibility (LASR) training programme since 2014.
 EDI considerations have been fully embedded in the REF process. The REF team has gender
 balance and covers all status groups in the School. Those members responsible for the selection
 of REF outputs have undertaken unconscious bias training. The School has implemented an
 evidence-based and transparent REF process, following the University Code of Practice. The
 number of outputs is almost evenly split between male and female staff, and 10% of outputs are
 by BAME staff, closely reflecting the School’s overall staff makeup.
 All REF-eligible staff in the School were encouraged to declare individual circumstances in full
 confidentiality to a specialist team within HR. Throughout the current REF cycle, both male and
 female colleagues with caring responsibilities and other circumstances have successfully applied
 for flexible working hours under a dedicated university policy. The opportunity to apply for a variety
 of flexible working options (including part-time or part-year working, job sharing, working staggered
 or compressed hours, etc.) is continuously communicated to all staff and discussed in appraisals.
 The School follows a policy of substantive fixed-term appointments for maternity leave cover to
 meet the University's wider anti-casualisation agenda. Maternity leave provision offered by the
 University is generous and exceeds statutory requirements, allowing female colleagues to choose
 between a variety of leave and pay plans (two female colleagues took maternity leave during this
 REF cycle, one of them twice; four male colleagues took paternity leave). The School encourages
 the use of Keeping in Touch (KIT) days to ensure that colleagues stay informed during maternity
 leave, and provides appropriate support for the individual’s return. During leave, the School
 enables academic staff to have office access. The Head of School meets with those returning from
 maternity leave to facilitate reintegration. The staff member is also supported regarding timetabling
 adjustments, and where additional entitlement has been accrued, an application for one term's
 study leave is supported immediately upon a mother’s return to work, to facilitate re-engagement
 with research.
 Timetabling constraints are used to enable all academic colleagues to work flexibly. During the
 COVID-19 crisis, homeworking was possible for all staff on all types of contract. Colleagues with
 particularly challenging domestic contexts requiring, for example, long-term periods of quarantine
 and/or self-isolation were informally granted partial exemptions from their normal duties.
 Colleagues with a recognised disability or a major illness receive special support and, if
 appropriate, workload reduction. Administrative roles are monitored with a view to gender balance
 and diversity. Suggestions for visiting speakers at School research events (seminar series, panels,
 conferences) are also regularly monitored to ensure appropriate levels of diversity and inclusion.
 Two of the School’s long-term EDI targets were met in full over the current REF cycle: the
 proportion of BAME candidates among our PhD completions has increased to over 20%; and the
 proportion of female Professors now stands at 50%.


                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 The School’s strategy for achieving external research income is to find the right scheme for each
 project, and to work with all colleagues from the early planning stages to the final submission. This
 strategy is implemented through the bi-annual research and impact support meetings, through the
 close involvement of the School’s RSO at every step of the process, through the Large and
 Complex Grants Scheme, and through the regular grant writing weeks.
 The combined value of all HESA-recognised external awards secured competitively under this
 strategy during the census period (including the shares allocated to project partners) was in excess
 of £10 million, spread over 25 separate grants. The majority of this income (over 90%) was
 awarded by the UK Research Councils, UK-based charities, and the European Commission. The
 nine major awards (funding of £150k or more) running wholly or partly during the census period
 include six AHRC and Leverhulme Research Grants (Batchelor, Lyons, C. Richardson, Rooney,
 Stirrup, Waters), one AHRC-ESRC Fellowship (Rooney), an FP7 Erasmus Mundus Joint Doctoral
 Award (Klein), and a Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network (Klein).
 Sixteen smaller awards won during the census period were spread among other colleagues at all
 career stages. The total HESA Research Grants and Contracts Income amounts to just under £1.9
 million, an increase of 120% compared to REF 2014 (when the total was £862k).
 Since 2014, the School has also received external income not reported in HESA returns amounting
 to over £150k. This funding has been received by a variety of trusts, foundations, and institutions
 – including, for example, Arts Council England, The Leche Trust, The Commonwealth Foundation,
 the Malta Arts Fund, and the Canadian Embassy – and helped support various research and
 impact activities, particularly in Creative Writing. Initiatives funded through this income include
 publications costs, visits to overseas research facilities, the filming of readings from Refugee Tales
 in 2018, the seven performances with a full orchestra of Gaffield’s opera Tokaido Road: A Journey
 after Hiroshige in 2014-15, and the mounting of Rooney’s play The Keepers of Infinite Space,
 based on her research with Palestinian prisoners, at London’s Park Theatre in 2014. Individual
 researchers in the School have also received a total of US$30k in funding from US institutions –
 such as Yale University, the Harry Ransom Centre, and the Terra Foundation for American Art –
 for research activities such as short-term Fellowships, travel grants, and conferences.
 Internal funding to support staff is available at Divisional and University level and through networks
 in which Kent is a partner, such as CHASE. Across the REF census period, English staff have
 submitted c. 65 successful applications to schemes such as the Incentivisation and Research with
 Public Engagement funds sitting at Divisional level, the various CHASE funding schemes (Network
 Development Fund, Cohort Fund, Academic Community Fund) and University schemes such as
 the European Partnership Fund and the Vice Chancellor’s Discretionary Fund, as well as
 dedicated Impact Development and Research Output funding. Collectively, the School has won c.
 £162k through these schemes to fund activities such as conferences, symposia, grant
 preparations, visiting scholars, or public engagement and impact work. School-level funding,
 including the use of QR funds, supported conferences and workshops, visiting scholars, and PhD
 training events such as the annual MEMS Summer Festival organised by research students in
 medieval and early modern studies since 2015.
 Infrastructure
 The central organisational infrastructure for research and impact comprises the School’s nine
 Research Centres. Their brief is to enable the production of research at international and world-
 class level, and to maintain an open and inclusive research culture. They achieve this by
 organising regular research events, by disseminating their research widely and generating impact,
 by fostering interdisciplinarity, by inviting visiting staff, by networking with other universities in the
 UK and beyond, and by running postgraduate programmes.
 Centres are led by a Director or team of Co-Directors, appointed for a period of three years. Time
 slots for regular Centre meetings are set aside in the School’s administrative calendar. All Centres
 receive an annual budget of £1,500 directly from the School, with the exception of Creative Writing
 (which receives £5,000 p.a. in recognition of the higher costs of inviting non-salaried speakers)

                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and MEMS (which receives £6,000 p.a. from the Schools of English and History in recognition of
 its significant international activity). Several Centres also receive revenue from editing book series
 for academic publishers (e.g. the Centre for Colonial and Postcolonial Studies runs a Routledge
 series; the Centre for Modern Poetics a series with Peter Lang). All Centres undergo University-
 level triennial reviews.
 All major research projects have their home in one of the Centres. The preparation of grant
 applications is approached as a group effort. Irrespective of status, all colleagues can be members
 of project teams, whether as PI or Co-I. Centre Directors, who report to the School Research
 Committee, are required to inform all members regularly of research activities and ensure that
 access to facilities and networks is enabled for everyone. In supporting the Centres, the School
 Research Committee pays particular attention to maintaining gender balance and addressing EDI
 issues across all research and funding activities. The University’s Research and Innovation
 Services provide further logistical support to all Schools during the submission of grant
 applications and the running of funded projects.
 Impact activities are coordinated within the Centres and overseen by the School’s Research
 Committee, which offers support and identifies synergies and possibilities for collaboration across
 different Centres and research fields. Targeted grant capture is used strategically within the
 Centres to invest in distinctive research themes. For example:
    •   Scholars in the Centre for Colonial and Postcolonial Studies have developed the field of
        Middle Eastern studies through successive AHRC and ERSC grants led by Rooney –
        including her Global Uncertainties Leadership Fellowship (2012-16), ‘Egypt's Living
        Heritage’ (AHRC; £31k; 2016-17) and ‘Islamo-Gangsterism’ (2019-22) – which have
        collectively delivered impacts in policy advice and community regeneration.
    •   Scholars in the Centre for Victorian Literature have established a focus on literary culture
        through two successive AHRC grants, ‘The Special Correspondent and Victorian Print
        Culture’ (£167k; 2013-16; Waters) and ‘Literary Culture, Meritocracy and the Assessment
        of Intelligence in Britain and America, 1880-1920’ (£194k; 2017-19; Lyons), which together
        have raised awareness of media ethics in the UK and historicised the concept of artificial
        intelligence.
    •   Scholars in MEMS have advanced material culture studies through the TEEME award
        (2011-19) and C. Richardson’s AHRC grant ‘Cultural Lives of the Middling Sort, 1550-1650’
        (£850k, 2019-22), and will continue collaborations with the heritage sector and the cultural
        industries through Perry’s upcoming post-REF2021 Leverhulme project ‘Whittington’s Gift:
        Reconstructing the Lost Common Library of London’s Guildhall’ (£367k; 2021-23).
 Facilities
 The School is physically based in the fully wheelchair-accessible extension building to the
 University’s Rutherford College on its main Canterbury campus. All research staff have their own
 office, are allocated a new computer (choice of desktop or laptop) every five years, and all have
 access to a networked scanner-printer and full stationery supplies in the main office. Shared
 spaces include a foyer, a common room, and – for research students – a dedicated study space
 with twelve fully networked computers.
 Library provision for researchers in English includes the University’s Templeman Library and the
 Canterbury Cathedral Library and Archives. The former holds over one million items in all formats
 and provides electronic or print access to over 20,000 journals. In 2015, it was extended to include
 a dedicated special collection and exhibition space, and a teaching floor with a 250-seat lecture
 theatre (see REF5a). The library budget allocated to the School of English stands at c. £75k per
 annum, covering books, datasets, and journals. English has the support of a designated liaison
 librarian providing a one-to-one service to staff and students. Full interlibrary loan facilities are
 available.
 Templeman Library and the Canterbury Cathedral Library and Archives, covered by the
 Templeman catalogue, contain special collections of international significance, for example, the
 Templeman’s Maud-Olson poetry collection of mid-century first editions; the Cathedral Library’s
 first editions of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century historical and philosophical works, travel

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 writing, and works on slavery and abolition; and the Archives’ unparalleled holdings of medieval
 and early modern literary manuscripts. The value of these collections is enhanced by our staff’s
 research, as formally recognised by a strategic partnership between the School and the Cathedral
 Library and Archives. Being situated in a historic city close to London with world-class research
 facilities within easy reach (e.g. British Library; ICA) contributes significantly to the intellectual life
 of the School.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaborations
 Staff collaborate nationally and internationally with a wide range of individuals and institutions,
 including universities, research centres, and non-HEIs such as heritage sites and education
 providers. We manage these collaborations through our Centres, through specific research or
 infrastructure projects (such as joint PhD programmes), and through engaging with scholarly
 associations relevant to our fields of study. These collaborations are supported by the School
 financially and administratively, and through teaching and administrative relief for colleagues who
 are preparing or managing large-scale partnerships. The University provides logistical assistance
 through its International Partnerships service.
 Examples of significant collaborations (many of them leading to impact not captured in our case
 studies) include, at the national level:
     •   Links with Canterbury Cathedral Library, Wye Historical Society, The Jane Austen Society,
         Whitstable Historical Society, and Chawton House Library, where Batchelor, C.
         Richardson and others have given public talks and run research events;
     •   The cooperation with Cancer Macmillan, the NHS, and the Beaney Arts Museum in
         Canterbury, who sponsored four medical humanities workshops by Bolaki in 2016;
     •   The membership in Shakespeare’s Globe Architecture Research Group, to which
         Dustagheer contributed research reports on acoustic practice, decoration, and painting of
         early modern indoor playhouses in 2016;
     •   Collaborations with Okeanos Ensemble and the Guildhall School of Music and Drama, who
         helped realise seven performances of Gaffield’s Tokaido Road opera in 2014/15;
     •   The work on early modern ‘middling culture’, led by C. Richardson in collaboration with the
         Shakespeare Birthplace Trust and the Weald and Downland Living Museum, which has
         fed into TV programmes and public lectures;
     •   The membership of the academic advisory group at the National Maritime Museum,
         Greenwich, through which Klein’s research on European contacts with West Africa in the
         sixteenth century has informed the new permanent gallery on Tudor and Stuart seafarers;
     •   The ‘Antarctic Diaries’ interactive touchscreen in the Polar Worlds permanent gallery at
         Royal Museums Greenwich, for which Nagai provided content from her research on
         maritime animals in 2018;
     •   Links with Turner Contemporary in Margate, for which several colleagues (including Herd
         and Smith) have provided public talks and guided tours;
     •   The work with Makan, a Palestinian human rights group and UK-based registered charity,
         through which Abu-Manneh offers advocacy training informed by his research on
         Palestinian literature;
     •   The exhibition on The Art of Victorian Graphic Journalism, jointly curated by the National
         Portrait Gallery and Waters in 2016;
 and at the international level:
     •   The TEEME and MOVES networks (Klein), comprising universities and partners beyond
         academia in Kent, Berlin, Porto, Prague, and Montpellier, through which staff and student
         mobility has been increased and which have, to date, led to 31 completed joint PhD
         projects on comparative and interdisciplinary topics;



                                                                                                    Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The Indigenous and Settler Colonial Studies network by Stirrup, comprising scholars in the
        UK, EU, north America, and New Zealand, which is advocating for indigenous rights
        worldwide through scholarship, public engagement, and lobbying;
     • The cooperation with colleagues from Kogakkan University in Ise, Japan, around the
        collaborations in poetry and music by Gaffield, and the research into performance,
        memory, and cultural heritage by Loughnane (supported by an ESRC-AHRC UK-Japan
        Connection Grant; £24,894; 2019-21), which are benefiting cultural institutions, tourism,
        and the creative arts;
     • The longstanding cooperation with the Charles Wallace Trust (Padamsee), which sponsors
        one writer from India per year hosted by Kent;
     • The annual Othello’s Island conference in Cyprus run by James, which has opened up
        opportunities for many Levantine and north African scholars working in interdisciplinary
        medieval and early modern studies;
     • The Memorandum of Understanding between Kent and Simon Fraser University, Canada,
        which has enabled collaborations such as the BA-funded ‘Hostile Environments’ project
        (Herd) about the experience of displaced people in the UK, Italy, Canada, and the USA,
        and which includes a Canadian research group from Simon Fraser;
     • The co-founding, in 2019, of the Kent-Paris Research Institute by Brown, and the
        associated agreements with the University of Columbia Global Center, the American
        University in Paris, and the Centre Culturel Irlandais, all of which have strengthened the
        School’s research networks in Paris.
 The significant collaborations with scholars, artists, activists, and NGOs in Egypt, Palestine, and
 Lebanon led by Rooney, which have resulted in a variety of projects (documentaries, stage plays,
 community arts work, ‘living heritage’ initiatives) focused on the reconstitution of civil societies in
 the Middle East trough creative means, are covered in an impact case study.
 Collaborative agreements for PGR training are in place through the AHRC-funded Doctoral
 Training Network CHASE (since 2014), and the EU-funded joint doctoral programmes TEEME
 (2011-19) and MOVES (2019-23). The latter two programmes have been formally accredited in
 the UK at Kent and in four other European countries: Germany (Free University of Berlin), Portugal
 (University of Porto), Czech Republic (Charles University, Prague), and (for MOVES only) France
 (University Paul-Valéry, Montpellier III).
 Contributions to the research base
 Since 2014, the School’s priority research areas have been advanced through 80+ international
 conferences, symposia, and other research events, organised by our nine Research Centres at
 Kent and in 25+ other national and international locations. Highlights include ‘Victorian
 Sustainabilities’ (Kent, 2014); ‘Mediterranean Fractures’ (Malta, 2014; Kent, 2015); ‘Virginia Woolf,
 Europe and Peace’ (Kent, 2018); ‘Horses and Courts’ (London, Wallace Collection, 2018);
 ‘Maritime Animals’ (London, National Maritime Museum, 2019); the European Network for Avant-
 Garde and Modernism Studies conferences (convened by Ayers) in Helsinki (2014), Rennes
 (2016), and Münster (2018); and the TEEME conferences (convened by Klein) in Berlin (2014,
 2018), Paris (2015), and Kent (2016).
 The Centres also run weekly or bi-weekly open seminar or reading series, alongside a series of
 high-profile keynotes organised at School level, which together have featured over 200 speakers
 since 2014. Since March 2020 and the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, these seminar series
 and reading groups have continued on online platforms such as Zoom and Microsoft Teams,
 attracting even larger audiences.
 Honorary appointments allow external scholars to pursue their own research and School staff to
 benefit from their expertise. Visiting academics since 2014 have included over 40 scholars from
 around the world, including from universities in Turkey, Iraq, Japan, and China.
 Since 2014, School staff have also:




                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   been invited 100+ times to give keynote lectures and 100+ times to give readings in the
        UK and abroad (including, for example, in Adelaide, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Dublin,
        Lausanne, New Orleans, Stanford, Strasbourg, Valencia, Vancouver);
    •   held over 30+ editorial roles on journals and book series in the field (publishers include, for
        example, Boydell & Brewer, De Gruyter, I.B. Tauris, Manchester UP, Oxford UP, Palgrave,
        Routledge);
    •   acted as external examiners for study programmes or PhDs at 30+ institutions across the
        UK and several more abroad (for example, in Berlin, Cambridge, Canterbury [New
        Zealand], Glasgow, London, Porto, Stirling, Sydney, York);
    •   peer-reviewed manuscripts over 100 times for various presses and journals (for example,
        for presses including Ashgate, Cambridge UP, Edinburgh UP, Johns Hopkins UP, Penn
        State Press, Princeton UP, University of Toronto Press, Yale UP, and for journals including
        Comparative Literature, Journal of Victorian Culture, Literature and Medicine,
        Modernism/Modernity, Modern Philology, Textual Practice, The Eighteenth Century,
        Twentieth-Century Literature, Women’s Writing);
    •   peer-reviewed grant applications for over 20 funding bodies nationally and internationally
        (including the AHRC, British Academy, Dutch Research Council, European Commission,
        Flanders Research Foundation, Fulbright Commission, German Academic Exchange
        Service, German Research Council, Irish Research Council, Leverhulme Trust, Swiss
        National Science Foundation).
 Staff have also founded publication outlets, including Transmotion, a fully open-access journal
 dedicated to Native American and First Nations authors (Stirrup); Datableed, an experimental
 online poetry zine (Virtanen); and Litmus Publishing, a press exploring the interaction between
 poetry and science (Lehane). Three staff are members of the AHRC Peer Review and Strategic
 Review College (Batchelor; C. Richardson; Stirrup); one of the ESRC Peer Review College
 (Rooney).
 Staff also hold roles in learned societies, including Fellow of The Royal Society of Literature
 (Gurnah, Sackville, Wyld); Fellow of The Higher Education Academy (Bolaki, Gaffield, James);
 Fellow of Royal Asiatic Society (Landry); Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (C. Richardson);
 Patron of the Jane Austen Society, Kent branch (Batchelor); Trustee of The British Commission
 for Maritime History (Klein); and Trustee of the Ajyal Foundation for Education (Rooney).
 Fixed-term residencies or fellowships were held by Herd (US); Klein (Bologna); Nagai (National
 Maritime Museum, London); and Norman (Sydney). Consultancies included work for museums
 and institutes in Doha (Landry, Rooney), for funded research projects in Montpellier and London
 (Klein, Wright), and for theatres in the UK (Dustagheer, Waters).
 Staff were jury members for the following literary and academic prizes:
    •   The Man Booker Prize 2016 (Gurnah)
    •   Martin Stevens Essay Prize 2017, Medieval and Renaissance Drama Society (Wright)
    •   The Geoffrey Faber Memorial Prize 2018 (Wyld)
    •   Gennady Barabtarlo Prize 2018 for best work on Vladimir Nabokov (Norman)
    •   The International Dublin Literary Award 2019 (Wyld)
    •   The Michael Ondaatje Prize 2020 (Wyld)
 Staff were also recipients of prizes and nominations, including:
    •   The European Union Prize for Literature 2014 (Wyld, winner)
    •   The Somerset Maugham Award 2014 (Sackville, winner)
    •   The Hans Turley Prize in Queer Eighteenth-Century Studies 2018 (Gilmore-Kavanagh,
        winner)
    •   The Hoffmann Prize 2019 for distinguished work on Christopher Marlowe (Loughnane,
        winner)
    •   The Health Humanities Medal for Best International Research 2018 (Rooney, shortlisted)
    •   Book of the Year 2016, Sunday Herald (Herd, nominated)
    •   The American Library in Paris Book Award 2019 (Mildenberg, nominated)

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The THES award for Best International Collaboration of the Year 2019 (Klein, nominated)
    •   The International Dublin Literary Award 2020 (Sackville, longlisted)
 Contributions to the economy
 School research has contributed to the growth of the cultural and creative industries in the UK and
 abroad in several areas, including TV, radio, and opera. Examples include the creative work by
 Thomas, whose novels Oligarchy (2019) and The End of Mr. Y (2006) are being developed for TV
 by See Saw Films and Empire Street Productions respectively; the BBC World radio programmes
 by Cregan-Reid (2019/20), which have reached large global audiences; and the operas Tokaido
 Road (2014) by Gaffield and Army of Lovers (2019) by Flusfeder, the first of which is available on
 YouTube, the second of which has been released commercially on CD (2020) by Exit label in Italy.
 School research has had other economic applications: for example, tourism in Turkey has
 increased through Landry’s research on the seventeenth-century Ottoman traveller Evliyâ Çelebi,
 which has led to a UNESCO-recognised cultural route and, since 2014, created new revenue
 streams for local businesses; the visitor numbers of the El Moez area in Cairo have been boosted
 by a cultural tourist map and a Naguib Mahfouz walking tour designed by Rooney in collaboration
 with the Egyptian Ministry for Culture; and the sale figures of a range of smaller and more
 specialised publishing houses in the UK have been sustained by the novels and poetry volumes
 of our Creative Writers, including Creative Writing graduates. Comma Press, for example,
 publisher of Herd’s three Refugee Tales volumes, won the 2020 Small Press of the Year award
 for the North of England, while the royalties from those works (£21k so far) have been donated
 directly to two NGOs involved in the Refugee Tales project, the Gatwick Detainees Welfare Group
 (GDWG) and Kent Refugee Help (KRH). Our international work also brings students and scholars
 to Kent who help sustain the local economy.
 Contributions to society
 Through our key research priorities staff address matters of current social relevance and urgency
 such as anti-migration sentiment, the politics of asylum, the status of refugees, the rights of
 indigenous populations, and provision for mental and physical health. On all these topics, our
 research enables change, generates policy advice, and improves society. For example, Stirrup’s
 work on Native Americans in Britain is raising public awareness of indigenous people; the MOVES
 project (Klein) is developing recommendations on European migration management; and the
 research on mental health and Artists’ Books by Bolaki, which was selected for the 2019 British
 Academy Summer Showcase, highlights the positive impact that books created by artists have on
 individuals going through serious illnesses.
 In the context of these and other projects, staff have been collaborating with a range of NGOs in
 the UK and Europe (e.g., GDWG; KRH; Kent Refugee Action Network; the Platform for
 International Cooperation on Undocumented Migrants in Brussels), as well as with cultural
 institutions (e.g. museums, theatres, heritage sites), and have been networking with professional
 organisations and individuals (e.g., the Labour Party; the Bar Council; MPs from all parties and
 members of the House of Lords), in order to improve the lives of vulnerable people.
 Through our international agenda, we enable intercultural understanding and transnational
 cooperation. We achieve this through the larger projects already mentioned in this section as well
 as through smaller initiatives, such as the Global Challenges workshops on university reform in
 Georgia, which investigated the role of higher education in advancing Georgia as a progressive
 and resilient nation. The workshops, supported by GCRF funding, were run in 2019 by Ayers in
 conjunction with local university and government representatives at Ilia State University, Tbilisi.
 Our emphasis on practice research champions the value of creative thinking as a horizon-
 expanding and problem-solving approach in all spheres of modern society. Contributions to
 schools include Thomas’s free resource pack on her Worldquake trilogy, with material for five
 hour-long, cross-curricular Key Stage 2 (ages 9-12) lessons, and Herd’s Prologue to the first
 Refugee Tales volume (2016), which is now taught at Key Stage 3 (ages 11-14) by Oak Academy.
 Further significant contributions by the School’s creative writers have been made through
 readings, journalism, festivals, performances, and other public appearances. Examples include
 the regional audiences engaged through the annual Wise Words poetry festival in Canterbury that

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ran for nine years until 2017; the Canterbury-based Free Range arts charity that has presented
 over 200 events since 2012 (Herd; Hickman; Smith; Virtanen); the widely read columns in the
 Guardian by Thomas and Cregan-Reid; and the opening poem for ITV’s ‘Pride of Britain’ awards
 written by Debney (Reader until 12/19) and screened in 2016 in a version spoken by Michael
 Sheen and Michael Caine to a TV audience of five million.




                                                                                       Page 16
