Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London (RHUL)

 Unit of Assessment: 9: Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Department of Physics are recognised research leaders in our areas of strength, Particle
 Physics and Quantum Materials & Technologies. Between 2013 and 2020 our work has aligned
 with the foremost national scientific priorities, connected strongly with the National Physical
 Laboratory and the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, and grown across discipline boundaries,
 drawing together expertise across the School of Engineering, Physical and Mathematical Science.

 Our strategic objectives over the period 2013-2020 were:

 •   to address the most fundamental open questions in Particle Physics and Quantum
     Materials & Technologies, in projects with the potential for breakthrough discoveries;
 •   to develop applications of our discovery science to new devices based on quantum
     rules that will revolutionize information processing and sensing capabilities;
 •   to apply these advances in quantum technologies to study fundamental physics in new
     ways;
 •   to increase impact and to grow new research directions through interdisciplinary
     collaboration;
 •   to create an environment that supports the development of individuals, with emphasis
     on promoting equality.


 1.1 Unit Structure
 In 2019 the School of Engineering, Physical and Mathematical Science (EPMS) was formed from
 the Departments of Physics, Electronic Engineering, Computer Science, Information & Security,
 and Mathematics. The Physics Unit of Assessment consists of 19.1 FTE academic staff, including
 joint appointments and secondments. Physics academics collaborate with researchers in the
 EPMS, with 5 academics submitted to the Engineering UoA. Research activity in Physics is divided
 between the Centre for Particle Physics and the grouping of Quantum Materials & Technologies.
 The Centre for Particle Physics (CPP) comprises 11 academics, 10 non-independent researchers
 and 31 postgraduate students. The centre hosts research sub-groups in: Accelerator Science; the
 ATLAS experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider (LHC); Dark Matter & Neutrino Physics;
 and Theoretical Particle Physics. This grouping maps directly onto the STFC’s Frontier Physics
 Research Areas. The experimental programme is supported by laboratory infrastructure,
 advanced computing facilities, and facilities at major international laboratories (CERN, FNAL, J-
 PARC, KEK, LNGS, SNOLAB, SURF).
 Quantum Materials & Technologies (QMT) comprises 16 academics, 12 non-independent
 researchers and 18 postgraduate students. It hosts four sub-groups: Condensed Matter Theory;
 Nanophysics & Nanotechnology; Quantum Matter; Quantum Fluids & Solids. Research is
 enhanced by departmental fabrication facilities and laboratories, which include the UK Centre for
 Superconducting and Hybrid Quantum Systems (SuperFab) and the London Low Temperature
 Laboratory (LLTL, a member of the European Microkelvin Platform, a European Advanced
 Infrastructure), as well as external facilities such as ISIS, the Diamond Light Source, ESRF, ILL
 and FRMII, and within the Hubbard Theory Consortium (HTC).



                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research Strategy
 The REF2014 research objectives were:
 •   to exploit the ATLAS dataset’s increased reach and precision to study the Higgs boson,
     experimentally and theoretically;
 •   to search for dark matter, pushing the sensitivity frontier in experiment and theory, and to
     expand into neutrino physics, which shares many of the challenges of rare-event searches;
 •   to develop novel beam instrumentation and simulation techniques for accelerators, working
     towards the LHC luminosity upgrades;
 •   to grow into the priority area of quantum technologies, particularly in superconducting circuits,
     in partnership with national laboratories and industry;
 •   to address the new challenge of quantum behaviour in nano-devices cooled into the sub-mK
     regime;
 •   to diversify the programme of materials discovery;
 •   to strengthen engagement between theorists and experimentalists.
 Our research spend has nearly doubled under this strategy; increasing from £13.6M in REF2014
 to £22.3M during this REF period.
 We have delivered our strategic aims by developing partnerships with national laboratories;
 resulting in joint appointments and secondments and access to world-class facilities; consolidation
 and growth of cross-disciplinary approaches through new structures, including the new School;
 and University and Research Council investment to develop world-leading infrastructure on
 campus.
 This has resulted in major research achievements, aligned with our objectives identified in
 REF2014. They include:
 •   Collider Physics Experiment academics (Boisvert, Berry, Cowan, Teixeira-Dias) and Senior
     Research Officers (SROs) (George, Green) have major ATLAS experiment roles in: electronics
     and software for trigger and data acquisition; contributing computing expertise for Particle
     Physics by hosting a GridPP Tier2 cluster; and, in physics analyses of the Higgs boson, the
     top-quark, exotic processes, and statistical methods. During REF2021 Boisvert served as
     ATLAS Top Cross-Section Physics subgroup convener, responsible for directing the research
     activities of ~50 collaborators, Cowan served as ATLAS Statistical Forum convener, producing
     world-leading results on the mass and spin of the Higgs boson, and Teixeira-Dias was elected
     Deputy ATLAS-UK PI.
 •   Dark Matter and Neutrino Physics academics (Kaboth, Monroe) collaborate on dark matter
     searches with the LZ and Global Argon Dark Matter Collaboration experiments, and on
     neutrino oscillation with the T2K and DUNE experiments. Our expertise in dark matter is
     internationally recognized, e.g. during REF2021 serving as LZ WIMP Search working group
     leader (Kaboth), and Scientific Secretary in the 2019 European Strategy for Particle Physics
     Dark Sectors group (Monroe). The secondment of Kaboth with RAL grew our activity into
     Neutrino Physics, where our focus is oscillation analysis and detector R&D, producing world-
     leading results on CP violation in the lepton sector, serving as T2K Oscillation Analysis
     convener (Kaboth), and leading the CERN P-355 experiment to develop high-pressure TPC
     technology for the DUNE near detector (Monroe).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Theoretical Particle Physics academics (Kauer, West) have made significant contributions to
     the understanding of the off-shell high-mass Higgs signal that facilitates the determination of
     the Higgs decay width and the development of novel theories of dark matter (e.g. the Freeze-
     in mechanism and Nuclear Dark Matter). Kauer has served continuously as convener in the
     international LHC Higgs Cross Section working group since 2014 and recently initiated the Off-
     shell Interpretations Task Force.
 •   Accelerator Science academics (Boogert, Gibson, Karataev), SROs (Bosco, Boorman, Lyapin)
     develop the next generation of high-energy particle accelerators, within the John Adams
     Institute. Karataev has led the fundamental physics development of optical transition radiation
     and diffractive transition radiation for non-invasive beam diagnostics.
 •   Quantum Fluids & Solids academics (Casey, Nicholls, Rojas, Saunders), SROs (Levitin,
     Nyeki), have world-leading expertise in ultra-low temperature physics. The group has
     pioneered studies of superfluid 3He under nanofluidic confinement as a model system for
     topological superconductivity, shown atomically-layered thin films of helium on graphite
     substrates provide model systems for realizing 2D-quantum materials, and demonstrated a
     world-record low temperature for a two-dimensional electron gas. Rojas initiated superfluid
     optomechanics, exploiting the unique properties of superfluid 4He for quantum sensing and
     technology applications. Impact stems from promoting access to ultra-low temperature by
     engineering new technologies, notably a cryogen-free nuclear demagnetisation refrigerator in
     partnership with Oxford Instruments and a primary thermometer for sub mK temperatures.
 •   Quantum Matter academics (Goff, Niklowitz, Voneshen), SRO (Uthayakumar) study frustrated
     magnetism and quantum phase transitions using neutron and synchrotron x-ray scattering,
     exploiting beam time at neutron and synchrotron facilities (ISIS, ILL, DLS, ESRF, FRM II). The
     group’s pioneering work on the role of structural defects on magnetic monopole dynamics led
     to harnessing disorder to induce quantum spin liquid behaviour. The group has strengthened
     the strategic partnership with ISIS through secondment of Voneshen from ISIS to RHUL to
     develop the application of polarisation analysis techniques to study materials for energy
     applications, and collaborate on materials synthesis to grow samples for the wider neutron
     scattering community.
 •   Nanophysics & Nanotechnology academics (Antonov, Astafiev, Ithier, Meeson, Petrashov,
     Tzalenchuk), SRO (Shaikhaidarov) develop quantum device technology through the
     application of fundamental phenomena based on superconductivity. The group does important
     work in metrology: e.g., developing a charge quantum interference device; artificial atoms; a
     microwave absolute power meter (patented); technology of long de-coherence qubits; and
     studying the metrological standard of current (EU FET Open project). The joint appointment of
     Astafiev with NPL, and secondment of Tzalenchuk from NPL to RHUL, significantly enhanced
     our work on quantum technologies, together with investment in the SuperFab facility.
 •   Condensed Matter Theory academics (Coleman, Eschrig, Ho, Refson, Sordi) focus on the
     quantum many-body problem in condensed matter, one of the grand challenges of 21st century
     physics. This group runs the Hubbard Theory Consortium, which brings together
     experimentalists and theorists to catalyse the discovery, understanding, and design of new
     quantum materials. Refson was jointly appointed with ISIS to lead the theoretical modelling
     effort at ISIS using ab-initio simulations, in support of experiments that span condensed matter
     physics, materials physics and chemistry.
 1.3 Approaches to enabling Impact


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In REF2014, our strategic objectives were to develop impact from our research on the economy,
 healthcare, and society. To do this we have strengthened the impact culture and developed closer
 working links with users of our research. Embedding Impact across the administrative functions of
 the Department has been achieved by:
 •   Forming an Impact team: The Department’s Director of Impact leads a team responsible for
     interacting with research groups to identify potential impacts of their research, share impact-
     promoting initiatives and best practice.
 •   Embedding impact from Early Career: The impact team works with the Research Staff Forum
     to identify, develop and secure seed funding from institutional resources for impact projects.
     This has led to non-independent researchers being directly involved with REF2021 case
     studies (Nevay, Lyapin, and Levitin), and submitting impact related funding applications to
     STFC-IPS and CLASP (Lyapin, Shields).
 •   Incentivising impact: Impact activities feature explicitly in recruitment and promotion criteria at
     all levels. Impact activities (consultancy, industrial meetings, outreach and knowledge transfer)
     are part of our quantitative workload model for staff and are incorporated in the annual
     Performance Development Review process.
 •   Strategic investment in research with impact potential: The impact strategy has informed
     appointments in the theory of Quantum Materials (Refson), in metrology (Tzalenchuk), and in
     nanotechnology (Astafiev). Funding is available, with support from RHUL’s Research and
     Innovation (R&I) Department, to protect Intellectual Property and develop the frameworks
     needed to exploit technologies with commercial partners.
 The two case studies selected for Physics emerge from these approaches to enabling impact. All
 members of the Physics UoA were invited to submit a short impact case at the beginning of the
 REF period. The impact Team supported the development of these cases and identified actions
 to enhance the impact during the REF2021 period. Impact Case 1, Exploiting quantum
 technologies to drive a commercial functional brain imaging revolution, received support
 from R&I to protect our intellectual property in the area of quantum devices and negotiated
 licensing agreements with a start-up York Instruments and their parent company Croton
 Healthcare. Appointment of Refson enabled Impact Case 2, Driving Industrial R&D with
 CASTEP materials modelling software, relating to wider economic benefits of our research in
 condensed matter theory, producing efficiency gains in material development for companies using
 the CASTEP software package, marketed through BIOVIA.
 Our future strategic impact objectives are: to leverage our unique infrastructure to grow our impact;
 to increase our engagement with end-user beneficiaries; and to connect impact activities to our
 core principle of reaching gender equality. Building on our current activities, we will enable these
 by:
 •   Leveraging our Infrastructure. We plan to develop quantum technologies with impact on UK
     manufacturing industry and metrology, aligned with the national Quantum Computing agenda.
     We will do this via our infrastructures (LLTL and SuperFab, 3.2), which bring industrial users
     to campus and promote collaboration; the industry outreach programmes of the R&I
     Department; and, through partnership with NPL. This will be steered by an Industrial Strategy
     Advisory Committee.
 •   Involvement with external and industry partners at all stages. We are embedding engagement
     with industry into our PhD programme to develop future “people pipelines”. This is promoted
     through Impact PhD Studentships and the South East Physics Network’s (SEPNet) employer

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     internship programs within GRADnet. College seed-funds are available through R&I to support
     opportunities that maximise the impact of our research.
 •   Embedding impact within our core principles. We will expand our public engagement to
     promote the visibility of women in generating impact, as this is a strong attractor for recruiting
     diverse talent. We will grow our programme of events highlighting impact-generating research
     by women at all levels: to the public, e.g. in our Christmas lecture series, where in 2019 women
     PhD students gave talks about impact generation to a 400-strong public audience; to research
     councils, e.g. 2019 EPSRC Visit Day featured the CEO of Oxford Quantum Circuits, RHUL
     Physics alumna; and, to our students, in our Women in Physics speaker series.
 1.4 Supporting Interdisciplinary research
 Growth in interdisciplinary collaboration is supported by the EPMS School, and across the
 institution by the development of an institutional catalyst in Advanced Quantum Science and
 Technologies.
     •   The Engineering Research Centre was established in 2017 to coalesce engineering-
         focussed research across the School.
     •   In 2019 STFC and EPSRC launched the “Quantum Technologies for Fundamental
         Physics” (QTFP) call. Applications required interdisciplinary research teams from both the
         fundamental physics and quantum technology communities. Our strategy of collaboration
         across these two key areas, and our world-leading nanofabrication infrastructure enabled
         us to lead (1) and join (2) proposals, all of which were successful.
     •   The formation of the “Quantum Catalyst” in 2020 will consolidate research in Quantum
         Materials & Technologies across Royal Holloway.
 These initiatives will open up new areas of discovery and drive challenge-led research over the
 next decade.


 1.5 Future research strategic aims
 From 2021 to 2026, our work will shape RHUL’s aspirations for a future in discovery science and
 in supporting the second quantum revolution. The future aims, building upon the successful
 strategies developed during REF2021, are to:

 •   Lead the catalyst for Advanced Quantum Science and Technologies. This will accelerate the
     translation of physics breakthroughs in quantum materials and devices into quantum
     information and sensor technology. A key research direction will be to deliver our Quantum
     Technologies for Fundamental Physics science programme. Applying quantum measurement
     approaches to new particle searches spans the core capabilities of our UoA in nanotechnology,
     experimental and theoretical research in dark matter, and ultra-low temperature physics.
 •   Expand Interdisciplinary research. We aim to make progress on leading challenges across
     science, interacting across fields beyond our institution. For example, we lead a Global
     Challenge Research Fund multi-disciplinary effort to translate metrology developed for dark
     matter searches to detecting lead in drinking water using biosensors.
 •   Create an Astronomy Group: The top priority of the UoA strategic plan is to appoint two
     Astronomers. This is an area with huge discovery potential that is being transformed by
     advances in instrumentation, and a natural fit to our strengths in Dark Matter and Theoretical



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Particle Physics. This direction strengthens our push towards gender equality as Astronomy
    recruits women students with higher success rates than any other sub-field in Physics.


 1.6 Culture of Open and Ethical Research
 Royal Holloway’s Open Access Policy supports researchers to comply with the open access
 requirements of their funding agencies. Research outputs are input into Pure (Research
 Information System), and the Research Support Team arrange Open Access in line with the
 publisher’s policy. Funds are available to pay article processing charges for open access.
 Examples of going beyond this standard include the European Microkelvin Platform’s support of
 the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC).

 Compliant research data management is achieved through institutional subscriptions to Figshare
 and Dropbox. The Research Data Management Service, Dropbox for Business, provides unlimited
 storage for research data, and enables data sharing with research students, staff and partners in
 other institutions. Access to raw data supports reproducibility. Servers and data storage are
 located in the EU and accounts are managed by Royal Holloway IT Services.

 Our research is governed by the College’s ethical, legal and professional frameworks and
 standards which act as key indicators of its statutory wellbeing and future health. The College
 policy that we follow is in turn based on the UK Universities Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity. This policy applies to both unfunded and funded research and to all employed staff,
 students or other individuals acting on behalf of the College. Heads of Department and the
 Research & Innovation Department (R&I) support researchers via an ethics review process for
 proposals, in order to identify potential ethical issues and report them to the College Research
 Ethics Committee. A Research Ethics & Integrity Manager in the R&I Department is responsible
 for supporting the Research Ethics Committee and an online ethics assessment system.
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 We promote a vibrant research culture and exercise a recruitment and retention policy to attract
 internationally-leading researchers to support our areas of strength, in Particle Physics and
 Quantum Materials & Technologies (QMT), creating a sustainable critical mass. This is achieved
 by appointing and promoting rising talent; and facilitating exchanges with business, industry and
 public or third-sector bodies through secondments. Appointments made before 2014 have been
 instrumental in driving our research trajectory in the REF2021 period, including Astafiev (from
 NEC-Japan), Coleman (Rutgers University), Eschrig (Karlsruhe University), Monroe (MIT).
 The success of our staffing strategy is evidenced via the quality of the new appointments during
 the REF2021 period: diversifying into Neutrino Physics with Kaboth (RAL secondment);
 strengthening QMT Theory with Refson (joint ISIS appointment); and, expanding the scope of
 QMT research with Rojas (Royal Society University Research Fellow, proleptic appointment).
 All submitted category A staff have a permanent appointment, this includes: 5 Lecturers, 3 Senior
 Lecturers, 2 Readers and 9.1 Professors. Research independence was determined following the
 institutional code of practice. Academics are supported in their research by 8 Senior Research
 Officers (in nanofabrication, low temperatures, materials discovery and particle physics). Non-



                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 independent research staff number steadily at a ratio of ~1 per academic FTE, with a further 6
 FTE research technicians in mechanical and electrical workshops.
 Following our history as one of the first universities for women in the UK, equal opportunity is a
 core principle in Physics. Our UoA FTE now are 16% women, and our undergraduate cohort is
 33% women (national figures are 12% and 24% respectively). We aim to reach gender equality in
 STEM. This principle is embedded across our activities, frames our staffing strategy, and informs
 the annual Department Strategic Plan.
 Demographic changes inform succession planning, which is implemented via the input of research
 sub-groups into the annual Department Strategic Plan..Since 2014 there have been 6 promotions
 to Reader and Senior Lecturer, and 4 to Professorships; 1 retirement; and 2 departures (Eschrig
 to Universität Greifswald; Nikkel to Yale University).
 2.2 Staff development
 RHUL is committed to the career development of staff at all levels. In 2019 we received the HR
 Excellence in Research award, demonstrating our commitment to the principles of the UK
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. All staff have an annual
 Performance Development Review (PDR), in the context of a quantitative workload model
 (explicitly recognising impact activities), reviewed by the HoD. Senior staff support non-
 independent research staff and ECRs, including mentoring of grant and Fellowship applications,
 and the development of impact-related research.
 •   Supporting Early Career Researchers: Newly appointed academic staff have a reduced
     teaching load (50-75%) during a three-year probation period. Their development is supported
     through mentoring by senior faculty, and the College’s “Advance” training programme. This
     approach enabled the award of Rojas’ Royal Society URF, while a PDRA at RHUL. Structures
     supporting this are the Department Research Staff Forum (established in 2010), which feeds
     into a school-wide ECR Forum, with two seats on the School Research Committee. This
     supports the ECR community, promoting peer-to-peer interactions, interdisciplinary research,
     and drives effective delivery of the Concordat. During REF2021, our non-independent
     researchers have gone on to Rutherford Fellowships (Oxford University), Fellini Fellowships
     (Naples University), Marie Curie Fellowships, Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships and
     faculty positions (Harvard University, Laurentian University), and laboratory staff scientist
     positions (JINR, NPL, SNOLAB, TRIUMF).
 •   Promotions: Academic staff may apply for promotion annually; criteria are evaluated in
     teaching, research, external engagement/impact and leadership, with recognition of impact at
     the same level as research activities. The Department Promotions Panel, composed of the
     Professoriate, reviews the CV of each staff member annually, to advise colleagues on
     progression towards their next promotion. This is part of our Athena Swan commitment to
     ensure that promotion application rates are consistent across genders. The HoD provides
     structured feedback to all staff annually from the Promotions Panel and the University
     Academic Staffing and Titles Committee.
 •   Sabbaticals: Operating the institutional sabbatical policy, this unit was granted 16 terms of
     sabbatical during REF2021, strategically supporting the development of new research
     directions (e.g. Goff’s leadership of successful EPSRC proposal with Oxford and Cambridge
     to study Quantum Spin Liquids), delivery of large externally-funded projects (e.g. Saunders,
     Horizon 2020 European Microkelvin Platform), and development of new numerical tools
     (Kauer, Beyond the Standard Model Extension of “OpenLoops”).

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Secondments: Research has been enhanced by an active secondment and joint appointment
     strategy with academia and industry (e.g. NPL, ISIS, RAL, JEOL). Approximately 25% of the
     academic staff are joint appointments or secondments.
 •   Technical Staff: RHUL became a signatory of the Technician Commitment in 2018, submitting
     an action plan to address key challenges facing technical staff. The commitment aims to raise
     the profile of technical staff, providing career development opportunities, recognition for their
     contributions to research, and promoting technical roles as an important and rewarding career
     path. The UoA’s role is led by the Departmental Technical Operations manager, with wider
     coordination at the School Research Committee.
 2.3 Research students

 The main PhD funding sources are research grants and “matched-funding” scholarships. In
 addition to directly grant-funded scholarships, between 2014 and 2020, RHUL supported grant
 applications to Research Councils by funding accompanying PhD studentships. The "matched-
 funding" scholarships cement collaborations, promoting research and impact, with strategic
 external research partners (NPL, CERN, ISIS, Diamond, Johnson Matthey, Oxford Instruments,
 TRIUMF).
 •   Recruiting of PGRs is done through a yearly Physics Postgraduate Open Day, advertising on
     our Department web page, and via the findAPhD website. Bi-termly Undergraduate Women in
     Physics meetings promote postgraduate study as a career path to our women undergraduates
     and provide mentoring on applications.
 •   Supervision: Each PGR has a research supervisor, advisor and a moderator. This team
     conducts the Annual Review, based around a viva, student and supervisor reports, and training
     log. The decision to upgrade MPhil students to a PhD registration is taken after the 1st or 2nd
     year viva. The Department’s Postgraduate Forum termly meeting, established in 2010, is run
     entirely by PGRs, and reports to the Department Board with a representative on School
     Research Committee; this facilitates communication and PGR input to decision-making. The
     Department runs a final year completion meeting to ensure thesis submission within 4 years.
 •   Training is tailored to the PhD project. All students access GRADnet courses, a collaborative
     graduate school established by SEPNet in 2015. This provides ~10 courses annually, including
     residential workshops, on advanced physics, and relevant professional skills training, including
     commercialisation of research, careers and networking events, team and leadership skills, and
     student-led conferences. Particle Physics PhD students take lecture programmes delivered
     jointly within the University of London, JAI, or the NExT Institute, and attend two-week UK-
     wide schools. QMT PhD students attend the ISIS Neutron Training Course, the Oxford School
     on Neutron Scattering, the CASTEP Workshop, the International European Cryoschool. All
     PGRs have the opportunity to present results at an international conference, supported by the
     training allocation of their scholarship. Students can develop their teaching skills by taking the
     RHUL Skills of Teaching to Inspire Learning programme, and are encouraged to participate in
     laboratory, problem class teaching and coursework marking.


 2.4 Equality and Diversity

 We aim to promote participation in research by demographics that represent the society we live
 in. A flagship commitment of the UoA is to reach gender equality. Following our early award of
 IOP Project Juno Champion in 2011 and Athena Swan Silver in 2012, our work on this was
 recognized during the REF2021 period with renewal of our Champion Award (2014, 2017) and
 Athena Swan Silver Award (2015, 2018). These awards certify our commitment to embed E&D

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 across all Departmental functions, delivering transparency of process and reporting of data to
 inform and underpin progress towards our goals, as well as policies for flexible/remote working,
 timings of seminars, training sessions and meetings, and maternity/paternity leave.
 The strategy to reach equality in research requires development of the entire career pipeline. Our
 goals are: to reach sustained 40% female undergraduate intake over the next 5 years; to increase
 applications by women for research and academic positions from 20% to 30%; to increase the
 fraction of shortlisted women from 10% to 20%; and, to increase the fraction of women Professors
 from 16% to 20%. Our undergraduate (PGR) cohort is currently 25% (22%) BAME; national figures
 are 17% (14%). Our aspiration is to increase this in the next REF period to 35% (30%). We aim to
 reach these goals through:
 •   Proactive Recruiting: We actively encourage applications from under-represented parts of the
     community, at all levels. Examples of new initiatives in 2014-20 include: two annual residential
     courses with the Smallpeice Trust (for Year 10 and 12 women, 204 alumnae so far); and
     outreach to regional “feeder” schools, e.g. the South Bank Engineering UTC in Brixton, a
     STEM-focussed College with mostly BAME pupils. Our work to improve equality and diversity
     in staffing includes: proactively reaching out to candidates to encourage a diverse application
     pool; implementing guidance on writing inclusive job descriptions and person specifications;
     offering to pay for childcare for all interview applicants and including this information in our job
     advertisements; no HoD approval for all-male shortlists for academic positions; and, ensuring
     that all staff involved in the shortlisting process undergo Recruitment and Selection and
     Unconscious Bias training.
 •   Enabling equal opportunities for promotion and enhancement: All promotions and interview
     panels have at least one woman, we display diversity in our promotional material, and we invite
     gender-balanced seminar, colloquia, Women in Physics group and Employability speakers.
     The department routinely awards funds for PGR students to attend conferences or access
     training. We promote the equality agenda and share good practice both within and outside
     RHUL. Berry is a leader in this, serving as a member of the IOP Project Juno assessment
     panel (2011-17).
 •   Supporting career pathways: Most non-independent researchers join on fixed term contracts.
     Career progression towards fellowships and permanent positions is supported through
     mentoring, the Annual Performance Review process, and the Research Staff Forum which
     organizes events focussed on career progression. Research and Innovation Department offer
     training on fellowship application and grant writing for non-independent researchers.
 •   Flexible working: As part of our Athena Swan commitment, where possible, essential
     Department meetings are confined within 10:00-16:00h. During the REF period five members
     of staff had requests for flexible working conditions approved by the HoD to facilitate caring
     responsibilities, in line with the institutional policy. The policy allows for a change in working
     hours, the required times to work, or working from home. During COVID-19, following a shift
     to working from home for many staff and PGR students, equipment (laptops, graphics tablets,
     webcams, and mobile phones) and internet access were made available to enable productive
     remote research.
 •   Promoting Diversity: to raise awareness of inequality for all protected characteristics, in 2016
     we evolved the Juno Committee into the “Equality and Diversity” Committee. We were one of
     the first eight Universities to achieve a Race Equality Charter Award, in 2015. Example
     activities include encouraging, and financially supporting, our BAME researchers to attend the
     BME Early Career conference, and our annual Physics and Diversity seminar. In 2016 we

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     established a departmental LGBT+ Group with termly events. Example activities include
     advertising staff networks (LGBT+, Cultural Diversity, Disability and the Women’s network) and
     engaging with institutional activity to support transgender students and staff, e.g. the monthly
     school E&D reading group. We commit to tackling discrimination: in 2018 we created the
     position of Department Dignity and Harassment Officer to act as an ombudsperson to facilitate
     communication and reporting of issues; we mandate an “Introduction to EDI awareness” e-
     module in Welcome Week for students; and we embed staff completion of equality training into
     the annual Performance Development Review.
 •   Encouraging Ambition: We have Women in Physics (WiP) Groups for undergraduates, PGRs
     and all women staff, with invited speaker events twice a term; and monthly academic WiP
     lunch meetings with PGRs. These meetings support achieving career aspirations, through two-
     way mentoring, network-growth and promoting visibility of under-represented role models. We
     encourage, and financially support, women undergraduates to attend the annual Conference
     for Undergraduate Women in Physics, typically 2-5 per year. We offer formal mentoring and
     financially support training for women members of staff towards career progression, both
     academic and administrative. All women staff are eligible to participate in Springboard, which
     is an award-winning personal and work development programme. During REF2021, 3
     members of our administrative staff were supported to undertake Springboard, and 1 member
     of professional staff and 1 academic were supported on the Aurora Leadership Program.
 •   Equality and Diversity in the REF submission: Research outputs were selected based on the
     RHUL REF2021 Code of Practice and the Equality Impact Assessment. All independent
     researchers nominated outputs, which were assessed by at least two UoA members, and by
     a reviewer from another institution, subject to approval by the College REF Steering Group.
     The highest rated item from each member was selected for submission. The remaining outputs
     were chosen by the UoA REF Lead, HoD, Director of Impact and Director of Research,
     selecting the highest rated outputs from all staff, discussed with and approved by each staff
     member. Women authored 20% of the UoA outputs, whilst making up 16% of the UoA FTE.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 The total UoA research grant spend for 2014-20 was £22.3M, compared with £13.6M in the
 previous REF period. Funding awarded to the UoA during REF2021 totals £25.2M, from:
 •   UKRI: STFC (£9.2M), EPSRC (£9.6M), GCRF/ISCF (£0.55M), and National Laboratories
     (NPL, Diamond) (£0.27M);
 •   Non-UKRI: EU (£2.5M), CERN (£1.1M), other UK bodies (Royal Society, Leverhulme, industry:
     £1.4M);
 and additional income enabling development of facilities, close collaboration with National
 Laboratories, and beam tests is from:
 •   Institutional Investment: in equipment and infrastructure totals £3.2M;
 •   Secondments: of staff to NPL, ISIS and RAL totals £866k; and,
 •   In-Kind Income: awarded totals £5.9M, e.g. for use of facilities at ISIS, Diamond, ILL, FRMII,
     and ESRF. This excludes the CERN subscription and UKRI experiment project funding on e.g.
     ATLAS and T2K.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Broadly, STFC, EU and CERN income have enabled significant growth into the field of Neutrino
 Physics, and continued success in the LHC physics programme and the high luminosity LHC
 accelerator upgrade. This underpins our collaboration on pioneering science results in Particle
 Physics in REF2021: the discovery of the Higgs boson, and the observation of non-zero CP
 violation in the neutrino sector.
 EPSRC, EU and Institutional investment income have enabled significant growth into Nanophysics
 & Nanotechology, continued success of the ultra-low temperature physics programme, and major
 new facility development of SuperFab. QMT groups have leveraged our expertise to participate
 in EPSRC programme grants, including EP/K004077/1 (PI M. Pepper UCL, £6.5m), which led to
 our breakthrough result of cooling a two-dimensional electron gas to below 1 mK, underpinning
 our world-leading capability in cooling a variety of quantum materials and devices into this regime;
 and, EP/N017242/1 (PI J Robinson, Cambridge, £2.7m), establishing Eschrig’s international
 leadership in the theory of superconducting spintronics.
 During REF2021 a further £2.7M was awarded (from UKRI and EU funds) in collaboration with
 academics in the Engineering UoA, enabling the strong growth in our interdisciplinary activities.
 For the future, Quantum Technologies for Fundamental Physics awards announced after
 REF2021 will enable our interdisciplinary work on applying quantum sensing to fundamental
 particle physics. We lead the £3.4M QUEST-DMC consortium (PI Casey, RHUL), and collaborate
 on the QSHS axion search development (PI Daw Sheffield, £4.8M) and QsimFP quantum
 simulators project (PI Weinfurtner Nottingham, £4.3M).
 All staff are supported equally in bidding for grants, fellowships and sabbaticals. Annual internal
 equipment bids are assessed openly and transparently. All facilities are open access within the
 College, subject only to the conditions of any grant(s) used to purchase the equipment.


 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Our strategy has been to engage with international networks; to invest in infrastructure delivering
 leading capabilities for research on Quantum Materials & Technology; to maintain strong
 computing capability across Particle Physics; and to develop distinctive instrumentation for
 international Particle Physics projects. Our infrastructure and facilities provide access to national
 and international research communities, fostering collaboration, building new networks for ECRs,
 and driving diversification of research.
 •   Nanofabrication: To establish the UK as a key player in the development of a quantum
     computer, RHUL invested £3M in creating a new cleanroom facility SuperFab, hosting the UK
     Centre for Superconducting and Hybrid Quantum Systems, in association with NPL and JEOL.
     Opened in 2018, it is a user facility serving academia and industry; supporting fundamental
     research into superconducting quantum devices and technology. UKRI investment has
     established SuperFab as a key part of the supply chain in the global race for a quantum
     computer based on superconducting qubits, recognised by the National Quantum Computing
     Centre as a leading technology and investment priority.
        o   £5.8M has been awarded from EPSRC and Research England to equip SuperFab,
            including a world-leading electron beam lithography system and a helium ion
            microscope/neon focussed ion beam tool.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        o   The impact of research within SuperFab is accelerated through membership of an
            industry-led consortium, funded through a £7M Innovate UK grant (lead: Oxford
            Quantum Circuits).
 •   London Low Temperature Laboratory (LLTL): Research at the low temperature frontier, and
     into low temperature technology, underpins the second quantum revolution and is of key
     strategic importance to advance quantum materials and technology. Leading work on the study
     of helium as a quantum material, incorporating successful international partnerships, has
     benefitted from strong EPSRC support. The LLTL is a part of the European Microkelvin
     Platform. Two decades of investment have resulted in a distinctive platform that includes four
     nuclear adiabatic demagnetization cryostats, supported by a helium liquefier and closed cycle
     recovery system, and an innovative, cryogen-free system developed with Oxford Instruments.
     This platform, coupled to unique measurement capabilities, attracts external users and
     collaborators, further driving the enhancement of technical capabilities.
        o   The EMP was awarded €9M in 2019, as a Horizon 2020 European Advanced
            Infrastructure.
        o   Impact is ensured through innovation of new technologies, new industrial users and
            collaboration with National Measurement Institutes exemplified through the research
            supporting the new definition of the Kelvin.
 •   The Materials Discovery Laboratory (MDL): Single crystals represent perfection in the solid
     state and are the essential prerequisite for many experiments at central facilities. The MDL has
     fuelled a vibrant research programme on the study of fundamental and functional quantum
     materials at neutron and synchrotron facilities. The joint initiative in this area with ISIS, which
     co-funds a permanent SRO, extends the capabilities in materials synthesis, and provides a
     new source of samples for the wider neutron community. Work on battery materials and
     material modelling with industrial partners drives impact in this area.
 •   High-throughput Computing Clusters: All data from the ATLAS experiment flows through
     the TDAQ electronics co-designed by RHUL, underpinned by the CPP TDAQ laboratory.
     Physics analysis of ATLAS’s data sets is delivered by a high-throughput computing cluster with
     6000 cores and 2.4 PB of storage, located in a purpose-built data-centre. This is part of the
     UK GridPP project, and is integrated into the worldwide LHC Grid.
        o   Supported by 3 research staff, expanded since 2013 with support from GridPP (£535k)
            and institutional investment (£280k); it is systematically in the top 3 UK GridPP sites for
            ATLAS data processing.
        o   Underpins research and impact across the CPP: beyond ATLAS, it is used to simulate
            the LZ and DarkSide experiments; particle beam losses in the LHC; and in 2020, 10%
            of the available resource was donated to support research on the pandemic and
            COVID-19 protein folding.
 •   Mechanical and Electrical Workshop: Research across all themes is supported by skilled
     precision engineers and technicians in the mechanical and electrical workshops. Interactions
     with the workshop team promotes early career involvement in R&D. Rapid prototyping and
     design support is essential for the development of the research skills base. A programme of
     upgrades with STFC and RHUL funding has enhanced the capability with new CNC machines.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society



                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1 Supporting Collaborations
 Collaborations with research networks and industry are central to our research and impact
 strategy. This creates a stimulating environment for PGRs and ECRs to develop their own
 research within the core areas and diversify into interdisciplinary research with partners attracted
 by our expertise. Support for these partnerships is provided through:

 •   The Research & Innovation Department (R&I) Knowledge Exchange Team support research
     partnerships, connect academics with industrial partners, and provide user access to the
     SuperFab and LLTL infrastructures. R&I provide legal services, draw up agreements with
     network partners, external agencies, commercialisation activities, spin-out companies,
     patents, licenses, consultancy and IP rights. This resulted in 167 formal legal documents in
     2014-20 for the UoA, of which 48 directly involved industry, including issuing 3 licenses
     associated with Impact cases and 6 patent applications. Examples of user engagement
     include: the 2018 SuperFab open day attracting 106 visitors from 33 companies; R&I
     participates in the annual Quantum Showcase event; R&I supports Accelerator Science and
     Dark Matter & Neutrino group grants where a key deliverable is transfer of the research to non-
     academic beneficiaries, from the UKRI Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund and the GCRF
     Translation Award schemes, respectively; and R&I supported ECR Lyapin to obtain an STFC
     Innovation Partnership Scheme grant, in collaboration with Oxford FMB, a local SME, to
     develop a commercial beam device.
 •   Impact PhD Studentships: R&I provide the collaboration agreements for PGR students co-
     funded by RHUL and partner organisations. These studentships support delivering partnership
     objectives via shared student supervision and regular project meetings. Impact PhD project
     examples include partnerships with Oxford Instruments Nanoscience (OIN), Johnson Matthey
     Technology Centre, and TRIUMF Laboratory (Canada). The NPL/RHUL partnership funds
     Impact PhD studentships, with an average total cohort of 9 students, supporting quantum
     science and technology. These arrangements have helped feed a “people pipeline”: 7 former
     staff to Oxford Instruments Nanotechnology, 2 to NPL, and 3 to Oxford Quantum Circuits,
     including the CEO. In Accelerator Science, post-graduate training initiatives funded via the EU
     have been awarded to Karataev (as co-I) including the Diagnostics Training Network
     (DITANET) and Optimisation of Particle Accelerators (OPAC). These have grown collaboration
     with industry, most recently via an STFC Industrial Innovation Placement with UK Company
     Covesion, Ltd. The INSIGHTs European Training Network, led by Cowan, includes placements
     in industry for early-stage researchers.
 •   Joint appointments/secondments with national laboratories, comprising ~25% of the academic
     staff of the UoA: academics Astafiev, Kaboth, Eschrig, Refson, Sordi, Tzalenchuk, Voneshen
     and SROs Uthayakumar and Shaikhaidarov. Collaboration with NPL supports
     superconducting quantum technology including metrological applications. Collaboration with
     the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory enabled our expansion into Neutrino Physics and hadron
     accelerators. Collaboration with Diamond developed our impact in quantum materials: Eschrig
     provided theoretical support for the ARPES beamline at Diamond, resulting in understanding
     of pairing in iron-selenide superconductors. Refson was appointed to lead the theoretical
     modelling effort at ISIS using ab-initio simulations, in support of interdisciplinary materials
     science.

 4.2 Research Networks & Partnerships
 In Particle Physics, we collaborate on large international experiments (ATLAS, DarkSide, DEAP,
 DUNE, LZ and T2K) and are recognized by our peers with scientific leadership roles. In Quantum
 Materials and Technology, our research features collaborative grants, project partnerships on


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EPSRC grants, funded sabbatical visitors, and collaboration in EPSRC Programme Grants. We
 have developed new pathways for contributions to the research base, connecting to commercial
 users and wider beneficiaries in the economy and society through networks that we lead or are
 founding members of:
 • European Microkelvin Platform (EMP), a European Advanced Infrastructure. This has driven
    new collaborations pushing the frontier of quantum materials and technology with: European
    High Field Laboratory; Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids; Chalmers
    University; with approved future users from Frankfurt, Cornell and Oxford Instruments.
 • UK Centre for Superconducting and Hybrid Quantum Systems involves collaboration with
    NPL, JEOL and Lancaster. Access to this facility is free to UK academic users, driving
    collaboration on quantum technologies across academia and industrial engagement,
    including: Oxford Quantum Circuits, SeeQC, JEOL, Chase Research Cryogenics, Kelvin
    Nanotechnology, Oxford Instruments Nanoscience, ColdEdge Technology, Qinetiq Ltd., and
    Johnson Matthey.
 • Hubbard Theory Consortium: RHUL leads this network with UCL, Kent, Imperial, ISIS and
    Diamond to understand emergent phenomena in quantum materials, fostering collaboration
    between theorists and experimentalists. It is a member node of the Institute for Complex
    Adaptive Matter. HTC’s annual summer programme “Condensed Matter Physics in the City”
    has attracted “traffic” of 177 leading international scientists, some of whom have helped
    capture research grants.
 • INSIGHTS: The International Training Network of Statistics for High Energy Physics and
    Society is an interdisciplinary Innovative Training Network led by RHUL. Applications include
    the treatment of systematic uncertainties in statistical risk modelling and machine learning for
    financial applications, statistical methods for eruption prediction models, computer vision and
    pattern recognition, the prediction of extreme climate events, and profiling large databases of
    bank transactions to identify frauds through graph theory algorithms and Bayesian techniques.
    Commercial beneficiaries include CICERO (Climate Science), INGV (Volcanology), KPMG
    and FISCAL (Finance).
 • TRACE: RHUL leads this interdisciplinary network with Boulby Underground Laboratory,
    Autonomous University of Mexico, UNESCO Comarca Minera Geoparque, Bariloche Centro
    Atomico, University of Buenos Aires to develop an open-source, low-cost biosensor detector
    to measure lead contamination in water and food.
 • John Adams Institute for Accelerator Science, JAI: RHUL is a founding member of the JAI
    together with Oxford and Imperial. Collaborating on accelerator science to simulate beam
    losses in accelerators has led directly to interdisciplinary impact in medical accelerator design.
    Commercial beneficiaries include Ion Beam Applications (IBA), FMB Oxford and iTech.
 • SEPNet: This consortium plays an important role in the training of PG students, through
    GRADnet; engagement with local industry through SEPnet employability officer/team; and
    public engagement through SEPnet outreach officer/team. SEPnet supports our impact
    culture, developing connections with industry at the early career stages, via circa 20
    undergraduate summer placements per-year in industry.


 4.3 Academic Leadership
 The contributions of staff to the research base have been recognized during REF2021 by
 internationally esteemed prizes; positions of scientific leadership; research network leadership;
 membership of strategic advisory bodies; journal editorship; authorship of invited reviews; and
 high-profile international conference talks.
 Prizes:


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •  Saunders was awarded the Institute of Physics 2015 Nevill Mott Medal and Prize for ground-
    breaking studies at the frontiers of ultra-low temperature physics.
 • Eschrig was awarded the Lars Onsager Professorship by Norwegian University of Science and
    Technology in 2015.
 • Monroe, Kaboth and Walding were 2016 Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics
    laureates, for the SNO and T2K experiment contributions to understanding neutrino oscillation.
 • Kaboth was recognized with the 2018 Institute of Physics HEPP Group Prize, awarded to an
    early career researcher for outstanding contributions to particle physics research.
 Scientific Leadership:
 • Higgs physics: Cowan served as ATLAS Statistical Forum convener, which played a key role
    in the discovery and identification of the Higgs boson.
 • ATLAS experiment: Teixeira-Dias was elected Deputy PI or ATLAS-UK (2019-22) and will
    serve as PI (2022-25), leading the 15 ATLAS-UK Institutes.
 • Neutrino physics: Kaboth serves as T2K Oscillation analysis convener and is the DUNE DAQ
    Near Detector Technical Lead. Monroe led the CERN P-355 test beam experiment.
 • Dark Matter: Monroe is PI of the DarkSide-UK STFC project (13 Institutes) and serves on the
    DarkSide-20k international project Executive Board. Kaboth serves/served as convener of LZ
    WIMP Search, LZ Calibrations, and LZ-UK Physics working groups.
 • Tzalenchuk is Head of Science, Quantum Technologies at NPL.
 • Coleman is co-Director of the International Institute of Complex Adaptive Matter, a global
    multidisciplinary organisation with 61 branches worldwide.
 Journal Editorship: in addition to service on editorial boards,
 • Eur.Phys.J.C Editor-in-Chief, Astroparticle Physics Section (Monroe)
 • American Mineralogist (Associate Editor) (Refson)
 Review Article Authorship: examples include:
 • Realizing quantum materials with Helium-3, Topological Phase Transitions and New
    Developments (2019);
 • Dark matter direct and directional detection, Phys. Rept. 662, 667 (2016);
 • Topological KONDO Insulators, Annual Review of Condensed Matter (2016);
 • Spin-polarized supercurrents for spintronics, Rep. Prog. Phys. (2015);
 • Physics Briefing Book Dark Sectors Chapter, European Strategy for Particle Physics Update
    2019;
 • The Statistical Data Analysis methods Section of the Particle Data Group review (2018) [over
    7000 citations].
 Conferences and International Schools:
 • High-Profile Plenary Talks and Conference Organization: UoA staff have given invited talks at
    and served on International Scientific Committees for leading international conferences;
 • Examples of Named Lectures: 2016 Lars Onsager Lecture, Norwegian University of
    Technology; 2015 University of Washington, Boris A. Jacobsen Memorial Lecture;
 • International Schools: staff lecture at national and international schools; Cowan is a renowned
    lecturer in statistical data analysis, lecturing widely beyond RHUL. We hosted the CERN
    Accelerator School (2017), and the International School of Trigger and Data Acquisition (2019).
 Academic Visitors and Exchanges:
 • Formal academic visitors to our UoA (working on campus with us for >3 months) from Cornell
    University, Imperial College London (4), MIT, Northwestern University, University of California,
    University of Montana, and University of Houston.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Academic Visitor appointments for UoA staff at University of Kyoto;; Norwegian University of
     Technology; Institut Quantique of Université de Scherbrooke; Skolkovo Institute of Science
     and Technology, Moscow.


 4.4 Public Engagement
 We have a broad programme of public engagement to promote science, supported by the SEPNet
 Departmental Outreach Officer. We hold circa 10 public evening lectures per year highlighting our
 research, attracting audiences of up to 400 each, and we engage with the wider public during the
 Science Open Day (6000 visitors in 2019). We were recognized with the SEPNet Group Outreach
 prize in 2018. The Department uses online and social media to develop research visibility, e.g.
 staff featured in Seeker’s 2019 “How Close Are We” episode on dark matter, which has >900k
 views; and over 40 of our research outputs in 2014-20 have Altimetric scores placing them in the
 top 5% for attention, as a measure of impact outside of the traditional scientific citation indices.
 4.5 Contribution to sustainability of discipline
 We contribute to sustainability of the discipline through our focus on widening participation and
 via professional service, e.g.
 • National: staff serve/served on the IOP Juno Assessment Committee, the STFC’s Projects
     Peer Review Panel, Particle Physics Grants Panel for Experiment (Chair, Members) and
     Theory, Particle Physics Advisory Panel, Education and Training Committee, Accelerator
     Evaluation Panel, Large Facilities Sub-group (Chair); LHCb Oversight Committee; CMS
     Upgrade Oversight Committee; and Science Board.
 • International: staff serve/served on the CERN SPS and PS Experiments Committee, the
     Fermilab Long Baseline Neutrino Committee, the Astroparticle Physics European Coordination
     (APPEC) (deputy-Chair), the International Union of Pure and Applied Physics as Chair of
     Commission C5 and Vice-Chair of Executive Council, the Advisory Board of the
     Superconducting Quantum Materials and Systems Center, led by Fermilab and funded by US
     DoE, the 2019 European Strategy for Particle Physics Update, the 2021 ECFA Particle
     Detectors Roadmap (Convener), the 2020 US DOE Basic Research Needs Study (Convener),
     the SNOLAB Strategic Plan Steering Group (2017-22), and the UK-ESS Project board.
 Responsiveness to national and international initiatives is evidenced by: involvement in diverse
 international programmes in Particle Physics; success in QTFP initiatives; our role in the national
 Quantum Technology Programme; joint appointments with national laboratories; portfolio of
 collaborative grants, networks and partnerships supporting research and impact; feeding the
 people pipeline to industry; and investment in infrastructure aligned with the national Quantum
 Technology Programme and the European Quantum Flagship Programme.
 4.6 Wider Contributions to Society
 Beyond the impact detailed in the case studies, on exploiting quantum technologies for healthcare
 and supporting R&D in materials development through improving the validity of modelling software,
 the culture of impact has fostered collaborations with industry. Companies directly involved in
 commercialisation of our technologies and software include Oxford Instruments Nanoscience, a
 leading manufacturer of scientific cryogenic instrumentation; IBA, a leading proton therapy
 instrument developer; and Johnson Matthey, a global science and chemicals company, and a
 leader in sustainable technologies. Beyond industry, our wider contributions are in the areas of
 • Supporting Metrology: The International Systems of Units is the basis of international trade
     and supports the global measurement quality infrastructure through national metrology
     institutes. Instrumentation development by the LLTL, led by Saunders, and the Nanophysics


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     group, led by Astafiev, were critical in the 2019 redefinition of the Kelvin and are being exploited
     for developing Current Standards.
 •   Tackling Global Challenges: Monroe is active in low-background radiation detector
     development and is applying these techniques to environmental monitoring and public health,
     developing a hand-held technology for distributed measurement of lead pollution. .
 •   Advanced statistical methods developed by Cowan for Particle Physics applications and
     machine learning approaches have been exported via the interdisciplinary training network,
     INSIGHTS, to impact on machine learning for healthcare and finance, and predictions of
     extreme climatic conditions.




                                                                                                Page 17
