Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  Institution: University of Cambridge

  Unit of Assessment: 18 – LAW


  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


  UOA context and research structure

  Introduction

  The Unit of Assessment is composed of two connected institutions, the Faculty of Law (‘the
  Faculty’) and the Institute of Criminology (‘the Institute’). They have distinct management
  structures but share several administrative and governance procedures. These include a joint
  Degree Committee which is responsible, among other things, for the administration of postgraduate
  degree programmes and admissions, and a joint Research Committee, which oversees research
  grant applications, expenditure and reporting.

  The Faculty has historically been strong in international law, doctrinal public and private law, and
  legal history, and is currently recognised globally as producing innovative and influential research in
  these fields and in numerous others including company and commercial law, intellectual property
  law, EU law, family law, labour law, legal theory, tax law, and empirical legal studies. The Institute
  has for the last 60 years been a leading centre of excellence for research in the fields of criminology
  and criminal justice, and also enjoys a worldwide reputation for the quality and influence of its
  research. Its current research embraces work across the disciplines of sociology, law, and
  psychology, and covers a wide range of topics including sentencing policy and practice, human
  trafficking and smuggling, the impact of imprisonment on families, the reintegration of ex-prisoners,
  youth justice systems, suicide in prisons and under supervision, pathways out of crime (including
  desistance), the effects of social and urban change on crime, the causes of and pathways to a
  reduction in violence, policing, and learning and teaching with offenders.

  Research aims and objectives

  The Faculty aims:

  (i) To produce ambitious cutting-edge work in a wide range of fields and disciplines, embracing a
  diversity of research traditions, including doctrinal, theoretical, historical, comparative, empirical,
  socio-legal and social science approaches

  This is reflected in the growing number of large-scale, externally funded interdisciplinary projects
  conducted by Faculty members (see below, section 3) as well as by the breadth of the research
  outputs (see outputs submission).

  (ii) To maintain and enhance Law’s traditional strength in doctrinal scholarship relating to English
  law and the wider common law.

  This is illustrated by recent appointments, with Feldman and Forsyth in public law being replaced
  following their retirements by Young, Daly and Shona Stark, and Spencer in criminal law and
  procedure being replaced by Rogers. The Faculty has used funds given by the Cambridge Law
  Journal to fund PhD scholarships in core areas of doctrinal legal scholarship, in particular property

                                                                                                        1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  law, in order to counter a tendency for fewer students to obtain funding for PhDs in doctrinal legal
  research.

  (iii) To maintain and enhance its strength in international law, EU law, comparative law, legal history
  and legal theory

  This is reflected in several new appointments to posts falling vacant through retirement (Vinx
  replacing Simmonds in legal theory; Sanger replacing Gray and Sivakumaran replacing Waibel
  in international law).

  (iv) To use its research centres as hubs for raising external funding of the kind needed to support
  large-scale, long-term interdisciplinary research.

  This is reflected in major grants awarded in the review period to teams based in international law
  (the Lauterpacht Centre for International Law, LCIL), law and medicine (the Cambridge Centre for
  Law, Medicine and the Life Sciences, LML), and law and economics (the Centre for Business
  Research), CBR).

  (v) To identify and foster innovative research in developing areas of practice and scholarship

  Illustrations of this are the new lines of research in medical and biomedical law and ethics, where
  LML is exploring legal aspects of rapidly developing fields including gene patenting, and in
  comparative family law, where the Centre for Family Law (CFL) has conducted innovative research
  on the legal status of transgender persons, on the legal status of intersex persons, and on
  surrogacy. In addition the Faculty is active in the emerging area of research in law and AI, thanks in
  particular to the appointment to a Chair of Gullifer, an authority on legal aspects of digital assets,
  and the award to Markou of a three-year postdoctoral Leverhulme Research Fellowship.

  (vi) To complement high quality legal research with interdisciplinary scholarship.

  In the Faculty this is illustrated in the work of LML (law and medicine), CFL (sociology of law), the
  Centre for European Legal Studies (CELS, law and European studies), the Centre for Public Law
  (CPL, public law and political science), and the CBR (law, economics and management).

  The Institute seeks to be a leader in core areas of criminological and criminal justice research. It
  has been successful in gaining regular funding which has enabled it to run a continuous stream of
  major research projects. The nature of its research is necessarily interdisciplinary and its strategy is
  threefold:

  (i) To make use of Cambridge’s strengths in social sciences to use interdisciplinary approaches to
  the study of criminal justice and penology.

  This is illustrated by the Institute’s leadership role within the ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership in
  relation to social science research and through the work of the Centre for Criminal Justice, Gender
  and Community and the Socio-Legal group. The Institute also hosts and leads the University’s
  multi-disciplinary Centre for the Study of Global Human Movement, bringing together research
  interests in refugees, human trafficking and migration, for instance.

  (ii) To develop interdisciplinary collaborations with other centres of excellence within Cambridge
  and internationally

  This is exemplified by the Jerry Lee Centre which has strong collaborative research links with Penn
  State and Melbourne universities. There is also collaborative research with colleagues in Ghana
  and Scandinavia in particular.

  (iii) To maintain and enhance its traditional strength at the interface of legal scholarship and
  teaching
                                                                                                       2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  The Institute’s taught programmes at Masters level for senior police and prison and probation
  officers enable direct links between teaching and research, and students draw on their operational
  experiences to interrogate the research which Criminology is conducting. The recent addition of an
  Apprenticeship strand to the MSt in Applied Criminology and Police Management focuses on the
  development of leadership skills alongside intellectual development and the development of
  research skills. There is future prospect of a Diploma Course with a similar quest. The collateral
  benefits of these taught programmes include enhancing the impact of the Institute’s research with
  key user communities.

  Research strategy

  The Unit’s research strategy is composed of the following elements:

  (i) Providing departmental-level support and advice for the planning, organisation and funding of
  research

  Significant resources and management time are devoted to planning, organising and supporting
  research. The Faculty‘s Director of Research (currently Deakin, previously Bell) has responsibility
  for overseeing the preparation of grant applications, the administration of research projects, and
  ensuring compliance with ethical and data access requirements. The scope of role was expanded
  in the course of the 2014-20 REF cycle to incorporate more proactive involvement in the planning
  and writing of grant applications. The Faculty has also expanded the role of its research grants
  administrator, who advises on the preparation of applications and on the financial management of
  grants once they have been awarded. In the Institute these roles are performed by the Director
  (currently Gelsthorpe) and a research grants administrator. All matters relating to research are
  overseen by central committees: the Institute’s Committee of Management, and the cross-Faculty
  Research Committee, Degree Committee and Faculty Board.

  (ii) Supporting the work of centres, groups and networks with the potential to achieve research
  excellence

  The Unit seeks to promote an active research culture by encouraging the formation of research
  centres and groups coalescing around particular themes. There are 20 research centres and
  groups across the Unit, covering a wide range of fields, which enhance research by creating small
  sub-communities in which research projects can be discussed in supportive, expert environments.
  The Centres host national and international visitors and run workshops and seminars.

  The Faculty of Law has 11 research centres and two less formal but highly active research groups.
  The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law (LCIL, founded in 1983) is the longest established
  and most significant in terms of size and resources, reflecting the Faculty’s historical role in
  promoting international law research in the UK and its global standing in this field. Housed in its
  own building close to the Faculty, LCIL hosts a large number of research activities, seminars and
  visitors. The Centre for European Legal Studies (CELS, 1992), the Centre for Corporate and
  Commercial Law (3CL, 1997), the Centre for Public Law (CPL, 1996), the Centre for Tax Law (CTL,
  2001), and the Centre for Intellectual Property and Information Law (CIPIL, 2004), the Cambridge
  Private Law Centre (CPLC, 2012) and the Centre for Legal History (2012) have each achieved a
  degree of longevity and a reputation as clusters of excellence in their respective sub-disciplines. In
  addition, there are two long-established, but less formal groups. The Cambridge Socio-Legal Group
  (1997) is a focal point for academics across the University and beyond engaged in socio-legal work
  which has links particularly with the Institute of Criminology and the Centre for Family Research.
  The Cambridge Forum for Legal and Political Philosophy (CFLPP, 1999) fosters interdisciplinary
  interaction on issues of legal and political and moral philosophy.

  The Cambridge Centre for Criminal Justice (CCCJ, 2016), the Cambridge Centre for Law, Medicine
  and Life Sciences (LML, 2016), and the Cambridge Family Law Centre (CFL, 2016) have been
  established in the 2014-20 REF cycle, reflecting the importance placed on making strategic
                                                                                             3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  investments in areas where the Faculty is in the process of achieving a critical mass of research
  expertise and specialisation.

  There are six centres in the Institute of Criminology: the Centre for Penal Ethics and Theory
  (established in 2000), the Centre for Prisons Research (2000), the Jerry Lee Centre for
  Experimental Criminology (2007), the Centre for Analytic Criminology (formerly the PADS+
  Research Centre, 2002), the Centre for Community, Gender and Social Justice (2013) and the
  Violence Research Centre (2013).There are a number of other informal research clusters which
  revolve around comparative criminology and the impact of imprisonment on families, for example.

  (iii) Using the workload allocation process to ensure that teaching staff have access to the time
  needed to conduct independent research

  In line with the expectation that all University Teaching Officers (UTOs) will be fully engaged in
  research, teaching loads are reviewed and evenly allocated across the Unit. The Faculty has a
  Workload Allocation Committee which makes recommendations to the Faculty Board on workload
  policy in consultation with the Faculty’s Equality and Diversity Committee, and the Institute has a
  parallel process. Teaching members are expected to take part in Faculty or Institute administration
  at an appropriate point in their career path (generally not in the first year or so after their
  appointment) but those involved in administration, even in senior positions, are expected to, and
  invariably do, remain research active. Two members of the Faculty (Ferran and Virgo) currently
  occupy posts in the University at PVC level which carry with them a partial buy-out from other
  duties, but both remain actively engaged in research and have work included in the Unit’s outputs
  submission.

  (iv) Integrating postdoctoral researchers into the activities of centres, groups and networks

  The Institute has a long-established track record of supporting research teams and seeks actively
  to integrate postdoctoral researchers into the work of the Institute by encouraging their full and
  equal participation in workshops and seminars and in the governance of the Institute. The Faculty
  has a growing number of postdoctoral researchers and is similarly committed to their full integration
  into the Faculty as an institution and research community through seminar and workshop
  participation. Both the Faculty and the Institute have been active in implementing the Concordat to
  Support the Career Development of Researchers and in supporting wider initiatives to maintain an
  active community for postdoctoral researchers across the University, including the Postdocs of
  Cambridge Society.

  (v) Leveraging the opportunities provided by resources available through the colleges

  Colleges form a significant part of the research environment. There are 21 College Teaching
  Officers (CTOs) in the Faculty whose primary employment is in a college, and a smaller number
  (currently one) of Junior Research Fellows whose main employment, likewise, is college-based.
  Most CTOs are early career researchers who contribute extensively to the research activity of the
  Faculty and Institute.

  The Colleges actively support the research environment of the UoA. While one of their principal
  roles is to provide small-group undergraduate teaching they also offer a supportive environment for
  taught graduate students and PhD students, for example by organising doctoral workshops across
  different disciplines. In addition, they provide funds for small-scale research activities, research
  visits and the like in addition to those made available by the Faculty and Institute. The facilities of
  colleges are frequently drawn upon to host research events and research visitors.




                                                                                                      4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Achievement of strategic aims and objectives 2014–2020, and sustainability of
  the Unit

  In 2014 the UoA committed itself to ‘producing ambitious cutting-edge work in a wide range of fields
  and disciplines’ and in so doing to ‘contribute to debates on issues of national and international
  importance and to shape academic discourse, producing research which is of the highest academic
  quality in the wide range of fields of endeavour represented among our members’. Its strategy was
  ‘explicitly facilitative’ in seeking to create ‘an environment that enables individual scholars—whether
  independently or collaboratively—to pursue their own research agendas, working in areas that fully
  reflect their respective interests and strengths’. The Institute’s aims included advancing ‘basic
  knowledge and theory of the causes and perception of crime’ as part of a ‘growing programme of
  experimental and qualitative research on what works to improve justice and reduce crime’, and
  ‘distilling and translating what is known into clear policy options’. The Faculty highlighted new posts
  in empirical legal studies and data protection and the strategic importance of collaborations in
  research in company law and law and medicine.

  The aims set out in 2014 have been fully met. This is evidenced by recognition of the high quality of
  research conducted across the Unit, in particular in respect of the growing body of research which
  is externally funded (see below, section 3). The Unit’s ability to recruit and retain researchers of the
  highest quality at all levels has been maintained, with a significant number of new appointments
  from outside Cambridge demonstrating that the Unit attracts researchers from around the world to
  join it. Doctoral training has been significantly strengthened through the further development of an
  ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership, cutting across the social sciences in the University, focusing
  on real world research, interdisciplinarity, and employment skills, and led by Gelsthorpe.

  The Institute’s ambition of mounting a programme of research which can advance the frontiers of
  understanding of what works in criminal justice and crime prevention has been successfully realised
  through research which is widely recognised as world leading (as exemplified in particular by the
  award of the Stockholm Prize for Criminology to Wikström) and is being implemented in the
  practice of police forces, probation, and prison services in the UK and numerous other countries
  (see sections 3 and 4 below and the Criminology-based impact case studies).

  The Faculty’s strategic investments in corporate law, empirical legal research and research in law
  and medicine have produced work which is methodologically innovative and at the cutting edge of
  these fields which are currently of great interest worldwide. Faculty research has had a direct
  impact on policy and practice in areas of huge policy significance, not the least of which is Brexit
  (see impact case studies). The Faculty has continued to be at the forefront of research in
  international law and legal history and has actively supported the next generation of scholars in
  doctrinal legal research, reaffirming the importance of this area for the wider legal profession and
  for the community of common law systems around the world.

  The Institute’s strategy has been to keep pace with contemporary developments in criminology and
  criminal justice and with advances in methodology, including online research and decolonising
  criminology. It will seek to ensure flexibility in terms of the direction of research, responding to
  contemporary issues and crises (including organised crime; crises of legitimacy in the criminal
  justice system, penal theory and ethics and how they inform sentencing and prison regimes;
  violence; youth justice; race and gender). At the same time, the Institute maintains a distinctive
  international profile for its longitudinal studies, and its applied research and teaching with criminal
  justice system agencies.

  The Covid-19 emergency has had a major on the Unit and in particular on the Institute. Access to
  institutions to carry out criminological research has, of necessity, been curtailed. This has affected
  ongoing projects and has particularly impacted on doctoral students whose empirical work has


                                                                                                     5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  been seriously disrupted. However, mitigation measures are in place to ensure that doctoral
  students are fully supported and that projects can continue notwithstanding the emergency.

  Future strategy

  With respect to future research, the Faculty’s strategy is firstly to maintain its current strengths,
  which, as previously noted, encompass all areas and sub-disciplines of legal research carried out in
  UK law schools. The Faculty does not envisage making any change to its current organisational
  structures, and so expects to retain its subject-focused Centres in more or less their current form.
  The Faculty will particularly seek to support doctrinal research in property law and to reaffirm its
  commitment to maintaining and expanding work in this area given its high importance for legal
  policy and practice, on the one hand, and the relatively small number of doctoral students and early
  career researchers currently entering the legal academic profession via this route, on the other. The
  Faculty will also continue to devote resources to the areas identified in its REF 2014 statement as
  priorities, that is, law and medicine, information law, and empirical legal studies.

  In terms of new and emerging areas of legal research, the Faculty expects to be making significant
  contributions to research in the area of law and technology. This process has already begun with
  the appointment of Gullifer, an expert (inter alia) on the legal analysis of cryptoassets and
  blockchain, to a Chair, and with the award to Markou of a three-year Leverhulme early career
  research fellowship to work on law and artificial intelligence. Other recent developments in the area
  of law and technology, which can be expected to come to fruition in the next REF cycle, include
  collaborative research on legal systems and artificial intelligence initiated by Steffek and Deakin
  with researchers at Hitotsubashi University, Tokyo, leading to a successful application for funding
  under a joint Japanese and UK research council call on ‘Artificial Intelligence and Society’; the
  award to Deakin of ESRC funding to carry out research on the labour law implications of the digital
  economy; the award to Skopek of a Wellcome Trust grant to study liability for harms caused by the
  use of artificial intelligence in healthcare’; and research by Cloots on blockchain, conducted in
  collaboration with the Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance (part of the Judge Business
  School).

  The Institute’s strategy includes the further development of the Centre for Penal Theory and Ethics,
  and collaborations to ensure a focus on new technology and crime/crime control (including policing
  and cybercrime) and social network theory (including human trafficking and other forms of
  organised crime). In particular, there are plans underway to develop new areas of research on
  organised crime (Campana), the use of technology in policing (Arial), legitimacy of criminal justice
  practices in both the UK and elsewhere (Ghana in particular) (Tankebe) and youth justice and the
  impact of imprisonment on families (Lanskey). Crewe and Rutherford have received an ESRC
  grant for innovative work on the impact of long term imprisonment; Gelsthorpe and Lanskey have
  also received ESRC funding for an innovative evaluation partnership with the National Arts Alliance
  in the Criminal Justice System. These are all new areas of research which have emerged in the
  last four years and will be carried forward into the next REF cycle.

  Enabling impact

  The Unit’s strategy for enabling impact consists of the following:

  (i) Using research centres and groups to build user networks and promote dissemination

  Research centres play a vital role in building contacts and networks with users of research. In the
  case of the Faculty, support includes resources for Centres to engage with members of the legal
  profession in the UK and overseas through joint workshops and seminars and invited lectures
  (these include annual invited lectures by senior judges and other legal practitioners in the fields of
  EU law, public law and private law). Long standing links exist with international courts and tribunals


                                                                                                    6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  (on which successive Whewell Professors of International Law and other Faculty members have
  served) and with national judiciaries, especially within the Commonwealth.

  In the case of the Institute, there is continuous collaboration with users of research in the police,
  probation, youth justice and prison services in the UK and overseas, supported in some cases by
  external grants with an inbuilt element of impact funding, and in others through contacts built up
  over a number of years through the Institute’s teaching programmes, in particular its MSt degree,
  and through the Institute’s Committee of Management which includes a former Chief Inspector of
  HM Constabulary, the former Chief Executive of the National Offender Management Service, and
  the Director of Research in HM Inspectorate of Probation. Activity is developed through six
  different research centres: the Centre for Penal Ethics and Theory which relates to sentencing
  policy and has close relations to the Sentencing Council. The Prisons Research Centre relates
  particularly to the Prison Service (HMPPS). The Jerry Lee Centre for Experimental Criminology
  relates in particular to the policing organisations nationally and internationally. The Centre for
  Analytical Criminology relates to policy makers in crime prevention. The Centre for Community,
  Gender and Social Justice relates to the probation service and Community Rehabilitation
  Companies, to HMPPS, to Youth Justice organisations, and to the National Alliance for the Arts in
  the criminal justice system, and the Violence Research Centre relates to national crime prevention
  authorities and to the World Health Organisation and international prevention-of-violence initiatives.

  With respect to the Unit’s impact case studies, centres have assisted interaction with policy makers
  by Elliott (public law), Barnard (European legal studies), Bartels (international law), Erdos
  (information law), Fenton-Glynn and Scherpe (family law), Liebling and Crewe (prisons research)
  and Sherman, Strang and Neyroud (evidence-based policing).

  (ii) Engaging users in the design and implementation of research

  Engaging user support throughout the life cycle of a project, from inception to completion and
  dissemination, is particularly important with respect to the empirical work undertaken in the Unit.
  The Institute’s empirical research on the criminal justice system involves active steps to involve
  prisons, the police, the probation service and courts in the design and implementation of projects.
  The social importance of the criminal justice system makes links with policy-makers (especially
  judges and the Home Office) and the media particularly significant. The research conducted by
  Liebling, Crewe and other members of the Prisons Research Centre, which is reflected in the
  prisons research impact case study, has over several years been based on close engagement with
  the Prison Service, to provide both significant research insights and policy recommendations for
  those who have supported the research.

  In the Faculty, user support is essential to projects making use of economic-legal and empirical
  approaches. Deakin’s impact case study on labour law databases involved co-production of
  research with the International Labour Organization.

  (iii) Funding dissemination and impact through externally funded projects and contract research

  The Unit’s increasing success in obtaining external funding from UKRI sources provides a regular
  stream of income for dissemination through ‘pathways to impact’ funding which is generally part of
  an ESRC grant. This contributed to the impact case studies of Liebling and Crewe (prisons
  research), Sherman, Strang and Neyroud (evidence-based policing) and Deakin (labour law
  databases). Contract research carried out directly for users also provides a means of funding
  impact. This was the case with the impact case studies of Turenne (judicial appointments) and
  Deakin (labour law databases).

  Interdisciplinary research

  Research pursued within the Faculty extends across a broad range of legal sub-disciplines
  including those with an interdisciplinary focus such as legal history, legal theory, and the economics
                                                                                                     7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  and sociology of law. It also embraces a wide diversity of research methods, including doctrinal,
  theoretical, historical, empirical, and socio-legal approaches. Most of the research conducted in the
  Institute is interdisciplinary by nature, reflecting the nature of criminology as a field bringing together
  social scientists and lawyers.

  The Unit has been highly active in fostering interdisciplinary initiatives across the wider university.
  In particular, in the area of law and medicine, LML (Liddell, Skopek, Liddicoat) involves
  collaboration with departments in the biological sciences and the medical school. The CBR
  (Deakin, Adams) involves collaboration with the business school and several social science
  departments.

  In the Institute, there is multi-disciplinary research within the different research centres and through
  the Centre for the Study of Global Human Movement (Law, Sociology, Criminology, History and
  Modern Languages, for instance).

  Open research

  The Unit actively supports the principle of an open access environment and recognises the
  importance of facilitating third party access to datasets and other research outputs. The Faculty’s
  Working Paper series is published by SSRN, ensuring open access for a significant proportion of
  research outputs. Datasets arising from UKRI-funded projects are lodged with the UK Data Archive
  on a regular basis. The Cambridge Leximetric Dataset, a legal database constructed in the CBR
  with ESRC funding, is the second most highly downloaded dataset in the University’s Apollo
  Repository (covering all disciplines), with over 8,000 downloads since 2016 (Adams, Deakin).

  Ethical research and data integrity

  In line with University policies on ethical research and ethical practice involving human participants
  and personal data, the Unit has robust and well-tried procedures in place to ensure research
  integrity. Procedures for ethics review of research grant applications and for ensuring oversight of
  projects once they are funded were updated and revised in the course of the assessment period.
  The issue of data integrity and confidentiality is specifically addressed in the Unit’s ethics review
  procedures. Particular attention is given to risk assessment with regard to data integrity in cases
  where data are collected via fieldwork. Where any outstanding issues arise, further independent
  review is sought via an appropriate School-level Ethics Committee (currently chaired by
  Gelsthorpe).




                                                                                                        8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Staff development strategy

 The UoA aims to have a sufficiently large group of academic staff to sustain a full range of expertise
 across the different areas of research in which it specialises, in particular those connected with its
 Centres. It also aims to ensure the vitality of research by bringing in new staff at diverse career
 stages, and being flexible enough to make new appointments in emerging areas of research. Its
 strategy consists of the following elements:

 (i) Managing recruitment

 The UoA has been successful in making appointments at all levels within the period. The Faculty
 has attracted established leading scholars from outside Cambridge to take up Chairs, including
 Benvenisti (international law, formerly Tel Aviv), Young (public law, formerly Oxford)) and Gullifer
 (commercial law, formerly Oxford). It has attracted mid-career researchers including Glister
 (Equity, who has now returned to Australia), Rogers (criminal law), and Vinx (jurisprudence), and).
 The Institute has similarly attracted researchers from outside during the period including Campana
 (organised crime). The Institute hosts a significant number of ESRC and British Academy
 sponsored postdoctoral researchers and Law has significantly increased the number of
 postdoctoral researchers employed on projects or fellowships in the assessment period.

 (ii) Providing probation review and support

 University Lectureships are initially probationary positions which are intended to become permanent
 once the period has been satisfactorily completed. Support and advice for those approaching
 probation review is provided by mentors and by the head of department (the Faculty Chair in the
 case of Law and the Director in the case of Criminology). Probation is a rigorous process involving
 review external to the Department and to the wider University.

 (iii) Managing the promotion process

 Promotion is a similarly rigorous process involving a significant element of external review.
 Achievement in research is a precondition of progressing at all levels, with increasing emphasis on
 the need to demonstrate international excellence in research at Reader and Professor level. Heads
 of department offer systematic support and feedback in respect of the promotions process.

 (iv) Supporting early career researchers

 Early Career Researchers (ECRs), including College Teaching Officers (CTOs), are provided with
 mentors, who provide guidance and support in respect of research and publication plans, career
 development and help to maintain an appropriate balance between research and other activities.
 ECRs are integrated fully into Law’s research and other activities. They participate in the work of
 Centres and are able to draw on Faculty funding, as well as that available in colleges, to help them
 organise conferences and other events. For example, Shona Stark (then an early career CTO) was
 able to draw on Faculty colleagues and support to run a conference on law commissions and their
 work held at the Supreme Court in London, which was attended by senior judges from England and
 Wales and Scotland, as well as a number of senior academics from across the UK and the
 Commonwealth. She was involved in conceiving the event and briefing the participants (including
 senior judges). She worked with more senior colleagues (Dyson (then Cambridge) and Lee (King’s
 College London)). That conference gave rise to an edited book, Fifty Years of the Law
 Commissions, from which one of her REF outputs is taken.
                                                                                                     9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (v) Supporting staff employed on fixed-term lectureships

 A lectureship may be filled on a temporary or fixed-term basis to cover periods of extended
 research leave in cases where, for example, a University Teaching Officer (UTO) has obtained an
 external fellowship or grant which buys them out of their normal duties. Fixed-term appointees are
 treated in all respects as full members of the Unit and receive mentoring and access to training and
 skills development on exactly the same basis as other members of teaching staff. They also have
 the same access to resources to support their research including conference and dissemination
 activity. Where it is not possible for a fixed-term appointee to be appointed to a permanent post on
 the expiry of their term, every effort is made to support their career development so that they are in
 a position to move to a permanent position in another research-orientated institution. For example,
 Howell, who completed a period of fixed-term employment to cover for a colleague’s leave in 2019,
 left to take up a tenure-track position at another Russell Group university (the LSE). The Institute
 offers bridging funding where it can, and otherwise makes ECRs visiting scholars so that they
 continue to have an institutional base whilst looking for tenure track positions, if remaining in
 academia.

 (vi) Providing support for and integration of College Teaching Officers

 The colleges provide opportunities for the career development of ECRs via College Lectureships. A
 commonly followed College model (5-year tenure, between six and twelve hours of supervision per
 week in term, at starter-lecturer salary) is designed to allow early career academics to establish
 their research before they move on to established posts either in Cambridge or elsewhere. For
 example Fikfak, then a CTO at Homerton College, was supported by the Faculty to apply for an
 ESRC Future Leaders award starting January 2016 with matched funding from University of
 Cambridge funds (the Isaac Newton Trust) and a British Academy Rising Stars award starting in
 March 2016. These helped her to extend her work on damages awards for breaches of the
 European Convention on Human Rights. The success of this research led to a successful ERC
 application for broader research on remedies for breaches of Human Rights.

 (vii) Providing support for postdoctoral researchers

 As in the case of other fixed-term appointees, while it is not possible to provide a secure route to
 continuing employment in the Unit to postdoctoral researchers whose funding is time-limited, both
 the Institute and the Faculty take active steps to integrate postdoctoral staff into the research of the
 institution, to provide mentoring and career advice, and to assist their transition to a tenure track
 position in a research-led institution if no equivalent opportunity arises in Cambridge.

 (viii) Providing sabbatical leave

 All permanent UTOs employed in the Institute and Faculty have the right to apply for paid
 sabbatical leave after completing a minimum period of service (on the basis of six terms of service
 for one term of leave). An academic case must be made for sabbatical and it must be compatible
 with teaching needs, but it is not subject to a financial cap. Colleges also have sabbatical leave
 arrangements which largely mirror those of the University. The Institute has a small number of
 unestablished teaching staff (teaching on MSt courses). Arrangements are made so that they also
 get periods of sabbatical leave.

 (ix) Encouraging knowledge exchange

 The Faculty maintains regular contacts with members of the profession and invites them to
 participate in its research discussions. In particular, it engages with serving judges from home and
 abroad (recent examples include Lady Arden and Lady Hale, as well as Lords Sales, Carnwath,
 Mance, and Reed, Advocate-General Sharpston). The Institute is similarly heavily engaged with
 research users with senior officials from the Home Office, the Ministry of Justice, the national

                                                                                                     10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Probation Service and Community Rehabilitation Companies, Youth Justice organisations, the
 Police and the Prison Service all regularly involved in discussions of research at both local and
 national levels.

 (x) Recognising and rewarding impact

 Members of the Unit are strongly encouraged to take part in the annual Vice-Chancellor’s Impact
 Awards, a scheme open to researchers across the University, and in the ESRC’s impact
 competitions, and several have received recognition this way (Fenton-Glynn on surrogacy,
 Ludlow and Armstrong on learning and teaching with offenders). A number have also received
 funding from the University’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (Deakin and Howarth on the
 HInkley Point C construction contract, Markou on law and artificial intelligence).

 Research students

 Recruitment

 Recruitment of doctoral students is a rigorous and competitive process overseen by the Faculty’s
 joint Degree Committee. From 1 August 2013 to 31 July 2020 the Unit admitted 202 doctoral
 students (139 in Law, 63 in Criminology). In that period, 164 students were approved for the Ph.D.
 degree (115 in Law, 39 in Criminology, and 10 in other departments). Thus the cohort of doctoral
 students is a sizable one by both domestic and international standards.

 Funding

 ESRC and AHRC studentships are awarded competitively and typically number two or three a year
 in each category. They form a small proportion of students funded to study for the PhD. Many
 others are supported by the University and its Colleges. In the assessment period, across the Unit
 as a whole, 24 students had AHRC funding, 20 students had ESRC funding, 16 had funding from
 outside bodies (for example, government, employer, or home university), 87 had Cambridge-based
 studentships (Cambridge Studentships (Cambridge Trusts, Faculty or Departmental Studentships,
 or College Awards)), and 55 were self-financing (personal funds or loans).

 Mentoring, training and support

 Research training and development takes place at three levels: within the Faculty and Institute;
 within the wider University; and within the Colleges. The principal level of support and training is
 that of the academic department. Each student has not only a supervisor, but also an additional
 advisor as academic support. More general support is provided by staff who have recently
 completed their own doctorate to act as mentors.

 First year doctoral students in Law have a structured programme which ensures that they have a
 common basic foundation for life as researchers. The year-long compulsory Research Training,
 Support and Development Programme (RTDP) covers the organisation and presentation of
 research, and approaches and methodologies of legal research. In the REF period, the design of
 the first year of the RTDP has been modified to include more support for the development of
 general research skills. In the second and third years of the programme, support focuses on
 general transferable skills including presentation of results, academic writing, communication with
 policy makers, teaching, preparation of research grant applications, and career development.
 Teaching methods for this course have been enhanced over time by reference to the advanced
 training provided within the School level Social Sciences Research Methods Programme, and the
 ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership (see below).

 Each research student in the Faculty has access to study and social space reserved specifically for
 graduate research students. The Faculty has increased the amount of such space during the period
 by additional working areas available in the Squire Law Library. Each research student can apply to
                                                                                                11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Yorke Trust Fund for a grant of up to £400 for any purpose relating to their research, including
 attendance at conferences. There are also various College funds which finance travel and research
 by graduate research students. Employability is enhanced by activities such as the Cambridge Pro
 Bono Project, established in 2010, which involves activities such as the preparation of policy
 submissions for legal practitioners and non-governmental organisations. Law funds support the
 student-run Cambridge Journal of International Law (published by Edward Elgar) which provides
 research students with the opportunity to take the lead in editing a scholarly journal, running a blog
 and also in running a major conference once a year.

 The Institute offers several programmes of research preparation at Masters level, all of which
 include a thesis component. Much of this research is carried out in close cooperation with the
 Institute’s Research Centres or with practice and research institutions from the UK or abroad.
 Training in quantitative and qualitative methods is a key part of Criminology’s provision. PhD
 students at the Institute of Criminology also attend, throughout their first, second and third years, a
 comprehensive Training, Support and Development Programme (TSD) designed to develop
 research skills and techniques. In addition to the courses on research methods, both PhD and
 MPhil students are trained in general researcher development/transferable skills to be able to
 communicate with wide audiences, apply for and manage research grants, to teach effectively, and
 to present their own research at national and international conferences and in academic journals
 and beyond.

 In addition to these discipline-based courses, generic training is offered at University level, through
 the Social Sciences Research Methods Programme (SSRMP). In addition the Unit participates in
 the Cambridge ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership, which is led by Gelsthorpe (Director since
 2013).Both the Institute (Gelsthorpe) and the Faculty (Deakin) were active in establishing the
 ESRC DTC (now DTP), and the AHRC DTC also. The SSRMP provides students in Criminology
 and Law (when needed) and other social scientists with a broad range of quantitative and
 qualitative research social science methods. It provides a series of basic and more advanced
 modules that can contribute to create a bespoke individual training programme. The Doctoral
 Training Partnership is also a contributor to the ESRC Advanced Training Network by which all
 doctoral students in social sciences have access to UK-wide training opportunities. Both Law and
 Criminology students access these research training opportunities according to the assessment of
 need that they make in consultation with their research supervisor (and if, ESRC sponsored, with
 the Training Manager as well).

 The University-wide Postgraduate and Research Staff Skills Development Programme is designed
 to complement the training available in specific disciplines. The University’s Graduate Development
 Programme (GDP) provides a programme of courses that develop skills and understanding to
 enrich doctoral student approaches to research and teaching, as well as building transferable
 competencies and abilities. The Cambridge University Skills Portal enables all research students to
 access skills courses offered by a range of University training providers. It also hosts online
 research skills courses.

 Colleges significantly enhance the overall environment for doctoral research. They organise their
 own programmes of support for research students, including academic presentations to non-
 specialist audiences, poster and podcast preparation, and provide significant research and travel
 funds. As multi-disciplinary communities they provide additional opportunities for dialogue and
 exchange of ideas spanning different fields and methods of research. Many of these are student-
 led. Alongside the School, and departments, colleges also sponsor student led conferences and
 seminars




                                                                                                    12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Student achievement

 One measure of the quality of the research environment for doctoral research is the subsequent
 career path of graduating students. In REF 2014, the Unit reported that 40 of the 84 research
 students (2008-2011) had obtained academic posts within Cambridge or elsewhere. Of the 55 PhD
 students admitted to the UoA in 2013/14 and 2014/15, 33 have subsequently obtained academic or
 research positions of which 21 are university lecturers or higher and 12 hold research posts. A
 further 10 now occupy significant roles in the legal profession, within the UK or abroad.

 Another measure is the award of prizes. Varuhas (Damages in Human Rights, now Melbourne)
 won the Peter Birks prize for outstanding legal scholarship in 2016 and Steel (Proof of Causation in
 Tort, now Oxford) and Blackham (Extending Working Life for Older Workers, now Melbourne) were
 runners up in 2016 and 2017 respectively. In 2020 Barrett (Child Perpetrators on Trial, now Kent),
 Lim (A Case for Shareholders’ Fiduciary Duties in Common Law Asia, now National University of
 Singapore) and Cooper (Art and Modern Copyright: The Contested Image, now Glasgow) were all
 shortlisted for the Birks prize.

 In Criminology, a high proportion of PhD students go on to be academics elsewhere: since 2014,
 Akoensi (University Lecturer, University of Kent, 2014), Trivedi-Bateman (Lecturer in Criminology,
 Anglia Ruskin University, 2014), Jerath ( Senior Lecturer in Criminology and Policing, London
 Metropolitan University, 2015), Nivette (Professor, University of Utrecht, 2015), Trajtenberg
 (Professor, Universidad de la Republica, Uruguay, 2017), Szifris (Lecturer in Criminology,
 Manchester Metropolitan University, 2017), Neaverson (Senior Lecturer, Anglia Ruskin University,
 2018).

 Equality and diversity

 Support for equality and diversity: general

 In the period under review, the Faculty has reviewed its processes and procedures with the aim of
 mainstreaming Equality and Diversity issues across all its activities and with regard to the full range
 of protected characteristics recognised in law and best practice. Reflecting this progress, it received
 an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in May 2020.

 The Faculty’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) Committee is chaired by the Director of EDI, a
 senior academic who sits ex officio on the Faculty Board of Law (currently Padfield). Each key
 Faculty committee has a nominated member responsible for EDI issues, who also serves on the
 EDI committee. The Chair of each key committee must give explicit consideration to the inclusion
 of EDI matters on committee agendas. As well as having a Decolonising Criminology study group,
 the Institute has an Equality and Diversity Working Group, which reports to its Planning and
 Resources and Learning and Teaching Committees.

 Recruitment and support for staff with responsibility for research

 The Faculty’s Athena SWAN application reports that approximately 44% of Faculty staff with
 responsibility for teaching and research are female. At the time of the last REF, on 1 October 2013,
 there were four female Professors in the Faculty, out of 19; there are now seven out of 21. This is
 above the national average for all subjects (25% of academic staff at UCEA Level 5A are female).
 In 2013 there were two female Readers in the Faculty out of seven, and eight Senior Lecturers out
 of 14. By 1 October 2020, there were seven female Readers out of 14, and six female Senior
 Lecturers out of 14. With respect to Faculty staff included in REF 2014 who are again being
 submitted in this REF, eight of the fifteen internal promotions to Reader, two of the six promotions
 to Professor, and six of sixteen promotions to Senior Lecturer, were of female colleagues.

 This progress since the last REF notwithstanding, the Faculty takes the view that there is clear
 scope for further improvement. It has taken a number of steps to address the issue of EDI in
                                                                                                    13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 relation to recruitment. These include: ensuring representativeness on appointment committees;
 presenting all such committees with data on existing gender and other diversity imbalances; and
 ensuring that their members have training on discrimination and unconscious bias. The Faculty
 Chair and other officers have been tasked with actively encouraging female colleagues to join
 appointment committees, while taking care not to overload colleagues. The Faculty’s Workload
 Allocation Committee keeps gender statistics in relation to appointments to these committees under
 review. Mentoring and appraisal processes have been reviewed in order to ensure their
 effectiveness with respect to staff development and progress, and there is regular feedback from
 the Chair and senior officers on promotion and career development.

 Research leave

 All members of teaching staff are entitled to apply for sabbatical leave, and applications are
 generally granted, with no financial cap being applied.

 Flexible working

 All staff are able to request formal flexible working arrangements, as per the University policy, and
 the Faculty discusses any such request promptly with the staff member to seek a way to
 accommodate the request, and enable development of research careers. Flexible working may
 include temporary or permanent part-time working, job share, compressed or annual hours,
 staggered hours or flexitime, or working from home. An unpaid career break scheme for up to two
 years also applies to staff with domestic responsibilities. The Faculty is committed to ensuring that
 working schedules are as far as possible consistent with staff circumstances and family
 commitments. Where individual members of staff have family or other commitments which
 necessitate adjustments to hours of work and working schedules, these are accommodated
 wherever possible, in line with University policy. Steps have been taken to ensure that an
 appropriate work-life balance is maintained during the period of remote working during the Covid-19
 crisis.

 Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff

 The Faculty actively seeks to integrate staff on fixed-term appointments to cover for the absences
 of others, College Teaching Officers, and postgraduate researchers into Faculty procedures and
 processes and to ensure their continuing career development in the event that no permanent
 employment is available on the expiry of their term. Part-time staff are similarly integrated into the
 activities of the Faculty and their career needs met in the same way as those of full-time staff.

 Support for those with caring responsibilities and long-term health needs

 The Faculty encourages staff to take up the University’s arrangements for maternity, paternity,
 parental and adoption leave, which provide support significantly above basic statutory entitlements.
 Members of staff who have worked for the University for 26 weeks are entitled to 18 weeks leave at
 their normal rate of pay followed by 21 weeks’ leave at the statutory maternity rate of pay and up to
 13 weeks unpaid leave. During maternity and adoption leave, continuity of service and pension
 benefits (USS and CPS) are maintained, and any standard incremental progression taking place
 during the maternity or adoption leave is implemented. Time and terms taken on maternity and
 adoption leave are counted as reckonable service for sabbatical leave purposes as well as for
 annual leave entitlement.

 Support for staff returning from leave

 University policies support a flexible and smooth return to work. The Returning Carers’ Scheme
 provides funds to get academic staff’s research back up to speed following a career break or leave
 for caring responsibilities. The Faculty actively encourages its use. Childcare is also well supported.
 The University Nurseries have 408 places for staff and students. The University Childcare Office
                                                                                                    14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 runs a Holiday Play Scheme and family groups. The Chair of the Faculty and the Director of the
 Institute advise on the process of returning from leave and workload allocations take into account
 the need to ensure an equitable distribution of responsibilities for staff in this position. The return
 rates from maternity/paternity/adoption/shared parental leave for academic staffing the Unit are
 100% since 2013.

 Workload allocations

 The Faculty’s Workload Allocation Committee and the Institute’s Director are tasked with
 developing policies for workload allocation after consultation with the EDI Committee. Allocations
 are adjusted to deal with individual circumstances in the event of short-term illness or absence, or
 family circumstances.

 Support for staff with other protected characteristics

 The Faculty and Institute are active in disseminating information about University support networks
 for staff with protected characteristics (in addition to gender: race and ethnic origin, religion and
 belief, sexual orientation, transgender status, age, and disability)and in encouraging Faculty
 members to take advantage of events and discussions raising awareness of EDI issues across
 each of these characteristics. The Faculty Chair outlines the Faculty’s commitment to EDI in this
 broad sense at welcome and induction presentations. The Institute’s Decolonising Criminology study
 group seeks to raise awareness of postcolonial legacies and their implications for addressing EDI
 issues.

 Approach to supporting the well-being of staff and research students

 Information about University staff and student support services (including counselling and
 occupational health) is regularly communicated to Faculty and Institute members. As well as
 College pastoral support, research students have access to Ph.D. mentors. Staff also receive
 support through appraisal and mentoring schemes. The Institute subsidises yoga classes and pays
 a corporate subscription to the Botanic Gardens for everyone’s use, as well as providing Institute
 bicycles for ease of travel across the city.

 Addressing equality and diversity issues in relation to research students

 Recruitment of postgraduate students is kept under regular review. Between 2013 and 2020, 51%
 of Ph.D. students recruited were male and 49% female. Meaningful completion data are available
 for cohorts admitted up to four years ago: for those admitted between October 2010 and October
 2014, the completion rates were 79% for women and 81% for men. With respect to process, the
 Faculty takes steps to ensure that members of Degree Committee (which selects Ph.D. students)
 receive EDI and unconscious bias training. Recruitment data are retained and annually reviewed.
 Information about entry-level posts for doctoral students (graduate teaching assistantships, fixed-
 term teaching positions and tenure track lectureships) is widely disseminated when these become
 available. Completing Ph.D. students are asked to complete a questionnaire providing information
 on their experience of the supervision process and the Faculty’s support for their well-being and
 career development.

 Equality and diversity in the preparation of the REF submission

 The Faculty’s active development of processes for mainstreaming EDI issues extends to all the
 REF submission including the composition of the REF Committee, the assessment and selection of
 outputs, and the writing of selection of impact cases studies and other relevant documentation. All
 members of its REF Committee completed or updated training in EDI and unconscious bias issues
 and the Committee has regularly considered data on the gender composition of the output portfolio.



                                                                                                      15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding strategies

 Research funding: general approach

 The UoA proactively seeks research income in order to enable substantial research projects to be
 conducted. External research income is seen as important for supporting the employment of
 postdoctoral researchers and research assistants in larger projects involving empirical and
 interdisciplinary research; to fund research leave for teaching officers; and to enable researchers to
 participate in the wider research community and network of research activities supported by UKRI and
 other sponsors of research. In addition, the UoA’s commitment that each individual has a balanced
 work allocation, leaving them sufficient time for research, is intended to ensure that significant
 resources are available for research.

 Trends in research income

 Research income in the assessment period averages just over £2.3 million a year, compared to just
 under £1.5m a year in the previous REF period, and totals £16.1 million for the seven years 2013-20,
 compared with £6.9 million for the five-year period 2008-13. Thus there has been a significant
 increase in funding over the course of the current cycle.

 Major grants

 Law obtained funding for several major external research project in the review period. Armstrong was
 awarded a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship on ‘The Brexit Effect’. Barnard was awarded an
 ESRC Senior Fellowship, Brexit Priority Grant and an ICE Senior Fellowship. Bently was awarded a
 major research grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Council in collaboration with Ian
 Hargreaves (Cardiff University) (former editor of The Independent) on ‘Appraising Potential Legal
 Responses to Threats to the Production of News in the Digital Environment’. Fikfak was awarded an
 ESRC grant, ‘Compensating Human Rights Violations: What Price for Human Rights?’. Liddell was a
 Co-Investigator on a research collaboration between LML and similar groups at Harvard, Michigan
 and Copenhagen in the field of Biomedical Innovation Law. Nouwen was awarded an ESRC New
 Investigator grant ‘What's Law Got to Do With It?’ with matched funding from Cambridge internal funds
 (Isaac Newton Trust). Nouwen and Waibel were each awarded a Philip Leverhulme Prize. Skopek
 was Principal Investigator on a Wellcome Trust grant on ‘Liability from Harms Caused by the Use of
 Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare’.

 Via the CBR, Deakin was Principal Investigator on UKRI grants funded under the World Development
 and Finance Programme (Law, Development and Finance in Rising Powers, the DFID-ESRC Joint
 Fund on Poverty Alleviation Labour Law, Development and Poverty Alleviation in Low- and Middle-
 Income Countries), the Newton Fund (Informal Finance in China: Risks, Potential and
 Transformation), and Innovate UK (Maximising Innovation Beyond Procurement and Contract
 Execution). From 2020 he became a Co-Investigator in the newly established ESRC Centre on Digital
 Futures at Work, led by Sussex and Leeds Universities, with responsibility for research on the
 relationship between labour law and digital technologies, PI on a UKRI-funded project examining the
 relationship between law and artificial intelligence (in which Steffek is a Co-I) and Co-I on a
 NORFACE project on populist backlash and the rule of law, involving a consortium of European
 universities led by the University of Loughborough.

 Grants awarded to Faculty members for research leave and support for individual research projects
 reflect a wide range of fields of expertise and levels of seniority. Armstrong was awarded a
                                                                                              16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship for a study of the dynamics of regulatory alignment and
 divergence after Brexit; Cheffins had a similar Leverhulme-funded leave to produce a research
 monograph in the area of corporate governance. The following British Academy Rising Stars
 Engagement Awards were made: Nouwen, ‘Making and Breaking Peace in Sudan’; Waibel ‘Empirical
 International Law’; Fikfak ‘The Future of Human Rights in the UK: New Voices’; Hinarejos, ‘New
 Challenges to European Solidarity’; Ludlow, ‘Understanding Prison Life’. Nouwen’s research on
 peace making is funded by a Philip Leverhulme Prize, an ESRC Future Research Leaders Grant and
 the (internal Cambridge) Isaac Newton Trust. Haldar currently holds a Marie Sklodowska Curie
 Fellowship.

 The Institute has a longstanding tradition in empirical research and in obtaining grants from the most
 prestigious sources to support such work. In this REF period, the most substantial grants were
 awarded to Crewe for a study of Penal Policy and the Prisoner Experience (EU Horizon 2020),
 Liebling (NOMS) and Gelsthorpe. Grant-holding is widespread across the Institute. A total of 21
 individuals have received grants in the period. This shows the ability of Criminology to support early
 career colleagues as independent researchers as well as to support established scholars who obtain
 very large grants. Not only have professors received several grants in the period (Eisner and Liebling
 eight each; Gelsthorpe five; Sherman and Wikström four each), but also ECRs such as Armstrong
 and Ludlow (five each), both of whom received their PhDs in 2013. Eisner’s Botnar grant, ‘Evidence
 For Better Lives Study: Data Innovation Pilot’, is an ambitious and exciting project which includes 8
 low and middle-income countries. Armstrong and Ludlow’s research initiatives involve university
 students learning along prison residents, to mutual benefit (and attracting a University impact award).
 Sherman’s research on policing and measuring crime harm has similarly attracted a University prize
 for impact, given its reach across a number of police force areas.

 A growing number of grants involve collaboration across the two institutions within the UoA. Padfield
 (Law) and Gelsthorpe (Criminology) have collaborated on a project looking at deaths under
 community supervision; Barnard and Fraser-Butlin (Law) and Ludlow (Criminology) have worked
 together on ESRC-funded research exploring the impact of EU migration on UK labour markets; and
 Deakin (Law) and Sherman (Criminology) are co-investigators on an EPSRC-funded project led by
 Anderson (Computer Science) examining how to track and counter internet-based crime.

 While it is not straightforward to identify a correlation between external funding and the quality of
 research outputs, some links can be made. External funding is generally needed for long-term
 projects. Where members of the UoA have been granted fellowships to support projects of this kind, it
 is possible to point to major research outputs resulting from the funding: these include Cheffins’
 monograph, The Public Company Transformed (OUP, 2018), the work for which was supported by a
 Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowship., Finally, external funding is needed to support
 empirical projects involving data collection and analysis. This describes much of the research
 conducted in the Institute as well as a growing body of empirical legal research carried out in Faculty
 and the CBR.

 External funding is often the basis for high quality research which results in the award of prizes and
 fellowships. The foremost example of this is the award of the Stockholm Prize for Criminology to
 Wikström. It is by no means only senior researchers whose work has been recognised in this way.
 Prizes and fellowships were also awarded in the assessment period to ECRs in respect of work
 building on their doctorates ( Blackham, Fenton-Glynn, Ludlow, Lusa Bordin, Steel and Varuhas)
 and to middle career researchers who had accessed external funding in order to complete major
 projects (Hinarejos, Nouwen).

 Infrastructure supporting research and impact

 The Law Faculty Building accommodates most of the Faculty’s teaching, research and
 administrative facilities, including the Squire Law Library which occupies three of the six floors. In
 addition, the building provides research space and administrative facilities for Law’s various research
 centres not based elsewhere. It also provides study and social spaces for graduate research students
                                                                                                 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and work stations for visiting scholars. The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law has its own
 building which not only houses offices, seminar rooms and a library, but also has accommodation for
 visiting researchers. The Institute of Criminology Building provides research facilities for Institute
 staff and graduate research students and for a number of externally funded research projects, as well
 as some visiting fellows and scholars. It also provides meeting and seminar spaces. The Radzinowicz
 Library (the third largest Criminology library in the world) occupies the ground and first floors of the
 building. The Institute has video conference technology, further promoting international interchange in
 scholarship and research. Both the Law and Criminology buildings are modern structures which are
 fully accessible to students and staff with disabilities.

 Library and Information Services are provided under the aegis of Cambridge University Libraries
 (CUL) which includes the main University Library, one of the largest research libraries in the UK with
 over eight million volumes and which manages a wide array of electronic and digital services including
 journal content, ebooks and databases. College libraries, some of which contain large law-related
 collections, add to the range of facilities that researchers can use.

 The Squire Law Library is one of the few dedicated law libraries in the UK’s academic world, and it is
 one of the largest law libraries in the country. It maintains extensive collections, both in print and
 electronically, for the legal systems of the UK and Ireland, as well as strong collections for all of the
 other major common law countries. There are also significant collections for the principal continental
 European jurisdictions, and extensive sections covering private and public international law
 (complemented by a further collection at LCIL), the EU, legal history, Roman law, jurisprudence and
 medical ethics. The University’s iDiscover search engine allows researchers to navigate content from
 electronic databases, journals and collections across some 110 libraries that exist within the University
 (including the colleges). All of the essential legal databases, including Lexis, Westlaw and JustisOne
 are available.

 The Squire has five professionally qualified librarians, including the Squire Law Librarian, the Legal
 Research Librarian and the Foreign and International Law Librarian, who are available to support the
 work of academic staff, researchers and students. Academic staff and research students have access
 to the Squire 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The Squire’s specialist facilities and collections include
 the unique Eminent Scholars Archive which documents the careers and achievements of eminent
 legal scholars associated with Cambridge; and includes biographies, bibliographies, photographs and
 recorded interviews.

 The Squire is a member of a number of consortia involved at the forefront of the improving access for
 researchers to national, foreign, international and comparative legal materials – FLARE (Foreign
 LAwREsearch), FLAG (Foreign LAw Guide) and NELLCO (New England Law Library Consortium).
 The professional activities of the Squire’s senior staff contribute to a wider awareness of
 developments in legal information through involvement in the work of the British and Irish Association
 of Law Librarians (BIALL) and the International Association of Law Libraries (IALL).

 The Radzinowicz Library (the third largest Criminology library in the world) holds one of the world’s
 foremost collections on criminology and criminal justice and was a founder member of the World
 Criminal Justice Library Network. It houses about 60,000 books, 20,000 pamphlets and 200 current
 periodicals. The collection contains both contemporary and historical material and the Institute
 provides access to online resources, including abstracting services providing comprehensive
 coverage of journals, books and reports on criminology and related disciplines.




                                                                                                   18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
  society


  Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

  There are numerous international collaborations which have led to tangible outputs including
  successful research grant applications. LML (Liddell, Skopek) has an established link with the
  Centre for Advanced Studies in Biomedical Innovation Law (CeBIL) of the University of
  Copenhagen. This has involved regular participation in an annual symposium (2018 and 2019).
  LML also works closely with HSS-Bio (a network of Cambridge academics in the social sciences
  and humanities who are interested in biomedicine), the Centre for Medical Ethics and Law at Hong
  Kong University, and the PHG Foundation, a health policy think tank.

  In 2014, LCIL undertook, jointly with the British Red Cross and the International Committee of the
  Red Cross (ICRC), the Customary International Humanitarian Law project (IHL). The aim of the IHL
  was to update the practice section of the ICRC’s customary IHL database. The revised IHL
  database received the first American Society of International Law (ASIL) International Legal
  Research Interest Group (ILRIG) Jus Gentium Research Award in April 2015 in recognition of the
  database’s contribution to providing access to legal resources in international law.

  In 2015, internal Cambridge funding supported CELS together with the Department of Politics and
  International Relations (POLIS) in developing a network of researchers within the University
  working on European issues. This was successful in obtaining school funding for a Collaborative
  Research Network on Britain in Europe (NEWBIE) and this, in the end, provided a platform for
  research collaborations undertaken in relation to Brexit, notably the involvement of Cambridge staff,
  in particular Barnard, Fraser-Butlin and Ludlow in the ESRC-funded ‘UK in a Changing Europe
  Initiative’.

  The Centre for the Study of Global Human Movement supports scholars in creating cross-
  disciplinary networks and partnerships within the University as a whole and with other universities
  and external agencies. It assists scholars with grant applications and resources to ensure impact. It
  also promotes transdisciplinary teaching and capacity-building for students, researchers and
  scholars alike. The Centre includes members from across the UoA (Campana and Gelsthorpe
  from Criminology; Barnard, Fenton-Glynn, and Hughes from Law).

  The CBR (Deakin) has been involved in knowledge exchange between the UK and China on law,
  finance and technological change, in research funded by the ESRC's Newton Fund and the
  National Science Foundation of China. In 2017-8, this funding enabled it to study ‘Informal Finance
  in China: Risks, Potential and Transformation’. This entailed close collaboration with Sheffield
  University in the UK and Renmin University and Hunan University in China, and engagement with
  financial market regulators in the UK and China.

  Engaging with users and beneficiaries of research

  Engagement has been both wide and deep. In some cases, this has resulted in specific impacts on
  the law making process. Elliott’s research on the constitution was relied on by parliamentarians
  and civil servants throughout the debates on Brexit-related legislation between 2016 and 2019, and
  was prominently cited in the counsels’ submissions in the Supreme Court litigation in the epochal
  Article 50 and proroguing cases. Erdos applied his research on data protection law to argue
  successfully for the incorporation of an ‘academic expression’ category into Art. 85(2) of the
  General Data Protection Regulation (2018). Bently was commissioned by the European Parliament
  to explore the feasibility of introducing a ‘press publisher’s right’ into the revised Copyright Directive
  (2019), leading to a narrowing of the right as eventually drafted. Harris collaborated with the IMF on
                                                                                                      19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  tax reform in developing countries and advised numerous national ministries of finance and tax
  administrations; in the review period he has produced 15 draft laws, of which 11 formed the basis of
  Bills introduced into various parliaments, and 8 were enacted, including laws on income tax and tax
  administration in Ghana, taxation of extractive industries in Sierra Leone, tax administration and
  taxation of extractive industries in Tanzania, taxation of offshore indirect transfers in Albania, and
  tax administration and fiscal federalism in Somalia. Gullifer is a member of the UNIDROIT working
  group on digital assets, and co-chair of one of its sub-groups.

  In other cases, engagement and dissemination has improved policy makers’ understanding of
  issues. Barnard’s research on migration of EU citizens into the UK, along with her wider
  contribution to the work of the ESRC-funded programme on ‘The UK in a Changing Europe’, was
  widely disseminated to and extensively cited by policy makers in the UK and mainland Europe
  during the debates around Brexit following the 2016 referendum. Bartels’ research on WTO law
  has also been widely relied on by policy makers to arrive at an informed understanding of
  international trade issues arising from Brexit. Young was involved extensively in explaining
  developments in EU law to a wide range of public bodies and the media including appearing before
  a number of parliamentary committees. Armstrong was invited in 2019 to become the standing
  special adviser to the Scottish Parliament’s Finance and Constitution Committee. CELS held a
  roundtable with Monckton Chambers in 2017 on Article 50 TEU litigation.

  In a further category of cases, research on issues of public interest was commissioned by users for
  use in framing policy outcomes. Turenne’s research on judicial appointments was commissioned
  and her recommendations then implemented by the Judicial Studies Board and the Senior Salaries
  Review Board. The Equality and Human Rights Commission funded elements of a joint research
  project between Criminology and Law (Padfield and Gelsthorpe) on ‘Deaths under Community
  Supervision’, resulting in a round-table discussion about the research implications with top-level
  policy makers. The International Labour Organization and Asian Development Bank commissioned
  Deakin and Adams in the CBR to produce data on labour laws for use in econometric analysis
  which fed directly into their policy evaluation processes. Adams and Deakin were also
  commissioned by the Vietnamese Ministry of Justice and Supreme People’s Court to write a report
  on labour court reform, which was presented to officials and judges in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City
  (2015). Steffek completed reports for the German Ministry of Justice on trader-consumer
  conciliation procedures and for the OECD on ‘Access to Justice for Businesses and Inclusive
  Growth in Latvia’ (2016-17).

  Wider contributions to economy and society

  Influencing judicial decision-making

  Members of the UoA actively engage with judges and legal practitioners on issues of doctrinal
  interpretation and seek to influence the development of case law. Opportunities for interaction with
  legal practitioners arise from the activities of the Faculty’s research centres, including high-profile
  lectures organised by the Lauterpacht Centre for International Law, the Centre for European Legal
  Studies, the Centre for Public Law and the Centre for Private Law, and regular seminar series. In
  addition, the ‘Cambridge Law Club’ provides a regular forum for meetings between senior judges
  and members of the Faculty, at which doctrinal legal research is presented and views exchanged.

  These interactions are reflected in a high rate of citation of the work of Faculty members in courts in
  the UK and many other jurisdictions. In the period under review there were over 300 such citations.
  Citing courts include the International Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the European
  Communities, the European Court of Human Rights, the UK Supreme Court, the German Federal
  Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Canada, the High Court of Australia, the Supreme Court
  of New Zealand, and the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal.

  Legal research by Faculty members is not confined to isolated citations but includes instances in
  which it has been reflected in a paradigm shift in the law. For example, Merrett’s research on the
                                                                                                     20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  extra-territorial reach of employment legislation has been cited regularly as establishing a new
  approach to the distinction between jurisdiction, choice of law and territorial scope. Her 2010 article
  on this issue in the Industrial Law Journal was cited in the Supreme Court by Lord Hope delivering
  the judgment of the court in Ravat v Haliburton [2012] UKSC 1, [4], and then applied and followed
  by the Employment Appeal Tribunal in Simpson v Intralinks Ltd [2012] ICR 1343 and numerous
  later cases. Research by Tofaris on the negligence liability of public authorities for omissions has
  been relied on to effect a major change in the judicial analysis of the topic away from using policy
  arguments and in favour of applying the 'omissions principle'. The Supreme Court cited his 2016
  article in the Cambridge Law Journal in the three leading cases on the topic: Michael v Chief
  Constable of South Wales [2015] UKSC 2; [2015] 1 AC 1732, [176]-[177], [189], [197]; Robinson v
  Chief Constable of West Yorkshire Police [2018] UKSC 4; [2018] AC 736, [34], [37]; Poole Borough
  Council v GN [2019] UKSC 25; [2019] 2 WLR 1478, [76]. The approach has also been influential
  outside the UK, with the article cited in the appellate courts of several other common law
  jurisdictions.

  International law reports

  Several international law report series heavily relied on by practitioners are edited from LCIL. The
  International Law Reports (ILR) (edited currently by Greenwood and Lee) is a series of law reports
  begun in 1929 and published by Cambridge University Press. From 2015, there are 6 volumes per
  calendar year, each volume containing approximately 700 pages of text – comprising the texts of
  the selected judgments, together with summaries of the legal issues raised by each case. In
  addition the ICSID Reports series (published by CUP) is edited by Vinuales and Waibel.

  Clinical programmes

  The Faculty established the Cambridge Pro Bono Project (CPP) in 2010 to provide a vehicle for
  graduate-level law students, advised by Faculty members, to assist in the preparation of legal work
  in a pro bono capacity. Since 2014 CCP has undertaken nine major projects in public interest
  areas. These include a memorandum on the legal status of transgender persons to the Superior
  Court of Québec (2016); a report on privacy issues in monetary investigations to the Vidhi Centre
  for Legal Policy, New Delhi (2015); a research memorandum to the Centre for Law and Policy
  Research, Bangalore, examining the use of specialised sexual violence courts in South Africa,
  Spain, and Liberia, and specific jurisdiction fast-track criminal courts in Australia and South Africa
  (2015); a research memorandum to the Chicago International Human Rights Clinic, for a project on
  ‘Developing a Rights-Based Approach to Tuberculosis’ (2015); and three memoranda submitted in
  response to requests from the Inter-American Court for Human Rights (2014, 2015 and 2016).

  Disseminating best practice in prison education: the Learning Together initiative

  Building on earlier initiatives bringing together people in higher education and criminal justice
  organisations to learn with and from each other, the Institute established the Learning Together
  programme in 2014, with funding from the ESRC, British Academy and HEFCE. Part of the
  initiative involves carrying out research on outcomes from prison education programmes. In 2016
  Learning Together was highlighted as an example of best practice by Dame Sally Coates’s review
  of prison education. In response to growing national interest from academic and criminal justice
  practitioner colleagues, the organisers of the programme (Ludlow and Armstrong) organised a
  series of engagement events to share their practices and the theories and methods underlying
  them. From this, a national network of over 20 partnerships has grown and has contributed to the
  development of the Prison and University Partnerships in Learning network. There has been
  international interest in Learning Together from Mexico, Africa, Australia, Denmark, France and
  Germany, and in 2016 the first international Learning Together partnership was established in
  Brisbane.




                                                                                                   21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Contribution to sustainability of the discipline

  The Unit actively contributes to the sustainability of the disciplines to which its work relates (both
  legal studies, socio-legal and criminological research) in a number of ways. The Unit’s substantial
  contributions to interdisciplinary research and open research are described in section 1 above. On
  its responsiveness to national and international priorities, again see section 1 above, detailing major
  grants which the Faculty and Institute have obtained under the auspices of national and
  international research initiatives. On international collaborations, international recognition of the
  quality and significance of the Unit’s research, keynote speeches and lectures series given, and
  hosting of international visitors, see the next subsection. On the Unit’s contribution to the renewal
  of the research base of the discipline through the training of doctoral researchers and the promotion
  of career development for postdoctoral researchers and early career researcher, see section 3
  above. In the case of Criminology, there is also active participation in the British, European and
  American Societies of Criminology, including senior positions and editorship of journals owned by
  these societies.

  Wider influence in, contribution to, and recognition by the research base

  Journal and series editorships

  Significant editorial roles include Albors-Llorens (Yearbook of European Law); Benvenisti
  (American Journal of International Law); Deakin (editor in chief, Industrial Law Journal; member of
  editorial board, Cambridge Journal of Economics); Fenton-Glynn (editorial board of the
  International Journal of Law, Policy and the Family, and an editor of the European Section of the
  Journal of Social Welfare and Family Law); Harris (Assistant Editor (International) for the British
  Tax Review); Hinarejos (co-editor, European Law Review); Nouwen (Co-editor in Chief, European
  Journal of International Law); Scherpe (editor of the International Journal of Law, Policy and the
  Family; international board member of Zeitschrift für das gesamte Familienrecht); and Worthington
  (advisory board of the Modern Law Review and editorial board of Current Legal Problems). Three
  journals are edited with institutional support from the Faculty of Law: the Cambridge Law Journal
  (editors Bently, Allison and Gullifer), the British Yearbook of International Law (editors
  Benvenisti and Redgwell (Oxford) and the Cambridge Yearbook of European Law (Armstrong).
  Several members of staff in the Institute also play key roles on editorial boards of leading journals:
  Liebling (Punishment and Society), Crewe (British Journal of Criminology),Treiber (European
  Journal of Criminology) and Gelsthorpe (International Journal of Women, Crime and Criminal
  Justice, International Journal of Youth Justice, Howard Journal of Criminal Justice, Journal of
  Criminology and Criminal Justice). Gelsthorpe and Treiber are the General Editors of the
  prestigious Clarendon Series in Criminology.

  Membership of Research Council or similar national and international grants committees
  and peer review bodies, and major field organisations

  Bently was Chair of the European Copyright Society (2015-16) and founding director of the
  International Society for the History and Theory of Intellectual Property (standing down with effect
  from 2015). Benvenisti was a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of the Max Planck Institute
  for Comparative Public Law and International Law, Heidelberg (until 2018). Deakin was a member
  of the international advisory board of the European Centre for the Tort and Insurance Law, Vienna.
  Du Bois-Pedain was a member of the AHRC Peer Review College. Howell was a member of the
  Consultative Working Group of the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA)'s Corporate
  Finance Standing Committee). Worthington was the Treasurer of the British Academy. Bell has
  chaired the All European Academies working groups on Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe since
  2013 involving regular meetings with the Commission and input into the formation of policy on these
  programmes. Gelsthorpe is a member of the ESRC Peer-review College, and sits on a number of
  advisory committees in the Ministry of Justice, including the Inspectorate of Probation Advisory
                                                                                                   22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Committee which advises the Chief Inspector of Probation on research findings and priorities for
  thematic inspections. She also jointly chairs the European Society of Criminology Working Group
  on Gender, Crime and Justice, and is a deputy chair of the Social Policy REF 2021 sub-panel.

  Invited keynotes and lecture series and conference chair roles

  It is not possible to report all of these contributions but some particularly high-profiles ones may be
  noted. In 2017 Benvenisti gave a Special Course at the Xiamen Academy of International Law,
  and in 2019 he was invited to deliver the General Course at the Hague Academy of International
  Law in 2023 (as a result of Covid-19 this will now be presented in 2024). Deakin gave a course of
  lectures as a visiting professor at the Collège de France (2019). Scherpe gave a plenary lecture at
  the 16th International Society of Family Law World Conference on ‘Family Law and Family Realities’
  in Amsterdam (2017). Tankebe gave the ‘Distinguished Scholar Lecture’ to the 16th International
  Corrections and Prisons Association in Windhoek, Namibia (2014). Liebling gave the keynote
  speeches at the Hong Kong Correctional Services Department Conference, World Trends in Prison
  Development, ‘Developments in understanding prison effects and pathways to rehabilitation’ (2017)
  and the 16th Annual Conference of the European Society of Criminology, Münster (2016). Eisner
  gave keynote speeches to the3rd International Conference on Governance, Crime and Justice
  Statistics, Merida (2016), the World Conference on Injury Prevention and Safety Promotion
  Tampere (2016), and the European Society of Criminology Conference, Cardiff, 13 September
  2017. Gelsthorpe gave keynote speeches to the ‘Women, Crime and Criminal Justice’ conference,
  Sheffield (2016), and the joint UNESCO and University of Cyprus Policy and Practice conference
  (2014).

  Cooperation and collaborative arrangements for postgraduate research training

  Since 2010, the Programme in European Private Law for Postgraduates (PEPP) has enabled up to
  six Cambridge PhD students to engage in seminars about various aspects of Private Law in a
  European context together with peers from the Bucerius Law School Hamburg and Münster,
  Katowice, Valencia, Genoa and Leuven. The Faculty has exchange programmes with the Max
  Planck Institute for Private and Commercial law in Hamburg and with Harvard University. The
  Faculty is also part of the LERU programme of research student exchanges, and hosted the annual
  British Association of Comparative Law postgraduate research student workshop in 2018.

  Major field conferences organised

  These are very numerous. Of particular note are the three major international conferences on
  family law (covering, respectively, surrogacy, Brexit , and registered partnerships) organised by
  CFL (Scherpe, Fenton Glynn, Miles, Sloan) in the period under review, and the Public Law
  Conference, set up by Elliott and Varuhas in 2014.

  Hosting distinguished academic visitors

  Both the Faculty and the Institute welcome visitors on a regular basis to spend sabbatical terms or
  shorter periods in Cambridge, and the Goodhart Visiting Professorship enables the Faculty to host
  eminent scholars from around the world for a year-long visit.

  Prizes

  Major national and international prizes are won by members of the Unit at all stages in their
  careers, thereby recognising the esteem in which scholars are held. Angelopoulos won Proxime
  Accessit in the 2016 European Law Faculties Association Award for Outstanding Doctoral Theses
  in European Law and in August 2017 her monograph was shortlisted for the Peter Birks Prize.
  Fenton-Glynn won the Inner Temple Book Prize for a thesis-based monograph in 2015 and was
  runner up for the senior prize in 2018. Lusa Bordin was awarded the 2014 ICLQ Young Scholar of
  the Year prize for his article ‘Reflections of Customary International Law: The Authority of
                                                                                                   23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Codification Conventions and ILC Draft Articles in International Law’. Donaldson’s article, 'Survival
  of the Secret Treaty: Publicity, Secrecy and Legality in the International Order' won the Francis
  Deák prize (2017), awarded annually for the leading article by a younger author in the American
  Journal of International Law. In 2016, Nouwen was awarded the prize for the best article published
  in the Leiden Journal of International Law over the preceding three years. Her paper 'As You Set
  out for Ithaka' (2014) was chosen as ‘an outstanding and original contribution to international legal
  scholarship’. In 2020 Sherman received the August Vollmer award of the American Society of
  Criminology. Wikström received the Stockholm Prize in Criminology in 2016.

  Conclusion

  At the start of current review period, research in law and criminology at Cambridge had a global
  standing by virtue of the reputation enjoyed by certain individuals and groups specialising in
  particular sub-disciplines. Six years on, the Unit not only continues to contain individuals and
  groups whose work is widely regarded, with justification, as world-leading, but is producing high
  quality research over a wider range of areas than ever before, and has a rising profile with policy
  makers and practitioners, in both cases reflecting strategic investments made over the course of
  the current cycle. The Unit is recognised as making a vital contribution to the sustainability of the
  discipline through the scale and quality of its support for doctoral research and the development of
  researchers at all points in their careers. The Unit has a sustainable model and a strategy which
  equips it to meet future challenges.




                                                                                                   24
