Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: Geography and Environmental Studies (UoA14)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 This REF submission continues a longstanding history of research in Geography and
 Environmental Sciences at the University of Northampton (UoN) and its antecedent institutions.
 Interdisciplinary research, evidence-based practice, and innovative research-led pedagogies
 continue to be central to our work in relation to diverse contemporary geographical and
 environmental issues.

 All members in the unit are associated with the Environment Research Group (ERG), led by
 Ollerton, which offers a wide range of opportunities for discipline-specific community-building and
 researcher-development activities, aligned with a wider offer of interdisciplinary research support
 and community-building activities offered within the Faculty of Arts, Sciences & Technology. In the
 current REF cycle, ERG’s research and impact priorities have been:

 Geomorphology
 Work led by Foster and Livingstone has focused on physical changes in UK agricultural
 landscapes, South African soil erosion, and long-term dating of arid areas in the south-west USA.
 A common theme has been the use of advanced methods of sediment dating in order to
 understand geomorphological processes and the development of methodologies for identifying
 sediment sources and background sediment yields in river catchments to inform erosion
 management strategies and provide targets for sediment yield reduction respectively.


 Wastes management
 Major projects by Bates and Tudor have dealt with waste streams coming from the health sector
 and from consumer electronics. A particular priority has been understanding the fate of this waste
 and how it is being dealt with in the Global South.


 Contemporary social and environmental geographies
 Interdisciplinary social scientific research by colleagues has engaged participatory mixed methods
 studies in diverse contexts. Waite and Tucker continue to develop and theorise qualitative
 research with children and young people via collaboration with colleagues in other disciplines,
 while Waite and Hulme also track diverse globalised human and material mobilities. Work by
 Tudor, Banga, Hulme, Jackson and Holt has explored behaviours and decision-making in
 relation to range of contemporary environmental issues, especially in the Global South.


 Biodiversity and biogeography
 The ecologies of natural and urban habitats, including medium- to long- term changes in the
 diversity and abundance of plants, birds, pollinators and mammals has been a particular focus of
 the work by Ollerton, Grant, McCollin and Crockett. In addition, they have studied biogeographic
 patterns and processes as they relate to islands and widely-distributed plant groups.


 Assessing environmental quality and environmental radioactivity
 This work has focused on naturally-occurring radioactivity in the environment and its potential
 health consequences (Crockett) and on dating lake, reservoir, wetland and floodplain
 sedimentary sequences for paleoenvironmental and archaeological reconstructions (Foster). A
 development of particular interest has been interdisciplinary collaborations around anthropogenic
 radon concentrations in the built environment arising from manufactured objects containing radium
 and uranium.


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2 Unit Research and impact strategy

 During the current REF cycle, we have built on objectives that were set out in REF2014, which
 was the first time that UoN a Geography and Environmental Studies UoA:

    1. To significantly grow numbers of academic staff, contract research staff, and
       postgraduate researchers

 The number of colleagues submitted to Geography have increased from 10 to 14 since 2014,
 reflecting an ongoing strategic commitment to grow numbers of research active colleagues. In
 particular, during this period, we have recruited quality research active staff on full-time,
 permanent contracts (Grant, Hulme) and early career researchers (ECRs) such as Waite to
 continue the unit’s development of a vibrant and sustainable research culture. Alongside this
 recruitment, we have developed and mentored staff within the ERG to become research active as
 independent researchers. The ERG has contracted postdoctoral colleagues (Dr Jim Rouquette
 and Dr Stella Watts) on major externally-funded projects including the Nene Valley Nature
 Improvement Area Project. Geography have also strategically engaged visiting postdoctoral
 researchers around ERG priorities for sustained periods (e.g. Dr Pablo Gorostiague, funded by
 the National University of Salta, has collaborated with colleagues around conservation biology).
 Colleagues have supervised 12 postgraduate researchers (PGRs), up from nine during the last
 REF, to completion with a further six supervisions ongoing.

    2. To increase both the breadth and depth of research being conducted within ERG

 The number of research projects, and the range of interdisciplinary collaboration, evident within
 the ERG has increased in the current REF period. Examples include Ollerton’s BBSRC funded
 project on Modelling landscapes for resilient pollination services in the UK (2017-2020) and Bates’
 project on Palestinian ewaste (GBP34,850 funded by Cesvi and GBP97,287 by EuropeAid). The
 collaborative and cross-institutional reach of our research activities has broadened to include
 visiting posts at other institutions such as Tudor (Visiting Professor at the University of Brescia in
 Italy), Ollerton (a Visiting Research Fellow at the University of New South Wales, Australia) and
 Foster (Visiting Professor at Rhodes University, Greece).

    3. To increase the variety of our external bidding sources and undertake major
       research bids in collaboration with large consortia of colleagues from other
       institutions supported by current investment in research facilities.

 Since 2014 we have been involved in a wide range of research projects. Ollerton collaborated on
 multiple research council funded projects with partners across three continents that have a
 combined value in excess of GBP2,000,000. Foster has undertaken a number of funded
 collaborative projects with Rothamsted Research valued at approximately GBP100,000. Bates
 led Work Package 1 for the Horizon2020 funded project, Post-Consumer High-tech Recycled
 Polymers for a Circular Economy (PolyCE 2016-2020). The LAWEEDA project (2016-2019) was
 an Erasmus+ project led by Bates and Tudor which developed and delivered training for the
 management of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) by third sector organisations
 in Brazil and Nicaragua.

 Within Geography and the wider Faculty there has been a strategic investment in staff research
 time and regular internal opportunities for colleagues to bid for both University and Faculty funds
 (University Big Ideas Fund, Innovation Fund, URB@N Bursaries and Seedcorn Funding, QR
 impact support). These funds have enabled development of networks and research bidding
 opportunities which have helped foster new collaborations with larger multidisciplinary consortia.
 For example, investment in ERG networking activities has enabled us to develop projects and
 links with:



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        1. Imperial College and the Natural History Museum, London (“Genetic and
           morphological changes in UK bees to a century of agricultural land-use change”,
           funded by the Natural Environment Research Council)
        2. The Centre for Ecology and Hydrology and multiple UK and Latin American partners
           (“SURPASS2 - Safeguarding Pollination Services in a Changing World”, funded by the
           Newton Fund Latin America Biodiversity Programme)
        3. The University of Reading and University of Huddersfield (“Modelling landscapes for
           resilient pollination services in the UK” funded by the Biotechnology and Biological
           Sciences Research Council)
        4. The University of New South Wales and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial
           Research Organisation (CSIRO) (“Understanding when biocontrol and enemy release
           affect plant populations”, funded through the Australian Research Council)
        5. The LAWEEDA project noted above was conducted in partnership with the Technical
           University Berlin and the Fraunhofer Institute for Reliability and Microintegration
           (Erasmus+ project)


 Geography is currently undergoing a period of transition with the recent departure of a number of
 experienced colleagues who have subsequently committed to Emeritus (Foster) and Visiting
 (Bates, Ollerton) Professor roles. This has provided us with an opportunity to reflect, refresh and
 refocus the research and impact priorities, with new and ECR colleagues progressing to
 leadership roles, with discipline-specific mentoring and development opportunities supported by
 the new Emeritus and Visiting Professors. In this context, colleagues have co-developed our goals
 in a way that will allow us to grow our research and impact capacity in a number of ways, whilst
 building on ERG’s existing thematic priorities and aligning with a new, wider Faculty research plan.
 Key priorities for the next REF period are as follows:

    1. To continue to nurture a postgraduate research community within Geography and
       Environmental Science

 To enhance the research capability of the department it is important to nurture future talent by
 continuing to develop our postgraduate research community within Geography and Environmental
 Science. From 2014-2020 the department has supervised multiple PGRs through to successful
 completion on a wide range of topics and it is vital to maintain this moving forward. There are a
 number of experienced supervisors who have acted both as research supervisors and Directors
 of Studies for PGRs at the UoN and partner institutions. Alongside this, support will be provided
 to enable the ECR staff to complete the necessary training to supervise postgraduate researchers.
 By taking these steps it will enhance the overall research expertise of the department, as well as
 increasing the academic and impactful outputs produced by the team. The community welcomes
 PGRs being supervised on multidisciplinary topics by colleagues from elsewhere in the institution,
 and from partner institutions, developing a strong multidisciplinary theme within the community. In
 striving to create a legacy from this collegiate environment for doctoral students and ECRs we
 intend to develop a subject-specific alumni network so that research and peer-support
 partnerships can be maintained even if staff and former students move on from the institution.

    2. To seek to create collaborative research opportunities with other subject areas in
       our Faculty, the wider institution and external stakeholders.

 The university has undergone a series of restructures, with the most recent changes seeing the
 Department of Environmental and Geographical Sciences becoming part of the ‘Science’ subject
 area with the Faculty of the Arts, Science and Technology in Summer 2019. Looking forwards,
 this provides us with the ideal platform from which to explore and develop new collaborative
 research opportunities with wider university colleagues. For example, looking at subjects closely
 allied with geographical and environmental research, the research expertise of the team is now
 particularly well placed for collaborative working with colleagues in Biological Sciences (Jackson
 and Dr Atish Vadher (appointed post-July 2020)) and sport and physical activity (Spellman and
 Waite). From 2020 – 2025, in line with the University’s institutional Research Plan, we will maintain

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and look to expand collaborative research activities, within the university and beyond, to include
 both academic and non-academic stakeholders. Internally, this will include the well-established
 relationship between the Human Geography staff and colleagues based in the Faculty of Health,
 Education & Society. As evidenced throughout this submission, staff members within this Unit of
 Assessment already work closely with academic colleagues at other higher education institutions
 as well as with other stakeholders. In the coming years we will look to maintain and grow these
 partnerships to continue to produce excellent, impactful research.

    3. To increase the breadth and impact of research activity, aligning ourselves to
       relevant United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)

 We will create processes to assure quality, constituting supportive processes to enable colleagues
 to enhance the quality of research outputs, bids, environments and impacts. Where appropriate,
 we will seek to utilise localised funding opportunities to expand areas of interest within Geography
 through the initiation of pilot research projects before seeking larger external funding. There is
 local support from colleagues in place helping less experienced colleagues prepare project
 proposals alongside the institutional support delivered through the Researcher Development
 Programme and the Research and Innovation Funding Support (RIFS) team. We will continue the
 development of strategic partnerships with national and international bodies developing new
 opportunities for social impact, user-involvement and public engagement around research
 activities. We are committed to UoN’s focus on the UN SDGs with Geography aligning itself to
 SDG7: Affordable and Clean Energy, SDG11: Sustainable Cities and Communities and SDG13:
 Climate Action.

    4. To expand the portfolio of research being conducted within the human/social and
       environmental geography subdisciplines

 This reflects the growth in the number of staff in Geography whose research is classified in this
 subdiscipline and therefore provides an opportunity to strengthen the presence of the human
 geography within the Environment Research Group in the future. This goal will be facilitated by
 the other goals that have been proposed for the next REF period, including the peer-support of
 ECRs and increasing the breadth of interdisciplinary research within the research group and with
 other institutional colleagues. Alongside the continuing research priorities of individual staff
 members, the pursuit of collaborative opportunities within geography has significant potential to
 enhance the social impact of projects by integrating a human geography component.

 1.3 Impact

 Sustaining high quality geographical and environmental research with significant national and
 international impacts is a key aim of Geography and the Faculty’s strategic plans. In order to
 develop impacts from research projects the Faculty of Arts, Science and Technology (FAST), and
 the University as a whole, have committed resources to individuals to allow them to develop and
 explore impacts, gather evidence, and assess scale of impact. This includes time built into
 workload agreements which frees up staff to engage in activities that are not directly related to
 their research (e.g. the Nenescape project). In addition, the UoN has employed a dedicated impact
 projects officer to advise on defining pathways to impact. ERG colleagues will work to develop
 tangible processes to offer discipline-specific events, training, mentoring, peer support, impact-
 development and researcher-development opportunities for colleagues at all career stages, to
 provide a stronger, consolidated infrastructure for our peer review process, research support,
 governance, impact enhancement and public engagement. In particular, plans are specifically
 designed to develop:

    1. Strategic partnerships, supporting colleagues to extend national and international
       networks of external collaborators and develop new opportunities for social impact, user-
       involvement and public engagement around research activities;



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     2. Quality assurance, constituting supportive processes to enable colleagues to enhance
        quality of research outputs, bids, environments and impacts;


 Since 2015, all colleagues are allocated at least one specific research-focused objective each year
 (objectives reflect current faculty/institutional research KPIs and typically include targeted activity in
 terms of bidding, publications, impact or sectoral and international network-building. We also now
 are supported by a larger, consolidated and interdisciplinary Faculty infrastructure for researcher
 development and research support, peer review, governance, integrity, impact enhancement and
 public engagement, enabling scaled-up strategic support for researcher development, closely
 linked to wider institutional research and innovation funding support, development and guidance.

 1.4 Interdisciplinary research

 Geography and environmental studies are, by their very nature, highly interdisciplinary subjects
 and, being a relatively small UoA in terms of numbers of staff, there is a considerable exchange
 of ideas and approaches within the group. We have collaborated with disciplines allied with
 geographical and environmental research such as Biological Sciences (Jackson) and Sport and
 Physical Activity (Spellman and Waite). We also run cross-disciplinary events fostering
 collaboration such as seminars that are available for staff members across the university and
 visiting guests to attend. In addition, the annual UoN Research Conference involves mixed
 sessions by academic and postgraduate researchers from all of the university’s Faculties, resulting
 in a broad interchange of knowledge across disciplines.

 1.5 Open research

 Staff within Geography receive training and support in open access, copyright and data-
 management. In 2019 the University launched its CRIS (Current Research Information System)
 enabling greater visibility of not only research outputs, but also research activities and datasets.
 In 2020 the University purchased a platform for digital preservation, and staff are now moving
 towards a more open research environment, where open research has progressed from being
 encouraged, to being an integral part of the research life-cycle. Datasets are uploaded to the
 CRIS on submission, where they are checked for replicability and long-term digital preservation.
 A data management plan is required for all research projects as part of the ethical approval prior
 to any research being carried out. To facilitate this, staff are encouraged to use DMPonline and
 examples of well-written data management plans, and one-to-one training sessions are available
 to all staff. A strong emphasis is placed on ensuring that our data adheres to the FAIR (findable,
 accessible, interoperable and reasonable) principles of sharing of data, striving to be as open as
 possible, but understanding when necessary restrictions are required.

 Staff have been provided with training in the selection of places for publication, use tools such as
 Sherpa/Romeo and the creative commons to check funder requirements, restrictions relating to
 copyright, and the selection of appropriate licencing of research outputs. The University of
 Northampton has a small institutional fund to cover the cost of open access where a green (non-
 payment) route is either not an option, or where the embargo period is extensive. This fund
 covers the payments for articles, chapters and monographs. Where possible scholarly chapters
 are made open access. Research activities, such as presentations at conferences, workshops
 and educational resources are made available under a creative commons licence.

 1.6 Research integrity

 Geography support a culture of research integrity. It works within the UoN’s Research Integrity
 Policy, which seeks to: maintain the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of
 research; ensure that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards; support a research environment that is
 underpinned by a culture of integrity and based on good governance, best practice and support
 for the development of researchers; use transparent, robust and fair processes to deal with

                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 allegations of research misconduct should they arise; and work together to strengthen the integrity
 of research and to reviewing progress regularly and openly.

 Ethics statements for funding applications are peer-reviewed prior to submission by the
 university’s Ethics Committee which until recently was chaired by Crockett who continues to
 maintain a strong interest in questions of research integrity. Waite has also served on the
 University and Faculty ethics committees since joining the institution in 2016.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Geography has seen growth over the REF period, with an increase in the number of staff we will
 be submitting increasing from 10 submitted in REF2014 to 14 submitted in this cycle. The vast
 majority of staff (88%) teaching and researching in Geography and Environmental Studies already
 possess PhDs. Those who do not are working towards completing their doctorates. This is being
 supported by the Faculty in terms of reduced teaching load, particularly during the writing up
 process, and negotiating with colleagues to block teaching into particular months. Some have
 completed their PhDs since being appointed at Northampton (Spellman and Jackson).

 For all colleagues, researcher development is principally managed and audited through the
 University’s PDR process, whereby individual objectives and key performance indicators are
 agreed annually with line managers and appraised after six and twelve months. Since 2015, all
 colleagues are allocated at least one specific research-focused objective each year (objectives
 reflect current Faculty/institutional research KPIs and typically include targeted activity in terms of
 bidding, publications, impact or sectoral and international network-building). The PDR is also the
 process through which individual research training needs are identified, workload hours are
 allocated to research, and plans are made for dedicated ‘research and scholarly activity’ hours. In
 addition to line managerial support, the Faculty Research Leader is responsible for mentoring
 colleagues at all career stages, supporting the development and delivery of individual research
 KPIs. ERG provides a focus, network and support structure for all research active staff, PGRs,
 and colleagues seeking to develop research skills within Geography and Environmental Sciences

 The unit endorses the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers; all new
 members of staff are provided with mentors and have a lower teaching load when they first join
 the department. The Faculty development programme is designed to mesh with an extensive
 range of wider institutional support and development opportunities offered by the University RIFS
 team, Staff Development unit, Graduate School, and tailored mentoring processes for Associate
 Professors and Professors. All new members of staff automatically join the ERG when they are
 recruited. Sabbaticals are available if they can be externally funded and/or teaching schedules
 can be restructured; for example, Ollerton spent November 2019-January 2020 as Visiting
 Research Fellow at the University of New South Wales in Australia. This was funded by the
 university and by an Australian Research Council grant on which he is a Co-Investigator, and was
 facilitated by negotiating changes to his pattern of teaching with colleagues. This negotiation
 commonly occurs between staff when they have research deadlines to meet such as grant
 submissions.

 Since 2014 Tudor and McCollin have been accepted on to the university’s Associate Professor
 scheme that provides mentorship, ring-fenced time, and dedicated research-focused workshops
 with an aim to develop them to Full Professor level. The expectation is that these Associate
 Professors will enhance their research profiles to fulfil UoN Full Professor criteria.

 There is significant collaboration between staff at different stages of their career, particularly with
 respect to joint supervision of PGRs, including external visiting staff. These comprise Emeritus
 Professors, Visiting Professors, and Visiting Researchers associated with the ERG, including Prof.
 Tony Denman (Emeritus Visiting Professor in Medical Physics), Prof. Paul Philips (Emeritus
 Professor of Wastes Management), Prof. Tom Brereton (Head of Monitoring at Butterfly

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conservation), Prof. Kate Rowntree (Rhodes University – Visiting Professor in Geomorphology)
 and Dr Simon Pulley (Rothamsted Research - Visiting Researcher in Geomorphology). Dr
 Christopher Groves-Kirkby (Visiting Fellow in Radon and Environmental Radioactivity), Dr Hilary
 Erenler (a former PGR now carrying out independent research), Dr Jim Rouquette (a former
 PDRA, now Director of Natural Capital Solutions). These Emeritus and Visiting staff play a full and
 active role within the ERG helping to mentor ECRs and those on the Associate Professor
 Development Scheme, work with researchers to develop funding bids, publish research papers
 with academics from the department and play a role on PGR supervisory teams. In addition,
 Denman sits on the Science Research Degrees Board and contributes to the work of that
 committee in assessing and approving PGR registrations, etc.

 2.2 Postgraduate researchers

 Associated with ERG there are six current PGRs and 12 PGRs who completed their studies over
 the REF period. Depending upon the balance of expertise required, including both relevant
 research background and prior experience of PGR supervision (in line with UoN PGR regulations),
 these PGRs are supervised by members of the ERG, university staff from other areas, and
 external/visiting researchers. Where possible supervisory teams are comprised of experienced
 individuals plus ECRs, and all staff have completed, or are undertaking, the Postgraduate
 Certificate in Research Supervision which is run by the Graduate School. PGRs themselves take
 part in a range of training workshops and it is notable that in recent Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey’s (PRES) UoN has scored highly being ranked 4th in 2018 and ranked 1st in
 2020 for overall satisfaction. This includes being in the top eight institutions in all categories,
 including 1st for “Resources” and “Responsibilities”, and 2nd for “Progression”, “Research skills”
 and “Professional Development”.

 Our PGRs are funded from diverse sources, including Defra, the Butterfly Conservation, Faculty
 budgets, charities and self-funded. On the whole a majority of our PGRs are self-funded, a clear
 indication that the expertise of our staff is in demand. Students for whom English is not their first
 language can access university workshops and support for writing skills. In addition, they are
 provided with training on an as-needs basis in statistical analysis (e.g. Geographical Information
 Systems), PGRs have representation on the Science Research Degree Board and the Faculty
 Research and Enterprise Committee.

 Once accepted onto the university’s PGR programme, all PGRs go through a week-long induction
 (including both generic for UoN and more discipline-based within the Faculty). They then
 subsequently take part in a wide range of generic researcher-development training from the
 University’s Graduate School. This is run alongside further discipline-based and project-specific
 training delivered by members of geography and external organisations. The University’s central
 Assist, Learning Development and Educational Linguistics teams provide additional support as
 required.

 The PGR programme is structured such that there are milestones that the PGR must pass before
 moving to the next level, including an initial probationary period, a project proposal, and an ethics
 application plus risk assessment for field and laboratory work. The next stage is ‘Transfer’ which
 involves giving a seminar that is advertised to everyone in the university (we encourage
 undergraduates to attend) and a viva with the supervisory team along with a member of staff who
 is external to the team but works in a cognate discipline and is qualified to be a supervisor under
 UoN regulations. All of this plus an annual review of progress, involving the PGR and the full
 supervisory team, ensures that there is suitable engagement and progress with the research,
 taking into account individuals’ circumstances.

 PGRs are entitled to claim a payment for annual development (part-time and fulltime), equipment
 or conference attendance. Any unspent funds can be rolled over into subsequent years. There are
 also additional internal funding sources that may be applied for, e.g. the Mike Daniels Fund and
 the Research Environment Enhancement Fund (REEF) initiative. Both the Faculty and the
 Graduate School have worked hard during the present REF cycle to increase opportunities for

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR career development, for example by providing paid teaching roles, in the SuCCEED@8
 programme, and to include PGR representatives on all Faculty and University committees.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 We adhere to regulatory requirements around equality and diversity, supported by a central
 institutional Equality and Inclusion Unit and Faculty Equality and Inclusion Champions. This is
 further bolstered by a wide range of institutional and Faculty support for the individual needs and
 wellbeing of colleagues as detailed in the institutional environment statement. In practice,
 colleagues’ supportive inclusive practice through sustained, routine activities including, but not
 limited to:

        1. Ensuring that all research policies and strategic plans undergo formal Equality Impact
           Assessment
        2. Constituting a disciplinary ethics committee to offer specialist guidance and
           development regarding equality and inclusion issues in educational and pedagogic
           staff, PGR and undergraduate research
        3. Enhancing annual Centre reporting processes to evidence the ways in which
           geography research demonstrates positive impacts in terms issues of equality,
           inclusion, and social mobility
        4. Continuing to develop discipline-specific training and mentoring processes to develop
           positive social change through innovative and impactful research activities and outputs
           considering protected characteristics, sociodemographic factors and intersectional
           identities in educational research, spaces and practices

 In addition, many colleagues participate in a growing number of colleague-led institutional support
 and advocacy groups such as the BAME Staff Network, LGBTQ+ group and Staff Disability
 Network. Many colleagues have also benefited from the University’s ‘Navigator’ (men and
 transmasculine) and ‘Springboard+’ (women, trans and non-binary) staff development programme
 in academic or professional services roles which provides an opportunity for staff to undertake
 personal and professional development and receive support for leadership, goal-setting and
 strategic visioning skills.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income

 Since REF2014 staff within the ERG have been part of large collaborative bids from a range of
 funders, including UKRI, with colleagues at other institutions in the UK and internationally. This
 was a deliberate strategy to broaden our network of collaborators and increase our chances of
 securing funding in a highly competitive funding environment. Examples include:

    1. Modelling landscapes for resilient pollination services in the UK: Ollerton with Prof. Simon
       Potts and Dr Tom Breeze (University of Reading), Prof. Helen Lomax (University of
       Huddersfield) and Dr Jim Rouquette (Natural Capital Solutions) funded by BBSRC (2017-
       2020)


    2. Chequered skipper reintroduction project: McCollin and Ollerton with Prof. Tom Brereton
       (Butterfly Conservation and our Visiting Professor in Conservation Science) funded by
       Butterfly Conservation (2018-2021)


    3. Genetic and morphological changes in UK bees to a century of agricultural land-use
       change: Ollerton in collaboration with Dr Richard Gill (Imperial College, London) and Prof.
       Ian Barnes (Natural History Museum, London) funded by NERC (2017-2020)



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4. Understanding when biocontrol and enemy release affect plant populations: Ollerton with
       Prof. Angela Moles and Dr Stephen Bonser (University of New South Wales) and Dr Raghu
       Sathyamurthy (CSIRO) funded by the Australian Research Council (2019-2022)


    5. Safeguarding Pollination Services in a Changing World (SURPASS2) – a new international
       partnership to improve knowledge, build research capacity and initiate new collaborative
       actions for the conservation and sustainable management of pollinators across Latin
       America: Ollerton with Dr Claire Carvell (Centre for Ecology and Hydrology) and multiple
       UK and Latin American partners funded by NERC (2019-2022)


 In addition to these research projects Ollerton acts as a board member of the Nenescape
 environment and heritage project involving multiple Northamptonshire partners, with the University
 of Northampton acting as the Competent Authority, funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund (2016-
 2021)

 At a university level there is support for bidding activity and grant management provided by the
 RIFS team. Staff have access to GRANTfinder and Funding Institutional to identify funding
 opportunities that are suitable for both their specialism as well as stage of career. RIFS provide
 support on navigating the internal award management approval process. Support is provided to
 guide staff on Early Career Fellowships, helping to work out costings, funder guidelines and
 obtaining institutional sign-off. Specific training has been provided in relation to developing and
 writing research to influence and change policy.

 3.2 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact

 The University has recently invested significantly in infrastructure and facilities with the move to
 Waterside Campus, a new site for the university costing GBP330,000,000. This included a
 GBP20,000,000 investment in IT systems and services. The campus has received several
 nominations and awards including the Learning Hub receiving the 2019 Royal Institute for
 Chartered Surveyors ‘Design Through Innovation’ award. This move to waterside, offering a more
 interdisciplinary environment for our researchers to work in, has fostered much collegiate dialogue.
 PGRs have also benefited from this move, being relocated to a space within the Senate building
 giving them a dedicated home on campus facilitating a strong sense of community. This close
 proximity with other PGRs, their supervisors and laboratories has improved their experience at
 UoN, as can be seen in the promising PRES results (section 2.2).

 The ERG has access to well-equipped laboratories at UoN including a scanning electron
 microscope suite housed and maintained in the Institute for Creative Leather Technologies which
 shares facilities with FAST. Specialist equipment includes a suite of equipment used for
 radionuclide measurement using gamma spectrometry that was designed and installed by Foster
 for his work on sediment tracing. Dr Atish Vadher is employed as a technician in Geography and
 Environmental Sciences, during which time he completed his PhD. In addition, Paul Stroud
 provides specialist IT support for GIS.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Staff engage in interdisciplinary research with a wide range of fellow academics at UoN and at
 other institutions in the UK and internationally. Examples of such collaboration can be observed
 in the work of Ollerton and Foster. Ollerton worked with taxonomists and molecular
 phylogeneticists at institutions across the world (for example the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, the
 University of Bayreuth in Germany, the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, Saint Louis
 University in the USA, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro in Brazil, and the Kunming Institute
 of Botany in China) to produce what is, to date, the most comprehensive assessment of the
 biogeography and evolution of pollination systems in a large family of flowering plants (Ollerton
 et al. 2019). He worked with climatologists to assess the influence of present day and
 paleoclimates on the distribution of wind and animal pollinated plants. In addition, his research

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has involved working with ecological economists in the BBSRC-funded project “Modelling
 landscapes for resilient pollination services in the UK; ancient DNA specialists studying genetic
 and morphological changes in UK bees to a century of agricultural land-use change”; local heritage
 groups and environmental NGOs in the Nenescape project; and sociologists (Barons et al. 2018
 Journal of Apicultural Research) on collaborative publications. Foster has recently worked with a
 large number of international scientists to further develop sediment source fingerprinting protocols.
 The collaborations with US, Canadian, Brazilian, European and Iranian scientists, including
 freshwater biologists, geochemists, geologists, modellers, social scientists and archaeologists,
 have produced two recent papers developing the protocols and identifying gaps in knowledge.

 The research of other members of the ERG is interdisciplinary such as Tucker’s work which spans
 human geography, childhood studies and health geographies, the work of Waite which crosses
 over from geography to sociology and education, Hulme which spans geography and economics
 and history. Likewise, Crockett’s work has involved collaborations with ecologists and geologists,
 geoscientists and earth-system scientists and, latterly, ethicists.

 One of the main objectives of our REF2014 submission was to create regional, national and
 international collaborations between members of the ERG and external universities, research
 institutions, government agencies, and business and third sector organisations. During the REF
 period the peer-reviewed outputs published by the ERG involved collaborations with colleagues
 from 236 separate organisations. These included academics at other universities and
 collaborators at organisations such as the Environment Agency, Fera Science Ltd., Desert
 Research Foundation of Namibia, Game & Wildlife Conservation Trust, Natural England, Natural
 History Museum of Los Angeles County, Rothamsted Research, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew,
 RSPB, RSK Group plc, Northampton County Council and the United States Geological Survey.

 Collaborations such as these have developed from both formal research collaborations (e.g. co-
 investigators on grants) and informal networks of scholars in the same discipline. These
 relationships have resulted in invitations for members of the ERG to travel to other institutions in
 the UK and abroad to present seminars and take part in workshops, e.g. Foster to South Africa,
 Livingstone to Namibia, Ollerton to Australia and the USA, McCollin to Italy, Bates to Brazil and
 Nigeria, Crockett to France. As well as interacting with other researchers, these visits have
 provided an opportunity for the ERG to engage with a wider community of citizens. For example,
 Ollerton during his time as a Visiting Research Fellow at the University of New South Wales
 presented a public lecture and Q & A session at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Sydney, that was
 attended by over 50 people and streamed live on the Garden’s Facebook page.

 Locally, the ERG has hosted visiting scholars from other institutions in periods lasting from one
 day to one year; for example: Prof. Mentore Vaccari (University of Brescia, Italy), Ms Kaouther
 Maaroufi (University of Bizerte, Tunisia), Prof. Chao-Dong Zhou and Dr Michael Orr (Chinese
 Academy of Sciences), Dr Pablo Gorostiague (National University of Salta, Argentina), Prof. Leila
 Bendifallah (University M'Hamed Bougara, Algeria), Laura Bannatyne (Rhodes University, South
 Africa), Prof. Art Horowitz (US Geological Survey), Alexandra Martins Fragoso (Unversidade
 Estdual Paulista, Sao Paulo). Some of these visitors have presented in seminars and timely
 convergences of guests have resulted in impromptu research symposia.

 Opportunities to present research to a wider audience have come from invitations to present
 keynote talks at national and international conferences. For example, Crockett: (2010-2019
 European Geoscience Union Annual General Assemblies) presented a sequence of short-courses
 (cf. master-classes) on Fourier and time-series analysis, targeted at early career geoscience
 researchers. This education and outreach activity led to the book ‘A Primer on Fourier Analysis
 for the Geosciences’ (Robin Crockett, Cambridge University Press, 2019). As part of the Royal
 Geographical Society with the Institute of British Geographers (RGS-IBG) Annual International
 Conferences in 2016 and 2017. Waite was invited to facilitate round-table sessions with
 postgraduate researchers exploring issues related to research on the topic of Population
 Geographies. These invitations were a reflection of Waite’s participation on the committee of the


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Population Geographies Research Group of the RGS-IBG and her own experiences as an early
 career Population Geographer.

 The creation of impactful research is fundamental to the culture of the University of Northampton
 via its Changemaker initiative and membership of the Ashoka U network. Research by
 Geographical staff is influenced by this ethos and by the desire of the researchers to make
 meaningful changes at local, national and international levels. Our research therefore engages
 with non-academic users and beneficiaries of our work across a wide range of sectors. This can
 involve everything from giving talks to special interest groups to reviewing public statements and
 reports, including: government from local to international levels (e.g. Northamptonshire County
 Council, Transition Town Northampton, Defra, ADAS, IPBES, EA National Geomorphology Annual
 Conference); non-governmental organisations and campaign groups (Extinction Rebellion, Arun
 and Rother Rivers Trust and Farming Groups ); SMEs and large businesses; private watch and
 clock collectors and museums holding collections of radium-painted radioactive objects (Imperial
 War Museum and allied military museums); and the public via a diverse range of media including
 radio, television, newspaper interviews and blogging.

 Staff within the ERG have actively worked to establish networks and relationships with individuals
 and organisations that can gain from the expertise being developed from our research. This is
 being facilitated through our deep understanding of how environmental policy and practice is used
 by our partner organisations and how it affects the lives of citizens in the region, in the rest of the
 UK, and elsewhere in the world. As examples of international impact, Foster’s work with
 agricultural and land management organisations in South Africa directly affects the livelihoods of
 farmers in that country. Likewise, Ollerton’s contribution to the NERC-funded SURPASS2 project
 is focused on developing pollinator conservation strategies that will enhance crop yields for
 farmers in Latin America. All of these organisations influence activities, policies and practices, at
 all levels from local authorities to supranational bodies.

 All the staff in the department are committed to contributing to the sustainability of the discipline
 and undertake a wide range of roles to facilitate this. For example, in the sub-discipline of Human
 Geography Tucker is Book Reviews Editor and a long-time member of the editorial board for the
 international journal Children’s Geographies. Over the REF period she has reviewed manuscripts
 for journals including Social and Cultural Geography, Transactions of the Institute of British
 Geographers, Space and Culture, Environmental Communication and The Canadian Geographer.
 She has also reviewed grant proposals for the New Zealand-based Marsden Fund and for the
 Swiss National Science Foundation, and book proposals for Routledge and SAGE. Likewise,
 Waite has acted as a peer reviewer for, amongst others: Urban Geography; Journal of Rural
 Studies; Population, Space and Place and Local Environment and has reviewed books proposals
 for Rowman and Littlefield.

 In support of research being conducted across the discipline members of the department have
 served on a wide range of national and international grant committees and review boards. Tudor
 has reviewed grants for the UK-India Education and Research Initiative (UKIERI), the European
 Union's COST Action and the Newton Prize. Crockett has reviewed grant applications for the
 Israeli Science Foundation, Austrian Science Fund and Hungarian National Research –
 Development and Innovation (NKFI) Fund.

 Researchers also serve as members of committees and groups outside of the university, as
 appropriate to their expertise. For example, Ollerton represents the University of Northampton on
 the Northamptonshire Local Nature Partnership and the Nenescape Project Board; Jackson is a
 member of the Nene Valley Catchment Partnership; Foster served for 3 years on a DEFRA funded
 advisory panel and is on an ad hoc local advisory group focusing on sediment mitigation options
 in South Africa.

 All staff in the ERG are Fellows or members of one or more professional organisations as
 appropriate to their disciplines, e.g. Royal Geographical Society (with Institute of British
 Geographers), British Ecological Society, Chartered Institution of Wastes Management, Advance

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 HE, Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, Institute of Physics, International Association for
 Promoting Geoethics. Hulme is the current Chair of the Global Studies Association. Additionally,
 Foster was elected as a Fellow of the British Society for Geomorphology in 2016 and Ollerton
 was awarded a Visiting Research Fellowship at the University of New South Wales, Australia
 (2019-2020).




                                                                                               Page 12
