Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Aberdeen

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 2 Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 This submission includes 32 (30.15 WTE) researchers from the University of Aberdeen’s
 Institute of Applied Health Sciences (IAHS) within the School of Medicine, Medical Sciences and
 Nutrition (henceforth the School). The principal research groups are our two internationally
 renowned research units, the Health Economics Research Unit (HERU) and the Health Services
 Research Unit (HSRU), our Centre for Healthcare Randomised Trials (CHaRT) and our Medical
 Statistics Team. We are committed to international excellence, innovation and relevance.
 Significant achievements during this REF period include:
     • Delivery of research that has had demonstrable influence on policy and practice, with
          nine impact case studies returned across four Units of Assessment.
     • CHaRT supporting 51 multicentre trials across 1712 study centres, with 36,343
          participants from three continents.
     • Through our National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Technology Assessment
          Reviews contract, publication of over 35 assessments, directly informing changes in
          clinical guidance for the management of millions of NHS patients.
     • Delivery of research informing the introduction of Minimum Unit Pricing for alcohol in
          Scotland (the first nation to do so).
     • Research informing the update of the staff Market Forces Factor, ensuring current labour
          market conditions inform hospital and primary care funding in England.
     • Development of a suite of online prediction tools for In-vitro fertilisation (IVF) success to
          inform clinical reasoning and help patients shape expectations around IVF treatment in
          the UK and USA.
     • Being at the forefront of methodological work to understand how individuals respond to
          preference elicitation tasks.
     • Publication of over 800 peer-reviewed publications, including in our top Journals (NEJM,
          Lancet, Journal of Health Economics and Health Economics).
     • Establishment of Trial Forge (an international initiative to promote efficiency in trials) by
          Treweek, which won the international Cochrane-REWARD Prize for reducing research
          waste.
     • Treweek being included in the 2019 world’s most highly cited researchers list.
     • Campbell’s work on the reporting of cluster trials rated by the Annual Review of Public
          Health as the most influential development to date in the field of group randomised
          studies.
     • Award by the Marie Curie Alumni Association for our public engagement activities.
     • Award of the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education for
          sustained research excellence. The Queen’s Anniversary Prize is the most prestigious
          form of national recognition open to a UK academic institution and has a focus on
          innovation and practical benefit to society.

 Realising the strategic commitments outlined in our REF2014 submission, we have: applied our
 expertise in clinical trials and evidence synthesis to inform policy and practice; undertaken
 innovative methodological research in the areas of preference elicitation and the design and
 conduct of clinical trials; employed our expertise in labour economics to address new policy
 challenges in health workforce and resource allocation; extended the frontiers of research in the
 development and evaluation of behavioural interventions; and built capacity in mixed-methods
 research and statistical expertise.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RESEARCH STRATEGY
 Our research aims to improve population health and wellbeing by strengthening the health
 services research evidence base, developing innovative methods to address difficult evaluation
 problems, training the next generation of health service researchers and influencing health policy
 and practice. We work in close partnership with our colleagues in the School and wider
 University. We have extensive collaborations with other high-profile researchers and research
 groups throughout the UK and internationally including the NHS; community, voluntary sector
 and patient organisations; policy makers and guideline development groups; and industry.

 Our research is structured around three interconnected themes. The principal activities of these
 themes over the current REF period are outlined below.

 1. Evaluation of Healthcare Interventions
 Our research and innovation in this area is a recognised strength from previous assessment
 submissions and continues to make a major contribution to healthcare practice and policy. We
 employ efficient, novel study designs, which are patient-focused and at the forefront of best
 practice. We focus on long-term global clinical problems in discrete clinical areas where we have
 developed world-class expertise (e.g., surgery, critical care, women’s health, urology and
 dentistry). We maximise impact through the iteration of evidence synthesis (including modelling
 and mixed methods) informing new primary research (principally large-scale clinical trials with
 integrated process evaluations). An exemplar of this approach is our work on surgical
 interventions for women with stress urinary incontinence. We conducted the first Cochrane
 systematic review of these procedures during RAE 2008 before any sufficiently large trials had
 reported. In this REF period MacLennan, Kilonzo and Boyers completed the largest
 multicentre UK randomised controlled trial in this area. Subsequently Brazzelli and MacLennan
 undertook a complex evidence review that brought together 120 studies, including 21,598
 women from over 25 countries. The review provided the National Institute for Health and Care
 Excellence (NICE) and Scottish Government with up-to-date evidence on the safety and efficacy
 of mesh procedures. This approach has been expanded into ophthalmology, critical care and
 general surgery throughout this REF period. For example, our syntheses of technologies for
 monitoring neovascular age-related macular degeneration (Hernández, Ramsay) led to our
 large-scale publicly funded early detection of neovascular age-related macular study (NIHR,
 GBP2.2m) and our industry funded study observing novel eye characteristics after treatment for
 macular degeneration (Novartis, GBP2m).

 Our large-scale healthcare evaluations are primarily conducted by our UK Clinical Research
 Collaboration (UKCRC) registered clinical trials unit, CHaRT, led by MacLennan. CHaRT has
 conducted 51 trials since 2014, with 28 ongoing. We have the longest pedigree of undertaking
 surgical trials in the UK. Examples in this REF period include surgical management of: varicose
 veins (CLASS, Cotton, Ramsay, Scotland, Campbell, MacLennan); knee arthroplasty
 (TOPKAT, MacLennan, Campbell); haemorrhoids (eTHos, Kilonzo); vaginal prolapse
 (PROSPECT, Kilonzo, Boyers, MacLennan); uterine prolapse (VUE, Boyers, Kilonzo); and
 heavy menstrual bleeding (HEALTH, Scott, Scotland, MacLennan, Hernández). Ongoing
 surgical trials include: management of stress urinary incontinence (SIMS); endometriosis
 (REGAL); glaucoma (TAGS); kidney stones (PURE); cholecystitis (C-GALL); and bladder cancer
 (PHOTO). Our strategic approach has enabled us to focus on the long-term impact of
 interventions. For example, we are completing the longest prospective follow-up (20-years) of
 any NIHR trial in the UK with our knee arthroplasty trial. In addition, recognising the complexity
 of designing critical care trials of surgical interventions, Campbell and MacLennan designed the
 first Bayesian trial for the NIHR HTA programme (REBOA). Ramsay leads the largest portfolio
 of dental primary care pragmatic trials in the UK, specialising in evaluating interventions for
 routine care of patients in primary care settings. We completed the largest ever trials evaluating
 the use of scale and polish and dentist advice and patient recall intervals (IQuaD and

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 INTERVAL, Ramsay, van der Pol, Boyers). Three NIHR funded dental trials are in progress,
 investigating the effectiveness of various interventions for managing caries in primary care:
 prescribing high dose fluoride toothpaste (REFLECT) and investigating two novel tooth
 interventions - selective removal (SCRIPT) and pulpotomy (PIP).

 Ramsay, Brazzelli, Scotland, Boyers, Aucott and Scott lead our significant portfolio of
 technology assessments, primarily for NICE, via our competitively awarded Technology
 Assessment Reviews contract (NIHR, GBP3.2m). During this REF period we have published
 over 35 assessments, resulting in changes in clinical guidance for the management of millions of
 NHS patients, including people with common conditions, such as high cholesterol and diabetes,
 as well as patients with high-risk cancers. We were recently awarded a new contract running
 until 2027. We collaborate with our clinical colleagues locally, nationally and internationally, to
 conduct large-scale researcher-led evidence synthesis projects, for example, studies on
 interventions for obesity and smoking cessation. Methodologically complex and novel, these
 projects involve mixed-method approaches (Avenell, Skea, Boyers, MacLennan, Duncan) and
 novel meta-analysis methods such as component and Bayesian meta-analyses (Scott,
 MacLennan).


 2. Improving Research Practice
 Sound policy advice requires robust methodological underpinnings. We undertake cutting-edge
 research aimed at improving research methodology, producing innovations in research and
 leading to change in research practice.

 Eliciting the preferences of patients, health professionals and the public is central to policy on
 how health services should be provided and how they are valued. Discrete choice experiments
 (DCEs), a principal method for eliciting preferences, was introduced into health economics by
 Ryan 30 years ago. This current REF period has seen an exponential growth in the use of the
 method across health service research to address a broad range of policy questions. We
 continue to be at the forefront of developing methodology and applying DCEs in health and
 healthcare. Ryan and Watson employed eye-tracking technology and laboratory experiments to
 understand how individuals respond to preference elicitation tasks. They have explored the
 validity of different approaches to asking choice questions and analysing response data. Their
 methodological research continues to inform best practice. We apply DCEs to inform policy, for
 example: delivery of person-centred care (Ryan, Entwistle); understanding professional
 preferences (Ryan, Skåtun); development of behavioural interventions (Avenell, Campbell,
 Farrar, Ludbrook, MacLennan, van der Pol); and recruitment and retention of health
 professionals (Locock, Watson, Skåtun, Ryan). Our trials in dentistry and women’s health
 incorporate DCEs to value benefits beyond health outcomes (where the commonly used Quality
 Adjusted Life Year (QALY) is insensitive). Our international reputation for leading development
 of the DCE methodology is reflected in attendance at our DCE workshops. Run annually, the
 workshops are always oversubscribed and have attracted over 200 people from a variety of
 backgrounds and across six continents during this REF period.

 Evidence-based healthcare is undermined by poor design, conduct and reporting of research.
 We have a substantial portfolio of research addressing these issues in trial research. We lead
 global efforts to improve trial recruitment and retention (Gillies, Treweek), sample size
 calculations and surgical learning curves (Ramsay) and the use of placebo in surgery through
 development of the Applying Surgical Placebo In Randomised Evaluations guidelines
 (Campbell, Gillies). Ramsay developed the international ROBINS-I tool, used by Cochrane for
 assessing bias in non-randomised studies. Leading the international imperative to improve trial
 efficiency, Treweek set up Trial Forge to improve the evidence for how trials should be efficiently
 conducted, focusing on recruitment and retention. We are internationally recognised as leading

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developments in the principal methodology for generating evidence on different ways to conduct
 trials – Studies Within A Trial (SWATs). The centrality of patient and public involvement (PPI) to
 research motivates a body of research into the theory and practice of PPI in research. Locock
 has researched both patient partner and researcher perspectives, drawing on sociological theory
 to examine issues of power and epistemic authority. Integrity of research is crucial for
 transparency. Treweek’s work on the inclusion of ethnic minority groups in COVID-19 trials has
 been adopted as NIHR policy; and Avenell leads innovative international collaborative research
 into research misconduct which led to the retraction of multiple trials on vitamin D. Ongoing
 research includes: an MRC Partnership grant for a trial methodology network; providing
 evidence on how effort is invested in primary and secondary outcome data collection in trials
 (CSO Scottish Government funded); using behavioural science to understand and improve
 participation in clinical trials (Canadian Institutes of Health Research funded); and investigating if
 co-design methods can be translated from health to social care (NIHR Health Services and
 Delivery Research funded).

 By adopting and/or evaluating our methodological innovations within our primary studies, we
 ensure our applied research is both robust and innovative. For example, introducing new
 methodological innovations like SWATs, new recruitment and retention approaches and
 broadening the valuation space in our clinical trials ensures we remain at the cutting edge of our
 field.


 3.    Designing Better Healthcare
 This theme takes an interdisciplinary approach to assessing and improving care. The
 perspectives of patients and families, NHS staff and the public are considered.

 Our research is at the frontier of the interface between labour economics and health economics.
 Skåtun leads research bringing the theoretical concepts and empirical techniques of labour
 economics to the analysis of health labour markets. Projects include investigation of the
 consequences of geographical wage variation and NHS wage setting for the recruitment and
 retention of nurses (Elliott, Skåtun), the implications of changing patterns of wage variation on
 the formulae that allocates funds to the NHS in England (Skåtun, Elliott, Kopasker), the impact
 of new and changing roles for health professionals on health outcomes and costs (Elliott,
 Kopasker) and the application of economic agency theory to inform the delivery of person-
 centred care (Skåtun, van der Pol). Building on our long-standing expertise in researching
 interventions to promote change in health professional behaviour, we have utilised
 interdisciplinary approaches with health psychology, medical statistics and health data science.
 This approach has produced innovative, large-scale, impactful studies applying audit and
 feedback approaches in primary care (Duncan, Ramsay, Treweek) to change dentists’ and
 general practitioners’ prescribing and test requesting practices. Duncan, in collaboration with
 The Healthcare Improvement Studies (THIS) Institute, is researching the use of such
 approaches to improve antibiotic stewardship. We have applied our expertise to design and
 evaluate behaviour interventions to promote behavioural change in patients and the public
 (Avenell, Campbell, D’Ambruoso, Farrar, Lee, Ludbrook, MacLennan, Treweek, van der
 Pol). Ongoing work includes assessing the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of text message
 and endowment incentives for weight management in men with obesity (NIHR Game of Stones
 trial) and the impact of a lifestyle intervention for women attending NHS breast screening clinics
 (Scottish Government funded ActWELL trial).

 As healthcare strives to be more people-centred, Locock and Entwistle lead research to
 improve experiences of care. Locock leads a portfolio of qualitative research into understanding
 and improving patient experiences of illness and care services. Given the growing evidence that
 patient and staff experiences are closely associated, this work includes a focus on staff

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 perspectives, including staff use of patient experience data (Locock, Skea). In collaboration with
 THIS, Campbell and Locock are exploring patient feedback on Care Opinion for quality
 improvement. Entwistle integrates qualitative research with philosophical reasoning to
 understand the practical and ethical challenges of improving healthcare, focusing on
 relationships between healthcare professionals, patients and family members.

 The patient journey through the healthcare system generates large-scale routine data. During
 the REF period, investment by the University of Aberdeen (in partnership with the NHS) in the
 new Aberdeen Centre for Health Data Science has enabled a step-change in the quality and
 volume of our studies utilising routine data. We use innovative modelling methods to interrogate
 routine data to improve service delivery, for example, the geographic configuration of trauma
 centres (Campbell) and screening intervals in the Scottish National Diabetic Screening
 Programme (Scotland). Fielding and Lee have analysed millions of person-years data from the
 renowned Royal College of General Practitioners Oral Contraception registry and nationwide
 Danish data to explore paradoxes of cancer risk with female contraception. McLernon leads
 international research developing clinical prediction tools to inform treatment decisions and
 manage expectations for infertile couples. We also use large observational data alongside trials
 to inform the delivery of healthcare. Exemplars include: our trial of multi-professional training for
 maternity staff (THISTLE), where outcomes were routinely collected data from Scottish Morbidity
 Records; our long-term follow-up trial (STOPPIT) investigating the use of progesterone in the
 prevention of pre-term birth in twins; and our portfolio of dental trials, which use routine dental
 treatment data from across the UK.


 ACHIEVING IMPACT
 The delivery of world leading research with direct and measurable impacts is central to our
 research culture. We have strong and well-established relationships with healthcare users,
 healthcare professionals and policy makers in national and international settings whom we
 involve, where appropriate, at all stages of our research. On grant applications and project
 steering groups we actively include the public, service users and health professionals as co-
 investigators.

 Our submitted impact case studies (ICSs) exemplify the success of our impact strategy. For
 example, the ICS for Ludbrook reflects research over a period of 12 years that has influenced
 the development and implementation of minimum unit pricing (MUP) for alcohol in Scotland. We
 were involved in the initial conception, the passage of legislation through the Scottish Parliament
 and the defence against legal challenges. The submitted ICS associated with the work of
 Ramsay illustrates the strategic value of aligning methodological strengths in evaluating surgical
 innovations with clinical academic areas of strength, in this case urology. Co-location with the
 Academic Urology Unit enabled us to maximise potential research impact through direct links
 with national and international opinion leaders and clinical and patient networks. This was further
 enabled through direct working links with NICE, the European Urology Association guidance
 development panels and the Scottish Health Technology Assessment Group.

 The success of our impact strategy is demonstrated by the way our research has influenced
 policy, practice and guidelines during the REF period, including contributing to nine ICSs across
 four Units of Assessment (UoA). Examples include:
     • Informing 26 NICE clinical guidelines, two Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network
         guidelines and 16 international guidelines (e.g., European Association of Urology
         Guidelines, International Incontinence Society Guidelines, Canadian Urology Association
         Guidelines, Cancer Care Ontario Guidelines).



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Our rapid review of reopening dental services after COVID-19 lockdown has informed UK
        guidelines, WHO has shared it with their Chief Dental Officers in 280 Countries across
        the world and it has been downloaded 50,000 times (Ramsay).
    •   Providing the evidence base for funding a weight loss programme for obese men
        delivered by professional football clubs in Scotland, England, Germany, the Netherlands
        and Portugal (Treweek).
    •   Providing key evidence to underpin weight management guidance and practice for adults
        with obesity, in the UK and internationally (Aucott, Avenell, Boyers, Campbell,
        MacLennan, Skea). ICS for UoA-1, Clinical Medicine.
    •   Research on point-of-care coagulometers to support warfarin patients self-monitoring
        their coagulation status led NICE to recommend the technology for patients with atrial
        fibrillation and heart valve disease on long-term vitamin K antagonist therapy (Scotland,
        Brazelli). ICS for UoA-17, Business and Management Studies.
    •   Our clinical trial of different medical treatments for ureteric colic from kidney stones
        prompted national and international guideline agencies to change their clinical guidance
        on the management of ureteric colic (Thomas).
    •   Enabling the Department of Health and Social Care and NHS Improvement to update the
        staff Market Forces Factor, ensuring current labour market conditions inform resource
        allocation to hospitals and primary care organisations in England (Skåtun, Elliott).
    •   Providing expert evidence to support representations to the NHS Pay Review Body
        exploring the effects of pay restraint on NHS Scotland staff groups within the Agenda for
        Change pay system (Skåtun).
    •   The Senegalese Health Ministry introduction of a new rural assignment policy to ensure
        retention of health workers (Ryan).
    •   Our work on configurations of trauma systems informed Scotland’s National Planning
        Forum’s consideration on whether and how to introduce major trauma centres and was
        used by the US Colorado Health Department to review their provision (Campbell).
    •   Developing a decision support tool recommended by NICE in their COVID-19 rapid
        guideline on adult critical care (Ryan).
    •   Our research on person-centred approaches to healthcare, reflected in the development
        of NHS Scotland training and service development programmes being delivered across
        the UK by the Year of Care partnerships (Entwistle). ICS for UoA-30, Philosophy.
    •   Informing development of support services and educational materials for young people
        with Huntingdon’s disease, in Scotland and internationally, as well as influencing the
        practice and training of healthcare professionals (McKee). ICS for UoA-1, Clinical
        Medicine.
    •   Leading the Scottish Government to provide new funding to develop the Scottish Service
        Model for Chronic Pain (McNamee). ICS for UoA-1, Clinical Medicine.
    •   Our research on the introduction of free eye tests informing the Royal National Institute of
        Blind People Scotland response to the Scottish Government’s strategic framework for
        meeting the needs of people with a sensory impairment (Watson). ICS for UoA-17,
        Business and Management Studies.


 SUPPORTING INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH
 Interdisciplinary working is at the heart of our research. Our recruitment policy supports building
 interdisciplinary capacity (see Section 2). The structures we have created to support and
 promote interdisciplinary research have enabled us to generate novel and innovative ways of
 designing and conducting our research. We have brought together researchers with expertise in
 clinical trials, statistics, evidence synthesis, qualitative methods, mixed-methods, sociology,
 psychology, philosophy, health economics and data science. Co-location of staff from different
 disciplines and our cross-disciplinary seminar series, workshops and training events ensures
 integration of research activities across disciplines. We collaborate closely with other colleagues

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within the IAHS, the Institute of Medical Science (IMS) and the Rowett Institute (submitted to
 UoA-1, Clinical Medicine). Examples include: women’s health (Abdel Fatteh, Bhattacharya);
 musculoskeletal conditions (MacFarlane, Jones, Hollick, Martin); primary care (Murchie); urology
 (N’Dow, MacLennan); kidney disease (Black); and health psychology (Allan). We also
 encourage collaboration across Schools. Examples include: healthcare design (Zangelidis
 returned in UoA-17, Business and Management); mental health and job insecurity (Montagna
 and Bender returned in UoA-17); strengthening the livelihoods and resilience of farmers in
 Ethiopia (Phimister returned to UoA-17); using eye-tracking to understand responses to
 preference elicitation tasks (Hermens, returned to UoA-4, Psychology, Psychiatry and
 Neuroscience); and funeral practices in the time of COVID-19 (Crozier, returned to UoA-15,
 Archaeology; Arnason, returned to UoA-22, Anthropology and Development Studies;
 Thornton, returned to UoA-30, Philosophy). We also have extensive international
 interdisciplinary collaborations working with world leading researchers (see Section 4).


 FUTURE STRATEGY
 Health services research is a priority area for sustained investment and development within the
 University and has been identified as an area where we can make a significant impact on the
 world around us. Our future research strategy closely aligns with the University of Aberdeen’s
 20-year strategic vision, Aberdeen 2040. It commits to addressing the challenges of our time by
 offering interdisciplinary and innovative solutions. We will extend and further strengthen our
 international and interdisciplinary collaborations and our strategic partnerships and working
 relationships to maximise relevance, innovation and impact. A post-COVID-19 world will present
 substantial challenges to the NHS. Our research themes have clear objectives for the next five
 years that will inform these challenges.

 Our Evaluation of Healthcare Technologies theme will:
    • Lead world-class evaluations of healthcare interventions where evaluations are known to
       be complex and where our expertise in innovative design will excel. Planned research
       includes deepening our surgical evaluation portfolio. For example, in 2021 we will
       become the British Association of Urological Surgeons’ UK dedicated trials unit (following
       open competition), and we now provide the methodological oversight for the newly set up
       Royal College of Surgeons England Robotic and Digital Surgery (RADAR) Initiative,
       advising on evaluation design for new surgical developments including robotics, artificial
       intelligence (AI) and other digital innovations. This includes the design and delivery of the
       planned pan-NHS evaluation of robot-assisted surgery, which must accommodate
       service-level, surgeon-level and patient-level complexities. We will also increase our
       dedicated portfolio in women’s health, an area of global importance and a key strategic
       priority for the University.
    • Develop our growing portfolio of research into the use and evaluation of digital
       technology to enhance healthcare provision. Planned work includes assessment of home
       health monitoring technologies and the evaluation of secondary care digital consultation
       approaches.
    • Expand methodological approaches to complex evidence syntheses. Planned work
       includes new individual patient data meta-analyses, mixed-methods approaches to
       evidence syntheses and delivering specialised health technology assessments, which
       directly impact on national health policy.

 Our Improving Research Practice theme will:
    • Expand our innovative developments at the forefront of preference elicitation in health
       economics. Planned work includes extending novel eye-tracking research to understand
       how individuals process cost and risk information within a DCE (crucial for the application
       of DCEs within an economic evaluation), developing analytical methods to estimate

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         preferences at the individual level, informing shared-decision-making and person-centred
         care and exploring scope to synthesise and transfer DCE values from one context to
         another.
     •   Develop our world-leading work for improving efficiency in trials. Planned work includes
         improving representation within trials, especially of ethnic minority groups (where we are
         leading national initiatives together with NIHR) and improving how trial teams
         communicate and engage with potential and actual trial participants. This work brings
         together strengths in guideline development, clinical trials and ethics to explore
         supporting people making decisions about participation in clinical trials.
     •   Lead novel developments in study design for complex intervention assessment. Planned
         research includes ethical design of studies, N-of-1 studies, registry-based trials,
         interrupted time series designs and surgical learning curves in medical device evaluation.
     •   Strengthen and expand our PPI research by improving and developing methodologies to
         enable patients and the public to enhance their contribution and to frame our research
         agenda. Planned research includes developing methods of involving the public in
         numerical aspects of studies, the role of citizen science approaches in applied health,
         improving diversity, and leading the development of new ways for the public to be
         involved in core outcome set development.

 Our Designing Better Healthcare theme will:
    • Apply labour economic theories and thinking to inform health policy. Planned research
       includes: the impact of mental health and wellbeing on retention of healthcare
       professionals; how personal and environmental factors influence the choice of specialty
       and the training location at key gateways within the medical training pathway; the impact
       of the new general practitioner (GP) contract on behaviour; GPs’ risk and time
       preferences and clinical decision-making; skill-mix and the impact on job satisfaction; and
       recruitment and retention behaviour of healthcare professionals.
    • Deepen understanding of what matters for improving experiences of care. Planned
       research includes: interdisciplinary approaches to understanding personal experiences of
       health, illness and care; supporting self-care and person-professional relationships;
       improving care pathways to reflect a person-centred approach, including the role and
       experience of new digital approaches; the provision of care in rural communities; and
       new approaches to encourage the use of safer, more (cost-)effective interventions.
    • Extend our portfolio of research using routine NHS data to inform the delivery of person-
       centred healthcare. We will focus on radically changing the way in which evidence-based
       and personalised medicine is pursued, exploring N-of-1 approaches, optimising
       prediction models for infertile couples and exploring and evaluating novel applications of
       AI.
    • Extend the internationalisation of our work to different contexts including low- and middle-
       income countries (LMIC) and increase our focus on addressing key UN Sustainable
       Development Goals; particularly 2 (Zero Hunger) and 3 (Good Health and Wellbeing). A
       recent example is Watson’s Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) funded
       (GBP0.99m) research on strengthening the livelihoods and resilience of farmers in
       Ethiopia. We will extend our work using participatory theory and methods, including
       verbal autopsy, with our partners in South Africa (D’Ambruoso, MRC GBP0.7m). We will
       also use our recent Memorandum of Understanding with São Paulo University, Brazil, to
       generate new technological solutions for multimorbidity in LMICs.

 Our future research ambitions will be underpinned by an increasing focus on widening
 collaborations with industry partners to ensure maximum relevance of our work. A springboard
 for this is our partnership with the Industrial Centre for Artificial Intelligence Research in Digital
 Diagnostics (iCAIRD, GBP15m), bringing together a national collaboration of 15 partners from
 across academia, the NHS and industry (including Canon Medical Research (radiology) and
 Royal Philips (digital pathology)) to explore the potential for AI in the delivery of healthcare.
                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We will also respond to shorter-term health service, policy and funder needs. Our ability to react
 quickly is demonstrated by our COVID-19 research. Current projects include: the role of
 asynchronous consultations in reshaping secondary care post COVID-19 (Ramsay, Locock);
 exploring remote working practices for PPI in research (Watson); public preferences for
 government responses to the pandemic (Ryan, Watson) and vaccine uptake (Watson);
 narrative accounts of primary care practitioners (Locock); ensuring COVID-19 trials consider
 ethnicity (Treweek); funeral practices in the time of COVID-19 (Entwistle, Locock); time and
 risk preferences and lockdown compliance (van der Pol); using N-of-1 studies to understand the
 clinical trajectory of COVID-19 patients admitted to ICU (Vieira); and the impact of long COVID-
 19 on the health and wellbeing of NHS staff (Skåtun) and the wider population (Locock).


 SUPPORTING AN OPEN AND ETHICAL RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT
 The University has an overarching research governance structure ensuring our research meets
 the highest ethical standards and we are committed to open access of our research outputs (see
 Section 3 and REF5a). Our commitment to openness goes beyond the requirements. We
 vigorously promote a climate of generosity and collegiality. Work-in-progress is regularly
 discussed and presented in a spirit of constructive criticism. We are proud of our open research
 culture, which also promotes engagement with stakeholders and discussion of impact. We are
 active participants in Ask for Evidence, a public campaign that holds individuals, companies,
 organisations and public bodies to account. Avenell leads innovative international research into
 research misconduct.

 2. People

 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 Our staff and students are our most important asset, and our personalised development strategy
 is designed to realise their full potential. We have a proud history of developing and nurturing our
 staff to become future leaders in health services research. Many of the staff exemplify the
 success of our staffing strategy. For example, with a background in biochemistry, Gillies joined
 HSRU as a trials manager and subsequently pursued a career in applied health research,
 initially through a competitively awarded CSO postdoctoral fellowship. During this REF period
 she was awarded an MRC Methodology Research Fellowship, was promoted to Senior
 Research Fellow and became Director of the Healthcare Assessment Programme within HSRU.
 She is now an internationally renowned leader of trials methodology research, a lead of the
 MRC’s Trials Methodology Programme and has a substantial portfolio of chief investigator led
 studies. With a background in pharmacology, Scotland completed our MSc in Health Services
 and Public Health Research and joined HERU as a Research Fellow, where he completed his
 PhD in Health Economics. This REF period, he was promoted to Senior Research Fellow and
 then to Reader. He is an internationally recognised health economist working in HTA. McLernon
 joined our Medical Statistics Team as a Research Fellow and was awarded our inaugural
 Backett Weir Russell Career Development Fellowship. During this REF period he completed a
 CSO Postdoctoral Fellowship and was promoted to Senior Research Fellow. He is recognised
 internationally for his research on infertility prediction modelling. Aucott and D’Ambruoso were
 promoted to Senior Lecturer, Brazzelli to Reader, and MacLennan, first to Reader then to
 Professor. Lee, Ramsay and MacLennan were appointed Directors of IAHS, HSRU, and
 CHaRT respectively. Campbell was appointed Dean for Research and Knowledge Exchange
 and then to Vice-Principal/Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research). Many of our previous researchers
 are in leadership positions around the world. Examples from this REF period include: Dr Jan
 Jansen, Director, University of Alabama Centre for Injury Science; Professor Jonathan Cook,
 lead statistician with the Oxford Clinical Trials Research Unit; Dr Gordon Prescott, Reader and
 Deputy Director of the Lancashire Clinical Trials Unit; and Professor John Norrie, Director of
 Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have invested in new posts to support our future research strategy. Strategic appointments
 during the REF period include: Entwistle (joint with Philosophy) and Locock to enhance
 leadership and expertise in our research on improving experiences of care; the appointment of
 Nath to provide statistical expertise in mixed modelling of high-volume and high-dimensional
 datasets; and Vieira underpinning a personalised medicine approach via use of N-of-1 studies
 and complex meta-analysis.

 Our staffing strategy promotes interdisciplinary research through joint appointments. For
 example, between: HERU and HSRU (Scotland); HSRU and the Department of Philosophy
 (Entwistle); HERU and the Business School (Aoki and Abul Naga, returned to UoA-17,
 Business and Management Studies); and HSRU and the Business School (McKee). Douglas
 and Cornulier, both members of our Medical Statistics Team, are returned to UoA-7 (Earth
 Systems and Environmental Sciences).

 The University supports and actively implements the Concordat for the Development of
 Researchers, supporting and developing staff at all stages of their career (see REF5a) and
 enabling researchers to be the best they can. All staff have an academic line manager, an
 annual development review and are offered a mentor. An Institute Staff Development Fund
 supports all staff to attend workshops, courses, conferences and public engagement events. The
 University offers staff training and development courses in a range of areas (e.g., supervisor, IT,
 equality and diversity, ethics, data handling, public engagement (see REF5a). The University
 has a range of polices to support staff wellbeing (see REF5a) and is a recipient of the “HR
 Excellence in Research” award from the European Commission.

 Staff work in teams led by senior researchers, ensuring senior researchers have leadership
 opportunities, facilitating succession planning and guaranteeing early career researchers (ECRs)
 are mentored and receive appropriate on-the-job training. ECRs are given the opportunity to
 work across different areas and are encouraged and supported to undergo research specific and
 career development training, apply for fellowships, attend conferences, publish and to undertake
 a PhD. ECRs who have a PhD are encouraged to be part of a PhD supervisory team. We have a
 successful strategy of developing and supporting our staff to full independence through external
 prestigious fellowships. Examples this REF period include CSO Postdoctoral Fellowship (Gillies,
 McLernon), MRC Methodology Research Fellowship (Gillies, Cook) and Health Foundation
 Fellowship (Duncan).

 We provide multiple forums to share research ideas. Examples include:
   • Our IAHS Seminar Series where we showcase research ideas, ensuring integration of
       research activities across disciplines.
   • Our University-wide “Grants Academy” seminars provide support for grant development
       and writing, supplemented by “Sandpit” and “Conversations on” events, highlighting
       opportunities for interdisciplinary research across Schools. For example, in response to
       COVID-19 the University set up Conversations across Schools to address questions
       emerging from the pandemic. Entwistle led a conversation on grieving and dying,
       resulting in a collaborative project with Locock but also Archaeology (Crozier, returned in
       UoA-15), Anthropology and Development Studies (Arnason, returned in UoA-22) and
       Philosophy (Thornton, UoA-30), together with an external funeral director, to investigate
       funeral practices in the time of COVID-19.
   • Our research groups’ focused seminar series (e.g. HERU’s monthly Stated Preference
       Seminar Series, research meetings and econometric workshops; HSRU’s monthly
       research meetings, Lunch ‘n Learn sessions and methodology workshops; Medical
       Statistics contributions to the Foresterhill Statistics Group seminars and the Royal
       Statistical Society Medical Section and Highlands Local Group seminars) all provide
       opportunities for sharing knowledge and experience in a friendly environment.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Achieving Research Impact
 We enable our researchers to achieve research impact by:
    • Providing financial support to travel to engage in discussion and develop collaborations
       with healthcare users, healthcare professionals and policy makers working in national
       and international settings.
    • Informal engagement with policy makers and healthcare professionals to understand
       their concerns and priorities and to inform our research plans.
    • Encouraging researchers to undertake strategic positions on policy committees and grant
       funding bodies (see Section 4).
    • Supporting the career development of clinical researchers, ensuring the clinical
       relevance of our research. We participate in the Academic Foundation Programme in
       North of Scotland, the Early Career Academic Programme (ECAP) Scheme, NHS
       Research Scotland (NRS) Fellowship Schemes and the Scottish Clinical Research
       Excellence Development Scheme (SCREDS). We support clinical academics to be Chief
       Investigators on large trials. An exemplar is Jan Jansen, a trauma surgeon and
       intensivist who joined HSRU as an NRS Fellow and completed a high-profile study of the
       reconfiguration of trauma services in Scotland as part of his PhD. He was mentored to
       become a chief investigator of a major NIHR trial (REBOA) and is now Director of
       Research of the Division of Surgery at the University of Alabama with a multi-million-
       dollar research portfolio.


 RESEARCH STUDENTS
 Our research students are central to the creativity and vitality of our research community and
 play a central role in the methodological advancement and innovation of our research. Through
 our PhD programme we build capacity for the health services research community. Over this
 REF period 48 PhDs were awarded.

 Our PhD students are fully integrated into our vibrant research community. Students are
 embedded within each of our research groups, sharing offices with ECRs within their relevant
 groups. Each student has a minimum of two supervisors and an advisor (for independent advice
 and pastoral support). We provide financial support to cover bespoke training, research costs
 and conference attendance. Students are encouraged to participate in our seminar series,
 attend Unit retreats and are supported if they wish to undertake a small amount of paid tutorial
 teaching during the latter part of their first and second study years. All PhD students undertake a
 skills audit to identify training needs and attend generic courses in their initial three-months
 (research ethics and governance, research integrity, avoidance of plagiarism, equality and
 diversity, information security awareness and research data management). We offer subsequent
 courses on a wide variety of topics including data handling and statistics, scientific writing,
 presentational skills, entrepreneurship and knowledge exchange. We have six-monthly reviews
 of progress, providing an opportunity for students and supervisors to provide feedback and
 discuss ideas and issues. The nine-month review comprises a written report, oral presentation
 and viva. In the second year a manuscript is written and a poster is presented. In the first and
 third years a presentation at the School’s Postgraduate Research Symposium (organised and
 led by PhD students) is required.


 STAFF AND STUDENT SUPPORT DURING COVID-19
 The mechanisms we have to support staff whilst working from home during COVID-19 have
 proved invaluable. Our regular seminar series have continued (via MS Teams). Senior staff have
 been tasked with maintaining regular contact with their ECR and mid-career researchers, line
 managers have weekly contact with their staff, and for PhD supervisors with their students. We
 transitioned from three-monthly IAHS Open meetings to fortnightly, ensuring staff are informed

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of rapidly changing developments and allowing feedback and discussion. Staff wellbeing has
 been a priority, with clear messaging around support for flexible working, work/life balance,
 workload expectations and ensuring workstation needs are met.


 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 The University is committed to staff and student equality and diversity. We have policies and
 initiatives that support: ethnic minority groups; women; Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender and
 Questioning (or Queer, LGBTQ); people with a disability; part-time workers and returners to work
 (see REF5a). Our commitment to opportunity, equality, diversity and inclusion is further
 supported within our UoA-2 groups. The IAHS gained its Bronze Athena SWAN award in 2017
 and is working to advance to Silver. Regular IAHS external seminars and line manager
 workshops are organised on equality and diversity issues; recent topics covered imposter
 syndrome and unconscious bias. Our “live” Athena SWAN action plan informs our ‘“people
 strategy” and determines the direction and format of any intervention. For example, following the
 latest biannual staff survey, we ran a focus group on perceived negativity of part-time working
 and established a short-term working group on barriers/ facilitators for female clinical academics.

 The professional development of female academics, and those identifying as female, is
 supported by the IAHS annual funding of places on the Aurora Higher Education Leadership
 Development Course. Twelve researchers have benefitted during this REF period. UoA-2 staff
 have also benefitted from the School’s “Family Award for Scientific Conferences” scheme which
 provides childcare and other caring responsibility support for staff wishing to attend conferences.
 Our Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) grant (GBP2.1m. 2014-2021)
 dedicates resources to support the career development of staff returning to academia from
 parental leave. Gillies was awarded a Women Returner award following a period of maternity
 leave. Women have a strong leadership and mentoring role in our UoA-2 submission, for
 example, our Medical Statistics Team and HERU are led by women (Lee and Ryan) and our
 Vice Principal/Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research) is female (Campbell). This return includes eight
 female professors (from a total 12 professors) and 20 females (from the 32 individuals returned).

 The University has signed up to the Race Equality Charter (see REF5a). We pride ourselves on
 the multi-national and ethnically diverse staff and students across our research groups.

 In preparing this submission, the unit complied fully with the requirements of the institutional
 Code of Practice and with the commitments we have made as a signatory of the San Francisco
 Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA). Outputs were reviewed by at least two internal
 and/or external reviewers and selected strictly based on quality. Choices between papers of
 equal grade were informed by the detailed reviewers’ comments and by further independent
 ratings. Where appropriate, specialist external review was sought. Where choices between
 outputs of equal quality had to be made, we took care to appropriately represent protected
 characteristics.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 INCOME
 Over the REF period we secured GBP44.6 million in grant income to support our research
 agenda. Since 2014 our grant income has diversified, illustrated by current support from UKRI,
 NIHR, research charities (e.g., Cancer Research UK, Wellcome Trust, Health Foundation),
 government (e.g., DHSC, CSO, Innovate UK), the European Commission and industry (e.g.,
 AstraZeneca UK). Awards include our competitively awarded HTA programme grant (secured to
 2027) and two CSO programme grants secured to 2024.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILTIES
 Location and Buildings: We are located on the Foresterhill Health Campus (FHC), one of the
 largest clinical complexes in Europe, developed to provide high quality health services, research
 and teaching. FHC, jointly owned by NHS Grampian and the University of Aberdeen, is home to
 NHS Grampian clinical facilities. Our researchers are located in the linked University Medical
 School and purpose-built Health Sciences Building (HSB, completed 2006, GBP8.6m). The HSB
 also houses our Clinical Research Facility, providing a high-quality environment for participants
 to take part in research. We are co-located with our clinical colleagues in the IAHS, returned to
 UoA-1. Adjacent to these buildings are the Institute of Medical Science (IMS) and Rowett
 Building. The IMS brings together laboratory and clinical research. The Rowett Building is a
 state-of-the-art facility (opened 2017, GBP40m), housing international expertise in nutritional
 research. FHC is home to the Suttie Centre for Teaching and Learning in Healthcare (opened
 2010, GBP22.5m). The Centre is an award-winning building, which received a prestigious
 “Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method” award for its
 environmental considerations. It offers our researchers excellent teaching facilities, fully
 equipped simulation suites, well-equipped meeting rooms and social areas.

 The co-proximity of our health service researchers to our clinicians and scientists provides
 unique opportunities for interdisciplinary research from bench to bedside.

 Research Infrastructure: The excellence of our research is enriched by the distinctive features
 of our research infrastructure:
     • Centre for Healthcare Randomised Trials (CHaRT): co-ordinates national and
         international trials and provides state-of-the-art facilities for designing and running trials.
         CHaRT is an active participant within the UKCRC Clinical Trials Unit Network, with
         membership and contributions to the Directors, Trial Management, Programming,
         Information Systems Quality Assurance, Statistics, and Patient and Public Involvement
         and Engagement working groups.
     • Aberdeen Centre for Healthcare Data Science (ACDHS): is a partnership involving the
         University of Aberdeen, NHS Grampian and NHS Research and Development North
         Node. The Centre provides a safe environment to facilitate access to NHS linked data for
         health research. ACDHS runs the Scottish Government/ISO27001 accredited Grampian
         Data Safe Haven (DaSH), providing a platform for the use of NHS electronic data. DaSH
         is one of only four in Scotland and part of the Scottish Federated Safe Haven Network,
         and since 2015, a Charter for Safe Havens in Scotland signatory. ACHDS is also one of
         only five UK centres chosen to form part of the new Health Foundation funded Networked
         Data Lab - a network of advanced analytical teams established to provide leadership and
         expertise in the delivery of health and social care analytics for policy makers.
     • Eye-tracking technology and Scottish Economics Experimental Laboratory: during
         this REF period, we invested in a screen-based eye-tracker. The Department of
         Economics is home to a state-of-the art experimental economics laboratory. These
         facilities enable us to conduct novel research that enhances understanding of how
         individuals make decisions, informing our preference elicitation, workforce and
         behavioural economics research.

 Research Support Services: our research is enabled by the excellence of our support services
 (more detail in REF5a).
    • Research and Innovation services offer support for research, knowledge exchange,
        impact, commercialization, entrepreneurship and public engagement to researchers.
    • Our Grants Academy supports researchers in all stages of the research grant cycle,
        from conception of ideas, development of high-quality funding applications to research
        delivery and realising the impact of our research. The Supporting Grant Applications
        (SGA) process provides a framework for early-stage feedback and mentorship by a small

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        panel of experienced academic staff. Late-stage full proposals are reviewed by senior
        colleagues with established funding records of accomplishment.
    •   The University has an overarching research governance structure ensuring our
        research meets the highest ethical standards. We support and comply with the
        Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. The University’s Research
        Policy Committee, chaired by the Vice Principal for Research (Campbell), has
        overarching responsibility for ensuring rigour and consistency in our research ethics and
        governance arrangements and reports to the University Court, Senate, and Senior
        Management Team. The University is one of ten foundational UK institutions to join the
        UK Reproducibility Network working in partnership to improve research rigour,
        robustness and quality. The University has clear mechanisms in place, including a well-
        defined and publicised whistle-blower policy, to deal with alleged shortfall in research
        governance practice and research misconduct. The School employs a Research
        Governance Manager and Officers to guide the ethical conduct of studies, formulate
        applications for regulatory approval and oversee ongoing research involving NHS
        patients through liaison with NHS Quality Assurance. We have augmented this with our
        own Quality Assurance manager. This ensures adherence to the NHS Research
        Governance Framework and EU Clinical Trials Directive, thus meeting the wide range of
        legal, ethical, regulatory and governance requirements.
    •   We have structures in place to ensure data management within the University is
        compliant with General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection
        Act 2018. The University provides a range of guidance and training on data protection
        and data management. There is a central Information Governance Team and Information
        Champions within all Schools and Directorates. Research activity is supported by the
        Information Governance team. A Data Protection Toolkit offers detailed guidance to
        ensure compliance with legislation, and there is a requirement to undertake a data
        protection impact assessment (DPIA) where there is high-risk processing of personal
        data. Training on data protection and management is offered by the Aberdeen Grants
        Academy. Researchers involved in the collection and analysis of patient data must hold a
        valid Good Clinical Practice certificate and those accessing population health linked
        patient data require a safe researcher training certificate.
    •   We are supported by the University Medical Library and the Sir Duncan Rice Library
        (opened in 2012 and an iconic landmark of northeast Scotland) giving our researchers
        access to over one million volumes in our library collections. We are committed to open
        access of our research outputs. Our Libraries run the Aberdeen University Research
        Archive (AURA) open access repository. Where permitted by the publisher, all published
        papers are released via AURA. The portal includes an overview of social media, press
        and public policy attention for more recent outputs. Our open access compliance rate
        for journal articles has grown from 43% in 2014 to 75% in 2020 and for all outputs from
        34% in 2014 to 68% in 2020.
    •   Our high-performance computing service provides vast computational power to analyse
        large data sets. Our computer support service provides world class, researcher driven IT
        services and access to specialist software. We provide remote access to desktop
        computers and the safe haven. This has enabled research to continue during
        homeworking following the COVID-19 pandemic.
    •   We have worked with our award-winning Public Engagement with Research Unit
        (PERU) to deliver a range of events during this REF period (See Section 4).




                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 COLLABORATIONS
 Collaborations enable us to extend the range of skills and expertise we can bring to our
 research. We have extensive international and interdisciplinary collaborations, ensuring we
 work with world leading researchers and conduct interdisciplinary research of the highest
 standard. Examples from the REF period include:
     • Our large portfolio of clinical trials involves national and international collaborators. For
        example, we led the Effectiveness in Angle-closure Glaucoma of Lens Extraction trial
        (EAGLE), a large, international, multicentre, randomised controlled trial that compared
        the effectiveness of lens extraction versus laser for management of angle-closure
        glaucoma (Ramsay, Scotland). Participants were enrolled from 30 hospital eye services
        in five countries (Australia, mainland China, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and UK).
     • The Selective Decontamination of the Digestive Tract in Intensive Care Unit Patients trial
        (SuDDICU, Campbell, MacLennan) is a multi-national collaboration across Canada,
        Australia, New Zealand and UK to undertake trials with a harmonized protocol to study
        the effects of selective decontamination of the digestive tract.
     • Ryan’s collaboration with world experts on preference elicitation to write a Contemporary
        Guidance for Stated Preference studies. This paper was the most cited paper in the
        Journal of the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists over the past year
        (at September 2020).
     • McNamee’s co-investigator status on the ConCIV Research Consortium (funded by the
        Iceland Research Fund), bringing together economists, lawyers, geneticists,
        philosophers and ethicists from UK, USA and Iceland to address issues around valuing
        benefits in monetary terms.
     • Campbell and Gillies’s CIHR funded project developing a framework for the ethical
        design and conduct of pragmatic trials to improve the quality and value of healthcare
        systems and practices includes clinicians, statisticians, ethicists, philosophers and
        trialists.
     • Treweek set up Trial Forge, an initiative to improve efficiency in the design and conduct
        of trials. There are now nine Trial Forge Centres in five countries (UK, Switzerland,
        Australia, Canada, Ireland).
     • Avenell leads (UK, Australia) and collaborates on (New Zealand) evidence syntheses on
        weight management for adults with obesity, and nutritional interventions, particularly
        vitamin D.
     • Elliott led the European Commission FP7 MUNROS project, looking at the impact on
        practice and costs of new roles for health professionals. Eight countries participated
        (Czech Republic, Poland, Netherlands, Scotland, England, Germany, Turkey and
        Norway).
     • Ramsay’s leadership of a Joint Programming Initiative on Antimicrobial Resistance
        funded international collaboration, comprising of world experts in antibiotic stewardship
        from UK, Canada, Norway and Germany, in partnership with experts in implementation
        science and behaviour change intervention.
     • Campbell’s research on optimal configuration of trauma systems, conducted in
        collaboration with the Division of Surgery at the University of Alabama, an international
        centre of excellence in major trauma surgery.
     • McLernon’s membership of STRATOS (STRengthening Analytical Thinking for
        Observational Studies), collaborating with an international multidisciplinary group
        (statisticians, methodologists, epidemiologists and clinicians) from around the globe
        (Netherlands, Belgium, UK, USA, South Africa and Australia) to evaluate diagnostic tests
        and prediction models.



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our collaborations feature extended visits by international scholars. We have hosted 45
 international visitors during the REF period from a variety of countries across six continents. We
 support international strategic partnerships to promote cutting-edge research. Examples include
 our partnerships with the University of British Columbia (Professor Stirling Bryan had a 10%
 WTE post at HERU during the REF period) and our programme of exchange with Ottawa
 Hospital Research Institute. We lead and contribute to international programmes, for example,
 Cochrane (Brazzelli, Ramsay) and the International Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation
 Trials Network (Campbell). In 2019 Treweek was named in the world’s most highly cited
 researchers list (as was Professor Jill Francis for her work undertaken while at Aberdeen).


 CONTRIBUTION TO RESEARCH BASE
 Membership of Grant Awarding Panels: Examples include - NIHR Clinical Trials Fellowships
 Panel (Campbell Chair); NIHR Health Services and Delivery (Campbell Deputy Chair, Gillies,
 Locock,); Scottish Government CSO Health Improvement, Protection and Services Committee
 (Treweek Chair, Watson, Lee); MRC Strategic Skills Fellowships Panel (van der Pol Deputy
 Chair, Ryan); NIHR Clinical Doctoral Fellowship Programme (Lee); NIHR Policy Research
 Programme (Lee, Gillies, Elliott); NIHR Health Technology Assessment (Ramsay, Gillies);
 NIHR Systematic Review Fellowship Panel (Brazzelli); NIHR Clinical Trials Unit Standing
 Advisory Committee (Campbell); NIHR Urgent Public Health Studies for COVID-19 methods
 assessor (Campbell); Ireland Health Research Board Secondary Data Analysis Review Board
 (Lee); Ireland Health Research Board Interdisciplinary Capacity Enhancement Awards
 (MacLennan); Asthma UK grant committee (Lee); MRC Methodology Research Panel (Ryan);
 Carnegie Trust Research Incentive Grants (van der Pol, Ryan); Medical Research Foundation –
 Emerging Leaders Prize (van der Pol); ESRC Dementia Platform (McNamee); European
 Commission Horizon 2020 (McNamee); European Cooperation in Science and Technology
 (COST) panel (Treweek); and Wellbeing of Women (McLernon).

 Editorial Boards: Examples include - International Journal of Pharmacy Practice (Lee); Human
 Reproduction (McLernon); Implementation Science (Ramsay); Cochrane Collaboration
 Effective Practice and Organisational Care Group (Ramsay); Journal of Clinical Urology
 (MacLennan); Statistics and Clinical Trials (MacLennan); Trials (Campbell; Treweek Editor-in-
 Chief); Cochrane Stroke Group (Brazelli); Cochrane Diagnostic Test Accuracy (Brazelli);
 Cochrane Nutritional Interventions Group (Avenell); Comparative Effectiveness Research
 (McNamee); BMC Medical Research Methodology (McNamee); BMC Public Health
 (McNamee); Health Care Analysis (Entwistle); International Journal of Feminist Approaches to
 Bioethics (Entwistle); Asian Bioethics Reviews (Entwistle); Health Economics (Ludbrook, van
 der Pol); and Cochrane Collaboration Incontinence Review Group (Treweek, Kilonzo).

 Keynote/Plenary Presentations: Examples include - Association of Clinical Biochemists and
 Association of Clinical Biochemists of Ireland (Avenell); European Society of Human
 Reproduction and Embryology (McLernon); Swiss Clinical Trial Organisation Conference
 (Gillies); Nordic Nursing Conference (Locock); Nordic Health Research and Innovation
 Networks Conference (Locock); Swiss Society of Health Economics (Ryan); Canadian Centre
 for Applied Research in Cancer Control (Ryan); International Clinical Trials Methodology
 Conference (Campbell); International Critical Care Review Conference (Campbell); German
 Health Economics Association Conference (van der Pol); Australasian Association of Bioethics
 and Health Law (Entwistle); International Conference on Clinical Ethics Consultation
 (Entwistle); WHO Global Code of Practice on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel
 (Elliott); Evidence-based Medicine Network Conference (Treweek); Belgian Healthcare
 Knowledge Centre Trials Symposium (Treweek).

 Fellowships/Awards: Examples include - Fellowship of the Academy of Social Sciences
 (Locock); Distinguished Visiting Professor, University of Auckland (Avenell); Visiting Research

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scholar Fellowship, University of Melbourne (van der Pol); Erasmus Fellow (Nath); MRC
 Strategic Skills Methodology Research Fellowship (Gillies); The Healthcare Improvement
 Studies Institute Fellowship (Duncan); Elizabeth Russell Career Development Fellowship
 (Kopasker); Cochrane-REWARD Prize (for reducing research waste, Treweek); and
 International Visiting Research Scholar Award, University of British Columbia (Watson).

 Membership: Examples include - 40+ trial steering and data monitoring committees, including
 some as Chairs (Ramsay, Campbell, MacLennan, Treweek, Lee); Trial Conduct Working
 Group for the MRC Trials Methodology Research Partnership (Gillies, co-lead); steering
 committee for Trials Engagement in Children and Adolescents (Locock); MRC Hubs for Trials
 Methodology Research International Advisory Board (Campbell); International Extra Corporeal
 Membrane Oxygenation Trials Network Steering Group (Campbell); International Society of
 Clinical Trials “Trial of the Year” Award Committee (Campbell); REF2021 panelist (from criteria
 stage) for UoA-2 (Campbell); Methodology Group for the Scottish Improvement Science Centre
 (Ramsay, Chair); Cochrane Collaboration Statistical Methods Group (Ramsay); inaugural
 member of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Young Academy of Scotland (Ramsay); steering
 committee for the UKCRC Clinical Trials Statistics Operations Group (MacLennan); British
 Association of Urological Surgeons Academic Section Executive Committee (MacLennan);
 REF2014 panelist for UoA-2 (Elliott); Low Pay Commission (Elliott); European and International
 Health Economic Association Boards (Elliott); and Scientific Advisory Board, Hospinnomics,
 Paris School of Economics (Elliott).

 Organising/Chairing Conferences: Examples include - International Health Workforce
 Conference (Milan and Basel, Skåtun); World Health Organization Expert Workshop for Toolkit
 Development ‘Labour Market Analysis for Health: wages and incentives’ (Skåtun); International
 Clinical Trials Methodology Conference (Campbell, Gillies, Treweek); European Health
 Economics Association conferences (van der Pol); and World Congress of International
 Network on Feminist Approaches to Bioethics (Entwistle).


 CONTRIBUTION TO ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
 Engagement with policy makers: to ensure our research is relevant and addresses clinical
 and societal need we connect and communicate with policy makers, through targeted
 mechanisms, including, advisory roles, dissemination events, engaging with professional bodies,
 regular newsletters and policy briefs, websites and social media. This dialogue also ensures
 research findings are implemented leading to an onward impact on society and the
 economy. We provide expertise and support to the NHS. Examples include: our strategic
 alliance with Healthcare Improvement Scotland, providing and sharing knowledge, delivering
 courses (e.g., diagnostic test assessment, DCEs) and organising a joint annual policy
 conference (Ramsay, Ryan); our NIHR contract to produce TARs, through which we engage
 with NICE to inform guidance on the provision of new and existing treatments (Scotland,
 Hernández, Ramsay, Brazzelli, Aucott, Boyers, Scott); membership of the Scottish Medicines
 Consortium and Scottish Health Technologies Group, providing expertise on the introduction of
 new procedures in NHS Scotland (Scotland, McNamee, Ramsay); advising Government on, for
 example, the role of mesh in prolapse (Glazener), reconfiguration of trauma services
 (Campbell) and the introduction of minimum unit pricing for alcohol (Ludbrook); membership of
 various groups, for example, Monitoring and Evaluating Scotland’s Alcohol Strategy (Ludbrook),
 Scottish Cancer Patient Experience Survey (Ryan), Scottish Government Technical Advisory
 Group for Resource Allocation (Skåtun, Elliott), Chronic Pain Service Improvement
 (McNamee), Restricting Promotions of Discretionary Foods (McNamee) and Scottish
 Government Mental Health COVID-19 Research Advisory Group (Kopasker); advising Public
 Health England regarding establishing a National Congenital Anomaly and Rare Disease



                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Registry (Vieira) and informing guideline development for Delivering Better Oral Health
 (Duncan).

 Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) and Engagement: We are committed to making our
 research both relevant and accessible. PPI is a key part of our strategy. We actively involve
 public, patients and patients’ representative organisations (e.g., Health and Social Care Alliance;
 Genetics Alliance; Chronic Pain Support Group, INVOLVE) as research co-applicants. Working
 with our Public Engagement in Research Unit, we have an extensive portfolio of public
 engagement activities, for example: family activities at local science festivals; public “café style”
 talks; PechaKucha; Bright Club; and school outreach. Events have been run as part of national
 festivals (e.g., British Science Festival, Explorathon, Edinburgh Fringe). Our researchers brought
 the first ever Soapbox Science event to Aberdeen and took part in Cellblock Science. We are
 multiple winners of the Principal’s Award for Excellence in Public Engagement. Our public
 engagement activities won an award from the Marie Curie Alumni Association, and we have
 been invited to deliver our activities at the European Parliament. Public engagement is central to
 our ISSF activities, funding our researchers to attend the National Coordinating Centre for Public
 Engagement “Engage Researchers Academy”.

 Research Networks: Ryan and van der Pol set up and lead a network for health economists in
 Scotland. The Scottish Health Economics (SHE) group brings together health economists from
 Scotland’s universities, NHS and government with policy makers to discuss issues of current
 policy concern. Ramsay set up and leads TRiaDS (Translation Research in a Dental Setting).
 This multidisciplinary group formed to develop a national programme of knowledge transfer
 research. It is embedded within the Scottish Dental Clinical Effectiveness Programme and has
 public, academic, policy and professional members.




                                                                                              Page 18
