Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: 11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 The Department of Computer Science and Technology is part of the Faculty of Science and
 Engineering. The Department’s research is organised within three Research Groups (RGs):
 Dependable Intelligent Systems (DEIS)
 Healthcare Informatics and Robotics (HIR)
 Virtual Augmented Reality and Simulation (VARS)
 Each RG has dedicated laboratory space with facilities to support research by academic members
 of staff, research associates, postgraduate research students, and visiting researchers. A
 Research Committee involving the Head of Department, Director of Research and RG Leaders
 and Postgraduate representatives develops and coordinates the research strategy in consultation
 with staff, and approves individual and group research plans. An annual review of research
 activities allows monitoring of progress, and informs supportive actions.
 Under this simple and robust administrative structure we have established an inclusive,
 collaborative, and mostly heterarchical research environment where the intellectual pursuit of
 knowledge (the Academy) generates the fruits of impactful research for society: a model that
 stretches back to the ancient Academy of Plato and the Garden of Epicurus. We, informally, refer
 to this research environment as our academic garden, a place where impactful research ideas are
 nurtured. In the 2014-21 REF period we have produced innovative techniques that can improve
 the dependability of complex systems, including the intelligent, autonomous, connected and open
 cyber-physical systems of systems emerging in many areas of life. The results of this work are
 presented in the BIOLOGIC impact case study (ICS) authored by the DEIS RG. We have also
 produced novel virtual environments for training professionals that improve public health and
 emergency services. The results of this work form the VETA ICS co-authored by the VARS and
 DEIS RG. Our impact is local and global and includes transfer of research globally to the
 automotive, aerospace and other safety critical industries, the green energy sector, UK wind
 energy in particular, over 150 hospitals worldwide, and a third of the UK’s fire services.
 The transformation of the research produced by our research environment into enterprise is
 facilitated through the Innovation Centres of the University. They include Knowledge
 Exchange, through which two spinouts have been created to commercialise our research (Vertual
 and Lampada), and the AURA Innovation Centre (see later). Through AURA, we have the potential
 to orientate elements of our research toward the offshore wind energy industry (which is a crucial,
 fast-emerging element of our regional economy and wider international economies). The
 commercialisation of our research is also facilitated through links to C4DI, a Hull-based
 technology incubator creating much needed high-tech, high-value employment and business in
 the region. We have nurtured this kind of innovation so that we are embedded in an international
 network of universities, hospitals, fire services, software houses, SMEs and large engineering
 companies through which we transfer our research globally. The mechanics of our impact strategy
 and contributions to society and economy are explained in the two ICS and in 4.2.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2 Research and Impact strategy
 The three departmental RGs have evolved from those submitted in REF2014:
    •   Dependable Intelligent Systems (DEIS) evolved from Dependable Systems (DS) to
        address the new challenges in the field of intelligent systems. It is led by Prof.
        Papadopoulos.
    •   Healthcare Informatics and Robotics (HIR) evolved from Intelligent Systems (IS) to
        provide a more specific application and technology focus to this group. It is led by Prof.
        Murray.
    •   Virtual Augmented Reality and Simulation (VARS) evolved from The Simulation and
        Visualization RG (SimVis) and is led by Warren Viant.
 This evolution and partial changes in direction was partly caused by the unfortunate deaths of
 professors Jiang and Phillips, and the arrival of new leadership: Prof. Murray – currently HoD with
 interests in Robotics. Change was managed effectively and the groups built on their extant
 strengths and developed new research challenges. They also aligned further with the research
 priorities of the University and regional agendas.
 The research and impact strategies of the department are knitted together within our integrated
 research and impact strategy. This has four interconnected layers as shown in Figure 1.




                 Figure 1: Integrated Departmental Research and Impact Strategy
 Reading left to right, column L1 shows the fundamental technologies that we research. Column
 L2 shows the three RGs and, in between the two columns, how these RGs engage with
 fundamental technologies. Column L3 shows the application areas targeted and, in between
 columns L2 and L3, how RGs relate to these areas. Finally, column L4 shows the two ICS and, in
 between columns L3 and L4, the impact in each of the application areas. The BIOLOGIC ICS
 impacts on technologies that improve the dependability of systems, and the VETA ICS impacts
 on virtual environments for training professionals in the health and emergency services. The three


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RGs have significant ‘Other Smaller Impacts’ in areas including inland security and education,
 as our research strategy also supports effective collaboration beyond our department.
 At the individual scale we develop our staff with responsibility for research. These are talented,
 focussed and productive academics who have earned highly competitive posts, and we therefore
 enhance their potential. We ask them to be research effective rather than simply research active.
 This means 1) producing excellent research in appropriately high-profile and visible publications
 (with at least one high quality publication per annum as lead or corresponding author (with
 Open Access)); 2) producing at least one high-quality grant application at sector average or
 above to enable this research per annum, and 3) earning funding for high quality postgraduate
 researchers (at least one as lead supervisor every third year), and supervising them effectively
 to timely completion with high-quality publications to follow.
 Our impact strategy builds on the effective partnerships we develop with research-users. We
 build their requirements into the design of research programmes to ensure delivery of their needs
 and robust impact. Our impact agenda has progressed considerably from REF2014 due to a
 clearer University-wider focus on impact and engagement.
 The Aura Innovation Centre (AIC) recently opened at the Bridgehead Business Park on the
 outskirts of Hull. It is a £12M investment of University and European Regional Development
 Funding and provides space for large businesses and SMEs to access University research for
 collaboration and innovation, and in the offshore wind sector especially. It also houses dedicated
 Aura Innovation Managers, research labs and equipment that connect commercial users with
 university expertise to support shared activities, development and commercialisation (including
 projects supported by an £8M ERDF-fund of University-administered Sparkfund Innovation
 Vouchers and Research and Development grants).
 The University Directors of Business Engagement and Enterprise support this infrastructure, as
 does a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) Champion and dedicated KTP support (that have
 supported Dethlef’s successful KTP-application for data analytics, natural language processing and
 AI to aid management in Spencer’s Engineering). Transparent university support also includes
 HEIF funding (through application with an external user), dedicated Impact Officers and Impact
 Accelerator Awards also support this agenda.

 1.2.1 Dependable Intelligent Systems Research Group - Research and Impact
 Strategy
 Since the 1990s the DEIS RG, led by Prof. Yiannis Papadopoulos, has been recognised
 internationally for innovative research on the engineering of dependable systems. The group is
 pioneering a novel syntheses of software engineering and bio-inspired technologies for the design,
 analysis, and operation of dependable intelligent systems. Model-based and AI techniques are
 exploited to assess and guarantee dependability properties, including safety and security of
 systems, communication, and data. Applications span from the engineering of safety critical
 transport systems, through geospatial simulation, and from the analysis of documents and social
 media to the synthesis of generative art.
 A central vehicle and outcome of our work is the HiP-HOPS method and tools for design and
 analysis of dependable systems. The method offers a significant innovation covering the system
 engineering lifecycle, from intelligent allocation of safety requirements through automated
 dependability analysis to evolutionary optimisation of system architectures, the automated
 production of certification artefacts, and intelligent safety monitoring using agents. Over 200
 papers on the theory and industrial application of this method have been published. HiP-HOPS is

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 widely recognized as contributing to the international state-of-the-art in the area of dependability.
 It is one of the first methods to have automated the production of safety analysis models such as
 fault trees and FMEAs in the 1990s, and to have used AI metaheuristics in model-based
 engineering in order to auto-explore trade-offs among dependability, performance and cost in the
 design of dependable systems in the 2000s. Within the period, HiP-HOPS made a significant
 turn towards AI, and advanced significant innovations - several of which are described in our REF
 outputs and cited in the BIOLOGIC ICS. They include:
  −   Pandora, an algebraic framework for the analysis of temporal fault trees and the prediction
      of dependability in dynamic systems. Pandora can analyse state-sensitive fault trees
      describing sequencing of faults and created from architectural models and state machines.
  −   Algorithms for multi-objective optimization of the architecture and maintenance of
      systems; the latter include optimization that exploits condition monitoring data through
      analytics to continually predict the remaining useful life of components (DREAM project,
      funded by EDF) .
  −   Evolutionary algorithms for automatic allocation of safety requirements as Safety Integrity
      Levels or Development Assurance Levels; these automate the implementation of modern
      automotive safety standards such as ISO 26262 and the ARP aerospace safety standards.
  −   Contributions to EAST-ADL (MAENAD EU project), and AADL - two emerging languages
      with dependability analysis and optimization capabilities for the design of automotive and
      avionics systems respectively.
  −   New Fuzzy and Bayesian concepts for safety analysis under uncertainty that are
      integrated into the HiP-HOPS method.
  −   Novel work that addresses emerging challenges in open, cooperative, autonomous cyber-
      physical systems. In the DEIS H2020 project, we pioneered the development of the Digital
      Dependability Identities (DDI) concept, a novel technology for run-time certification of cyber-
      physical systems, autonomous systems and open systems-of-systems, and we have created
      digital metamodels and tools which are available in the public domain. DDIs are executable
      specifications that can be used in multi-agent systems for safety monitoring and dynamic
      certification open system of systems at runtime.
  −   Development of SafeML − a method for predicting the accuracy of machine learning by using
      empirical statistical distance measures to measure distributional shifts between training
      datasets and real-time input data.
  −   Nature-inspired algorithms capturing the social intelligence of Penguins. This work has
      been applied in automotive design and received attention from the BBC and global media
      (see section 4.2)
 The group has a long history of taking research solutions to European and global industry. In the
 period, our impact strategy focused on developing a network of national innovation
 ecosystems in Europe and Brazil though which significant global impact was achieved: novel
 commercial tools for system design and analysis, new spinouts, applications to several industries,
 wealth generation and the improvement of the dependability of technological systems. Further
 details on strategy and impact are given in the two ICS and section 4.2.

 1.2.2 Healthcare Informatics and Robotics Research Group - Research and Impact
 Strategy
 The HIR RG, led by Prof. John Murray, develops research into cognitive and control systems
 including robotics, machine learning and system security applications, plus decision support and

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 data mining in telehealth. The latter includes research on decision making and data mining from
 clinical data, machine learning and pattern recognition, and the pervasive intelligence provided by
 wireless sensor networks for telecare and other applications. Robotics work is evolving to provide
 advanced research into robot assisted telecare. In addition to academic research, HIR has
 developed a strong capability for product design and development for local industry.
 HIR has earned several research grants in the period. An Innovate UK project with METIS
 Aerospace and Teledyne E2V focused on the detection and identification of drones in
 restricted airspaces, and included the deployment of the technology at high profile sites such as
 Heathrow and Gatwick Airports. HIR have secured grants through Innovate UK- and SBRI-funded
 initiatives to work closely with the UK Home Office and Border Force on developing scanning
 technologies for the detection of illicit firearms and other illegal concealments (such as drugs
 and laundered money). This work led to three funded projects with the main Parcel Force and
 Border Force distributers, the Centre for Applied Science and Technology (CAST), and the UK
 Home Office. These projects developed machine learning algorithms for incorporation into X-Ray
 systems. As a direct consequence of this research we delivered a high-profile workshop at the
 British Machine Vision Conference in 2019.
 HIR has a long running project collaboration with QinetiQ and the Ministry of Defence on logistical
 routing systems using graph databases for the supply of resources in “the last mile”. This project
 is also being developed commercially for sale to QinetiQ. In addition to “last mile”, there are wide
 ranging applications of this work in humanitarian aid and mainstream freight logistics.
 HIR has collaborated with iMonSys ltd and Network Communication Systems ltd on
 developing a series of low-cost wearable and portable digital devices, and software, for
 healthcare monitoring. The devices can monitor Temperature, HR, ECG, PPG, SPO2, BP,
 respiration, and Heart Sound on demand and continuously. Benefits to society include enabling
 an aging population to live independently with confidence, promoting general public self-
 healthcare, and enhancing patient-doctor communication. Successful prototypes led to a KTP
 project to create an intelligent hand-held non-intrusive vital-sign monitoring device (NVSM) for
 use in many sectors of the care industry for the ageing population. This device will allow users to
 predict and prevent clinical incidents, or to limit their severity.

 1.2.3 Virtual Augmented Reality and Simulation Research Group - Research and
 Impact Strategy
 The VARS RG, led by Warren Viant, focuses on the application of augmented and virtual reality,
 simulation and visualization to genuine end-user problems, and on the creation of the new tools,
 techniques and theory needed for their construction. Its strengths in underpinning these
 technologies stem from work on algorithms for modelling, simulation and rendering, and from
 expertise in building, validating and using innovative display modalities. These strengths combine
 to offer discipline-leading applications in radiotherapy, medical practice and emergency
 service training. The strategy to underpin a sustainable future for this group involves delivering
 evidence-based, fundamental research that is grounded in the real world of users’ needs and
 aspirations.
 An exemplar of this approach is the team’s theoretical framework on high-precision and efficient
 geometric reconstruction of the human vascular system, which has established a theoretical
 basis for a range of applications from vascular modelling to the 3D printing of human organs. An
 ellipsoid fitting algorithm, popularly referred to as Li’s algorithm (Li is member of VARS), has been
 used in a wide range of applications including MIPAV and a US Patent image segmentation (Ref.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 US8275182B2). The research has generated several high-quality papers in prestigious graphics
 journals including ACM Trans., On Graphics, IEEE TVCG, and Graphics Forum.
 Continuing the reconstruction theme, the team has a longstanding collaboration with Dundee
 Dental Hospital and Dundee University on a Wellcome Trust funded project analysing
 maxillofacial growth using 3D medical image analysis. Accurate and robust 3D volume and
 surface land-marking has been developed to measure the external changes in soft tissues using
 CT, MRI and photogrammetry imaging modalities.
 Throughout the REF assessment period the team has collaborated extensively with Vertual Ltd,
 on the creation of the VERT product range for radiotherapy training (See VETA ICS).
 Technology transfer is not limited to VERT, but includes several other projects, including the i-BIT
 project, where virtual reality and video games combine to provide a potential treatment for
 amblyopia (lazy eye) in children. In collaboration with Nottingham University and NHS Trust, the
 team have secured both Wellcome Trust and Innovation UK support for Industrial funding,
 completing two successful sets of clinical trials. An NIHR commercialization grant has been
 submitted to productise the research.
 Further medical applications have been developed. An orthopaedic surgical training system,
 to build key procedure-specific navigation skills, has been produced in collaboration with Northern
 Lincolnshire and Goole NHS Foundation Trust. The prototype aided the training of junior
 orthopaedic surgeons positively. An assessment tool to measure and analyse the driving habits
 and reaction times of older drivers with chronic heart failure, was developed in collaboration with
 Hull and East Yorkshire NHS Trust.
 Finally, the team’s extensive experience in VR and systems led to the development of VIC and
 LIMA software applications in conjunction with Humberside Fire and Rescue Service (HFR) and
 North Staffordshire Fire and Rescue Services (NSFRS). These applications are used to deliver
 advanced training for multi-level emergency incidents (See VETA impact case) in more time-
 and resource-efficient ways.

 1.2.4 Future Research and Impact Strategies
 We plan to expand the successful areas of our research further, and strengthen the academic,
 innovation and industrial networks that we cultivate internationally.
 Fundamental research will be directed to solve problems in the off-shore wind industry which is
 of increasing importance to the Humber region and the UK. We will do this through the AURA
 innovation centre and our links to the ORE Catapult. Our focus will include the intelligent
 planning of offshore operations and maintenance, and the development of maintenance
 techniques using drones and underwater robots. We will expand our work on the DREAM project
 with EDF. We also work closely with the £7M EPSRC Aura Centre for Doctoral Training in
 Offshore Wind Energy and the Environment (with partner universities Sheffield, Durham and
 Newcastle). This DTC (2019-27) supports this fast-growing wind energy field and its associated
 technical and environmental challenges. Dethlefs is a Co-I for the DTC, and CST staff supervise
 two PhD projects. HIR’s work on healthcare informatics is also growing and is expected to create
 significant impact through KTP projects and work with local companies on developing digital
 health monitors.
 The collaboration between DEIS and VARS has yielded new promising results in the area of
 virtual environments with applications to digital art, education and art therapy (see TIMAEUS
 project) - which we plan to strengthen further.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A new area of expansion is smart agriculture. With Fraunhofer IESE we work on delivering
 technologies for safe collaborative deployment of autonomous vehicles and smart implements in
 smart agriculture. Fraunhofer has strong links with the advanced German industry in the area, so
 our aim is to become a link in a bilateral and mutually beneficial technology transfer from which
 the UK can prosper. This area of research will benefit from our work on robotics, dependability
 and other disciplines in the university.

 Our long-term emphasis on research ethics is demonstrated by our approach to the increasingly
 important area of Dependable AI. Given the implications of the vulnerable world hypothesis that
 sees the history of scientific progress as also bearing the risk that one technology (such as nuclear
 weaponry) could devastate humanity, we apply a similar cautious approach to advances in AI,
 where investment and development accelerates. While dependability is paramount, the difficulties
 of safety assurance are significant and encompass system learning, autonomy, and high
 uncertainty in open systems. There is a grand technology challenge here, and the implications for
 industry and society are enormous. We will intensify our efforts towards Dependable AI and the
 safety of machine learning and deep learning, and undertake further research on the concept of
 executable DDIs that can address the safety and security of autonomous systems and open
 systems of systems.
 1.2.5 Cooperation in our research environment
 Our research environment allows and enables cooperation and the cross-fertilization between
 RGs. This is evident in the VETA ICS where VARS provided research and expertise on virtual
 environments while DEIS provided research and expertise on safety critical systems,
 communication protocols and digital learning (for details, please see the ICS).
 Similarly, DEIS is collaborating with HIR on applications of machine learning and robotic
 applications, in particular on dependable Multi-Robot Systems (MRS), where a new large EU
 grant called SESAME (Safety and Security of MRS) was won in 2020. Neil Gordon, of DEIS, is
 also doing related work on digital learning and education that also informs virtual environments.
 His HEA report on Technology Enhanced Learning was used by institutions across the world that
 include the NHS and, more recently, it influenced the Chinese government response to COVID19
 in education.
 VARS and DEIS also collaborate on digital art and various aspects of philosophy and its
 intersections with science. Applications of this work are becoming increasingly impactful:
 TIMAEUS is a digital art studio environment that enables the creation of personalised, 3-
 dimensional virtual sculptures. TIMAEUS has been applied in fields ranging from art therapy to
 education on literature and philosophy, with examples given in by the Virtual Digital Stoa and
 the Alternative Virtual Odyssey projects.

 1.3 REF2021 vis-à-vis REF2014 : quick comparison
 REF2014 was the first time that Hull Computer Science was submitted to UoA11. We returned 14
 staff and ranked 47th. The panel ranked us 5th nationally for the impact of our research.
 Our REF strategy was to improve the quality of our outputs and to sustain our high-ranking Impact.
 In REF2021 we return a smaller number of 11 staff, but this smaller submission is mostly due to
 changes in internal University processes. The ‘Academic Careers Framework’ allows staff to make
 their primary contribution in areas where their skills are most suited and beneficial. Staff submitted
 to this REF are located primarily in the ‘Research Domain’ (although all staff make teaching
 contributions).

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our total research income fell from £2,105,015 (REF2014) to £1,510,455 (REF2021) but therefore
 remains approximately the same per FTE submitted. This income was supplemented by PhD
 funding from Doctoral Training Centres based at the University (from where we have funded PhD
 students). Our commercialization and knowledge exchange activities add to the income figures
 above. Overall, there is evidence that we return higher-quality outputs and sustained our
 impact from 2014: In addition, the total number of PhDs awarded in the period increased from 24
 (REF2014) to 28 (REF2021) with an increase per FTE submitted.



 2. People


 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Since 2014 the Department has welcomed several early career lecturers and a new professor. It
 has also seen the promotion of existing staff, based on their research leadership. New staff are
 supported by University PhD scholarships where possible, with early career staff given additional
 weighting (and an established mentor for supervision) in the campus-wider studentships
 competition). Targeted PhD studentships, plus research funding are used to pump-prime
 collaborative research in strategic fields across the Department and University. To foster and
 develop the research culture, research and enterprise activities form part of the Department’s
 workload model (typically 30-40% of time for ‘Research Domain’ academics). Research activities
 such as Research Postgraduate supervision, grant submission and management, and research
 output submissions are included in the calculation of workloads.
 The University’s Staff Development Strategy, in accordance with the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers, recognises and promotes personal and career
 development at all stages to enhance the lifelong learning of staff. We encourage researchers to
 identify and attend events in the annual career development programme, and the University offers
 nationally-recognised courses for researchers that are run in-house. Research project supervisors
 are encouraged to use them, along with their associates and students. The Researcher
 Development Framework (RDF) is a detailed competency framework that maps out the skills
 required to be a successful researcher. Research staff use the RDF to plan their own development
 in conjunction with appraisal and review discussions. In addition, each research group provides
 development activities and peer reviews of research plans and project outlines.
 The University of Hull is a member of VITAE (Careers Research and Advisory Centre (CRAC)),
 which supports researcher’s professional development at all stages. Hull has held the HR
 Excellence in Research Award since 2012 and its practices align with the principles of the European
 Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for Recruitment. Our Staff Development Team
 provides opportunities for researchers to extend their skills with formal courses, self-guided online
 training, and informal mentoring and group activities.
 The Faculty supports research leadership by providing Advance HE Research leaders training
 onsite to 10 colleagues in alternative years. Of the recent cohort, six have now taken on significant
 leadership roles. The Faculty also supports the participation of women colleagues in the Aurora
 leadership programme. To date 22 women have completed this programme, many of whom have
 gone on to undertake significant leadership roles.
 Staff are encouraged to participate in the Faculty-run Mentoring Schemes. Twelve staff have
 completed Advance HE mentor training and can deliver specific, target-oriented mentoring (where
 mentees outline the support they want (e.g. promotion)). Less formal, more general supportive

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentoring relationships between colleagues are also encouraged and cover all aspects of
 academic careers.
 Grant writing skills are developed through the Grant Writing Challenge, whereby university
 Research Development Managers and senior colleagues guide a cohort of early career academics
 through a structured, six-month series of sessions to produce a competitive grant application.
 ThinkWrite Grant- and article-writing workshops are also held annually.
 Conference costs and academic visits are supported by a £250k Research Support Fund
 from the Faculty. This is temporarily suspended through the pandemic, but normally covers one
 conference per annum, with additional awards if an impressive case is made. Recipients must
 demonstrate appropriate results from previous awards for subsequent awards to be considered.
 The scheme especially encourages applications from early career academics, those retuning from
 parental or sickness leave, and others seeking a return to research. The scheme can make extra
 provision for parents with dependents if required. It also provides support specifically targeted at
 PDRAs for activities reaching beyond the funded grant that employs them – to allow them to further
 their personal research profiles from their PhD research, or a previous, or potential, Post-doctoral
 position. The university recognises the crucial importance of celebrating contributions and
 success. In 2017 the Faculty introduced annual research awards to recognise research and
 engagement activities. Seven categories stretched across all career stages, roles and
 collaborations, as well as leadership. These events are catered and build excellent research
 culture.
 Facilitating international collaboration is another key element of our strategy for staff
 development. The Faculty support a Visiting Research Fellow Scheme to attract visiting
 researchers for a two or three day visit (at minimum), to include at least two engagement events
 for staff and early career academics/postgraduates. Visiting staff are also appointed using support
 from other funding sources. During the period, international visiting staff appointments included:
  −   Ramin Tavakoli (2019) Professor, Nuremberg University, on safety of machine learning.
  −   Adnan Kiani (2017) Associate Professor, Lahore University, on safety of AI and agents for
      runtime assurance of dependability.
  −   Joxe Unanue Aizpurua (2016), Lecturer at Mondragon University, Spain, on HiP-HOPS
      extensions for maintenance planning.
  −   Youcef Gheraibia (2015 and 2020), Researcher, University of Setif, Algeria, on Penguin-
      inspired metaheuristics for optimisation of autonomous cars.
  −   Weixin Bian (2018), Associate Professor, Anhui Normal University, China, on human-
      computer interaction, and fingerprints biometric based authentications.
  −   Jin Zhu (2017), Professor, Tongji University, China, on wearable sensors for healthcare.
  −   Bing Zhang (2017), Associate Professor, Yanshan University, China, on indirect blood
      pressure prediction model.
  −   Jiadong Ren (2017), Professor, Yanshan University, on healthcare data science.
  −   Xintao Ding (2017), Professor, Anhui Normal University, China, on deep learning for object
      recognition.
  −   Qian Wang (2016), Associate Professor, Yanshan University, on software security.
  −   Jianwei Ma (Feb 2016), Professor, Henan University of Science and Technology, China, on
      assistive living robots under ambient intelligence.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2 Research students

 2.2.1 Support structure and training
 The goal of our postgraduate research training is to nurture and develop PhD students into good
 scientists who have a good grasp of epistemology: the theory of the nature of knowledge and its
 justification. We argue that students who have thought about the fundamentals of science find it
 easier to complete a PhD and write a quality thesis. We therefore supplement our PhD programme
 with epistemological seminars.
 In six tutorial-style seminars, we convey a historical perspective on scientific research starting
 from a Platonic definition of knowledge as justified true belief. We then cover topics on the nature
 of knowledge and truth, on scepticism, logic and proof, on empiricism and induction, as well
 as on falsification and the hypothetico-deductive method. To foster an appropriately-rounded
 scientific ethos, we also focus on the importance of research ethics and the centrality of testing
 contrary to predictions of a hypothesis. This training helps to form sceptical, independent
 researchers who challenge their own positionalities and develop clear understandings of what
 constitutes a rational basis for a scientific hypothesis. Students understand how to put forward
 credible scientific hypotheses and how to use the scientific method to either disprove them
 (falsification) or, through evidence, increase the Bayesian belief in their validity.
 We are expanding our access to PhD programmes. An increasing number of postgraduates are
 funded through the China Scholarship Council and, as above, we also play a role in managing
 and supervising PhD students in the EPSRC AURA CDT. The University PhD scheme awards
 clusters of connected projects on strategic themes that face key challenges and research debates.
 Computer Science staff are involved with several clusters. For example, Dethlefs brings her skills
 to supervising PhDs on clusters addressing ‘Offshore Wind’, ‘Living with Water’ and ‘Sensing the
 Water Environment’. All PhD students are funded at national UKRI rates.
 Our research students are supported by a supervisory team of at least three academics including
 a primary supervisor. The supervisors offer advice and focus, monitor progress, and ensure that
 training requirements are met. PhD programs are structured with a clear set of goals and
 deliverables. These are formally reviewed in six PhD Panel meetings over the course of the
 programme; each with mandatory and discretionary deliverables. A University-level institute, the
 Doctoral College (DC), ensures that students and staff use best practice. The DC and library have
 on-campus, purpose-built facilities with 24-hour access for research students and their
 supervisors. All supervisors attend the relevant DC training courses and research students must
 complete the Postgraduate Training Scheme (PGTS) run by the DC, which enables students to
 graduate with certificated evidence of their research and transferable skills. Modules equip new
 researchers with a skills ‘toolkit’, including writing and specific research and employability skills,
 research ethics, and communication and networking skills.
 An annual ‘PhD Experience’ conference, organised by students, is hosted by the DC. The
 University also offers regular PGR Writing Retreats to PGR students for more focused and
 productive writing experiences. Bi-weekly PGR seminars are delivered by PGR students
 supported by staff, allowing the PGR students to share their research and gain transferable skills.
 In addition, the students run their own Postgraduate Forum to foster social activities and
 networking. Participation in national meetings and international conferences is expected,
 supported by a Faculty Research Support Fund (RSF) (see above).



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The research environment is enhanced by virtual social communities over Discord, Teams, and
 social media such as Facebook. These provisions have been enhanced in the context of the
 COVID-19 pandemic, as have all our online services. An innovative online Graduate Virtual
 Research Environment has assembled the collective stories of researchers and research students
 across the University, enabling students to access over 200 short videos illustrating individual
 research achievements and advice on all aspects of the journey.
 To foster a dynamic international environment, we actively promote student exchange. We host
 students from the University of Angers in France annually, and send our students to France
 in reciprocal arrangement. In the period we have also hosted two PhD students from the University
 of Catania (Federica Merlo and Cristina Romano) and several MSc students from China: Dong
 Yang (2016) worked on the development of a wearable heart rate monitor; Peng Zhu (2015),
 developed a multi-functional vital sign monitor, which has received the IET Highly commended
 award. Hangyang Ye (2017) investigated respiration estimation for wearable devices. Tianqi Fan
 (2018) developed a prototype smart digital stethoscope which contributed to a KTP project.
 A major challenge for doctoral students is maintaining consistently good mental health −
 something that our research environment takes very seriously. The university provides dedicated
 services and CST supervisors are encouraged to be extra vigilant and proactive. The PhD can be
 an isolating and difficult experience, and the pressures to perform, compete and excel can be
 high. To help students deal with these pressures, reflect on own expectations, anxiety and stress,
 and build resilience, we also introduce them, though seminars, to the timeless wisdom of ancient
 Stoicism and encourage them to study the writings of Seneca and Epictetus as well as modern
 stoics such as scientist-turned-philosopher Massimo Pigliucci. The informal feedback from
 students has been overwhelming positive; we are currently discussing ways of applying this
 approach more widely.
 The University’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic included funded extensions for PhD students
 (and PDRAs if needed), support with IT and workstation equipment for researchers working off-
 campus, and additional Research Culture and Community seminars to sustain the research
 environment while normal university conditions were suspended.

 2.2.2 Student Outcomes and Awards
 The Department has awarded 28 PhD and 3 MSc by Research degrees in the period. At census
 point, there were 24 registered postgraduate research students.
 Several of our PhD students have received distinctions and awards:
  −   Koorosh Aslansefat, supervised by Papadopoulos, has received the "Best Poster Award at
      Global Offshore Wind 2019" from RenewableUK, and the prestigious “Leslie H. Paddle
      Scholarship” in the international IET Postgraduate Student Award competition in 2020 for his
      PhD work which is funded by EDF Research London.
  −   Declan Whiting, supervised by Papadopoulos, is part-time PhD and software engineer in
      local company APD. He won the “Young Engineer of the Year” in the International Critical
      Communications Awards 2019 thanks to his work on automating analysis of security threats
      in HiP-HOPS.
  −   Joyjit Chatterjie, supervised by Dethlefs, was sponsored by Microsoft Research and Deep-
      Mind to present research at the “Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning” workshop
      at the 33rd Int’l Conf. on Neural Information Processing Systems in Vancouver. He received



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      the IEEE “Young Researcher Award” during the Int’l Conf. on Automation, Computation and
      Technology Management (ICACTM), London, April 2019.
  −   Annika Schoene, supervised by Dethlefs, was selected for a competitive internship
      programme at IBM Research UK in 2017. She has received travel grants from NeurIPS and
      AAAI and has been sponsored to attend the Machine Learning Summer School in 2019, and
      the Brains, Minds and Machines Summer Course at MIT in 2020.
  −   Quan Qi, supervised by Li, received the best student paper award at the 2018 Int’l Conf. on
      Automation and Computing (ICAC 2018).
 More than 50% of student research output is the result of collaboration with industry. Many
 research students work on projects that contribute to developments with European and global
 industry, e.g. on HiP-HOPS and the design languages AADL and EAST-ADL. We take additional
 care to sustain clear and productive lines of communication with industrial sponsors and to involve
 them in project design, progress and, where appropriate, supervision.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 The University of Hull is committed to equality of opportunity and to respecting diversity for both
 staff and students. To support this, and to raise awareness about equality and diversity, training
 ranging from online modules to bespoke training packages are offered by the University’s staff
 development team. All staff interviewing PhD applicants, researchers and other academics must
 have completed the required training. The Department has a Staff Development Officer to ensure
 that training is taken up. As part of our efforts to improve the working environment, the Department
 will be part of a Faculty-wide application for silver Athena SWAN award in 2022-23. This will
 include:
      •   Implementation of a supportive Staff Performance and Development Review (appraisal)
          process that recognises that a suitable work-life balance is underpinned by equality of
          opportunity for all staff, and a transparent workload allocation where workload is monitored
          for bias (gender, race, disability), and where workload is proportional to FTE (so part time
          staff are not disadvantaged).
      •   A flexible working policy that acknowledges family life, with key meetings within 9.00am-
          3.00pm.
      •   Annual staff appraisals that ask specifically about career progression so colleagues less
          likely to self-advance are encouraged to apply at the same rate as others
      •   The requirement for Leadership roles in the department to be advertised openly with all
          staff having the opportunity to contribute
      •   Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, and Health, Safety and Wellbeing, are standing agenda
          items on all formal meetings.
      •   The requirement that all staff will undertake unconscious bias training and Equality and
          Diversity training
      •   The aim to work towards a 50/50% gender ratio for invited speakers in departmental
          seminars
 These aims already inform our practice. 45% of our staff are ethnic minority and/or women.
 Female academic staff (Sharvia and Dethlefs) have been fully supported in the REF period in
 balancing work and family life with the provision of multiple and extended maternity leaves
 and related support in the time preceding and following such leaves. Both are submitted to the
 REF.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 The Department has attracted numerous funded Research Projects during the REF period, with
 research spend at £1.51m. As above, this figure does not include income from the
 commercialization of research and the Postgraduates registered in Computer Science and funded
 by the DTCs based at the university. Our research income is increasing but remains modest, but
 the return on this capital measured as volume and quality of research output and economic and
 social impact is high. The main funded projects are listed below:
  −   DEIS (2017-20) Papadopoulos-PI: Digital Dependability Identities for cyber-physical systems
      with Siemens, General Motors, et al., EU H2020.
  −   DREAM (2018-21) Papadopoulos-PI: Integrating sensor data, reliability models and AI
      techniques to optimise maintenance in wind farms, EDF London.
  −   MAENAD (2011-14) Papadopoulos-PI: Design of fully-electric vehicles developing EAST-
      ADL with Volvo, Fiat, Continental, et al., EU-FP7.
  −   TextMine (2019-21) Dethlefs-PI: Natural language processing on documents to inform
      decision making, KTP with C. Spencer Ltd.
  −   KBGen (2018-19) Dethlefs-PI: Web-data mining and representation as knowledge graphs,
      Stanford University AI spin-off Diffbot.
  −   TELFP (2013-14) Gordon-PI. Technology Enhanced Learning and Flexible Pedagogy, HEA.
  −   Autonomous Last Mile Resupply (2018-20), Murray-PI, QinetiQ − DSTL.
  −   ProTEcTME: Proposal based exTEnsible Threat detection fraMEwork (2018-19) Murray-PI.
      InnovateUK.
  −   Adaptive Real-Time Scanning for novel detections of illicit items. (2019) Murray-PI,
      InnovateUK.
  −   SKYPERION - Autonomous and Intelligent UAV Detection (2018) Murray-PI, Innovate UK.
  −   Digital Stethoscope for Health Monitoring (2017-2018) Cheng-PI, NCS ltd.
  −   Vital sign monitor (2015-17) Cheng-PI, iMonSys ltd.
  −   WT Seed Award in Science (2017-19) Ma-PI, 3D analysis of maxillofacial growth in patients
      with cleft lip and palate, Wellcome Trust.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Department hosts three dedicated research laboratories (one for each research group): a
 robot laboratory, Hull Visualization Environment (HIVE), and a 3D-printing and Fabrication Lab.
 Since 2014, the department has invested over 1m in the renovation of the research labs and
 the creation of the new 3D printing lab.
 Hull Immersive Visualization Environment (HIVE) is Yorkshire and Humber’s premier centre
 for virtual reality practice and research. HIVE was established in 2002 as a SRIF-funded initiative
 designed to leverage the quality and quantity of multi-disciplinary research, and it is managed by
 a full-time member of staff. Facilities include a large rear-projected stereoscopic ‘workwall’ with
 head-tracking capability for collaborative projects, a CAVE-like display, a range of fixed and
 portable stereoscopic immersive systems, and force-feedback displays.
 The department also has access to Viper - the University of Hull’s £2.1M High Performance
 Computer (HPC) which began operation in 2016. Viper is one is among the most powerful

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic HPC resources in the UK, and the top performing in the North of England. Based on
 the latest Intel Omni-Path interconnect, Viper has approximately 5,500 Intel Broadwell CPU
 cores and includes high memory nodes with 1TB RAM, dedicated GPU nodes and visualisation
 nodes. VIPER is supported by a team of HPC system specialists which include software support
 engineers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations and contribution to research base
 DEIS has active collaborations with many of the leading groups in the area of Dependability. We
 work closely with Fraunhofer IESE (Institute for Experimental Software Engineering, Peter
 Liggesmeyer) and Fraunhofer IKS (Institute for Cognitive Systems, Mario Trapp) on various
 topics of Model-Based Safety Analysis (MBSA), including the concept of DDIs for runtime
 certification of autonomous cyber-physical systems.
 The DEIS group works closely with the University of Nuremberg (Kolagari), the Royal Institute
 of Technology (Törngren) and Volvo (Lonn) on the EAST-ADL automotive design language. We
 have published metamodels, model-transformations and tools for dependability analysis and
 optimisation of designs in EAST-ADL.
 DEIS also works with the Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Melon University (Feiler)
 on the AADL avionics design language. We have published algorithms and tools for HiP-HOPS
 analysis of AADL specifications. Together with the University of São Paulo (Masiero and
 Oliveira), MDS Sistemas and Embraer, we co-develop concepts for automated safety analysis of
 product lines applicable to avionics systems.
 We have a long-established cooperation with the group of Antoine Rauzy, currently in Trondheim,
 who is famous for authoring the ALTARICA language and tools. We co-develop MBSA
 techniques, co-supervise PhDs, and founded the International Symposium on MBSA.
 Papadopoulos is member of the Steering Committee of IMBSA, has co-chaired IMBSA’17
 (Trento), IMBSA’19 (Thessaloniki), and edited the Springer LNCS proceedings.
 We are instrumental in developing the field of dependable control within IFAC and co-founded
 IFAC DCDS (Dependable Control of Discrete Systems). Papadopoulos is steering IFAC-DCDS,
 sits in two IFAC committees TC 1.3 on discrete-event and hybrid systems, and TC 5.1 on
 manufacturing plant control, and the IFAC AMEST WG on maintenance. He has organized and
 chaired special tracks on Dependable Control at: IFAC World Congress, Toulouse, 2017; IFAC
 DCDS, Cancun, 2015; IFAC SAFEPROCESS, Paris, 2015.
 Papadopoulos has given a number of keynotes and invited talks including: keynote at the Lorentz
 Centre on "Safety of Future Systems”, Leiden, 9-13 April 2018; keynote at IFAC-DCDS 2015 on
 "Intersections of philosophy, logic and biology in design", Cancun, May 27-29, 2015; keynote at
 7th IEEE Conference on Intelligent Computing and Information Systems on “Metaheuristics for the
 design of safety critical systems”, Cairo, December 12-14, 2015; keynote at Automotive System
 Safety Europe, "Darwin, Penguins, and ISO 26262", Berlin, November 28-30, 2016.
 Dethlefs, working on machine learning and computational linguistics, has been area chair for
 ACL, the leading conference in computational linguistics, for the “Generation” area in 2019 and
 for the “Dialogue” area in 2020. She was area chair for “Dialog Processing and Dialogue Systems
 − Multimodal Interfaces” at COLING in 2016. Dethlefs was guest editor of a special issue on
 “Machine Learning for Multiple Modalities in Interactive Systems and Robots” in ACM Trans on


                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interactive Intelligent Systems (2015). She has given a keynote at the “Let’s Discuss - Learning
 Methods for Dialogue” workshop at NIPS 2016.
 Manzoor, working on multi-agent simulation, co-organised the Multimodal Spatial Role Labelling
 Workshop at CLEF-2017 in Dublin, and gave a keynote at the GeoSim workshop at ACM
 SIGSPATIAL (2018) on “Distributed Scalable Geospatial Simulation”.
 Gordon, working on digital learning, is member of the British Computer Society Ethics, the Green
 IT specialist group and the Horizons in STEM Higher Education committees. He chaired and
 hosted the conference “Horizons in STEM Higher Education Conference” in 2018.
 Cheng, working on health informatics, was awarded the “Highly Commended Award” in the
 Measurement category of the IET Innovation Awards for his work with sensors and monitors in
 2019. Cheng is serving as associate editor of IEEE Access. He was guest editor of a special
 issue on “Data-Enabled Intelligence for Digital Health” in this journal.
 Ma, working on health informatics, has given invited talks at the 7th IEEE/ACM Conf. on Big Data,
 Applications and Technologies on “Multi-modal deep-learning approach to the early prediction
 of mild cognitive impairment conversion to Alzheimer’s” in 2020 and the 3rd Int’l Conf. on Deep
 Learning Technologies on “Hybrid deep-learning and morphometric analysis for early diagnosis
 of Alzheimer’s disease” in 2019.
 Murray, working on robotics, has impact on inland security and collaborates with the MoD, QinetiQ,
 the Home Office and Border Force. He won several grants and organised a workshop at the
 British Machine Vision Conference on “Object Detection and Recognition for Security
 Screening”, in 2019.
 All submitted staff are active in editorial boards of journals, IPCs of int’l conferences, reviewing
 papers and research proposals, and serve as external examiners of research theses.

 4.2 Contributions to economy and society
 VETA and BIOLOGIC’s impact is emblematic of our research influence on local and global
 economic and social impact in several dimensions: the generation of wealth, employment,
 improvements of dependability of technological systems, and the enhancement of public medical
 and emergency services.
 Our impact on society stretches further. HiP-HOPS and the EAST-ADL have achieved wide impact
 through technology transfer to industry and commercialisation. Commercial tools include
 HiP-HOPS (commercialized by the University) and Safety Designer, the latter commercialized
 together with ESI GmbH (a German SME). Metacase (a Finnish SME) have co-developed with us
 an EAST-ADL tool in Metaedit+ with capabilities for HiP-HOPS safety analysis. Through HiP-
 HOPS, EAST-ADL and software tools and industrially funded projects, our research has been
 taken up by several global corporations which include Toyota, Honda, Volvo, Fiat, Jaguar Land
 Rover, Continental, Honeywell, Embraer, DNVGL, Deepwater Horizon and EDF.
 The influence on technology of our work in the field of dependability goes much further. Safety
 Architect by All4Tech (France) is a safety analysis tool that draws heavily from HiP-HOPS.
 Embraer are developing and using their own Fault Tree Generator inspired by HiP-HOPS.
 Component Fault Trees (CFTs), a well-known technology invented by Fraunhofer IESE,
 effectively provides a visualisation of concepts proposed by HiP-HOPS. The direct influence of
 HiP-HOPS is also acknowledged by Siemens and Fraunhofer in the BIOLOGIC ICS. All these
 tools have generated wealth, increased productivity and improved he dependability of systems.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DEIS has also done work that simulates the social intelligence of Penguins, and developed its
 application to automotive systems. The BBC and other global media have reported this research,
 including a BBC article on "Hungry Penguins Keep Car Code Safe" and other articles run by the
 Electronic Engineering Journal on “Robot Penguins Zap Cyber-Threat!”, the Automotive IQ on
 “Philosophical penguins show the road to safety for smart cars” and by the Daily Mail who
 published an article claiming that the new research helps to ‘spot hackers’.
 DEIS work on machine learning and natural language processing techniques for document
 analysis has been taken up nationally by Spencer Ltd., and internationally by Stanford
 University AI spin-off Diffbot.
 VARS work on virtual environments has global impact and forms the core of the VETA ICS. New
 aspects including treatment for amblyopia in collaboration with Nottingham NHS Trust, and work
 on orthopaedic surgical training that is maturing and expected to be applied in hospital care in
 the near future.
 HIR work on inland security (in collaboration with METIS, Teledyne, QinetiQ, UK Home Office
 and Border Force) has yielded applications ranging from the detection of drones in restricted
 airspaces, to scanning technologies for the illicit detection of firearms.
 HIR work on wearable and portable digital devices is being taken up by UK industry, specifically
 local companies including iMonSys ltd and Network Communication Systems ltd.
 Our main influence on international standards is through EAST-ADL: a design language with
 growing impact in the automotive industry, and used by Volvo, Scania, Continental, Bosch, Fiat
 and General Motors among others. Tools Metaedit+ and HiP-HOPS are official EAST-ADL
 supporting tools. Papadopoulos sits in the board of the EAST-ADL association, a body
 responsible for the maintenance and evolution of the language.
 DEIS work on DDIs has created digital metamodels and tools which are currently available to the
 community through the DEIS Github repository. An association has been formed to convert DDIs
 into a standard for expressing executable dependability models for autonomous and open
 systems. Siemens and AVL List already use this work (see BIOLOGIC ICS).
 In collaboration with members of the Swedish and German committees of ISO-26262 and
 Fraunhofer IKS, we work on improvements of the new automotive (ISO-26262) and aerospace
 (ARP-4761) safety standards (see BIOLOGIC ICS).
 Among other things, the innovations that arose from our research have benefited the regional
 economy. Two Hull-based spinouts, Vertual and Lampada have been formed to commercialise a
 stream of state-of-the-art, research-driven products. Their commercialisation creates high-tech
 employment training computer science students, and raising the high-tech business capability of
 the region.




                                                                                         Page 16
