Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Huddersfield
 Unit of Assessment: UOA12 Engineering
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview
 The University has long-established links with engineering and manufacturing industries, dating
 back to the precursor Huddersfield Mechanics Institution formed in 1843. These links remain
 strong and Engineering is, by some margin, the largest area of research activity within the
 University. Having grown significantly in the previous REF period (37 staff submitted to General
 Engineering in 2013 compared to 10 in 2008), the UoA has continued to grow strongly with 88
 staff (84.7 FTE) now being submitted to UoA 12, Engineering, for this assessment. In parallel,
 research-related income has grown considerably from £7,323,689 during the previous
 assessment period to £37,311,669 in the current assessment period, including large and
 prestigious awards across a range of funding streams. This rapidly expanding portfolio remains
 grounded in the institution’s principles of undertaking user-inspired research that delivers real and
 lasting impact, maintaining an ethos created over 175 years ago.
 Particular highlights during the period include The EPSRC Future Metrology Hub (£10.3m of
 EPSRC funding), The UK Rail Research Innovation Network, UKRRIN (£9.5m of Research
 England funding) and the ‘MIAMI-2’ microscope and ion accelerator facility (£3.5m of
 EPSRC funding). These complement many other research, collaborative R&D and knowledge
 transfer projects across many areas of application and industry sectors.
 The UoA is based wholly within the University’s School of Computing and Engineering, which itself
 is divided into two Departments; Engineering and Technology (in which the vast majority of the
 UoA activity resides) and Computer Science. Research institutes/centres/groups within
 Engineering and Technology submitting staff and outputs are summarised below:
    The Centre for Precision Technologies (CPT) is a large and well-established research
     team focused on aspects of engineering associated with precision manufacturing and,
     specifically, manufacturing metrology. Activity is broadly organised into four groups:
     Surface Metrology, Engineering Control and Machine Performance, Bio-metrology, and
     Optics Manufacturing, with extensive collaboration across these groups. CPT is host to
     the EPSRC Future Metrology Hub and additionally has a wide portfolio of programmes
     with EPSRC, EU, Innovate UK, RAEng, and direct industry funding. The group is submitting
     25 staff (24.8 FTE) to the UoA. These include internationally respected senior academics
     (Jiang, Blunt, Scott, Longstaff and Walker) plus a large group of established and early
     career researchers (Bills, Martin, Fletcher, Gao, Zeng, Yu, Tong, Qi, Lou, Williamson, Pan,
     Addinall et al.). CPT also maintains a large community (c.40) of Post-Graduate Research
     students. CPT has a strong network of academic and industry partnerships, nationally and
     internationally, and has excellent links to national measurement institutions (NPL, NIST,
     LNE) and to the UK’s High Value Manufacturing Catapult Centres.
    The Institute for Railway Research (IRR) is another large and well-established research
     team, submitting 17 staff (16 FTE) to the UoA. With a focus on railway vehicle interaction
     with track and infrastructure, research topics include various aspects of suspension, wheel-
     rail contact, traction and braking, and track. As part of the current Research England
     funded UKRRIN project, IRR is also extending its portfolio to include
     pantograph/overhead-line interaction. The IRR has grown rapidly over the assessment
     period and has a very strong reputation within the rail industry, working closely with a wide
     group of industry partners to improve rail safety, performance and efficiency. This was
     recognised in 2020 with the award of the Queen’s Anniversary Prize, for research and
     development that has brought significant improvements to the railway industry. This
     network of industry and academic contacts also extends internationally, and IRR is actively
     involved in European rail collaborations and networks. IRR has a senior academic team



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     (Iwnicki, Allen, Bevan, Bezin, Pombo) supported by a large team of researchers (Crosbee,
     Shackleton, Tucker, Antunes, Wang, et al.) and PhD students.
    The Centre for Efficiency and Performance Engineering (CEPE) is a large and diverse
     group conducting research across subject areas including diagnostics, thermo-fluids, signal
     processing, and power engineering. This group has a strong international reputation and
     long track-record in the condition and performance monitoring of industrial assets such as
     rotating equipment (motors, pumps, compressors, turbines, etc.). The group has strong
     international networks with other research groups in the field and a long track-record of
     industrial collaboration, with an active portfolio of Innovate UK and direct industry funded
     research programmes. During the period, the group has developed new interests in
     thermoacoustic technologies, electrical power, green energy and powertrain applications,
     and also works increasingly across engineering and computer science disciplines. CEPE
     has recently begun a strategic partnership with TWI (£0.5M TWI and £0.5M UoH) for 12
     PhD joint scholarships. CEPE is submitting 22 staff (21.3 FTE) to the UoA, including senior
     staff (Ball, Jaworski, Gelman, Gu, Schofield, Allport) and a large group of both established
     and early career researchers (Lazaridis, Mather, Smith, Tahera, Hafeez, et al.).
    The Ion Beam Centre (IBC), made up of two core groups in the fields of Accelerators and
     Electron Microscopy and Materials Analysis, is submitting 9 staff (8.1 FTE) to the UoA,
     including senior staff (Donnelly, Edgecock, Seviour, Van den Berg, Vishnyakov) and both
     established and early career researchers (Hinks, Greaves, Rossal, and Mir). Much of this
     group’s work is a multi-disciplinary combination of engineering, physics and materials, and
     a several staff were submitted to non-engineering UoAs in the last REF assessment. The
     group has a strong international reputation around innovative particle accelerator
     development and the use of particle accelerators for probing the properties of materials.
     This work is conducted using the group’s extensive research infrastructure and these
     facilities (‘MEIS’ and ‘MIAMI’) are part of the EPSRC UK National Ion Beam Centre.
    The Centre for Audio and Psychoacoustic Engineering (CAPE) specialises in the study
     of auditory perception and its application in audio engineering and music technology. In
     particular, CAPE is active in researching the perception, recording and reproduction of
     audio for immersive 3D and VR formats, and has specialist facilities (see section 3),
     including a 3D audio reproduction room, to support this work. The group is submitting 5
     staff (5 FTE) to the UoA (Lee, Bourbon, Moore, Fenton and Mynett), all of whom are
     established academic staff. The Centre has strong international research relationships and
     active interdisciplinary collaboration with staff within UoA 33 (Music).
    The Centre for Engineering Materials (CEM) is a multidisciplinary centre with members
     of staff from across several schools and UoAs. Staff associated with the Centre are
     undertaking research in new material synthesis, characterisation of materials, and the
     development of material applications across wide-ranging sectors such as healthcare,
     energy, transport, textiles and food processing. The group is submitting 4 (3.5 FTE) staff
     to this UoA (Mishra, Barrans, Lambrinou, Aliyu), though many of its associated academics
     and researchers are linked to other groups (CEPE, IBC, IRR) or being submitted to different
     UoAs more closely aligned to their main research focus.
 A small number of staff submitting in this UoA are from research centres that sit within the
 Department of Computer Science:
    The Centre for Planning, Autonomy and Representation of Knowledge (PARK) is a
     cross-school, multi-disciplinary group primarily engaged in the computer science domain,
     and most of its staff will be submitted to UoA 11. However, as a result of active research
     programmes in engineering control and high-performance computing, the group is
     submitting 4 staff (4 FTE) to this UoA (Holmes, Pandey, Dhimish and Johnson).
    The Centre for Mathematics and Data Science (MDS) is a recently formed group
     submitting 2 (2 FTE) staff to the UoA (Lee and Coman). The group focuses on applications
     of mathematics and data science to problems of industrial and societal relevance.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 It is worth noting that the UoA’s research structure represents a significant diversification and
 expansion from 2014, when all staff came from only four research groups within the Engineering
 and Technology Department (CPT, IRR, CEPE and Systems Engineering), and this is reflected in
 how the UoA has developed and performed against its objectives, as well as influencing its
 strategy for the next assessment period.

 Research strategy and objectives
 During the assessment period the University targeted three-fold growth and uplift in the ‘level’ at
 which academics and researchers were contributing to and influencing their subject area through
 increased production of high-quality peer-reviewed publications, securing of competitively
 applied for funding, and impact generation activities. Cascading from this is a School research
 strategy with local targets and priorities which influences where and how investment and support
 decisions are made but does not seek to influence the specific nature/subject of research being
 conducted. Broadly following the Industrial Strategy Grand Challenges, the School strategy,
 which is closely aligned with the UoA, is led by the School’s Associate Dean for Research, with
 support from the School’s senior management team, and regularly reviewed by the School’s
 Research and Enterprise Committee, which has members from all of the UoA’s research groups.
 The UoA strategy and objectives expressed at the start of the assessment period (2014) were
 focused on the then four key research groups (CPT, IRR, CEPE and Systems Engineering), how
 they could respond to priorities within the UK’s Industrial Strategy, and with an emphasis on
 growth and the achievement of high-quality applied research and impact with industry
 partners. The UoA was also guided by the University’s overall research strategy and key
 performance indicators, which emphasised the same priorities. To achieve this a number of
 initiatives were described:
 a) Consolidation and further investment of time, resource and capital equipment in the
    four primary research areas.
 With the diversification of the UoA (described earlier) and inclusion for this submission of staff from
 Physics/Materials backgrounds, investment has been wider than the four groups described in the
 last REF statement. CPT, IRR and CEPE have still benefitted from support through capital
 investment/co-investment, new staff appointments, re-investment of project surpluses, and
 significant support from University and School-based business development, technology transfer,
 and research administration staff. This support has, however, also been extended to the IBC,
 CAPE, and CEM groups. All groups have grown (in terms of staff and income levels) during
 the assessment period, as evidenced by the overall growth already outlined and described in more
 detail in Section 3. The UoA has also benefitted from central and school-based investments in
 support staff, including, for example, the creation of centrally funded ‘Research Development
 Manager’ posts, the creation of a school-based ‘Impact Officer’ role, and growth of pre- and post-
 award teams to support academics/researchers in securing and delivering research projects.
 Investments have also been made in capital equipment, detailed further in section 3.
 b) Identification of fundamental gaps in research capability, supported by recruitment of
    additional staff/teams to address these gaps.
 CPT, IRR, CEPE and IBC have grown significantly, with new research programmes driving
 recruitment of staff to complement existing expertise, primarily in closely aligned areas of
 expertise. In the case of CEPE, with the previous group head (Ball) having senior management
 responsibilities (Pro Vice Chancellor for Research and Enterprise) a new senior academic lead
 was headhunted and appointed during the current period (Gelman). In terms of a specific gap in
 research capability (and in an area identified as an institutional priority) Materials Science was an
 area targeted for investment and a senior academic to lead CEM was recently appointed
 (Lambrinou). More details of relevant activities supporting this priority are described in Section 2
 of this document.




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c) Recruitment and development/mentoring of staff with the potential to become
    research leaders in their chosen field.
 As described above, research groups have grown over the period and there is a significantly larger
 community of academics and post-doctoral researchers in the UoA compared to 2014, including
 many early and mid-career staff. Development and mentoring of these staff is a priority for
 continued growth and achievement of objectives, both now and in the future, and is described in
 detail in Section 2 of this document.
 d) Formation of partnerships with research intensive academic/research institutions, and
    key industry partners.
 With a research strategy focused on growth of research income and research quality/impact, the
 development of a broader portfolio of research collaborations with high calibre researchers in other
 academic institutions (nationally and internationally) has been hugely important, as has been a
 focus on increasing R&D collaboration with industry partners. Actively supporting researchers in
 the UoA to bid more into UKRI funding streams (e.g. EPSRC and Innovate UK), and to pro-actively
 develop research relationships with high-quality international research groups, has seen
 significant growth in both of these types of collaboration, and this is described in more detail in
 Section 4 of this document.
 e) Creation of clear and mobile career paths for progression of researchers.
 With the significant growth that the UoA has achieved over the past two REF periods, research
 now represents a large proportion of the activity and income of the School (c. 50% in 2019/20),
 and there is a large community of research active academic staff and post-doctoral researchers
 employed within the area. Having clear career paths that take into account successful research
 activity has become increasingly important as this community grows, and a number of steps have
 been taken to ensure that these exist, both in terms of postdoctoral researchers securing
 permanent academic posts (successful examples include Martin, Bills, Mian), and for established
 academic staff seeking promotion within their career paths (e.g. Longstaff, Gu, Allen, Lee, Bills,
 Hinks). These are described in more detail in Section 2 of this document.
 In addition, some specific emerging challenges were identified in the strategy as priority targets,
 in particular technologies associated with future manufacturing and engineering challenges
 around real-time and in-situ measurement, imaging/visualisation and remote sensing. These
 areas of research feature highly in many of the research activities of the UoA’s large research
 centres (CPT, IRR and CEPE) and are key themes/work packages in a large number of research
 projects and collaborations, as evidenced by the body of outputs being submitted by the UoA.
 Looking ahead to the future research strategy, the initiatives and priorities described above
 remain relevant as the UoA strives to continue on a path of growth in research quality, income and
 impact. In particular, the significant work and investment supporting academics and researchers
 (particularly early career staff) to achieve these aims remains a strategic priority for the UoA.
 In terms of specific research areas, the Department of Business Energy and Industrial Strategy
 (BEIS) first issued a policy document in 2013 outlining their envisioned future Grand Challenges.
 In September 2019 and July 2020 (Research and Development Roadmap) the strategy was
 updated, however the primary four grand challenges in the post-Covid era remain; Artificial
 Intelligence and Data, Clean Growth, Future Mobility, and Ageing Society.
 The BEIS industrial strategy grand challenges can be mapped onto UKRI strategy in terms of their
 themes of Digital Economy, Energy, Manufacturing the Future and Engineering, and these
 themes are the basis of our UoA research priorities, with each of these themes having significant
 activity undertaken within the UoA. Consequently, the UoA has a clear guiding strategy for its key
 Research Institutes and Centres. Additionally, the UoA’s Institutes and Centres align with
 University ASRI’s (Areas of Strategic Research Importance) namely; Digital Manufacturing
 and Industry 4.0, Productivity, Energy and Materials, Infrastructure and Sustainable Environment,



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Creativity. Hence, there is a holistic research strategy cascading down from industrial grand
 challenges, through University research priorities, down to UoA Institutes and Centres.
 Furthermore, the University’s Strategy Map (2018–2025) includes several objectives and KPIs
 associated with research and these have been subsumed into School/UoA objectives. For UoA
 12 this means that performance will be monitored against the following 2025 KPIs:
    100% of academic/research staff publishing at a quality that is at least recognised
     internationally in terms of originality, significance and rigour.
    75% of academic/research staff publishing at a quality that is at least internationally
     excellent in terms of originality, significance and rigour.
    15% of research outputs co-created with research end-users (primarily industry).
    Annual research-related income of £13m
 These KPIs will be used as part of annual planning cycles to steer progression over the next
 REF period.
 An additional priority for the UoA in the next period will be to build upon and expand multi-
 disciplinary research collaborations.       The CEM research group was established as a
 multidisciplinary centre (including engineering, applied sciences and health) and focused
 investment of the University’s EPSRC Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) has helped drive
 collaboration in this area. There is already a rapidly growing portfolio of work across
 engineering/computer science/mathematics disciplines as AI and data analytics are an
 increasingly critical aspect of engineering/manufacturing solutions, evidenced by much of the work
 of CPT, IRR and CEPE research groups and by a number of staff from PARK and MDS research
 groups being submitted within this UoA. Established links also exist between music technology
 (in engineering) and music (UoA33) and are developing between engineering and biology (UoA5)
 in response to grand challenges in both the ageing population (e.g. medical sensors, devices and
 applications) and clean growth. New opportunities for cross-institution collaboration are also being
 created via Industrial Strategy and Global Challenges sandpit events organised by the University’s
 central Research & Enterprise function, with which UoA researchers have actively engaged.

 Research Impact
 As described above, the University’s links with engineering and manufacturing industries are
 strong and the UoA impact strategy is one of close collaboration with industry partners to
 accelerate knowledge exchange and the adoption of new technologies to deliver impact. This
 includes extensive use of funded mechanisms such as 24 KTPs (Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships) and c.25 Innovate UK Collaborative R&D programmes during the period, and a
 growing portfolio of research contracts and IP licenses/assignments funded directly by industry
 partners. To help researchers engage in these activities the School has invested in its own
 Business Development team (two full-time staff) and created a new full-time Impact Officer role
 during the current REF period to support staff in achieving successful impact outcomes from their
 research. This (and other) investments in supporting infrastructure, and the benefits they have
 delivered to research income, are described in more detail in Section 3 of this document.
 The UoA (primarily though the School’s Business Development team) also draws heavily on the
 University central resources to support technology transfer activities, as well as the growing legal
 and contracts teams that help facilitate contractual/collaboration arrangements with industry
 partners. During the period, the UoA’s research programme has created new technologies which
 are the subject of numerous new patent applications and several new IP licenses/assignments
 with industry partners (which will generate future revenue through royalty-based mechanisms) and
 is currently in the process of creating a new spin-out company (Cubit Precision Measurement
 Ltd) to exploit new metrology instrument technologies from the CPT research team.
 The UoA is submitting 7 (seven) Impact Case Studies for this assessment period, and these have
 been selected from a ‘long-list’ (c.15) of case studies that were initially proposed by research group
 leaders and discussed/evaluated by the School’s Research & Enterprise Committee. Given the

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 extended period it typically takes for underpinning research to deliver industry-based impact, it is
 not surprising that the bulk of the selected case studies (five of the seven) are from the large and
 well-established research centres of CPT and IRR, where long-term research programmes and
 multiple industry partnerships are delivering significant economic and societal impacts, in some
 cases as much as 10-15 years after the original research began. In line with the UoA’s strategy
 of strong engagement with industry partners, all of these case studies rely heavily on evidence
 and testimonials from industry partners to demonstrate their impact, these being from a diverse
 group of industry sectors including aerospace, automotive, rail, metrology equipment/software
 /services, flow handling (e.g. industrial valves), and audio engineering (e.g. microphones and
 speakers). A number of the more recently established/growing research groups in the UoA
 (CEPE, IBC, CAPE) are also developing excellent impact pathways and these are expected to
 deliver strong new Impact Case Studies over the next REF period.

 Open Research
 The UoA is committed to ensuring publicly funded research is openly accessible, transparent,
 collaborative and efficient. The UoA actively uses systems which the University has invested in
 to promote open research and open access to research outputs, and research data management
 (e.g. Elsevier’s PURE information system). Where conflicts may occur (e.g. industry funded
 research, new IP requiring protection prior to publication) support is provided to researchers from
 Business Development and Research Development staff to proactively manage issues within the
 context of the Institution’s policies. Whilst much of the UoA’s applied research and knowledge
 transfer activity is driven by industry partners (and therefore commercially sensitive), some
 researchers are active in developing/contributing to open-source software. For example,
 significant work has been contributed to the OpenFOAM® open source CFD toolbox by
 researchers within the UoA, and which is being applied to support industry partners. Similarly,
 where appropriate researchers are publishing data sets accessible to the wider research
 community. For example, researchers in CPT have contributed research data to the NIST Ballistic
 Toolmark Research Database (https://tsapps.nist.gov/NRBTD).

 Research integrity
 The UoA is committed to having a culture that promotes research integrity, in line with the
 University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. An institutional Code of
 Practice for Research provides the framework under which researchers operate, and all new
 projects and proposals are subject to ethical review and approval as part of a standard sign-off
 process prior to project approval. Where specific ethical concerns may exist, the School Research
 Ethics Committee provides guidance and support to researchers, as well as a link to the
 Institution’s University Research Committee which has overall governance of research integrity.

 2. People
 Staffing strategy
 The UoA’s staffing strategy underpins the growth ambitions of the area. A successful research
 track-record is a pre-requisite for all new academic and researcher staff appointments, with all
 expected to have a PhD (or equivalent qualification). In the case of senior appointments there is
 an expectation that track-record will include significant high-quality research outputs and evidence
 of securing competitively awarded research funding, and of successful collaboration with industry
 partners. In the case of early career appointments, evidence of the potential to develop these
 outputs is a key element of the recruitment process. These criteria have been applied to all new
 academic/researcher appointments in the UoA, with 46 new academics/ researchers appointed
 to the UoA during the current REF period, all either having a PhD or actively undertaking PhDs.
 Growth (and retention) of staff within the UoA is primarily achieved through successfully securing
 external funding from sources including EPSRC, H2020, Research England, RAEng, and Innovate
 UK, with this funding supporting (or at least partially supporting) Post-Doctoral Research
 Assistants (PDRAs). The UoA’s impressive track-record in recent years has enabled growth in
 staff numbers, and this has been further enhanced by significant investment from the School in
 which the UoA is based. Throughout the current REF period, the School has had a research

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 income distribution model in which a large proportion of overheads (indirect and estates costs)
 received from grant-funded programmes are returned directly to the research groups for
 reinvestment. This has enabled groups to recruit additional staff, cover funding gaps for PDRAs
 between grant-supported projects (i.e. retaining experienced PDRAs), to develop and maintain
 research facilities, to invest in network building, and to develop new research and impact
 opportunities. This funding model (particularly for the larger groups with broad portfolios) has
 enabled significant growth in the PDRA community, and has also enabled the vast majority of staff
 (80.2 FTE, 95% of total) to be employed on permanent contracts (i.e. not fixed-term linked to
 a specific grant/project), providing a much more stable environment in which early career
 researchers (ECRs) can develop. This has enabled staff to successfully progress their careers,
 either as research-focussed staff (Hinks, Allen, Bezin, Gao, Fletcher, Zeng, et al.) or through
 transition to academic staff positions within the School (Martin, Bills, Mian et al.) where they can
 continue to develop their research interests. Some of these staff have also taken on significant
 management/administrative duties to support the ongoing development of research. For example,
 Hinks is current Director of Graduate Education with the School. The overall success of the UoA’s
 staffing strategy can clearly be seen in the growth of the UoA, with 88 staff (84.7 FTE) submitted
 compared to 37 in 2013. Of the total submission, 43 staff gained their PhD qualification during
 the current REF assessment period (i.e. since 2014), meaning the UoA now has a significant
 and active ECR community, which will be vital to its continued success and succession planning.
 The UoA has further grown through access to the University’s Research Excellence Staffing
 Scheme (RESS) which was established in 2016 to support (fund) opportunities for high-calibre
 senior research staff from other institutions to join the University. Six new senior staff have
 joined the UoA during the period using this scheme, Professors Walker (CPT), Gelman
 (CEPE), Lambrinou (CEM), Jaworski (CEPE), Schofield (CEPE) and Lee (MDS).

 Staff Development and Progression
 In terms of staff development and advancement, the University is an ‘HR Excellence in Research
 Award’ recipient and the UoA adheres to the national Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, which sets out the seven key principles for funders and employers
 of researchers in the UK. The UoA aims to support staff according to these principles whatever
 their career stage and believes a supportive culture enhances researcher performance, improves
 staff retention, and aids recruitment of both staff and post-graduate students. All staff undergo an
 annual personal development review/appraisal which includes consideration of research
 performance and planning, including identification of specific training and development
 needs/opportunities. Research performance is an important metric for successful career
 progression for both academic and research staff, with indicators such as research outputs,
 income, and successful Post Graduate Researcher (PGR) supervision essential for progression
 to senior academic/researcher positions.
 During the current REF period, seven existing ECRs have secured academic positions within
 the School, and a total of 39 staff within the UoA have had some form of promotion/career
 progression, either within their existing roles or to new roles within the School.
 In terms of development and training, the UoA has access to a large institutional staff development
 portfolio which is mapped against the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and has actively
 engaged with the University’s initiative (with the Chartered Management Institute) for senior and
 mid-level staff to achieve Level 7 management qualifications and obtain Chartered Manager status
 (21 senior academics in the UoA have so far achieved this goal).
 The School’s Research and Business Development team has also established a Researchers’
 Network (aimed primarily towards early career staff but open to all) and are running regular
 seminars and workshops on topics of interest and value to the community (e.g. the funding
 landscape, IP protection and exploitation, how to build industry partnerships, maximising impact
 from research, etc.). These are designed to supplement centrally provided training and are
 practical/operationally focussed, encouraging researchers to share their own experiences and
 challenges with colleagues.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECRs benefit from mentoring within their respective research groups, all of which hold regular
 (typically weekly) seminars where researchers can present and discuss their work with peers and
 senior group members. Through these fora ECRs benefit from advice and support in, for example,
 how to get published and how to identify funding opportunities. ECRs (and PGRs) are actively
 encouraged and supported in gaining experience of supporting teaching activities. The
 embedding of research culture into undergraduate programmes (every UG student is linked and
 interacts with a research group as part of their study programme) has helped to broaden
 researcher engagement with teaching activities. This is helping to develop skills in researchers
 that make them better prepared for securing academic roles in the future.
 All staff can take advantage of research, impact leave/sabbatical leave, regardless of their career
 stage. The UoA operates a policy/process where staff can apply for this type of leave as either
 paid or unpaid (depending on what is most appropriate in their case) and applications are reviewed
 by the Dean of School and the individual’s line manager.
 Exchanges between academia and industry are also supported, often benefitting from external
 funding streams. A particularly successful example over the current period has been the use of
 the HVM Catapult ‘Researcher in Residence’ scheme supported by EPSRC, with staff within the
 UoA (Longstaff, Gao, Lou, Fletcher and Muhamedsalih) having benefitted from this mechanism.
 A number of staff have very close links with industry partners and provide formal input and advice
 through mechanisms including non-executive Directorship (e.g. Seviour with Alceli), split part-time
 employment (e.g. Scott with Taylor Hobson), sponsored chairs (e.g. Jiang with Renishaw) or
 strategic research partnerships/collaborations that include specific time commitments to industry
 partners (e.g. Longstaff with MTT, Gelman with TWI). All of these mechanisms benefit both
 parties, help to steer the UoA’s research, and accelerate technology adoption and impact.

 PGR Student Recruitment, Development and Progression
 The UoA currently has a community of c.170 PGR students, of which 55% are international
 students, and during the current REF period has had 175 successful PhD completions
 (compared to 48 in the previous REF period). Recruitment of PGRs follows a robust recruitment
 process with all projects/potential projects advertised through a variety of channels, including the
 University’s main application platform ‘Coursefinder’. Improving research visibility amongst the
 Undergraduate community (as previously described) is helping with recruitment of home students
 and the building of stronger networks, both across disciplines within the University and with other
 research institutions also supports the recruitment process. The UoA follows the University-wide
 recruitment process for all of its doctoral research students, which includes a review of the
 proposals by the research group/supervisor, interviews, completion of a Pre-Enrolment Form and
 ensuring all the relevant checks are completed before the applicant is offered a place at the
 University. For some projects (industry sponsored studentships, DTP scholarships, iCASE
 awards) there may also be additional steps to satisfy the needs of funders or in recognition of the
 prestigious nature of the scholarship.
 The UoA has been successful in developing many different sources of funding to support PGR
 studentships, which help in attracting and retaining high-calibre candidates. Due to the significant
 (over £20 million) portfolio of EPSRC funding within the UoA, the University is the recipient of an
 EPSRC Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) which fully funds a number (currently 12) of PhD
 studentships each year. The UoA has also been awarded EPSRC iCASE studentships (industry
 co-funded), has benefitted from EPSRC Doctoral Training Centre in ‘Application of next generation
 Accelerators’ support, and receives some direct industry sponsorship for PhDs (recent examples
 of partners fully funding PhDs include TWI, TEKNEK, NPL and Renishaw). The UoA has also
 benefitted from significant University and School investment in funding for PhD studentships
 through several different mechanisms including £1 million to support c. 21 studentships
 working on projects related to the EPSRC Future Metrology Hub, £500k of co-investment for
 PhD funding (alongside the same investment from TWI Ltd) for creation of a joint research centre,
 and large numbers of fee waivers (and small scholarships) via several initiatives and aimed,
 primarily, at Huddersfield alumni from Undergraduate and Taught Masters programmes, and also
 to support good Research Masters students progressing to PhD. The UoA has also been
 successful in attracting significant numbers of international students in receipt of scholarships from

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their own country of origin. These are typically secured through the development of international
 collaborative partnerships and in recent years have been successfully established with China,
 Iraq, Libya, Pakistan and Thailand.
 All PGRs have both a main and a second supervisor and receive the equivalent of one formal hour
 of supervision per fortnight. Research group seminars and meetings provide additional
 opportunities for PGRs to benefit from support and peer mentoring. Records of supervisions are
 kept by both students and supervisors in the University’s ‘SkillsForge’ platform. Robust
 progression vivas are held after 9 and 21 months, for which students are required to submit an
 annual report detailing their progress, and then give a short presentation to a panel consisting of
 two academics from the subject area who are not involved in the student’s supervision (this allows
 also for frank discussion of the student’s level of satisfaction with the supervision provided). For
 progression to be approved, the examiners must be satisfied that the student has made sufficient
 progress both intellectually and in terms of timescale for completion. Research training needs
 form part of the discussion in these vivas. PGRs are also able to access specialist support for
 academic writing via the In-Sessional Academic English Support Programme provided by the
 University’s Research and Enterprise department. PGRs also have access to an extensive suite
 of training and development materials made available by the University. This includes, for
 example, materials on Research Methods, Research Ethics, Entrepreneurship (in the research
 context), Research with Impact, etc. The UoA’s strong partnership with NPL also means that
 those PGRs working in relevant areas (primarily in CPT) are also able to benefit from access to
 NPL’s Post Graduate Institute for Measurement Science which offers a portfolio of training and
 development opportunities.
 The UoA actively supports students to develop their research careers by attending and presenting
 at conferences, and students can bid for funding from the UoA’s QR allocation or University
 Research Fund (URF) for costs associated with presenting at conferences. PGRs are strongly
 encouraged to publish research outputs prior to their viva and UoA staff support this, often co-
 authoring with students to help introduce them to the publishing process. PGRs are also eligible
 to apply to the University’s Postgraduate Researcher Environment Development Fund (up to £2k)
 to support the development of public engagement or impact-focused projects designed to be of
 benefit to other PGRs. PGRs are also encouraged to see research and teaching as symbiotic and
 of mutual benefit and the UoA provides opportunities to gain teaching experience to those students
 who wish to do so. This experience encompasses seminar tuition, workshop provision, lecturing
 (supported by staff), and co-teaching of small groups (in collaboration with staff). Students are
 also encouraged to take the University’s Teaching Assistant Preparation Programme run by the
 central Research & Enterprise team. Consequently, PGRs emerge from our PhD programmes
 well prepared for careers in research and/or teaching. Based on the 2019 Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey, overall satisfaction in the UoA was comparable to the national average in the
 subject area (78.6% versus 79%). Areas identified for further development were primarily around
 professional development opportunities and, in particular, more training and support for PGRs
 delivering teaching-related activities.

 Promoting EDI (Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity)
 The UoA is committed to creating and maintaining a culture of research diversity and recognises
 that a positive and supportive environment where researchers from all backgrounds can flourish
 will significantly support the UoA’s future ambitions.
 Similarly, the University is committed to EDI and has robust policies and codes of practice to guide
 and support staff and PGRs. In 2020, the University signed up to the Race Equality Charter (REC)
 and completed the Investing in Ethnicity Maturity Matrix to inform the REC action plan. In 2018,
 UoH was accredited as a Disability Confident Employer and was a signatory to the Mindful
 Employer Charter, it is also a Stonewall Champion and participated in the Stonewall Equality Index
 in 2019. The University has four staff networks (LGBTQI+, BAME, Women and Disability) run by
 members with support from the University EDI Officer. The University has Athena Swan Bronze
 accreditation and the School in which the UoA sits is also working towards an Athena Swan Bronze
 award.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EDI is also a priority within the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice, and a detailed Equality
 and Impact Assessment (EIA) has been completed as part of the process of selecting staff and
 outputs for inclusion within the REF assessment process. This provides an assessment of
 protected characteristics (gender, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, religion, age, marital
 status, maternity) within the total baseline population versus the population selected as having
 Significant Research Responsibility (SRR) and Independent Researchers (IR). For UoA12, the
 assessment shows that the only protected characteristic impacted upon by the SRR/IR and
 outputs selection process is gender, in which there was actually a more favourable outcome for
 the minority female population (13.6% of staff and 12.2% of outputs selected from a population
 of only 11.4%).
 The most significant factor in UoA12 affecting SRR/IR selection was postgraduate qualification,
 for example 62% of staff who were identified as not-SRR are currently still studying for a doctorate
 degree. 25% were also identified as not publishing international quality research. These figures
 provide a good indication of areas of prioritisation for supporting staff within the UoA to enable
 further development of the research environment.
 Whilst the EIA suggests that those with protected characteristics have not been adversely
 disadvantaged by the SRR/IR selection process, and even given a significant existing diversity of
 ethnicity, religion, age, etc, the UoA does recognise that positive actions can be taken. For
 example, as is typical nationally within the engineering discipline, the proportion of female staff is
 low (11.4% of baseline and 13.6% of SRR/IR selection) and efforts are being made to try and
 address this imbalance. In particular, with a push to grow interdisciplinary research, there is more
 opportunity to recruit from across a broader range of subjects, and emerging themes such as
 bioengineering and forensic analytics are bringing greater female representation into the UoA’s
 PGR student and researcher communities. Encouraging and supporting staff to engage
 proactively with EDI issues (for example Qi is an EPSRC sponsored member of the Women’s
 Engineering Society) is also important. It is also worth noting that UoA staff have to undertake
 training in EDI and Unconscious Bias prior to being involved in any recruitment activities.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 As previously highlighted, the UoA’s research income growth has been very strong, rising from
 £7,323,689 during the previous (five year) assessment period to £37,311,669 in the current (seven
 year) assessment period. In terms of annual income this represents an increase from a £1.46
 million pa average to a £5.33 million pa average, representing c. 365% growth.
 A significant proportion of the UoA’s income (43.3% or £16,170,421) has been in the ‘BEIS
 Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy and The Royal Society of
 Edinburgh’ category, primarily through a focus on successfully securing a growing portfolio of
 high-quality, peer-reviewed, Research Council funded programmes. This has included:
    Leadership of large and highly prestigious critical-mass national centres of excellence,
     the ‘ESPRC Centre for Innovative Manufacturing in Advanced Metrology’ (Grant
     reference: EP/I033424/1) and the EPSRC Future Metrology Hub (EP/P006930/1)
    Equipment grants, ‘World Class Materials Facilities at the University of Huddersfield’
     (EP/M028283/1), ‘Advanced Freeform Generator’ (EP/S033300/1), ‘Multidisciplinary
     Research Equipment Investment: Coherence Scanning Interferometer (CSI) and Vector
     Network Analyser (VNA)’ (EP/T02433X/1), and ‘Multidisciplinary Underpinning
     Instrumentation investment’ (EP/V035940/1)
    Fellowships, ‘EPSRC Fellowship in Manufacturing: Controlling Geometrical Variability of
     Products for Manufacturing’ (EP/K037374/1 and EP/R024162/1), ‘EPSRC UKRI CL
     Innovation Fellowship: A semantic infrastructure for advanced manufacturing’
     (EP/S001328/1), and ‘EPSRC Engineering Fellowship: Addressing self-irradiation



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     damage and its impact on the long-term behaviour of nuclear waste matrices’
     (EP/T012811/1)
    RCUK Catapult Researcher in Residence fellowships, ‘(HVM MTC) - Surface
     measurement methods for manufacturing, functioning & metrology of additively
     manufactured products’ (EP/R513520/1), ‘(HVM CPI) - Ultra fast in-line surface metrology
     for roll-to-roll process’ (EP/T517732/1) and ‘(HVM NAMRC) - Reducing uncertainty of in-
     process measurement of large component with embedded metrology for traceable on-
     machine inspection’ (EP/S515784/1)
    Leadership of responsive mode projects, ‘Atomistic Scale Study of Radiation Effects in
     ABO3 Perovskites’ (EP/K03684X/1), ‘A Study of the Combined Effects of Displacement
     Damage and Helium Accumulation in Model Nuclear Materials’ (EP/M011135/1),
     ‘Radiation Damage in Nanoporous Nuclear Materials’ (EP/M01858X/1), ‘Combined
     Effects of Light Gas and Damage Accumulation in Beryllium’ (EP/T027193/1), and
     ‘(H)olistic (A)pproach to the Design of Efficient Heat (R)ecovery Systems for Electrical
     (P)ower (P)roduction (HARP^2)’ (EP/R023328/1 and EP/R023689/1)
    Supporting (Co-investigator) roles in a number of call-based and/or responsive mode
     projects, ‘Ceramic Coatings for Clad (The C^3 Project): Advanced Accident-Tolerant
     Ceramic Coatings for Zr-alloy Cladding’ (EP/K039237/1), ‘A Multiscale Digital Twin-Driven
     Smart Manufacturing System for High Value-Added Products’ (EP/T024844/1), ‘Miniature
     Flexible & Reconfigurable Manufacturing System for 3D Micro-products’ (EP/K018345/1),
     and ‘The science and analytical tools to design long life, low noise railway track systems’
     (EP/M025276/1)
    New investigator awards/first grants, ‘Perceptual Rendering of Vertical Image Width
     for 3D Multichannel Audio’ (EP/L019906/1) and ‘Measurement and characterisation of
     additively manufactured surface texture’ (EP/S000453/1)
 The UoA has also benefitted from access to funding for doctoral training through the University’s
 Doctoral Training Programmes (EP/R513234/1 and EP/N50967X/1) as well as through iCASE
 and NPIF studentship awards.
 In total, the UoA has a current portfolio of EPSRC funded projects totalling c. £20m in value, and
 this includes two recently secured awards, a standard research award ‘Combined Effects of Light
 Gas and Damage Accumulation in Beryllium’ (EP/T027193/1) and an EPSRC Programme Grant,
 ‘Next Generation Metrology Driven by Nanophotonics’ (EP/T02643X/1).
 There have also been some other successes during the REF period in this funding category, for
 example, Royal Academy of Engineering funding in the form of the Renishaw/Royal Academy
 Chair in Precision Metrology, and Innovation, Enterprise and Industrial Fellowships.
 Many of the UoA’s research outputs, in particular those by the CPT and IBC groups, are closely
 related to these funded projects, as are the two Impact Case Studies associated with CPT that
 are being submitted by the UoA.
 The category ‘UK central government bodies/local authorities, health and hospital
 authorities’ has accounted for a further 19.9% (£7,436,283) of the UoA’s income and grown
 significantly over the period. Within this category are two large and prestigious IRR group projects,
 the Regional Growth Fund supported ‘Centre for Innovation in Rail’ and the Research England
 RPIF ‘UK Rail Research and Innovation Network’, plus a large portfolio of funded collaborative
 research and knowledge transfer projects, spread across all of the UoA’s research centres. The
 UoA has been an active user of IUK’s Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) scheme for
 many years and has had 24 different KTP projects running during the REF period, typically having
 a portfolio of 6-8 running at any one time. These are an excellent way of building and maintaining
 long-term relationships with industry partners and projects have significantly supported two of the
 UoA’s impact case studies. Other IUK funding streams (in particular the SMART collaborative
 R&D scheme) were specifically identified as having the potential to support income growth and
 enhanced impact, and the UoA has significantly increased activity in these over the current REF

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 period, with over 25 projects running during the period. As with KTPs, these projects help build
 strong and lasting industrial collaborations and accelerate impact from research, as well as
 generating some high-quality research outputs, usually co-created with the industry partners.
 Several of the UoA’s Impact Case Studies (primarily in CPT, IRR, CEPE and CAPE) have been
 supported and enhanced by these projects.
 ‘UK industry, commerce and public corporations’ accounts for 18.7% (£6,979,002) of income
 and has also grown significantly. The IRR research group in particular have a very diverse
 research portfolio, with large and numerous collaborations and contracts with key partners in the
 rail sector, most notably the Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB), Network Rail, Alstom and
 Siemens. These collaborations have helped facilitate numerous research outputs and directly
 supported the three Impact Case Studies IRR have contributed to the UoA submission. A large
 long-term research collaboration with Borg Warner (on turbocharger design and manufacture) was
 also a major contributor in this category, along with many smaller collaborations across a wide
 variety of activities including sponsored PhDs, collaborative research, knowledge transfer,
 consultancy, and industrial training.
 The category ‘EU government bodies’ accounts for 10.3% (£3,839,082) of income but has
 remained fairly static over the period, with uncertainty over post-Brexit access to EU funding
 streams a major factor in the recent development of this portfolio. The UoA has had projects from
 across a variety of EU funding mechanisms. This has included European Research Council
 research/innovation projects (e.g. ‘SURFUND’, ‘EMinstr’). There have been c.20 collaborative
 FP7/H2020 R&D projects, more than half of these rail-industry focused and within IRR (e.g.
 In2Rail, Run2Rail, SustRail, Capacity4Rail, Shift2Rail) plus several CPT-based metrology projects
 (e.g. NanoMend, Prosurf, Ease R3), and a CEPE based 5G project (Motor5G). The UoA has also
 engaged with Erasmus+/Leonardo grants on lifelong learning/training projects (e.g. WINGS+).
 The balance of UoA income (£2,886,881) has come from a mix of sources but primarily from
 projects with UK charities/not-for profit organisations and through international research and
 industrial collaboration. Examples include a large strategic partnership with RSSB, a research
 collaboration with CERN (related to upgrade of the Large Hadron Collider facility), and a number
 of research contracts with international industrial partners.
 As has been described above, all research groups are active (and have been successful) in
 bidding for external research funding. All academics and researchers are encouraged to bid and
 are supported by their peers and by the School’s Research and Business Development teams,
 who have extensive experience of supporting colleagues in the development of bids to all of the
 main UoA funding bodies, and of supporting engagement with industry partners. This support is
 available to all staff, and particular efforts are now being made to support ECRs in developing this
 knowledge and capability in the early stages of their career.

 Looking forward, the UoA will continue to pursue a strategy of research income growth, aiming
 to at least double in size by 2025 (this coincides with the University’s current strategy period and
 KPIs). Successful delivery of this growth will rely on the continued success of existing senior
 researchers, use of the University RESS scheme to attract established researchers to the
 University, plus a cohort of ECRs establishing themselves and accessing significant funding
 streams (hence the existing focus on supporting ECRs). Additional investments in research
 infrastructure (see below) will support this growth.

 Infrastructure
 Groups within the UoA maintain a number of specialist facilities to support their research and
 impact activities. In some cases, this is highly specialist, UK-leading infrastructure, for example:
    CPT’s combination of high accuracy optics, metrology and precision engineering
     instrumentation (both fixed and portable), including clean room with nanoscale capability,
     totalling over 2,000m2 of laboratory space.
    IRR’s full-scale bogie rolling contact rig and advanced dynamic test cell, and recently
     constructed full-scale pantograph test cell (over 1,000m2 of laboratories).

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    IBC’s suite of accelerators and microscopes, including the MIAMI-2 system which is part
     of the EPSRC UK National Ion Beam Centre facility (in conjunction with universities of
     Surrey and Manchester).
    CAPE’s 3-D audio capability, including ITU-R BS.1116-compliant listening room.
 In all cases, research groups in the UoA have access to a core set of facilities (hardware and
 software) that enable them to undertake their research effectively.
 Over the REF period, the University has invested c.£7.9 million institutionally in supporting delivery
 of its Research Strategy via the “University Research Fund” (URF), and £1.7 million of that
 investment has been to support initiatives in UoA12. This investment has included, for example,
 funding of six senior staff (and associated costs) joining the University under the previously
 described RESS initiative, funding to help establish the new Centre for Engineering Materials,
 development/improvement of research facilities within the CPT and CAPE research groups,
 support for delivery of international conferences, and staff exchange and/or travel grants.
 In addition to the URF investment, the University has also provided match funding and/or co-
 investment (from central and/or school reserves) to some of the UoA’s prestigious research
 awards and strategic industrial partnerships. This has included, for example, £1.25 million cash
 investment to fund PhD students and 50% of equipment costs associated with the EPSRC Future
 Metrology Hub, £2.5 million cash match-funding commitment to IRR’s strategic partnership with
 RSSB, a £500k cash match funding investment to CEPE’s strategic partnership with TWI Ltd, and
 a £250k cash match funding investment to CPT’s Renishaw/RAEng Chair in Precision Metrology.
 These investments are in addition to the ongoing commitment within the School of Computing and
 Engineering to return a significant proportion of estates and overheads surpluses from funded
 projects directly back into research groups. Over the REF period this has amounted to over £5.25
 million reinvested by the School to support the UoA.
 The University has recently (Nov 2020) committed to over £5 million investment in upgrading
 and expanding engineering research laboratories, in particular to support multidiscipline Digital
 Manufacturing and Industry 4.0, Productivity, and Energy and Materials ASRI’s, all of which fall
 primarily within UoA12. This will support further growth of CPT, CEPE, CEM, PARK and MDS
 research groups, and will be completed in 2021.
 The School has invested heavily in its administrative/management infrastructure to support
 research and impact over this REF period. This includes a new Business Development
 Manager, a Research Finance Support Team (2.5 FTE), a part-time Research Development
 Manager and an Impact Officer. A new Technical Services Manager has also been appointed
 bringing all the technical and IT technicians under one management structure resulting in more
 joined-up support for UoA researchers.
 The School has also invested in a dedicated state-of-the-art space (c.500m2) for PGR students
 including hot-desking facilities, lockers, meeting rooms, kitchen facilities, and communal/social
 space. This is co-located with the research support and business development teams and is a
 focal point for the school’s research administration and support activities.

 Use/exploitation of Infrastructure
 Given the ethos of delivering research with impact through collaboration with industry, many of the
 UoA’s research facilities/specialist resources are used to support impact generation activities, as
 evidenced by the significant amount of industry-led/commercial funding the UoA has received over
 the REF period. For example, CPT’s metrology research infrastructure (surface measurement,
 co-ordinate measurement, X-ray CT, portable measurement lasers) is used to deliver specialist
 design and measurement support to industry. This includes long-term development programmes,
 typically with metrology solutions providers and/or large OEMs, rapid turnaround measurement
 services with regional and national manufacturing end-users, and hands-on industrial training
 programmes. Similarly, IRR’s full-scale test cells (bogie rolling contact rig, advanced dynamic test
 cell) and scaled laboratory test rigs are used extensively with rail-industry partners to support their
 R&D programmes, delivered through both research contracts and specialist test services. In the
 case of CEPE, this large and diverse group is using a variety of facilities (engine test cells,

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dynamometers, motor/compressor/pump test cells, specialist design and simulation software) to
 support industrial development and consultancy projects. Whilst impact activities are typically
 delivered by academics and researchers, with support from core technician teams, in the case of
 both CPT and IRR, specialist technicians/applications engineers have been recruited by the
 research groups specifically to support delivery of industry-facing services.
 The UoA also benefits from having access to equipment in the University’s 3M Buckley Innovation
 Centre (3MBIC), notably plastic and metal additive manufacturing machines and a selection of
 microscopes and materials analysis instruments. These are in regular use by UoA researchers to
 support a number of EPSRC, Innovate UK and direct industry funded projects.
 Cross-HEI shared use of infrastructure has been growing with the UoA’s increase in multi-
 disciplinary research programmes. In particular, closer collaboration with computer/data scientists
 is seeing engineering infrastructure (mostly in CPT, IRR and CEPE) being used to create large
 data sets for subsequent analysis and manipulation. This is particularly relevant for researchers
 in the PARK/MDC groups, some of whom are submitting within this UoA, but who are mostly
 submitted in UoA11. There is also a long history of shared use of microscope facilities across
 campus, in particular CPT, IBC and CEM working with colleagues in the School of Applied
 Sciences. CPT’s X-ray CT capability in particular is used regularly by research groups outside of
 the UoA with particular focus on the School of Applied Science.
 Some of the more specialist infrastructures already described (primarily those in CPT and IBC)
 are also accessible to researchers from other institutions. CPT’s ‘Nanolab’ facility for example
 has been used in this way by academic and industry-based researchers, including long-term hiring
 of work bench space within the laboratory. Another example is IBC’s MIAMI (Microscope and Ion
 Accelerator) facility which is accessible to UK academics through the EPSRC supported UK
 National Ion Beam Centre.
 The UoA has also benefitted from some in-kind donation and/or long-term loans of specialist
 equipment that supports research activities, notably focus variation microscopes donated by
 Bruker Alicona and the long-term loan of a Romer portable metrology arm donated by Hexagon,
 plus the University benefitted from a significant discount from CPT’s industry partner Renishaw
 when purchasing the two metal additive manufacturing machines that are based in the 3MBIC.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Support for research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships are fundamental at both UoA and institutional
 level to support the raising of research profile, nationally and internationally. The philosophy
 across the UoA is aimed at facilitating growth of these collaborations with both academic and
 industry stakeholders. To support this a range of software and services are available as a first
 port of call for researchers seeking information and guidance. Information repositories (notably
 the PURE system and research group web pages) ensure information that supports collaboration
 building is in the public domain, and the University’s Microsoft Dynamics CRM system enables
 active tracking of relationships with external partners.
 University-wide mechanisms and funding are under the umbrella of the University Research Fund
 (URF), which includes a Researcher Development Fund (primarily aimed at ECRs), Conference
 Presentation Fund (for papers and posters at conferences of national and international standing),
 Intellectual Climate Fund (for student-led initiatives to enhance opportunities for learning and
 research practice), Research Networking Fund (for PGR visits to national/international centres
 of excellence), and Public Engagement Fund (for formal training in public engagement). In
 addition, the UoA has been investing c. £280k per annum of QR funding into mechanisms that
 directly support the development and maintenance of national and international collaborations.
 This includes funding for National and International Consortium Building with the aim of
 bidding to international projects such as H2020, British Council and Global Challenges Research
 Fund, Visiting Academic Programmes (to and from the University), Conference Travel funding
 for ECRs (including PGRs), Strategic Equipment Purchase/Maintenance (to support specific
 collaboration opportunities) and funding to support short-term Bridging of Staff between funded

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contracts. These QR funds are allocated through a formal, transparent application and
 assessment process, with proposals reviewed by senior UoA academics.
 To further support researchers, the University and School have significant infrastructure and
 support staff for whom a significant part of their role is supporting the creation and maintenance
 of research collaborations. Centrally this includes a Business Development team focused on
 engagement with industry partners, Pre- and Post-Award teams that support financial
 management of funded relationships, and legal and contracts teams that support the creation of
 robust agreements for collaboration. The University’s 3MBIC is based alongside the main campus
 and, as well as being home to a number of innovation businesses, contains a range of advanced
 engineering equipment and a team of business advisors which enable researchers to better
 engage with regional and national industry. Of particular relevance to the UoA are X-Ray
 Computed Tomography, Microscopy and Metrology facilities, plus the Renishaw Metal Additive
 Manufacturing Facility. The School in which UoA12 sits (alongside UoA11) has made significant
 investments to create research support infrastructure locally, including a Research and Business
 Development Team (2.5 FTEs) and a Research Finance Team (2.5 FTEs) that provide more
 intensive and focused support as well as seamless connection to central teams. Hence,
 researchers have easy access within the school to hands-on help with costing/pricing,
 partnership/consortium building, identification and bidding for appropriate grants, contract
 development/negotiation, management and exploitation of intellectual property, budgeting and
 financial management. The School also has an active Industry Advisory Panel which meets
 three-times per annum. This provides an opportunity for senior UoA staff to engage with, and get
 feedback from, a broad industrial group to understand how research can be better directed by,
 and connected to, industry needs.
 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships highlights
 All research groups across the UoA are actively developing and engaged with partnerships and
 networks in their respective disciplines. Whilst it is not possible to list all activities within the
 constraints of this document, some examples highlighting the breadth and significance of the
 activity across the UoA follow:
    CPT researchers are active contributors to networks in metrology and precision
     engineering, including CIRP, euspen, CERN HL-LHC and COLUSM network, and the
     HVM Catapult Metrology Forum. Also, highly significant is the group’s contribution to
     national and international standards (BSI/ISO/ANSI/ASTM) committees in the creation of
     new standards, which are hugely important in the metrology discipline. The group has
     strong links, primarily through UKRI funded activities, with leading universities and
     research organisations in the field in both the UK (e.g. universities of Strathclyde, Heriot-
     Watt, Newcastle, York, Leeds, Bradford, Manchester, Nottingham, Birmingham,
     Cranfield, Cambridge, UCL, Southampton, South Wales and Cardiff, plus NPL, TWI and
     all seven of the HVM Catapult Centres) and internationally (e.g. universities of North-
     Western, ENS-Paris-Saclay, RWTH Aachen, Kaiserslautern and Shanghai Jiaotong, plus
     PTB, NIST and Lawrence Livermore National Lab). Through the EPSRC Future
     Metrology Hub programme, CPT is also actively leading the development of a UK
     metrology research network. This group of c. 20 universities and research organisations
     has collaborated to produce the recently published ‘UK Metrology Research Roadmap’.
    IRR researchers are actively engaged with networks including UKRRIN, RSSB and the
     Centre for Innovation in Rail (hosted by IRR) and are influential in both academic and
     industry led networks across the rail sector. The group has strong links with UK
     universities (e.g. Birmingham, Newcastle, Heriot Watt, Leeds, Lancaster, Loughborough,
     Bristol, Cambridge, Sheffield, Nottingham and Southampton) as well as active
     collaboration through a portfolio of FP7/H2020 programmes (e.g. In2Rail, Run2Rail,
     SustRail, Capacity4Rail, Shift2Rail) with European academic partners including Milan,
     Lisbon, Delft, Cantabria and Rome.
    CEPE is a large and diverse group and has strong international research networks across
     its portfolio. These include a CEPE China network (with Beijing Institute of Technology
     in Zhuhai, Shanghai Jiao Tong, Xi’an Jiao Tong, Tsinghua, Chongqing, Nanjing, Tianjin

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     and Zhejiang universities), an international Turbocharger network (with Shanghai Jiao
     Tong, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Monash, ANU, Victoria, and Technical
     University of Kenya), and a developing network linked to the H2020 Motor5G project (with
     Bucharest, Aarhus, Thassalonika and Sofia universities). In addition, there are a large
     number of collaborations (linked to specific projects) with organisations including
     universities of Southampton, Sunderland, KAIST, Arizona, Delhi, Hong Kong, Valencia,
     Opole, Poznan, Oulu, Alberta, Genoa, Grenoble and Modena.
    IBC is a key partner of the UK National Ion Beam Centre (with Surrey and Manchester
     universities) as well as part of the H2020/Euratom Il Trovatore network (with 29 other
     partners including Cambridge, Oxford, Imperial, Manchester, KU Leuven, Karlsruhe,
     Dresden, Poitiers, Torino and Kyoto universities). UK collaborations (primarily EPSRC-
     funded) with leading universities in the field are particularly strong (notably Surrey,
     Manchester, Sheffield and Liverpool) and the group also collaborate extensively with the
     UK Atomic Energy Authority, e.g. via their Culhman Centre for Fusion Energy.
    CAPE researchers are active in several specialist related networks including the Abbey
     Road Spatial Audio Forum, UK Acoustics Network, and Immersive Audio Network.
     The group collaborate widely with international universities (New York, Institute of
     Acoustics China, Bialystock, Graz) as well as having active collaborations in the UK with,
     for example, York University. Of particular note is the collaboration with New York on the
     development of the “City Tones” soundscape database.
    CEM, which is submitting only a small number of researchers to this UoA, is very active
     in the H2020/Euratom Il Trovatore network (co-ordinated by Lambrinou) as well as
     having a strong portfolio of international collaborations with research institutes including
     Uppsala, KU Leuven, Baku, Kiev, Leoben and Madrid universities.
    As previously highlighted, a small number of researchers from PARK and MDS are
     submitting to this UoA. These research groups are primarily submitting to UoA11 and
     have research networks and collaborations described in detail within that submission.

 Links with key research users and wider society
 The UoA’s most impactful collaborations with research users are described in seven Impact Case
 Studies being submitted by the UoA for this REF period, but these are only a small representation
 of many hundreds of collaborations taking place between UoA researchers and industrial partners.
 As highlighted earlier, the UoA has a very strong culture and track-record of applied research in
 close collaboration with industrial partners. This has grown during the current period, evidenced
 by significant increases in business-led research grants and contracts, notably 24 KTP projects,
 c. 25 IUK collaborative R&D projects, c. 20 EU FP7/H2020 R&D projects and numerous
 industry-funded research contracts. There has also been an active consultancy portfolio, and
 several licenses/assignments of new IP. Even for more fundamental research funded by
 EPSRC, engagement with industry is critical to maximise opportunities for impact acceleration.
 For example, the EPSRC Future Metrology Hub had 29 co-creating industry partners and has
 collaborated with over 150 different companies at its project mid-point (Aug 2020).
 The UoA’s research user base is very diverse, being from a wide range of industry sectors, with
 particularly strong representation from amongst the Rail (RSSB, Network Rail, London
 Underground, Alstom, Hitachi, et al.), Aerospace (Rolls Royce, BAe Systems, Airbus, GKN, et
 al.), and Metrology (Renishaw, Taylor Hobson, Hexagon, Zeiss, Faro, et al.) sectors which are
 closely aligned with major research strengths within the UoA. There are numerous collaborations
 with specialist and precision engineering product and service companies locally, nationally and
 internationally. These include local/regional clusters in automotive (e.g. Cummins Turbo
 Technologies, BorgWarner), flow handling equipment (e.g. Trillium, Koso Kent Introl, HR
 Blowers) and advanced machinery and automation (e.g. Holroyd, Reliance Precision, Wayland
 Additive, MTT, CR Solutions) as well as wider national/international collaborations. All UoA
 research groups actively collaborate in their fields, even where these are highly specialist. For
 example, CAPE collaborates with world-leading audio companies such as Schoeps Mikrofone,

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Genelec and DPA Microphone, as well as with music production and broadcasting companies
 such as Abbey Road Studios and the Austrian Broadcasting Corporation.
 In addition to assessing industry engagement through income streams and project collaborations,
 the UoA is seeking to increase the proportion of research outputs co-created with research users.
 Co-created outputs are clear evidence of close collaboration and are being used as a KPI within
 the University’s current strategy map. At Jul 2020 c. 7.5% of the UoA’s outputs were co-created
 with end users and the UoA has a target to grow this to 15% by 2025.
 Outside of industrial collaborations, the UoA is committed to the Concordat for Engaging the Public
 with Research. Wider public engagement by researchers has primarily been through formally
 organised events such as University European Researcher Nights in 2016 and 2017 (where over
 3,000 members of the public attended the University for open events showcasing our research)
 delivering presentations and, more importantly, hands on activities. Researchers have also
 developed a public lectures showcasing research in off-campus locations. These “Café
 Scientifique” events have proven popular and have been running since 2015 in conjunction with
 researchers from the School of Applied School Sciences.

 Contributing to Sustainability of the Discipline
 As described in Section 1, the UoA’s main research focus is aligned to the UK’s Industrial
 Strategy, including elements of all four Grand Challenges (Artificial Intelligence and data, Ageing
 society, Clean Growth, and Future of mobility), and to the UKRI priorities of Digital Economy,
 Energy, Manufacturing the Future and Engineering. In addition, some researchers are
 focussing on opportunities to address priorities of the Global Challenges Research Fund to
 support sustainable development goals for the developing world. In each case, broad themes and
 objectives naturally promote interdisciplinary research and the UoA has been building
 interdisciplinary specialisms over the REF period.
 One example is the development of bio-medical engineering and bio-metrology capabilities, with
 researchers from CPT collaborating with medical engineering partners (University of Leeds, UCL,
 London Implant Retrieval Centre, DePuy Synthes, Zimmer Biomet, Renishaw) to improve the
 design and use of medical bioimplants. This work, which crosses engineering metrology,
 materials science, medicine and biological sciences disciplines, will help improve quality of life for
 many thousands of patients each year receiving joint replacements (hips, knees, etc.).
 Another example is the application of AI and data science to engineering challenges. The
 increasing use of sensor networks to collect real-time manufacturing process and/or engineering
 assets data generates massive, complex data sets that cannot be exploited by conventional
 methods. Collaboration with computer scientists, within the University and at other partners, is
 becoming common for researchers in CPT, IRR and CEPE, and will be essential to address future
 challenges in autonomous manufacturing, remote asset monitoring/management, the increasing
 servitization of engineering products, and other Industrial Internet of Things applications.

 Contribution to the discipline, nationally and internationally
 In addition to the actual undertaking of research activities, researchers across the UoA are actively
 contributing to the discipline through a wide variety of mechanisms.
 A number of UoA staff are making significant contributions via journal editorial boards, for
 example, Editor in Chief; Journal of Rail and Rapid Transit (Iwnicki), Editor in Chief; International
 Journal of Railway Technology (Pombo), Editorial Board; IOP Journal Surface Topography
 Metrology and Properties (Blunt), Editorial Board: Journal of Multibody System Dynamics
 (Pombo), Editorial Board; CIRP (International Academy for Production Engineering) Annals
 (Jiang), Honorary Technical Editor, the International Journal of Condition Monitoring (Gelman),
 Editor-in-Chief, the International Journal of Engineering Sciences (Gelman), Associate Editor,
 International Journal of Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management (Mishra),
 and Editorial Board, Journal of Advanced Transportation (Mishra).
 In addition, UoA staff act as referees for over 100 peer-review journals, with highlights including
 Acta Materialia (Hinks), Nature Communications (Hinks, Jiang and Tong), Carbon (Hinks),

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Optics and Photonics (Jiang), Proceedings of the Royal Society A (Blunt and Jiang), Optics
 Express (Jiang and Martin), Precision Engineering (Longstaff), IEE Transactions on Audio
 Speech & Language Processing (Lee), IMechE Journal of Engines (Allport), International Journal
 of Railway Technology (Pombo), and the International Journal of Condition Monitoring (Gelman).
 Researchers across the UoA have participated widely in funding and awards committees
 nationally and internationally. Examples inlcude: member of EPSRC Manufacturing Prioritisation
 Panel 2018 (Walker), EPSRC panel member for Engineering Fellowships 2015- (Hinks and
 Seviour), Member of DoE (USA) INCITE 2016 review panel (Seviour), Polish Roadmap for
 Research Infrastructures, Ministry of Science and Higher Education 2018 & 2019 (Blunt), member
 of Technology and Accelerator Advisory Board of STFC, 2019 (Jiang), Rail Safety Strategy Board
 V-V SIC, consultation on authorising RSSB R&D project funding (Allen), member of the evaluation
 panel assessing applications for R&D funding R&D projects National Innovation Agency – ANI
 (Portugal) 2011- (Pombo), member of the evaluation panel assessing applications for R&D
 projects Agencia Nacional de Evaluación y Prospectiva – ANEP 2013-(Spain) (Pombo), Funding
 Evaluation Executive Government Agency of National Science Centre – NCN 2015- (Poland)
 (Pombo), member of Grant Committee for Industrial Research Fund (IOF), 2017 Belgium,
 (Gelman), Grant Committee, Agency for Innovation by Science and Technology (IWT), Belgium,
 2015 (Gelman), member of Royal Academy of Engineering Manufacturing Panel (Jiang), member
 of Royal Academy of Engineering, Newton Fund Panel (Jiang), member of Royal Academy of
 Engineering, Member, Chair and Senior Fellow appointments committee (Jiang). Also, 12 UoA
 staff are members of the ESPRC Peer Review College.
 The UoA also contributes to significant UK discussions via Membership of EPSRC Science,
 Engineering and Technology Board, Membership of the Wales Science & Innovation
 Advisory Council, and Advisor to the National Measurement Program (all Jiang).
 Researchers across the UoA engage with other Boards and Committees including as Elected
 Learned Council Members, International Discipline representatives, ISO Committees Chairs
 and Professional Institutional Chairs, and such activities are clear evidence of active
 engagement with their discipline. Highlights include: Representation on the Northern Powerhouse
 Mission to China International Industry Fair, 2017 panel discussion member (Jiang), UK Chair of
 International Academy of Production Research (CIRP) 2015 (Jiang), Deputy Chairman of the
 Railway Division of the I Mech. E (Iwnicki), Elected Council Member of European Society for
 Precision Engineering EUSPEN 2015- (Blunt), Election to Senior Membership of Optical Society
 of America 2018 (Walker), Chairman of Manufacturing Technologies Association Technical
 Committee 2019- (Longstaff), Member of Technology and Accelerator Advisory Board of STFC,
 (Jiang), Participation on Parliamentary Select Committee on Small Module Reactors 2014
 (Seviour). Chair of the Condition Monitoring Technical Committee, British Institute of NDT
 (Gelman), Principle Member of, ISO TC39 Machine Tools SC2 (Longstaff), Chair of British
 Standards Institute (BSI) MTE/1/2, Machine Tool Standards (Longstaff), BSI 004/04/10
 Technical realisation of X-ray Computed Tomography (Bills), ISO TC213 Dimensional and
 Geometrical Product Specifications and Verification, strategic board (Scott), Advisory Group 12
 ISO TC 213 Convener Mathematics for Metrology (Scott), ISO TC213, Principle member WG15
 Data Analytics and Filtering WG16 Surface texture principle member (Scott & Jiang), American
 Society for Testing and Materials ASTM: E07 Non-destructive Testing E11 Quality & Statistics
 (including E11.50 Metrology) E57 3D Imaging Systems F04 Medical and Surgical Systems &
 Devices (including F04.22 Arthroplasty) F42 Additive Manufacturing Technologies (including
 F42.07.03 Medical/Biological) ASTM Smart Manufacturing Advisory Committee (all Bills), BSI:
 CH/150/04 Bone & Joint Replacements (Bills), and Principle Member of ISO/TC108 Technical
 Committee, Condition Monitoring (Gelman)
 UoA researchers recognise the importance of networking and forming connections within their
 discipline and have been active in chairing and hosting key conferences during the period (as
 well as many conference attendances as delegates/presenters). Some of the more significant
 highlights are: Conference Chair for Laser Metrology, Coordinate Measuring Machine and
 Machine Tool Performance (LAMDAMAP) 2017 and 2019 (Blunt), Conference Chair for
 International Metrology and Properties of Engineering Surfaces, 2017 Gothenburg, 2019 Lyon


                                                                                        Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Blunt), Organization Committee of "International Conference on Railway Technology" 2014,
 2016 (Pombo), Local Chair International Conference On TEM With In-Situ Irradiation
 (WOTWISI) Huddersfield 2018 (Hinks), Conference Chair International Conference Condition
 Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management (COMADEM) Huddersfield 2019 (Gelman),
 Local Chair 4th Workshop on Intelligent Music Production (WIMP2018) 2018 (Lee), Local Chair,
 Audio Engineering Society Workshop on the capture and rendering of audio for VR, 2017(Lee).
 UoA Researchers are also regularly invited to give keynote addresses and invited lectures, often
 as part of large international conferences and workshops. Over the REF period there have been
 many examples, but highlights include: Plenary Speaker, 3rd CIRP Conference on Bio-
 Manufacturing, Northwestern Uni, Chicago, USA 11-14 July 2017, (Jiang), “Metrology for Bio
 Systems” Keynote address Proc Int. Conference on Metrology and Properties of Engineering
 Surfaces, UNC Charlotte USA 2015 (Blunt), Invited speaker at the UK and Swedish Aerospace
 Cluster International Exchange Event at the AFRC 2019 (Longstaff), Invited keynote and
 session chair, "Ultra-precision machining of functional surfaces with embedded metrology", the
 6th Asia Pacific Conference on Optics Manufacture, 2019 (Tong), Distinguished Plenary
 Keynote, 25th International Congress on Sound and Vibration, Japan, 2018 (Ball and Gelman),
 Plenary Keynote lecture, European Conference on Materials, Mechatronics and Manufacturing,
 Amsterdam, 2019 (Barrans), Invited Speaker: “Multibody/finite element co-simulation method for
 multidisciplinary applications in railway dynamics”, The Sixteenth International Conference on
 Civil, Structural and Environmental Engineering Computing, Riva del Garda, Italy, March 17-19 ,
 2019. (Antunes), Invited talk in Microscopy and Microanalysis of Nuclear and Irradiated Materials
 session at Microscopy and Microanalysis 2019 (Portland, OR) (Hinks), Invited Keynote
 Congress Francais de Mechanique, “Digital Twins “ Brest, France, 2019 (Mishra), Invited paper
 and Virtual Encore Series, Audio Engineering Society AES International Conference, Vienna, June
 2020.“Goodbye Stereo” Virtual Encore Series (Lee).

 Recognition in the discipline, nationally and internationally
 Many of the researchers/research groups across the UoA have seen recognition during the REF
 period for their work and contribution to the discipline, typically in the form of prizes (group and/or
 individual) and awards. Some notable highlights include:
    The award of Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire for services to
     Engineering and Manufacturing was bestowed upon Prof X Jiang in the Queen’s Birthday
     Honours, 2017.
    IRR were awarded the Queens Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education,
     2020, for R&D that has brought significant improvements to the railway industry.
    CPT (via their EPSRC Centre for Innovative Manufacturing) were recipients of the IET
     Innovation Award for Manufacturing Technology, Nov 2014, for their breakthrough
     surface measurement technology.
    The COMADIT Prize “For significant contribution through research/development in
     condition monitoring to benefit of industry or society” was awarded to Prof L Gelman by
     the British Institute of Non-Destructive Testing, UK, 2017.
 UoA researchers have also been awarded fellowships with learned societies during the REF
 period. These include Fellows of the Royal Academic of Engineering (Jiang and Iwnicki),
 Fellows of the IMechE (Allport and Mishra), Fellow of the Royal Society for Statistics (Scott),
 Fellow of The British Institute of Non-Destructive Testing (Gelman), Fellow of CIRP (Jiang),
 Fellow of The Audio Engineering Society (Lee), Fellow of The Society of Diagnostic
 Engineers (Gelman), and Fellow of the International Association of Engineering (Gelman).




                                                                                                Page 19
