Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Central Lancashire
 Unit of Assessment: UoA18 Law
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit Context

Law research at the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) brings together scholars at every level
to produce high level research outputs that have a real impact on people, communities and
the world in which we live. Our research has a daily impact on law and justice in England & Wales
and beyond, on governments, and on global decision-making. Our research reflects the University’s
identity and role as a prominent anchor civic university and has a local, national and international
real-world impact. We have created an enriching and inclusive research community in which all are
valued, nurtured and supported to achieve research excellence.

We promote and celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion under the broader aegis of the
University’s policies, as set out in the institution-level environment statement (5a). This ethos is
central to our identity and our research includes work that focuses on the needs and experiences of
marginalised individuals, groups and communities (Codd, Kelly-Corless, McGuire), which promotes
human rights (Uwazuruike, Turner, Codd) and which challenges inequalities in a range of contexts
(El Said). Researchers within UoA18 have actively contributed to events for Black History Month,
International Women’s Day, and LGBTQ+ History Month, along with participating in community
engagement events promoting disability awareness, support for asylum-seekers and trans-
inclusivity.

Law research at UCLan has grown over more than twenty-five years. Until November 2019 legal
research was based primarily in the Lancashire Law School, and this has now become part of a new,
interdisciplinary, School of Justice, situated within the Faculty of Business and Law. This has brought
together law, policing, criminology and sociology, providing new opportunities for interdisciplinary
research and scholarship. Interdisciplinarity is a core theme underpinning research activities in
UoA18: law researchers collaborate with researchers in the Medical and Dental Schools (Choong);
Policing (Turner), Journalism, film and media (Turner, Uwazuruike) and Social Work (Codd).

Our contributions to scholarship, and our impacts, are recognised by the legal research community.
In 2019 the School was the first post-1992 university law school to host the Annual Conference of
the Society of Legal Scholars, due to Professor Richard Taylor’s election as President. This reflects
the esteem in which UCLan law staff and legal research is held in both national and international
contexts.

Unit Structure

We are submitting 14 staff (12.8) FTE, stable since 2014 when we also submitted 14 (10.8 FTE).
We have invested in early career appointments (Uwazuruike and Kelly-Corless), offering
opportunities for progression for our PhD cohort. This has formed part of a succession plan to replace

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
retirements (Salter, Puchalska) and staff departures due to uncertainties about Brexit (Andersen).
Our focused recruitment of ECRs means we are submitting 4 staff for the first time. The submission
is made up of 3.2 Professors (Codd, Zou, El Said, Taylor); 3 Readers (Owen, Choong, Turner); 4
Senior Lecturers (McGuire, Chandia, Wood, Todd) and 3 Lecturers (Kelly-Corless; Marshall,
Uwazuruike), with growing diversity in comparison with previous submissions.

Our research has improved since RAE1996 (3a), progressing to 4 in 2001 and having a significant
proportion recognised as of international standing in RAE2008 and REF2014. Following REF2014
we reassessed our approach to supporting research-active staff in line with the Researcher
Development Concordat, implementing a formal mentoring scheme and supporting research
development days in order to build staff expertise in creating high-quality outputs. The School has
consolidated its research leadership and management structure, establishing a Research Executive
Group chaired by the School Director of Research (Codd). Its membership includes all Professors
and Readers, and Research Degrees Tutors (Wood). The Associate Director of Research (Turner)
is responsible for PGR students and for co-ordinating admissions applications with the other RDTs.
UoA18 is supported by central Faculty and University resources including a Faculty Bid Writer.

UCLan Cyprus forms an important part of our research environment and enhances PGR student
experience across the two campuses. Staff from UCLan’s main campus in Preston co-supervise
three PhD students with UCLan Cyprus staff, and Cyprus staff benefit from contact with Preston-
based research-active staff . A joint PGR conference was held at UCLan Cyprus in June 2019, and
discussions are underway to develop collaborative bids for funding to support community mediation
initiatives with asylum-seekers in Preston and the Aegean. In addition, Preston staff (Codd, Taylor,
Turner) have visited Cyprus to develop research ideas and deliver RDT and research ethics training
(Codd).

Research Strategy 2014-2020

Our overall strategic aim since 2014 has been to produce world-class legal research by attracting
and nurturing research talent around our key research themes, whilst recognising areas of individual
specialism and the diverse nature of research and knowledge dissemination. We sought to
maximise the quality, impact, reputation, public engagement, focus, scale and scope of legal
research within a sustainable funding framework. To achieve these aims we built on existing
interdisciplinary networks, developed new international collaborations and continued to work with
regional, national and international, legal and criminal justice policy makers and practitioners in order
to impact on the formulation of national and international policy, legislation and practice. During the
2014-2021 period we consolidated our networks via a number of key initiatives and provided
focused opportunities for collaboration and dissemination. We achieved these aims, as evidenced
in our outputs, impact case studies and external activities.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Integration with the University strategy

Our commitment to interdisciplinary, international networks is consistent with the University’s
Research Strategy 2018-20. The University identified six overarching Research Themes which have
served to highlight and nurture UCLan research strengths and ambitions. Law research contributes
to cross-faculty work on several of these themes [Diagram 1].


Diagram 1: UoA18 People, Research and Themes in the UCLan Context




UoA18 staff contributions to interdisciplinary research centres

As set out in the Institution level Environment Statement (5a) the University has created a number
of interdisciplinary research centres that draw in staff from across the institution and in which UoA18
staff play a significant role [Diagram 2].




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Diagram 2: UoA18 and Research Centres and Institutes

                         University Research Institutes & Centres


                                                                              Sport,
        Brain &              Drug Design &             C4Global           Physical Activity
       Behaviour             Development                                  & Performance



                                                         Field
                                                                             Business,
       Sustainable             UCLan                 Archaeology
                                                                           Management &
       Transitions             THRIVE                 & Forensic
                                                                            Enterprise
                                                     Taphonomy



                                                      Migration,
                               Smart
        Engineering                                   Diaspora &
                              Materials                                        Digital
                                                         Exile
                                                       (MIDEX)


                    Institute of Citizenship,                       Institute of Global
                       Society & Change                            Health & Wellbeing

                                      UoA 18 Law
                        Cybercrime                                    UCLAN
                         Research             Institute for          Criminal
                            Unit             International            Justice
                          (UCRU)                  and               Partnership
                                             Comparative               (CJP)
                                                  Law



   •    Lancashire Research Centre for Migration, Diaspora and Exile (MIDEX): Dr Kim McGuire
        is the Lead for Access, Integration and Inclusion, and was instrumental in acquisition of initial
        internal funding of £42,000 (2019). McGuire is a steering committee member and is involved
        in several community engagement projects based around migration, hate crime and
        refugees.

   •    Institute for Citizenship, Society and Change (ICSC): This Centre has over 40 members
        from fifteen Schools. UoA18 staff have been involved in the Centre’s activities from the outset
        (Codd, McGuire).

   •   The UCLan Criminal Justice Partnership (CJP) was launched in 2017 as a
       multidisciplinary showcase to co-ordinate and promote externally the breadth and quality of
       UCLan expertise in criminal justice law, policy and practice (Codd, McGuire). Prof. Codd led

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       development of the ‘Social and Restorative Justice’ strand of activities, co-ordinating cross-
       university staff development events, national one-day conferences and creating a series of
       ‘Brown Bag Lunches’, which brought together UCLan researchers with senior policy-makers
       from the police, victims’ organisations and prisons. Other law staff have been involved in
       delivering development events and specific projects (McGuire, Scullion). Most recently, Codd
       has led externally funded evaluation projects for Lancashire Women’s Centres, and has been
       key speaker at two well-attended dissemination conferences reaching more than 150
       academics and practitioners. The CJP works with The Peace and Justice Studies Network
       led by Dr Kim McGuire, funded by HEIF, recent collaborations including evaluations of
       Restorative Justice and ‘hate crime’ projects within the North West.

The School of Justice hosts two research centres that have actively contributed to our overarching
aims and objectives for scale, impact, reputation and collaboration:

   •   UCLan Institute for International and Comparative Law

       The UCLan Institute for International & Comparative Law, led by Prof. Zou, was established
       in 2015 following a successful internal bid for seed-corn funding (£20,000). Current members
       are Zou, El-said, Turner, McGuire, Choong, Uwazuruike, Scullion (staff) and Tchokote, Ye,
       Manzoor (PGRs). Since its inception it has strengthened the reputation of UoA18 research
       by hosting conferences and incoming visiting professorships, and supporting PGR students
       as interns, providing a pathway into research careers. The themes of these events have been
       highly topical, including Rule of Law and Chinese Legal Reforms (2015); International
       Criminal Trials (2015); Maritime Silk Road, and Maritime Security and the Belt and Road
       Initiative. The Institute has hosted visiting professors including Professor Julia Guifang Xue
       from Shanghai Jiaotong University, Professor Sanqiang Qu from Beijing Institute of
       Technology, Professor Jia Chen from Hebei University and Dr. Juan Fang from China
       University of Political Science and Law. Prestigious publications include Zou, K. (2016)
       Sustainable Development and the Law of the Sea: Zou, K. (2018) Global Commons and the
       Law of the Sea, (2018); Zou et al. (2020) The 21st Century Maritime Silk Road.

   •   UCLan Cybercrime Research Unit (UCRU),

       UCRU, established by Owen in 2014, brings together researchers from criminology [Owen],
       social sciences [Todd, Marshall], and public services, sociology, psychology and digital
       publishing. The Unit’s activities have generated research outputs including books co-edited
       with other UCLan colleagues (Owen et. Al. (2017) ‘New Perspectives on Cybercrime’,
       Palgrave; and Owen & Marshall (2020) ‘Rethinking Cybercrime: Critical Debates’, Springer).
       UCRU has hosted two international conferences (2016 and 2017) for which keynote speakers
       included Professor Michael Clarke of RUSI and, reflecting the praxis-based approach of the
       Unit, Detective Superintendent Geraint Jones of Cheshire Police, an expert on investigating
       child abuse imagery.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Impact Strategy 2014-20

Our key strategic aim has been to ensure that our research continues to impact on the formulation
of national and international policy, legislation and practice, informed by our work with regional,
national and international policy makers and practitioners. We have worked with central Research
Services to provide training for staff on how to maximise research impact, including           ‘impact
development days’. Research impact        is discussed with appraisers during monthly one-to-one
sessions. The Faculty Bid Writer includes identification of potential impacts as a key component of
research project planning and staff are encouraged to ‘build in’ the development, recording and
evaluation of the impact of their research from the earliest opportunity.

Examples of successful delivery of impact:

   •   Throughout the period under review Richard Taylor has been responsible for researching
       and writing the key relevant sections of the annual edition of Blackstone’s Criminal Practice
       (BCP), which is available in all Crown Courts, and is widely used and referred to by
       practitioners and judges, thus having an extensive impact on law both in the UK and in other
       common law jurisdictions. His work provides the foundation for one of our impact case
       studies.

   •   El Said’s research in the field of intellectual property and access to medicines has contributed
       significantly to global debates and national policy reform in certain countries, and most
       recently in relation to intellectual property in medicines in the light of COVID-19. His work
       provides the foundation for our second impact case study.

   •   Choong’s research on physician suicide whilst undergoing GMC’s fitness to practise
       investigations has contributed to policy debates around medical practitioners’ well-being. The
       work was referred to by the American Psychiatric Association (APA) in its ‘Resource
       Document on Recommended Best Practices for Physician Health Programs (2017)’; in a
       Senate Inquiry (2016-2017); on ‘Complaints Mechanism Administered Under the Health
       Practitioner Regulation National Law’ which was submitted to the Council of Australian
       Governments Health Council; and a policy statement issued by the Quebec Physicians’
       Health Programme to the Inter-Professional Council of Quebec.

The two impact case studies (Taylor, El Said) have been chosen as examples of two distinct aspects
of the impacts of law research at UCLan. Taylor’s study relates to domestic law in England and
Wales, with a broader international impact on common law jurisdictions. In contrast, El Said’s impact
case study focuses on international trade and intellectual property, and access to medicines. Both
of these case studies demonstrate a commitment to, in the words of Gandhi, ‘being the change you
want to see in the world’ through their close relationships with practitioners and their recognition as
expert advisors. Similar impacts can be seen in research by Codd (on prisoners, families and
ageing); Kelly-Corless (on d/Deaf prisoners) and Owen (neuroscience and cybercrime).


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Governance

We are committed to ensuring that all research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal
and professional frameworks, obligations and standards, including the Concordat for Research
Integrity. UoA18 research activities are governed by the University’s ethical governance framework,
informed by subject-specific statements of ethics, such as that of the British Society of Criminology,
and Global Code of Conduct for Research in Resource-Poor Settings. Prof. Doris Schroeder, of
UCLan’s Centre for Professional Ethics, was a lead author of this Code, of which UCLan is a
signatory, and research-active staff in UoA18 (Kelly-Corless, Uwazuruike, Codd)) have experience
of implementing this and other appropriate ethical frameworks for researching potentially vulnerable
people (such as d/Deaf prisoners) and sensitive topics (human rights in Africa; the impact of
imprisonment on families; children’s rights in India). Codd and Choong offer guidance on ethics for
staff, postgraduate and undergraduate students, Codd being former Chair of the relevant faculty
ethics committee. Choong has become Deputy Vice-Chair, having been Ethics and Law lead for the
UCLan Cancer Care research group.

All staff complete mandatory training in equality, diversity and inclusion, data management, health
and safety and GDPR. Professors and Readers, who are responsible for appraisal and mentoring,
must complete additional training in promoting staff wellbeing (see Section 2).

In line with our commitment to ‘real world research which makes a difference’ we aim to maximise
the accessibility of our outputs. Researchers in UoA18 all have ORCID identifiers and submit their
outputs to CLOK, the University’s repository. Increasing Open Access to research is a key aim for
the next REF period, via university-level and faculty funding for ‘gold’ open access, and increased
publishing in open-access formats.

Strategic aims for research and impact: 2021-2028

In the 2021-2028 period we aim to:

   1. Continue to produce high level, accessible research outputs that have a real impact on
       people, communities and the world in which we live, reflecting the University’s role as a
       prominent local anchor civic university and the significance of UCLan law research in the
       local, national and international context.

   2. Develop and sustain our enriching and inclusive research community in which all are
       valued, nurtured and supported to achieve research excellence; promoting equality,
       recognising diversity, and enabling inclusion.

   3. Strengthen our financial sustainability as a UoA, through increased levels of bidding and
       grant capture, facilitated by new opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration with
       colleagues in the School of Justice, Faculty, University and beyond, including external
       national and international partners.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People


Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

Our strategic aim is to attract and retain high calibre researchers who can extend and develop our
research themes whilst recognising their individual specialisms. In pursuit of this aim, we have
sought to provide the support, facilities and intellectual environment to allow our staff to thrive and
achieve research excellence and impacts of local, national and international significance.

Effective recruitment, support, development and progression are critical for staff retention, as is an
environment characterised by equality, diversity and inclusion. In the School of Justice, Rachel Nir
is a Teaching and Learning focused Reader in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, and has extensive
experience of advising on action plans to promote equality and diversity in the legal professions and
in legal education. In the present submission, one Professor and one Reader are female, and over
the next assessment period we will be working with Nir to design and implement action plans towards
ensuring greater gender equality, especially in senior research leadership roles, including mentoring,
coaching and career-focused training courses. The School is applying for the Athena Swan Bronze
award this year, aiming to apply for the Silver Award within the census period, and the School
Research Director/UoA Lead (Codd) is a member of the Steering Group. The School also supports
the Aurora Women’s Development Programme, by funding participation and allocating workload
time, and Codd is an invited Aurora Role Model. Two Professors, one Reader and one lecturer are
of BAME ethnicities. Going forward, we will be collaborating with Nir to review and implement action
plans to offer tailored support to BAME staff throughout their research careers. Our research-active
staff group is inclusive of a broad range of academic backgrounds and includes two who undertook
degree-level and subsequent postgraduate study as mature students, one after taking an access
course. The majority of our research-active staff are first-generation graduates.

Strategies to encourage, support and promote equality, diversity and inclusion are integral to UoA18
and informed by staff consultation. Flexible working supports staff to balance work and caring
responsibilities, and the School has adjusted some working practices: for example, no staff meetings
are scheduled before 10am in response to feedback from staff with school-age children. Several
researchers have taken maternity leave and have returned to full-time, research-active roles,
following the University’s gradual process of pre-return visits. The University’s framework of support
for staff with special needs has helped researchers within UoA18 return to work after ill health, and
supports disabled staff, as exemplified in the support provided to enable a senior research leader
within UoA18 to return to work after two major operations and subsequent diagnosis of ongoing
health conditions and mobility disability.

New staff must hold PhDs except where recruited to teach on professional practice programmes.
Staff who wish to pursue doctorates are given fee remission and workload time allocation (Turner).

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Most new staff are appointed at Lecturer level, usually as ECRs, which aligns with the University’s
policy of building and nurturing ‘home grown’ expertise. Our two most recent appointments built
capacity in our core themes and were former UClan PGR students recruited to permanent full-time
lectureships. One is from a BAME background, the other is female. Both of these staff have been
mentored by experienced researchers (Turner, Codd) who have discussed publication plans and
read drafts of articles prior to submission, leading to both producing several pieces included within
this submission, and which, along with other activities, will provide a strong foundation for
Uwazuruike and Kelly-Corless’ promotion to Senior Lectureships.

The University holds the HR Excellence in Research Award and, in line with the Researcher
Development Concordat, we ensure open, transparent and merit-based recruitment and promotion,
following university policies. Professors and Readers mentor, encourage and advise staff and co-
author books, edited collections and articles with less experienced colleagues (Salter, Owen, Todd,
Marshall, Uwazuruike). The University offers an annual opportunity to apply for promotion to Reader
or Professor, and the professors offer constructive guidance and feedback as to the expectations of
the Professorial and Readership Committee in relation to activities, outputs and the application
documentation itself. Only one of our Professors and Readers (Zou) was appointed to that role
externally, which is testament to the success of our approach. During the period under review three
staff have been promoted internally to Readerships (Turner, Choong, Owen) and two staff (Codd, El
Said) have been promoted to Professor. It is striking to note that three Professors (Codd, El Said,
Taylor) have spent their whole academic careers to date at UCLan, progressing from a first
appointment as Lecturer up to Chair level.

The Director of Research oversees workloads allocated to research active staff, and is pro-active in
ensuring consistency, fairness and acting as first point of contact for research-active staff concerned
about well-being and work-life balance, or for appraisers and mentors who have concerns. The
introduction of COVID-19 restrictions in March 2020 prompted the creation of a ‘Teams’ space
specifically for UoA18 Law research staff, and as well as being useful for virtual meetings the platform
has provided a space for staff to discuss research, ask for advice and also maintain informal social
contact. At a time of disruption and uncertainty, with clear challenges for staff well-being and conduct
of research (especially empirical fieldwork), this platform has proved invaluable. Specific ‘Teams’ for
research-active staff and PGRs were established in March 2020 as soon as the first lockdown was
announced, and this has meant that we have been able to continue to support our ECRs and PGRs
in difficult and challenging circumstances.

Research-active staff within UoA18 are allocated a minimum of 20% workload for research. All staff
benefit from the university-wide appraisal and review process, in which annual and interim appraisals
are complemented by monthly one-to-one meetings. Staff agree individual research objectives which
are measured via this process, based on a three-year research plan. Research-active staff are
appraised by Professors and Readers, with Professors and Readers being appraised by the Head


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of School and the Faculty Director of Research. An assessment of the quality of outputs is made on
an annual basis via the Annual Research Assessment, which combines internal and external peer-
review.

Examples of activities to support research-active staff

   •      COVID-19 pandemic has seen activities move to being virtual and we have utlilised Microsoft
          Teams as a platform for research seminars, which has also enabled a wider audience to
          engage in our work, for example our colleagues at UCLan Cyprus.

   •      Two residential writing retreats, funded by the School and the Faculty, to facilitate UoA18
          staff to produce specified outputs (June 2017 and July 2018). Each event brought together
          six staff, including ECRs and experienced researchers, to produce specific outputs, such as
          finishing conference papers (Kelly-Corless), writing articles and completing successful book
          proposals (Codd, McGuire).

   •      Staff are funded by the School to deliver papers at national and international legal and inter-
          disciplinary conferences. Faculty Research Grants are also available for conference
          participation (Choong; Codd), research expenses, sabbaticals (Wood; Choong) and Open
          Access costs.

   •      One-day events at the University’s Westleigh Conference Centre to develop research and
          bidding skills, including small-group masterclasses on building a three-year personal
          research plan.

   •      Two ongoing programmes of research-related seminars for staff and PGR students. ‘Thinking
          Allowed’ combines internal and external speakers presenting aspects of their research and
          research methodologies. More recently, a companion programme of informal workshops has
          been established to bring together experienced researchers with practice-focused staff who
          are interested in research, so as to bid for external funds (Codd). This project supports
          teaching-focused and fixed-term contract staff to transition into roles with significant
          responsibility for research.

   •      Prof. Shadd Maruna was an invited UCLan-funded Distinguished Visitor (2017). He
          presented a lecture on his research for undergraduates, a research workshop, and a
          presentation on desistance co-hosted by HMPPS at HMP Kirkham. These links between
          prisons and the Law School benefit research and research-informed teaching, as exemplified
          in the programme of prisoner-student debates developed at HMP Kirkham by Kelly-Corless.

Research students

PGR students are an integral and essential element of the School research environment. There have
been 29.5 PhD completions during the period 2014-2020, equating to an average of 2.3 completions
per FTE, nearly three times more completions than in the period prior to REF2014 (10.8 completions,


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
0.9 per FTE), reflecting more effective training and support for both supervisors and students,
combined with staff becoming more experienced in successful supervision. In addition, some
students choose to study for an LLM (by Research) or an MA (by Research) prior to registering for
MPhil/PhD, and many of these students go on to register for MPhil/PhD after successful completion
of their initial research programme. We have a strong record of supporting PGR students to secure
full-time, permanent lectureships, either at UCLan (Kelly-Corless, Uwazuruike) or at other institutions
(Barr and Yin at LJMU).

The scope of completed PhD theses is broad and topical, many having interdisciplinary, international
and comparative elements. These include

   •   the legal accountability of intelligence services;

   •   aspects of EU fundamental rights, especially in relation to religious freedom;

   •   maritime law and environmental law in Nigeria and China;

   •   regulation of political corruption in Zimbabwe;

   •   African human rights.

Particular note should be made of Kelly-Corless’s thesis, entitled ‘Silent Punishment: The
Experiences of d/Deaf Prisoners’. This empirical PhD research was co-supervised by law and d/Deaf
studies staff and was the first UK PhD on the experiences of d/Deaf prisoners. Following on from
this, Kelly-Corless was appointed to a full-time permanent lectureship in Criminology. Similarly,
Uwazuruike completed his PhD within the School and is now a full-time lecturer who has recently
published his first monograph and been awarded funding for innovative, multi-methods,
interdisciplinary research on decolonisation and human rights in Nigeria, in conjunction with film and
media researchers and co-produced with Nigerian stakeholders.

UoA18 attracts and recruits students from diverse backgrounds, including new graduates from within
the University, mature students, international students and others returning to academia following
career breaks. The challenges of PGR funding, combined with the varied life situations of our PGRs,
mean that the majority of PGR students self-fund, with the assistance of career development and
student loans combined with part-time employment. Students are able to move flexibly between full-
time and part-time routes,. Our two KTPs in West Cumbria each included a funded M.Phil/ PhD
Research Assistant , which provided a funded route through postgraduate study for two graduates
living in economically and socially marginalised areas. Although it is possible to identify some
demographic information about PGR students, we recognise that more detailed assessment would
be valuable and will undertake this research in 2021-2.            Whilst we are working towards
decolonisation of the undergraduate curriculum, in response to feedback from our BAME
undergraduate students, we need to do more to support our BAME PGRs and implementing
appropriate support provision is a key focus going forward.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All full-time PGRs are provided with their own desk in a shared office. Where appropriate, PGRs are
encouraged to undertake part-time teaching, enhancing their employability. PGRs may apply for
financial support from the School and Faculty to participate in national and international conferences
and to publish their research outputs, including Open Access costs. The School also finances social
events for research students to bring the students together and to avoid isolation.

PGRs complete the University’s compulsory research student training and also have access to
training materials via Epigeum. The University organises an annual Research Student Conference
at which all University research students are required to present. In addition, the annual ‘Three
Minute Thesis’ competition is open to any interested PGRs, and UoA18 staff have been judges
(Codd, Turner).

Each PGR has a named RDT, who plays a key role in admissions and is responsible for regulatory
matters, transfers, progress monitoring and pastoral oversight. UoA18 has five RDTs (Owen, Turner,
Wood, Choong, El Said). Students are supervised by teams of two or three, including one Director
of Studies (DoS). UoA18 has a very good track record of building supervisory capacity by including
staff with less experience of supervision on teams including more experienced colleagues. There is
also an organised programme of supervisory training offered by the Graduate Research School
linked to the UKCGE Good Supervisory Practice Framework, along with regular training briefings
held by the RDTs, in order to ensure all supervisors are familiar with current regulations. In addition,
UoA18 encourages less experienced staff to act as internal examiners, often at LLM or MA(Res)
level initially, thus expanding the UoA’s examining capacity.

During the 2014-2020 period, researchers from the School have been external PhD examiners at
prestigious institutions including Queen Mary; University of London Institute of Education and Bath
University (Codd); University of Manchester and Bangor University (El Said); Nottingham Trent
University and Universities of Birmingham, Gent and Macau (Zou). This external engagement in
examining is not only a reflection of esteem and recognition of expertise but also helps ensure that
our own examining processes and decisions reflect those of comparable institutions.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

The School has continued to succeed in bidding for external funding since 2014, including funding
for collaborations with international partners. This success has arisen out of one of the stated
research strategy aims, which was to put together interdisciplinary and international project teams
to identify and bid for funding. Projects that demonstrate our commitment to funded collaboration
and international partnerships include the following:

   •   ‘Children’s Rights Along the Journey from Victims to Survivors’ was funded jointly under the
       UK-India Educational Research Initiative (2014-2016) (£40,000). This project brought


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       together an interdisciplinary team based in Law and Social Work at UCLan (Codd, Scullion,
       Thomas) with a team based at Manonmaniam Sundaranar University to conduct a
       comparative scoping study and empirical research into the needs and experiences of child
       victims of sex offences. This collaboration produced reports, dissemination conferences in
       both countries, a CPD pack for training taxi drivers in the UK to respond to and report Child
       Sexual Exploitation (CSE) and two UK films (plus one in India) aimed at raising awareness.
       One of the UK films is now included in teaching on an undergraduate law module, thus
       embedding research in teaching.

   •   El Said was the legal lead in the European Research Council’s (ERC) grant to UCLan for the
       project ‘Performance-based Innovation Rewards (REWARD)’ (2014-2019), which is included
       in one of the UoA’s two Impact Case Studies. REWARD was an ambitious project, aiming to
       create an ethically and legally sound performance-based reward tool for pharmaceutical
       innovation, which would complement the existing patent regime, yet mitigate its considerable
       disadvantages for the global poor. The overall grant allocation to UCLan was €1,922,338.

Our grant income was on an upward trajectory at the start of this REF period, rising from £26,194 in
2012-3 at the end of the previous REF period to £190,862 in 2015-6. However, this income began
falling after 2016. We recognised this downward trend as it emerged and have already implemented
an action plan in response. This plan has included one-day events at the University’s Westleigh
Conference Centre to develop bidding skills, one-to-one meetings with the Faculty Bid Writer, and
more recently use of Microsoft Teams to more rapidly circulate targeted funding opportunities.
Bidding for research funds is an appraisal target for all staff within UoA18. Staff who have been
successful in securing external funding during this period include female staff, BAME staff and
disabled staff members: however, we are aware of equality and diversity issues in bidding and grant
capture and this will form part of our EDI strategy considerations during the next REF period. We
have a twin-track approach in which Professors and Readers are supported to apply for larger grants,
combined with a focus on building capacity and enabling ECRs to develop a ‘track record’ in
capturing and managing external funding. We encourage Professors and Readers to include ECRs
in bid teams, and also encourage ECRs to apply for small grants. We have a Faculty-level peer
review system for bids of over £100,000 and have recently created a School-level peer review
process to identify strengths and weaknesses in proposals prior to submission, and to maximise the
chances of successful grant capture. The effectiveness of this action plan is under ongoing review
by the Professors and Readers and will be adapted if this approach is not fruitful.

Individual research staff within this UoA continue to receive funding for their research activities as
invited keynote speakers or similarly significant participants (Zou, Choong, Codd, El Said). Highlights
include:




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Professor Codd - invited keynote speaker at the UNHQ celebration of the International Day
       of Older People in New York in October 2018, fully funded by the United Nations. The event
       brought together several hundred global policy-makers working on ageing,

   •   Professor El Said - keynote speaker at events run by UN organisations including UNDP and
       WHO.

   •   Choong - keynote speaker at the Royal College of Physicians’ Faculty of Forensic and Legal
       Medicine; Georgetown University Qatar and the Vatican’s Pontifical Academy for Life;
       University of Nanterre; the British Dental Association; and Health Education England.

   •   Professor Zou – conferences hosted by UCLan Confucius Institute, funded by the
       government of China

   •   McGuire - invited speaker to Law Commission hate crime law reform policy summit (2019)
       and panel speaker at the subsequent launch of the proposals on reform of current hate crime
       categories.(2019)

UoA18 researchers (Codd, McGuire) have been funded to evaluate the Dignity Plus Hate Crime
programme and victims’ work along with three programmes for female offenders delivered by
Lancashire Women’s Centres.       McGuire has been commissioned by local Police and Crime
Commissioners to evaluate Cheshire Victim Services & Victims Code Compliance in Cheshire
(£45,000) and Lancashire (£69,000), with the aim of improving provision of victim support services.
Choong received internal university funding from the UCLan Cancer Centre to observe the Medical
Mediation training at the Evelina London Children’s Hospital to study how their pioneering mediation
model can be adapted to benefit child cancer patients in the North West.

Infrastructure and Facilities

Library resources are managed by the Law Librarian in conjunction with the School Executive Team.
UoA18 benefits from significant and ongoing investment in e-resources, especially for inter- and
multi-disciplinary research. Creation of the UCLan School of Medicine, combined with expansions in
policing, investigation and forensic science, has further enriched available interdisciplinary
opportunities (Choong, Turner).

Senior research active staff have individual offices in the School. Staff benefit from the UCLan IT
infrastructure and all UoA staff are issued with Microsoft Surface Pro tablets, enabling access to
resources off-campus.

The School has two realistic Moot Court rooms, which are used not only for professional training but
also to host public engagement events, mock trials and abridged re-creations of famous trials, such
as those of Ruth Ellis, Derek Bentley and Edith Rigby (a local campaigner for women’s suffrage).
These events, which have engaged at least two hundred external participants, offer an accessible
and vivid opportunity for local schools, colleges and members of the public to engage with legal

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
debates such as those around women and the law, homicide and punishment, whilst also facilitating
public engagement with research active staff within UoA18.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

UoA18 staff maintain extensive national and international relationships with a wide range of
networks, institutions and individuals, both formal (such as the Peace & Justice network) and
informal. UoA staff have collaborated to produce edited or co-edited books and special issues of
journals with global experts (Zou, Choong, McGuire), and have contributed invited chapters to
special issues of journals and edited collections of global significance (Zou, Codd, Choong, El-Said,
McGuire).

The UCLan Institute for International and Comparative Law has numerous links with researchers
around the world, in over 40 universities in 17 countries. These include the University of Wollongong,
ANU, Macquarie University, Leuven University, Dalhousie University, University of Alberta, Peking
University, China People’s University, Sun Yat-sen University, Copenhagen Business School; Kiel
University, University of Hamburg; Tokyo University, Waseda University, University of Genoa,
Victoria University of Wellington, Peace Institute of Oslo; University of Lisbon; National University of
Singapore; Inha University; Uppsala University; National Chengchi University);                   University of
Washington and Diplomatic Academy of Vietnam.

During the census period Zou has been lead editor of the Routledge Handbook of the South China Sea.
(to be published in 2021). This definitive edited collection is a culmination of collaborative activities driven
through the UCLan Institute for International and Comparative Law, bringing together chapters by more
than twenty-five world-leading scholars, including David Anderson, former Judge, International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and former Legal Adviser, Foreign Office, UK; Ted McDorman,
Professor of Law, University of Victoria, Canada; Hong Thao Nguyen, Member of the UN
International Law Commission and Ambassador, Foreign Ministry of Vietnam, Vietnam and Ashley
Roach, former Legal Adviser, Department of State, USA.

Turner has extensive international links, especially with US law schools, and has presented his
interdisciplinary research not only at law-focused international conferences but also conferences and
workshops in the fields of terrorism and global security. Prof. El-Said’s research has led to keynote
speeches at global events under the auspices of the UNDP, WHO-WIPO-WTO and others;
the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, the Joint United Nations Programme
on HIV/AIDS, and the Max Planck Institute for Innovation and Competition. He was also an invited
participant at the UN Secretary General High-Level Panel on Access to Medicines Meeting held in
London, 2016. Choong has extensive links in Malaysia, China, France and Ghana. Codd maintains
extensive links with India, Bangladesh, Canada, Uganda and the US. McGuire has international links
in the field of hate crime in the US, Germany, Sweden, Poland and Cyprus. Staff have been invited
lecturers at the Chinese University of Political Science and Law, Beijing (Choong); UCLan Cyprus


                                                                                                      Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Taylor, Choong, Codd, Turner, 2019); Prague University (Choong); the University of Madras (Codd,
2016); Tamil Nadu Open University (Codd, 2015).

Editorship and Membership of Editorial Boards

UoA18 research staff contribute to the research and knowledge base through their editorship or
membership of editorial boards of academic journals including the Journal of Medical Law and
Ethics; Applied Ethics: From Bioethics to Environmental Ethics; KNUST Africa Healthcare Law
Review (Choong); International Journal of Human Rights; Democracy and Security; Studies in
Conflict and Terrorism (all Turner). Zou is co-Editor-in-Chief of two Book Series: Contemporary
Issues in the South China Sea (Routledge) and Maritime Cooperation in East Asia (Brill). El Said is
Chief book review Editor of the MJIEL.

Peer Review

Staff are peer reviewers for a wide range of national and international refereed journals, including

   •   Applied Ethics: From Bioethics to Environmental Ethics; Australian Journal of Asian Law;
       European Journal of Comparative Law and Governance; Global Journal of Comparative Law
       ;Journal of Civil and Legal Sciences; Journal of Medical Education and Curricular
       Development; Journal of Medical Ethics; Journal of Medical Law and Ethics; Journal of
       Medicine and Philosophy; Journal of Religion and Health (Choong);

   •   International Journal of Marine and Coastal Law; Ocean Development and International Law
       and the Chinese Journal of International Law (Oxford University Press) (Zou, who is a peer
       reviewer for over fifty international journals);

   •   The Journal of International Trade Law and Policy; The Journal of World Intellectual Property;
       Eastern Mediterranean Health Journal ; the Journal of Comparative Law, the Liverpool Law
       Review and the Manchester Journal for International Economic Law (El Said).

   •   Medical Law Review; Punishment & Society; Hypatia; Howard Journal of Criminal Justice;
       Children & Society; Child Care in Practice; European Journal of Criminology (Codd).

   •   Current Sociology (Owen); Journal of Health and Social Behavior (Owen);

   •   European Yearbook on Human Rights; International Criminal Justice Review; International
       Journal of Human Rights; Journal of Human Trafficking; Oxford University Commonwealth
       Law Journal; Perspectives on Terrorism; Studies in Conflict and Terrorism and Terrorism and
       Political Violence. Journal of Hate Studies; Journal of Law, Religion and State; Journal of
       Interpersonal Violence (McGuire).

UoA18 staff are peer reviewers for books and book proposals for publishers including CUP, OUP,
Brill, Routledge, Springer, Ashgate, Hodder; Taylor & Francis; Pearson Longman; Palgrave
Macmillan; Oxford.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Similarly, UOA18 staff have been peer reviewers for funding bodies including the ESRC; National
Institute for Health Research (NIHR); Flanders Research Foundation; Wellcome Trust; Hong Kong
Research Grant Council, Australian Research Council, Research Council of Humanities and Social
Sciences of Canada; Research & Development Department, Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB),
Brussels; Qatar National Research Fund; ESRC, Hong Kong Research Grant Council, National
Science Centre- Poland; Review College for Canada Chair, Government of Canada.

Links with the SLS and the SLS Conference 2019

The majority of UoA18 staff are members of the Society of Legal Scholars (SLS), in which Taylor
has played a prominent national role over the REF period. Following a five-year term as Hon.
Secretary he was elected as Vice President (2017/18) prior to being President (2018/19). This
involved, inter alia, the honour of bringing the prestigious Annual Conference to the University and
the Law School in September 2019 as the Society celebrated its 110th year. Over 400 people
attended the week-long conference, including delegates from a wide range of overseas jurisdictions
and from virtually every law school in the UK and Ireland. There was a highly distinguished list of
plenary speakers, including Lady Hale and Lady Arden, plus around 300 academic papers. Dr Ian
Turner organised the accompanying Graduate Conference, at which papers were given by around
40 PhD students from a wide variety of institutions, with sessions chaired by UoA18 staff (Choong,
Codd, Wood). Our staff and PGR students’ participation in the planning and successful delivery of
these events is visible evidence of the lively research culture within this UoA, and our community’s
enthusiasm for, and commitment to, high level scholarship.

Contribution to Law, Policy and Practice

The School has held conferences on a range of topics including medical law and ethics (Choong);
the rights of child victims of sexual offences (Codd); cybercrime (Owen); hate crime (McGuire);
restorative justice (McGuire, Codd); law in a Chinese context; law of the sea (Zou); mediation in
healthcare settings (Choong) and family law. The four annual family law conferences (2014-2017)
each attracted in excess of 350 delegates, and were attended by legal professionals, members of
the judiciary, magistrates, social workers, police and children in local authority care from across
Lancashire and Cumbria. The participation of service users was an integral element in these events,
including the contribution of children in local authority care.

UoA18 staff     are recognised experts in national and international law and policy-making, as
evidenced by citations before national and international courts:

   •   Taylor’s work has been cited in cases including R v Collins (2016) (Divisional Court), upheld
       by the Court of Appeal in Ray (2018). The significance of his research was recognised by
       Thomas LCJ in Adebelajo (2015 at para 25), in which, when referring to the definition of
       murder “in the current leading textbook on crime, namely Blackstone Criminal Practice 2015
       para B1.1”, he was in fact referring to Taylor’s chapter. Taylor’s work has also influenced

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          recommendations of the Law Commission, especially on hate crime, and his work is cited
          extensively in their 2014 report.

   •      Zou’s research has been utilised in the South China Sea Arbitration case (Philippines v.
          China) (2013-2016) to facilitate the resolution of the maritime disputes in questions between
          China and the Philippines and cited in the Mauritius v. UK Arbitration case registered with
          the Permanent Court of Arbitration (2010-2015).

Staff within UoA18 continue to influence domestic and international policy on current and emerging
topics:

   •      Zou has been an invited expert speaker at many significant strategic international events,
          advising on policy recommendations which have been implemented subsequently. He has
          advised the United Nations International Seabed Authority and the Council for Security
          Cooperation in the Asia Pacific. He has been an invited expert at events organised by the
          Centre for Strategic and International Studies, Jakarta, and National Institute for South
          China Sea Studies, Haikou, China (2015-2016) and the Sino-US Track II Dialogue on
          Maritime Issues, organized by the US National Committee on US-China Relations and
          National Institute for South China Sea Studies (2015), which was held in Washington DC
          with the aim of defusing tensions between China and the USA in the South China Sea. He
          has engaged with other Track II events, (2016) and the Track II China-Japan Ocean Forum.
          These events included audiences of diplomats, governmental officials and think tank’
          researchers as well as academic researchers. The events under the Track 2 project
          ‘ASEAN-China Strategic Partnership’ (2014-16) culminated in recommendations on
          establishing hotlines between China and ASEAN members and these recommendations
          were accepted by the ASEAN-China Summit.

   •      Choong was consulted by the French Government’s Inspector General for Social Affairs as
          part of an evaluation report of the French 2016 end-of-life legislation (Loi Claeys-Leonetti).

   •      Codd’s research was cited extensively in the Farmer Review of Prisoners’ Family Ties s
          [2017].

   •      Prof. El-Said has been an Advisor to H.E Awn Khasawneh, member of the UN’s Secretary
          General High-Level Panel on Access to Medicines. El Said was commissioned by the United
          Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to review and analyse Ukraine’s proposed
          amendments of the Law of Ukraine on Inventions. He has since been commissioned by
          UNDP to review Ghana’s patent law in the context of the country’s national innovation
          strategy and the African Plan for Pharmaceutical Manufacturing (PMPA).

   •      Kelly-Corless has advised the Prisons Ombudsman and Parole Board in England & Wales
          on the experiences and needs of d/Deaf prisoners, and has been funded by the Faculty to
          create a combined leaflet/poster for distribution in prisons. Kelly-Corless is building an

                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       outstanding reputation as the main UK recognised expert on d/Deaf prisoners and is working
       with HMPPS to develop a training resource for prison staff, including managers.

Media and Public Engagement

UoA18 staff engage with the media and the public locally and nationally, including via Twitter (Turner,
>1.5k followers). Kelly-Corless’ research with d/Deaf prisoners was showcased by BBC TV SeeHear
(BBC, 2019). Staff have been interviewed by the BBC, China News Net, Radio 4 and Radio 5 Live,
and have contributed to print news media both locally (Codd, Owen) and nationally (Codd, Owen).
Choong and McGuire have contributed to the Law School’s ‘Dying Matters’ week and McGuire’s
public lecture ‘Perspectives on Hate Crime: Reasons for legislation, and Impact’ was part of Hate
Crime Awareness Week October 2019. McGuire was an invited Holocaust Memorial Day speaker
(2020) and is working with Preston City Council to deliver community engagement and
equality/inclusion events, including a ‘Peace Walk’ as part of the ‘Every Action Matters’ strategy.

Codd is an invited member of the local committee planning a permanent commemoration of Edith
Rigby, a well-known and highly influential local campaigner for girls’ education; health and safety at
work and women’s suffrage, reflecting her record of research on women, gender and social justice.

Other External Activities

Choong works closely with UCLan medical and dental colleagues and the British Dental Association
(BDA) to train medical and dental professionals in legal practice and ethics. Her research has been
transferred into clinical healthcare settings via CPD courses, including E-Professionalism training for
GP Specialty Trainees (funded by Health Education England), training on access to medical records
for healthcare personnel (funded by the Liverpool NHS Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG)) and
training for lawyers and doctors on the law relating to the diagnosis of death. Choong is a Member
of the British Medical Journal (BMJ) Ethics Committee and a Member of the UNESCO Chair in
Bioethics Unit at Edge Hill University.

Codd and McGuire have led two successful research-informed KTPs in West Cumbria in partnership
with community organisations (Inspira and Howgill Family Centres). The Inspira programme created
a toolkit to build aspirations in children transitioning to high school, and the partnership with Howgill
Family Centres developed, piloted and evaluated an evidence-based parenting skills programme
which continues to be delivered to families in West Cumbria.

From 2013-2020 Codd was a member of the Lancashire Strategic Management Board for Multi-
Agency Public Protection Arrangements (MAPPA), appointed by the Ministry of Justice and serving
the maximum amount of time permitted in that role. McGuire is a Member of the Local Criminal
Justice Board: Victim and Witness Group and a member of the ‘Academy for Social Justice
Commissioning’.




                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Recognition and Awards

Several Law researchers have been appointed to honorary positions in recognition of their
professional standing. Zou is a Member of the ESRC Peer Review College; Academic Advisor,
Centre for Oceans Law and Policy, Shanghai Jiaotong University; Member of the Commission on
Environmental Law, IUCN, Switzerland; and a former Research Associate, East Asian Peace
Programme, Uppsala University, 2011-2016 and former Member of Marsafenet, 2012-2016. From
2005 until 2018 Codd was an Associate Research Fellow at the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies
of the University of London.

The quality and significance of law research at UCLan has been reflected in the award of several
prizes to researchers:

   •   Kelly-Corless’ research won the Prison Journal Prize in 2017.

   •   Choong’s paper won the Best Conference Paper award at the 5th Advances in Hospitality
       and Tourism Marketing and Management Conference, Beppu, Japan.

   •   Choong’s work with UCLan cancer researchers won the Best Poster Award at the British
       Psychosocial Oncology Society (BPOS) Annual Conference, University of Cambridge, 2016.

   •   Codd received a Multi-Agency Public Protection Arrangements (MAPPA) Award in
       recognition of her significant contribution to public safety (2020).




                                                                                       Page 20
