Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)
 Unit of Assessment: C13 - Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and Structure
 NTU’s submission to the Architecture, Built Environment and Planning Unit of Assessment (UoA)
 comprises 18.6 FTE staff from the School of Architecture, Design and the Built Environment.
 The School provides a broad range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in
 architecture, construction, property management, civil engineering and product design. Our
 research addresses key aspects of the creation and management of the built environment and
 its components.
 Implementation of our research strategy since REF2014 has delivered:
       a steady and sustained growth of research activity in the UoA with over 300 journal
        papers, 152 conference presentations, 50 book chapters, 2 authored books, and 2 edited
        books produced;
       an increase in staff with responsibility for research from 11.2 FTE to 18.6 FTE in
        comparison to the previous REF period;
       significant growth in research income from £865k to £3.355m; and
       a three-fold increase in PhD completions from 13 to 40.
 A significant development since REF2014 has been the establishment of three formal Research
 Centres, building on the four research groupings during the last assessment period. They are:
 Centre of Architecture, Urbanism and Global Heritage; Centre of the Built Environment; and the
 Product Innovation Centre. This structure reflects areas of research strength and provides clear
 alignment and integration of research and teaching in the School and has been the focus of
 targeted investment in research leadership and capacity.
 These Research Centres have driven the transformation of the research culture within the
 School. They are formal, cognate, and coherent research entities with clear leadership and
 review processes. They provide critical mass, enabling collaborative and dynamic team research
 to address changing societal and funder interests. Each Centre has a focused disciplinary
 purpose: disseminating its research through publications in world-leading journals; generating
 income through funding council awards and government grants; and co-producing distinct and
 demonstrable impact with end-users. Led by a Centre Director, they have membership ranging
 from professors to PhD students, enabling mentoring support for Early Career Researchers
 (ECRs) from experienced researchers and integrating PhD students into the research
 environment.
 The leadership and focus of the Research Centres have fostered collaboration across different
 subject areas within the School, crucially permitting researchers to come together to address key
 societal challenges that necessitate a multidisciplinary approach. The UoA has experienced staff
 turnover, but this became an opportunity by a combination of selected strategic external
 appointment and determined internal capacity building. For example, the appointment of
 Abdelmonem in 2016 enhanced the leadership in global heritage research, re-energising an
 area of established strength and leading to his leadership of this research at an institutional
 level. Further the appointment of Wu in 2020 brought strength in digital construction that has
 also been applied to serious gaming for prevention of gender-based violence during the REF
 period. Through internal promotion, Ianakiev has brought senior leadership on low energy
 housing and the reduction of fuel poverty.
 Centre of Architecture, Urbanism and Global Heritage (Abdelmonem, Chalal, Medjdoub,
 Mendoza, Soar and Souto). This Centre builds upon the outstanding heritage research
 undertaken in the School over the last two decades. It investigates the human aspects of

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 architecture, spatial practices, urban heritage, material culture and the built environment within
 the ever-changing urban and social structures of contemporary cities which are forging new
 territories of interaction, innovation, creativity and analysis. A well-equipped Creative and Virtual
 Technologies Lab enables advanced digital media to explore the design and preservation of
 buildings. This Centre is pivotal to the national and international prestige of NTU’s research
 priority on Global Heritage: Science, Management and Development.
 Its reputation is reflected in grant successes (for example, £550k by Abdelmonem from AHRC
 and British Academy; and £35k by Souto from the Heritage Lottery Fund), widening international
 collaborations (Egypt, Jordan, Iraq) and public engagement in Nottingham using virtual platforms
 during the major redevelopment of Nottingham Castle. The Centre’s research underpins an impact
 case study on smart preservation of urban and cultural heritage in the Middle East (REF3).
 Centre of the Built Environment (Akib, Bull, Cutsforth, Ianakiev, Koblyakova, Manu,
 Mohammad, Pasquire, Sun, White, Wright, and Wu). Research in this Centre spans a wide
 spectrum from sustainable buildings and energy, to real estate economics and finance, lean
 construction, project management, procurement, and civil engineering. The overarching aim is to
 ensure that buildings and infrastructure are fit for purpose, resource efficient, and sustainable.
 The Centre generates new insights into technical, social, economic and management challenges
 facing the building industry which in turn inform policy-makers and provides knowledge and tools
 to building professionals. In so doing, its research builds upon disciplines that have been present
 since the School was created. The Centre plays a key role in NTU’s strategic priority on
 Sustainable Futures.
 The wide range of research areas has received funding of over £1m, including the
 REMOURBAN project (£800k, led by Ianakiev) on pioneering a sustainable urban regeneration
 model in the City of Nottingham. This interdisciplinary EU H2020 project, combining engineering
 with social science, and involving 22 partners across 7 different countries, developed
 sustainable energy solutions for social housing and is the basis of an impact case study (REF3).
 Product Innovation Centre (Al-Habaibeh, Su, and four FTEs submitted to UoA D32).
 Research in this Centre spans both REF2021 UsoA C13 and D32, covering design,
 manufacturing, and consumption of products. Researchers study the product life cycle from a
 multidisciplinary perspective, with special emphasis on resource efficiency and consumer needs.
 The Centre’s aim is to contribute to global sustainable development goals, the economic
 competitiveness of UK industries, and the improvement of quality of life for individuals, local
 communities and wider society. Along with the Centre for the Built Environment, the Centre
 plays a key role in NTU’s strategic priority on Sustainable Futures.
 Reflecting their research contributions, members of the Centre within UoA C13 have wide
 connections with industry and international collaborations. This has supported grant successes,
 including circa £1m from the EU H2020 Circular Economy programme where the project
 CIRC4LIFE is led by Su, with a total budget of 6.3m euro and 17 partners from 7 countries.
 1.2 Evidence of Achievement of Strategic Aims for Research and Impact
 1.2.1 Achievement of REF2014 Strategic Aims
 Three strategic objectives were outlined for this REF period in REF2014:
 (1) to develop a stronger research culture, evidenced by increased research funding capture and
 an increase in high-quality outputs.
 (2) to adopt a holistic approach to identifying research impact strategies for the grand challenges
 facing society, including sustainability and the low carbon agenda.
 (3) to work with the University’s Doctoral School to increase the number of PhD students and
 therefore enhance the research culture within the School.
 Success within the UoA is evidenced by achievement of these strategic objectives as follows:


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       There is a strong and growing research culture in the School, illustrated by both the
        breadth and quality of its research activities. Significant strategic investment has led to a
        66% increase, 11.2 to 18.6, in FTE for this UoA since 2013.
       During the REF2021 period, the total research income for this UoA increased by 287%,
        from £865,200 for REF2014 to £3,355,024. Income per FTE rose by 133%, from £77,250
        to £180,377. £2m of the total was from highly competitive UKRI and EU H2020 sources.
       There has been a significant improvement in both quantity and quality of research
        outputs. The number of international peer-reviewed journal papers increased from 117 to
        301 and 31.9% of these were published in the most highly-cited 10% of journals (SciVal).
       Sustainability and the low carbon agenda have become major research foci for the UoA.
        The impact case study “Developing Sustainable Energy Solutions for Existing Homes”
        exemplifies our success in this field.
       PhD and Professional Doctorate completions increased three-fold, from 13 during
        REF2014 to 40 during REF2021.
 The success is underpinned by a combination of sustained investment and clear research
 leadership. The School Research Management Team is led by the Associate Dean for Research
 (ADR) (Sun), a role created for all academic schools at NTU since 2014. The Team also
 comprises the three Research Centre Directors (Abdelmonem, Al-Habaibeh, White) and
 Postgraduate Research Tutor (PGRT, Souto). The ADR is a member of the University
 Leadership Team and the Academic Research Leadership Team and collaborates closely with
 the Deputy Vice-Chancellor - Research and Enterprise. This wide engagement ensures the
 alignment of the School research and impact strategy with the institutional strategy - ‘Creating
 the University of the Future’ - which in 2015 adopted a theme of Valuing Ideas, encapsulating
 the research ambitions of the University (details in REF5a).
 The Research Centre Directors have developed their leadership through additional specific
 responsibilities. Abdelmonem leads one of the five University research priority areas, in Global
 Heritage: Science, Management and Development. These priority areas underpin the
 collaboration across disciplines necessary to address the major challenges facing society. White
 is the UoA coordinator for C13 and Al-Habaibeh has an institutional leadership role as Director
 of the EU H2020 Extended University Alliance Doctoral Training Alliance in Energy, Applied
 Biosciences for Health and Social Policy programme (2018-2023) which is a collaboration
 between 12 universities in England and Wales with associate partners in Europe and Australia.
 As Centre Directors, they lead development of research within their Centres and, along with the
 professoriate, collaborate with internal and external partners, provide opportunities for members
 of their Centres to participate in funding bids, and work in partnership with colleagues producing
 high-quality outputs. They review the Individual Research Plans of colleagues in their Centres to
 ensure that objectives are set and met and areas for development are addressed. All Research
 Centre Directors are engaged in joint research work with colleagues in their own Centre as well
 as working across other Centres.
 Working in collaboration with research active staff, the Research Management Team is
 responsible for developing and implementing the School’s research and impact strategy. An
 annual School Research and Innovation Plan is developed which reviews achievements of the
 past year and sets objectives for the forthcoming year. Investment is targeted explicitly to
 support delivery of objectives and success is reviewed annually.
 These Research Centres have been further supported by institutional investment of around
 £450k. This has been used to enhance their capacity and capability, support early career
 researchers with development of academic networks and bids, and to support C13 staff more
 broadly against agreed objectives, for example:
       Souto was funded to support the development of her work on the role of architecture in
        community empowerment.

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Koblyakova received resources to purchase data that gave access to information to
        support research on the Help-to-Buy scheme and to collaborate with the Scottish
        Government which is examining the implementation and efficiency of the scheme in
        Scotland.
       Pasquire was enabled to hold industry showcase events linking academics with
        industrial partners to develop external funding opportunities for lean project management
        research.
       Ianakiev received funding to support the analysis of the quality of life effects of his EU
        H2020 project.
 1.2.2 Research Impact Strategy
 Development of impact has been a key theme throughout the current REF period based on the
 UoA’s strategy for REF2021 which aimed for greater engagement with partners in the design of
 research projects and investment in impact-generating activities within research projects. The
 UoA’s REF2014 submission also identified sustainability and development of a low carbon
 society as a major new cross-cutting research focus and consequently a major focus for impact.
 Innovation in the approach to impact was central to this activity from the outset. The UoA has
 developed a range of sustainable mechanisms to help incubate the best impact from our
 research at all stages, and has targeted resources, including funds, studentships and staff time,
 towards prioritising impact pathways.
 Since REF2014, the UoA has been successful in growing our research impact through the input
 of substantial external funding of around £2m being enhanced by local investment of £300k in
 impact through 5 internally funded PhD studentships: 2 in retrofit of existing homes and low
 temperature district heating (Ianakiev); 1 in energy efficient LED lighting (Su); and 2 in
 renewable energy solutions (Al-Habaibeh). Furthermore, this growth has also been made
 possible through a commitment to knowledge co-production throughout, with agencies
 acknowledged as the users (e.g. policymakers, public sector bodies delivering services, SMEs)
 of the findings shaping both research questions and dissemination. The delivery on the impact
 strategy integral to these research programmes can be seen in the impact case study on retrofit
 of social housing. Over 460 households benefited from warmer homes and simultaneously lower
 energy costs as a result of the research supported by the EU H2020 REMOURBAN project. For
 residents previously at risk of experiencing fuel poverty, the research enabled them to heat their
 whole homes without worrying about energy cost. Set within a deprived area, the project not only
 enabled improvements in wellbeing for residents but also enhanced the physical appearance of
 buildings. In conjunction with Nottingham City Council and Nottingham City Homes, the internally
 funded PhD research allowed for both the delivery and evaluation of impact with consequent
 lessons for wider use of the approaches.
 Further evidence of important impact can be seen in: the work of Koblyakova, mentioned
 above, who worked with the More Homes and Better Homes Divisions of Scottish Government
 to frame the research; White’s innovations in flexible office valuations (funded by RICS
 Research Trust) which has potential to change the real estate industry’s approach to valuing this
 asset class; Wu’s collaboration with Network Rail which led to a digital solution for automatic
 defect detection that has been applied to the maintenance of over 50 railway bridges; and
 Abdelmonem’s collaboration with research users in Egypt, Jordan and Iraq which developed
 the impact case study related to policy change for architectural heritage in the Middle East.
 1.2.3 Research Quality Strategy
 In parallel with the emphasis on impact, the School has built a culture of research excellence.
 The Research Centres introduced above are a key part of this through the day-to-day, often
 informal, mentoring and support alongside more formal review systems. An internal peer review
 system has been put in place where all funding applications are reviewed by the Associate Dean
 for Research, and by internal reviewers when appropriate, to ensure quality bids generate
 improved success rates. Furthermore, an output review system has been introduced to collect
 evidence of output quality and to seek progressive improvement. A rigorous progression
                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 monitoring system is in place to provide clear milestone checks and ensure timely completion of
 PhDs (see Section 2.2).
 After REF2014, NTU created a more structured and transparent approach to the allocation of
 research time in order to support staff with the ability or potential to deliver high-quality research
 (REF5a). This is supported by the Individual Research Plan (IRP) system, where academics
 have an allocation of research hours within the workload planning process. Each IRP is
 assessed on capability to deliver at the requisite level based on previous performance across,
 for example, research outputs, impact generation, and research grant capture (with allowance
 for stage of career and other key equality and diversity characteristics). This performance-based
 approach to research-time allowances has led to the sustained increase in both quality and
 quantity of outputs.
 The Annual School Research and Innovation Plans articulate the approaches outlined above
 and contain overall objectives for PhD recruitment, income generation, and support for research
 development of staff at different levels of career development, ranging from early career
 researchers to professors. The plans support the work of Research Centres which, in turn,
 enhance the development of quality outputs, funded projects, development of research impact,
 and enhancement of the research environment.
 1.2.4 Research Ethics and Research Integrity
 NTU is strongly committed to maintaining the highest standards of integrity and probity in the
 conduct of research. The University expects that all those engaged in conducting or facilitating
 research have an individual and collective responsibility to uphold the principles of research
 integrity which are set out in the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and apply to the whole
 research lifecycle.
 Matters relating to research integrity, including research ethics, are overseen centrally (see
 REF5a) and managed locally. The University Research Committee, chaired by the Deputy Vice-
 Chancellor – Research and Enterprise, and reporting to Academic Board, is responsible for the
 development and monitoring of research integrity policies and procedures. The University
 Research Integrity Sub-Committee has responsibility for the implementation of the Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity and the production of a publicly available annual statement on
 research integrity, which is presented to Academic Board. A Code of Practice for Research;
 Research Ethics Policy and Procedure; Research Data Management Policy; and Responsible
 Metrics Statement provide the policy framework.
 Robust scrutiny of projects undertaken by staff and PhD candidates in the School of
 Architecture, Design and the Built Environment is overseen by a committee including reviewers
 from the School of Art and Design and the School of Arts and Humanities, in addition to those
 from the School of Architecture, Design and the Built Environment. This approach ensures
 projects are scrutinised from different disciplinary perspectives which is a key issue given the
 multidisciplinary nature of the UoA. Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught student research is
 also subject to ethical review, where needed, and this is undertaken by a committee operating at
 School-level.
 Training resources are available to all staff and students in the form of online modules which
 cover issues of research integrity. This central resource complements training arrangements at
 local level, which are designed to meet the needs of specific ethics committees. Staff with
 significant responsibility for research provide annual positive confirmation of their commitment to
 uphold the standards in the Code of Practice for Research.
 1.3 Future Strategic Aims for Research and Impact
 The UoA’s strategy for the next five years exemplifies its synergistic approach to research and
 impact. Further enhancement of the research culture and increase in capacity will be achieved,
 firstly, by determined improvements in process:



                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Embedding a publications strategy that further enhances originality, rigour and
        significance of research outputs through collaboration, appraisal, and mentoring.
       Sustaining the growth trajectory of the UoA’s research scale and quality with new
        appointments, external collaborations focused on the topics set out below and by
        delivering impact for stakeholders from a wider range of sectors.
       Enhancing the international profile and impact of key research themes by supporting ever
        more co-creation of research with external partners to address societal grand challenges.
       Developing collaborative networks that will further support development for early career
        researchers.
       Increasing research and impact funding particularly from UKRI through mentoring,
        appraisal objectives and engaging with the University’s professional research support
        services.
       Strengthening research culture through engaging more academic staff in research and
        further integrating PGR students within our Research Centres.
 Secondly, the strategy will be delivered by significant development of current areas of interest as
 well as the creation of new ones as issues facing research users change, opportunities for
 interdisciplinarity arise, and new staff are appointed. Thus, current research themes will expand
 in breadth and depth in the next REF period. Central to this rapid evolution will be major
 institutional investment in cultural heritage (Abdelmonem, Mendoza, Souto) underpinned by a
 £500k per annum commitment to increasing capacity and capability. This initiative, led by
 Abdelmonem, is the first of NTU Research Peaks to be launched and which exemplify NTU’s
 approach to strategic growth of both research excellence and societal impact. This investment
 will recruit 3 early-career research fellows on a fast-track to an academic post along with several
 fractional professorial posts from renowned international institutions, thereby enhancing
 excellence, sustainability, and international reputation (REF5a).
 The focus on low temperature district heating and low carbon housing (Ianakiev) will gain
 additional momentum and further support from deepened collaboration with Nottingham City
 Council as it seeks to deliver its espoused goal of being carbon neutral by 2028. This ambition is
 also a key part of the Universities for Nottingham (UfN) Civic Agreement which brings together
 the city’s two universities, local authorities and health trusts, all of which have ambitious targets
 for carbon reduction.
 There will also be developments in: sustainable energy for wellbeing (Akib, Bull, Cutsforth,
 Chalal, Ianakiev, Sun, White); mortgage markets and market liquidity (Koblyakova, White);
 housing economics and property investment (Cutsforth, White); and construction project
 management (Manu, Sun, Wu). Extensive collaboration with research users and academic
 partners as well as our multidisciplinary expertise will enable the UoA to spot and respond to
 future challenges brought about by technological and societal changes.
 Importantly, these areas will be embedded within the three Research Centres. This will mean
 effective coordination of a spread of activities while permitting academics to work collaboratively
 within and across centres. This will support interdisciplinarity and thus the fulfilment of the
 complex needs of research users by providing them with innovative research-based solutions.
 Set within the wider University research support ecosystem, the Research Centres will provide
 the context and structure for meeting the objectives set for the next five years and the next REF
 period. They will continue to grow and evolve to match the research ambitions of the UoA and its
 external commissioners and partners.
 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA submission comprises 18.6 FTE. Just under 50% are professors, the remainder being
 lecturers with one (0.4 FTE) associate professor. Our submission covers five (4.2 FTE) female
 and two ECR staff members.

 Investment in research leadership has been at the centre of our staffing strategy. During the
 review period, two strategic professorial appointments were made to expand our existing
 research strengths in global heritage (Abdelmonem) and construction management (Wu). The
 UoA also benefited from recruitment of internationally-leading researchers to strategic leadership
 positions. Wright, a leading expert in flood risk management and climate change adaptation,
 joined NTU as Deputy Vice-Chancellor - Research and Enterprise. Bull, who has a research
 track record in sustainable energy use, joined as the Deputy Dean of the School. Sun, an
 internationally-leading researcher in construction IT and project management, joined the School
 as Associate Dean for Research.

 Another pillar of our staffing strategy is development support for existing staff. An Individual
 Research Plan is submitted by each member at the start of an academic year. As noted above,
 this articulates the key research objectives to be achieved and the resource support required.
 Members are supported with research time allocation, PhD studentships and pump-priming
 internal funding, depending on potential and achievement. Emerging research leaders are
 recognised with promotion against clear performance criteria. During this REF period, two
 members of staff (Al-Habaibeh and Ianakiev) have been promoted to professor and Manu was
 promoted to associate professor.

 Investment in younger researchers has been manifested through four lecturer appointments
 during this REF period (two ECRs, Chalal and Cutsforth, one promoted to associate professor,
 Manu, and one senior lecturer, Akib). These young researchers add breadth and dynamism to
 the UoA. They are working with professors in their respective subject areas and contribute to
 integrating PhD students into the School’s Research Centres. Since the previous REF, we have
 had staff turnover (Bandyopadhyay) and staff retirement (Hoxley and Sarshar); succession
 planning is an active consideration by the Dean of the School and the ADR to ensure
 sustainability and vitality of the research community.

 The different sources of funding and broad interests of research users mean that researchers
 need to work in innovative ways with non-academic partners to ensure projects are funded and
 findings contribute to meaningful societal change. Evidence of achievement is captured through
 the professorial review process that is run bi-annually. Review meetings are held between the
 professor, ADR, Dean of School and the professor’s head of subject. These provide
 opportunities to discuss performance and identify areas of strength and areas for further
 development. As the University places significant emphasis on enhancing research development
 and achievements, the Dean of School then discusses each professor’s evidence of
 achievement with the Vice-Chancellor and Deputy Vice-Chancellor - Research and Enterprise.

 The just over 50% of staff who are lecturers/senior lecturers in this submission benefit from
 consistent application of the NTU appraisal system (see REF5a). As a consequence, they have
 all had the opportunity to access support and to demonstrate evidence of producing research
 income and quality research outputs; in some cases they have already started to show
 significant impact. Each lecturer is associated with one Research Centre within the School and
 mentoring is provided by the Research Centre Directors. The annual IRP feeds into appraisal to
 ensure research objectives are considered alongside wider objectives.

 An interim review and final review meetings are held with mentors to monitor progress and make
 necessary adjustments. Internal funding is provided to support research development; this has
 become an integral component in the Annual School Research and Innovation planning process.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Support Mechanisms for, and Evidence of the Training and Supervision of
 Postgraduate Students
 The School has a growing and vibrant PhD community. Increasing the number of PhD students,
 currently at around 70, has been an explicit component of Annual School Research and
 Innovation Plans during this REF period. It has been supported by the University through 18
 PhD scholarships that have been targeted to support research areas within the School and have
 helped attract high-quality PhD students through a competitive process. This University PhD
 bursary scheme has funded studentships with Abdelmonem, Al-Habaibeh, Ianakiev,
 Koblyakova, Sun and White. A further 4 students have been funded through the UoA’s
 involvement in the H2020 COFUND DTA (see Section 4).

 The University’s Doctoral School plays a key role in supporting the development of PhD students
 by running training and development programmes covering generic skills related to undertaking
 and completing a PhD study. This includes a researcher skills development programme that
 includes live webinars, online learning resources and research engagement events.
 Furthermore, the Doctoral Employability Resource available on the Online Workspace provides
 information and activities to support students for job searching and future careers.

 This training is complemented by more specific training within the School, for example research
 methods for specific subject areas. In addition, the School provides opportunities for career
 development for PhD students to become academics by providing teaching experience through
 contributions to UGT and PGT degree programmes. The Doctoral School liaises with PhD
 supervisory teams to provide support for all aspects of the student’s PhD experience, from initial
 project approval, ethical approval, annual research progress reviews and transfer from MPhil to
 PhD, to the final submission of thesis to the University’s institutional repository (iREP).
 Supervisory arrangements are governed by the School Research Degrees Committee that
 reports to the University Research Degrees Committee. All postgraduate research students are
 allocated a Director of Studies (DoS) and at least one other supervisor along with an
 independent assessor.

 Weekly seminars, organised by the Postgraduate Research Tutor, are held for PhD students to
 present their research to other PhD students, supervisors and the wider School. In addition,
 further seminars are held with presentations from research active staff on a monthly basis.
 These seminars have proved very popular with around 70% of PhD students participating
 regularly, including during the Covid-19 lockdown period when they have run virtually. PhD
 Supervisors, the PGRT and the ADR also attend these.

 During this REF period, there has been a significant increase (200%) in the number of PhD
 completions within the UoA compared with the REF2014 period. Two research-based
 professional doctorates were also awarded. The number of awards for PhDs and Professional
 Doctorates is reported in Table 1 below.


 Table 1: Number of Research Doctoral Degrees Awarded by Academic Year.
  UOA C13      2013-14     2014-15     2015-16     2016-17     2017-18     2018-19     2019-20

  PhD              2           5           6           10          8           5           4
  Prof Doc                                                         1           1
  Total            2           5           6           10          9           6           4


 2.3 Evidence of How the Submitting Unit Supports and Promotes Equality and Diversity
 The School is a vibrant place to work, enriched by the diversity of perspectives, cultures and
 backgrounds brought by our students, staff, visitors, and local, national and international
 partners. Within all three Research Centres, we recognise that diverse teams encourage more

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 creative and innovative solutions to the development and management of the built environment
 and its components.
 NTU was awarded bronze Athena Swan charter mark in April 2019 (see REF5a) and targets a
 silver submission in 2023. Supporting this, our School strategy aims at departmental Athena
 Swan submissions from 2022; application teams are currently conducting reviews, including
 cultural surveys on gender identification, promotion prospects and support, as a basis for
 developing an action plan for moving towards further gender equality. The School’s Athena
 Swan champion: ensures local funding and promotion panels are inclusive and diverse; monitors
 and reports EDI data related to equality of opportunity (funding, studentships and promotions
 awarded); and co-ordinates School-level EDI activities. These include six nominations to the
 Advance HE Aurora programme, events for International Women’s week, Black History month,
 LGBT History month, the installation of an on-campus nursing room for nursing mothers, and
 maintenance of an EDI intranet with links to staff networks, policies and resources.
 Recruitment across the School has transitioned, through gender decoding of recruitment
 materials and mixed-gender interview panels, to attract a more diverse staff pool. Staff training
 improves knowledge and understanding of equality and diversity within the workplace and we
 have introduced essential unconscious bias training for all staff. The Support of Academic
 Returners (SOAR) scheme funds up £5k following a period of caring-related leave to support
 career pathway development.
 In this UoA, 4.2 FTE (headcount 5) are women, one of whom is a professor (Pasquire) and the
 others are lecturer/senior lecturer (Akib, Koblyakova, Mendoza and Souto). Retirements in
 coming years will provide new opportunities for achieving gender balance; NTU has set a target
 of 35% of its professoriate to be female by 2025. 10 members of the UoA are from ethnic
 minority backgrounds, 7 of whom are professors, 1 is an associate professor, and 2 are
 lecturers. 4 members of the UoA are from other European countries.
 Staff perception of EDI issues is very positive. For the main departments composing our
 Research Centres, the 2018 staff survey showed 77% agreement with all statements of equality
 of opportunity and protected characteristics, including “I believe the University is committed to
 equality of opportunity for all of its staff” (86%) or “I feel the University acts fairly, regardless of
 protected characteristics regard to development opportunities” (77%).
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 In a challenging and competitive environment, external research funding has been captured from
 a range of sources. These include EU H2020, AHRC, Royal Society, EPSRC, ESRC, British
 Academy, Innovate UK, charities and private companies. A total research income of £3.355M
 during this assessment period represents a 287% increase compared with £865k achieved for
 REF2014. This has been instrumental in building a strong and vibrant research culture. Table 2
 below, shows annual research income generated during this REF period.
 Table 2: Annual Research Income (£)
  Year       2013/14      2014/15     2015/16      2016/17      2017/18     2018/19      2019/20
  Income     682,470      401,089     598,333      445,740      117,913     537,452      572,027


 Major prestigious grants cover the School’s research priorities of environmental sustainability
 and global heritage and include:
        EU H2020 - CIRC4Life: A circular economy approach for sustainable products/services
         (£1m).



                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       REMOURBAN: REgeneration MOdel for accelerating the smart URBAN transformation
        (£800k).
       zEPHYR: Towards a more efficient exploitation of on-shore and urban wind energy
        resources (£250k).
       AHRC– LABYRINTH: Conservation, Analysis and Virtual Reconstruction of
        Archaeological site of Hawara Pyramid and Labyrinth (£230k); GCRF Development
        Award: ENGAGE - Heritage Borders of Engagement (£56k).
       Royal Society Fellowship: An integrated framework of urban flood risk management
        under changing environment (£111k).
       British Academy: Sustainable Preservation of Cultural Heritage and Practices of Post-
        Conflict Mosul, Iraq (£294k).
       EPSRC - Wind farm Operation and Maintenance software development by using
        machine learning (£50k), Urban Flood Resilience in an Uncertain Future, (£60k).
 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Research is supported by an expanded University Research Operations team and a full
 research lifecycle research information management system, Worktribe (see REF5a).
 At School level, all staff within the UoA are located on the University’s City Campus in the
 Maudslay Building or the adjacent Arkwright Building. PhD students are located close to their
 supervisors and laboratory facilities. Each student is allocated a desk and a computer
 workstation. The School provides further financial support for software purchase (if not already
 available), bid development, and conference participation.
 During this REF period the School’s strategic investment programme has provided £1.1m in
 infrastructure expenditure of which £510k has directly supported research.
 Benefitting from institutional investment, a research space (300m2) in the Maudslay Building has
 been created which houses 10-15 researchers and visiting scholars. Main facilities include:
       A suite of photometry and colorimetry equipment for lighting measurement, including: (1)
        Luminance meter, Konica Minolta LS-100; (2) Illuminance colorimeter, Konica Minolta
        CL-200a illuminance colorimeter; (3) Two axis goniophotometer, Radiant Zemax PM-
        NFMS-0400; and (4) Integrating sphere, LightFluxColor LFC-150.
       A wind turbine gear train simulator, the first of its kind to run laboratory experimental
        investigations; a wide range of sensors and instrumentation equipment such as vibration,
        acoustic emission, strain gauges, fore sensors, torque sensors, infrared sensors and
        cameras, data acquisition with high sampling rate; computer facilities and dedicated
        software for data acquisition, image/signal processing and artificial intelligence.
       A range of equipment for monitoring building energy use, including BSRIA Blower Door
        airtightness testing equipment; PULSE 60L airtightness testing equipment (ultrasonic);
        Hukseflux TRSYS01 Heat flux measuring system with thermal sensors; PCE -TDS 100
        Ultrasonic Flow meter; Infrared thermometer; Loop Energy – Real-Time Energy Wi-Fi
        Monitors (Gas and Electricity); combined Temperature and Moisture Wi-Fi sensors.
 In addition, the School has a range of design and engineering related facilities and technical
 expertise, including: Materials testing/light structures laboratory; a Concrete Laboratory; a
 Hydraulics Laboratory; a Geotechnical Laboratory; Structural testing equipment; Engineering
 Surveying; and 3D printing. Hardware available includes photometry and colorimetry equipment,
 real time energy Wi-Fi monitors, infrared thermometers, large light source performance
 characterisation equipment. These are available to our researchers and PhDs. The School has
 also invested in bespoke software and unique data sources to support research. The range of
 equipment types reflects the breadth of research within the UoA.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School is also equipped with a Creative and Virtual Technologies (CVT) Lab, which is
 equipped with cutting-edge technologies including: visualisation technologies (augmented
 reality, mixed reality, virtual reality); tracking systems; HD video conferencing rooms; human
 computer interaction systems; audio devices and BIM/3D modelling/rendering software. The
 facilities support our research in global heritage preservation and virtual building design and
 construction.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research Collaborations
 Members of the Research Centres within the School have external collaborative networks linking
 them with other researchers, research users, and wider society. Collaboration is central to our
 strategy for building an international reputation, raising our profile, and supporting our impact
 strategy. An indication of the high level of research collaboration is the fact that 43% of the 301
 journal papers published by this UoA involve co-authors from other countries, including China,
 Egypt, Finland, Greece, Iraq, Jordan, Spain, and the USA. Staff have participated in a wide
 range of international conferences and symposia. These have led to successful research
 collaborations that have raised the profile of NTU in these subject areas. During this REF period,
 members of this UoA have been active in participating in and leading international consortia in
 tackling some of the global challenges facing the modern world.

 For example, Su leads, as the project coordinator, a consortium of 17 partners from 7 EU
 countries for a 6.3 million Euro H2020 project (2018-2021) on circular economy lifestyle.

 Ianakiev collaborated with 21 partners from 7 countries in the H2020 REMOURBAN project
 (2015-2020), which aimed at showcasing sustainability and future cities. In addition to academic
 partners, the project also involved collaboration with research users and made a real world
 impact, as presented in one of the impact case studies in this UoA.

 Abdelmonem has established an extensive collaboration network on global heritage research,
 with collaborators from the Universities of Leeds, Durham, Birmingham and Leicester in the UK,
 Sousse University (Tunisia), University of Wasit (Iraq), University of Baroda (India), as well as
 research user organisations in Egypt and Iraq. The collaboration led to successes with 5 AHRC
 grants (£553k), including a Global Challenges Research Fund Network Plus, and one significant
 grant (£300k) from the British Academy. Work in this area is also presented in an impact case
 study.

 Another example of national research collaboration is by Wright on Urban Flood Resilience with
 the universities of Nottingham, Exeter, Cambridge, Newcastle, Heriot-Watt, Cranfield, West of
 England, and the Open University. Internationally, Wright is collaborating with the Chinese
 Academy of Science Institute of Geographical Sciences with the support of a Royal Society
 Advanced Newton Fellowship for Professor Qiuhong Tang.

 This UoA is engaged in collaboration with other universities in the training of PhDs through two
 H2020 Marie Curie Actions funded programmes. The ‘Extended University Alliance Doctoral
 Training Alliance in Energy, Applied Biosciences for Health and Social Policy’ programme (2018-
 2023) is a collaboration between 12 universities in England and Wales with associate partners in
 Europe and Australia, which aims to develop 83 internationally connected early-stage
 researchers with interdisciplinary and intersectoral skills and experience. The ‘Towards a more
 efficient exploitation of on-shore and urban wind energy resources’ programme (2019-2023),
 with 13 partners from 9 countries, provides a Europe-wide multidisciplinary PhD training platform
 that supports the development and application of advanced meso/microscale atmospheric
 models and the assessment of the impact of real terrain and local atmospheric effects on the
 predicted aerodynamic performance of windmills, structural dynamics and noise emissions.

 This UoA encourages staff visits as a means of forming research collaboration. During this REF
 period, 18 staff were supported to visit 23 overseas institutions and 10 visiting scholars from 9
                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international HEIs have been hosted. These staff exchanges helped to expand the international
 collaboration links of the UoA. Examples include: the appointment of Medjdoub as a visiting
 professor at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, China (2017-2020) and the
 establishment of a joint research centre on virtual and creative technologies; a researcher
 exchange programme between NTU and Harbin Engineering University, China led by Su; Al-
 Habaibeh acting as a mentor to early career researchers at the Federal University of Goiás,
 Brazil; and Mendoza visiting National Autonomous University of Mexico and organising joint
 research workshops on the reuse of 20th Century Concrete Shell Structures in Mexico.

 The UoA supports staff to attend international conferences; 152 presentations were delivered by
 UoA members. Staff were also active in organising international conferences, such as, the 4th
 Conference on Mechanisms, Transmissions and Applications (Su), 2019 International
 Conference on Energy and Sustainable Futures (Al-Habaibeh); the annual International
 Conference on Construction and Real Estate Management (Sun); 2019 International Group for
 Lean Construction Research Conference (Pasquire); 2020 International Association for the
 Study of Traditional Environments (Abdelmonem); the 17th International Symposium on District
 Heating and Cooling (Ianakiev); and the Seventh International Conference on Flood
 Management (chaired by Wright, with 400 international attendees).
 4.2 Networks and Partnerships: Relationships with Key Research Users
 Original research undertaken within the UoA has developed links with, and benefited from co-
 creation of research with, a wide range of partners. This applies to a wide range of research
 within the UoA. Key research users in Abdelmonem’s research include heritage bodies in the
 Middle East (Ministry and Department of Antiquities in Egypt and Jordan respectively) and the
 Mayoralty of Baghdad, Iraq. This relationship was reinforced by a visit to the University of the
 Iraqi ambassador’s representative in 2018. In addition to government bodies, Abdelmonem’s
 research also incorporated working with SMEs and raised their profile with authorities in their
 home countries. Ianakiev’s work with Nottingham City Homes (NCH) and Nottingham City
 Council strengthened relationships between local government, the social housing provider, and
 the University. This has supported further successful bidding to Siemens supporting a PhD
 studentship (Ianakiev and White). The direct benefits of this research to householders have
 been beneficial to NCH winning further funds for sustainable energy improvements in their
 housing stock. Koblyakova’s work on the Help-to-Buy scheme has led to the development of
 relationships with research users in the Scottish Government and the Central Bureau of
 Statistics in Israel. It has also developed research outputs with members of the Central
 Statistical Bureau. Souto’s research in public participation on the role of architecture in society
 has supported her successful bid with Nottingham Cathedral to the Heritage Lottery Fund.
 White’s research on flexible offices has led to deepening relationships with RICS who accredit
 degree programmes in the School.
 4.3 Wider Activities, Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society
 Members of the UoA have contributed to their research fields not only by academic journal
 outputs but by a range of activities such as keynote speeches, conference organisation and
 chairing, membership of learned societies, acting as reviewers for UKRI and international
 funding bodies, and contributing to editorial boards of academic journals. UoA staff have
 presented 17 keynotes at international conferences; have been chair and/or co-chair for 10
 conferences; and contributed to scientific committees for over 50 events. Staff in the UoA
 contribute as either journal editors or members of editorial boards to a wide range of academic
 journals. Su is editor-in-chief for the International Journal of Design Engineering. White is the
 Economics Editor/Advisor to the International Journal of Housing Policy as well as being on the
 editorial and executive board of the Journal of European Real Estate Research. Wright is Senior
 Editor (Engineering) of Wiley Interdisciplinary Review on Water. UoA members have been guest
 editors for International Journal of Hydrogen Energy (Al-Habaibeh); International Journal of
 Architectural Research (Abdelmonem); International Journal of Materials and Product
 Technology (Su); Key Engineering Materials (Su). In addition, NTU staff also serve on editorial
 boards of 15 academic journals.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 UoA members assist research funders through peer reviews. Al-Habaibeh and Sun are
 members of EPSRC Peer Review College; Abdelmonem is a member of AHRC Peer Review
 College. Su is a member of Overseas Review College for Research Grants Council of Hong
 Kong and Research Council for Natural Science and Engineering, Academy of Finland; he was
 also a Member of the review panel of ‘973 projects’ programme of Chinese Ministry of Science
 and Technology. Al-Habaibeh is a member of the Said Foundation Scholarship panel. Sun is a
 member of RICS Research Trust assessment panel.

 Members of the UoA play leading roles in numerous academic and professional bodies,
 including Executive Director of European Real Estate Society (White), Director and Trustee of
 Lean Construction Institute UK (Pasquire), Task Group Leader for IEA-DHC TS2 Annex
 (Ianakiev). Abdelmonem is an elected patron of the Home Renaissance Foundation, London.
 White is an assessor in REF2021 sub-panel 13. He was a member of the RICS Leaders Forum
 on valuation of flexible office space (May 2019).

 Economic and societal impacts are reflected in work on smart preservation and management of
 urban heritage in the Middle East (Abdelmonem) and in sustainable energy solutions in local
 authority housing (Ianakiev). Both are reported as impact case studies in REF3.

 Abdelmonem’s work on preserving heritage is valuable to society particularly in regions of
 conflict. To address the challenge of heritage preservation, Abdelmonem collaborated with
 Middle Eastern governments to develop digital platforms for heritage preservation to address the
 increasing vulnerability of heritage sites and create alternative mediums for community-led
 income generation and growth of the heritage economy in light of a sustained decline in
 international travel to the region. Abdelmonem has influenced government policy and built
 capacity within SMEs and government departments by embedding digitally supported heritage
 preservation practice.

 In Ianakiev’s research on sustainable energy for local authority housing, making homes warmer
 improves the quality of life for residents and reduces energy costs. Households who were fuel
 poor were lifted out of fuel poverty making significant differences to their lives. The networks
 developed by this research impacted on the supply chain for SMEs involved in the production of
 sustainable energy products leading to the development of more cost-efficient methods of
 housing retrofit and therefore increasing the size of the potential market for these products. The
 outcomes have been very well-received by Nottingham City Council and were influential in setting out
 their plans for a carbon neutral city by 2028.

 Beyond the REF3 case studies, analysis of supply chains is evident also in project management
 (Pasquire). This has suggested different approaches to the management of supply chains in
 research with Highways England, impacting on cost and delivery times. Analysis of
 homeownership costs in research on the mortgage products (Koblyakova, White) has identified
 the relative profitability of standard variable rate mortgages for lenders and the role of the supply
 side in mortgage choice decisions by consumers.

 The breadth of research within the UoA, the contribution members make to international
 research networks, their participation in and leadership of learned societies and in academic
 journal management, reflect their contribution to the research base and wider society.




                                                                                              Page 13
