Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: UOA7 – Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences

 Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction
 Our research community consists of more than 300 staff and doctoral students in the
 Department of Meteorology and the environmental science component of the Department of
 Geography and Environmental Science (GES) (collectively, ‘the Unit’).

 Our research focuses on the natural science of the environment, how it responds to and
 recovers from anthropogenic and natural perturbations, and the interplay between our
 environment, lives, and livelihoods. It covers atmospheric sciences, physical and biological
 oceanography, soil sciences, freshwater sciences including hydrology, land surface processes,
 cryosphere sciences, the role of solar activity on the Earth’s environment (‘space weather’), and
 the interactions between these fields.

 Activity includes: palaeoclimate sciences; research relevant to improving weather, hydrological
 and space-weather forecasts on timescales from hours to seasonal; and research relevant to
 recent and future global environmental change.

 We employ diverse techniques: laboratory and field-based measurements; surface and space-
 based remote sensing; advanced data assimilation; state-of-the-art numerical models; and
 theoretical frameworks for interpreting measurements and model output. We develop and exploit
 new techniques in all these areas.

 1.2 Context and structure
 Since REF2014, the University’s research activity has been structured around Research
 Divisions, in four broad Themes (Institutional Environment Statement (IES) Section 2). Our
 submitted staff belong to four of nine Environment Theme Divisions:
     • Weather; Climate; Earth Observation & Space (in Meteorology)
     • Environmental Science (in GES).

 Meteorology includes significant components of two NERC research centres: the National
 Centre for Atmospheric Science (NCAS), including its Computational Modelling Services (CMS),
 and the National Centre for Earth Observation (NCEO). Co-located with Meteorology is by far
 the largest group of Met Office research staff in any UK university (‘MetOffice@Reading’).

 Meteorology sits within the School of Mathematical, Physical & Computational Sciences
 (SMPCS). GES sits within the School of Archaeology, Geography & Environmental Science
 (SAGES).

 Our research is inherently multi- and interdisciplinary (covering the physics, chemistry, biology,
 and mathematics of the Earth system). A broader interdisciplinary perspective is achieved via
 various mechanisms including two University Interdisciplinary Research Centres (IES Section
 2.1.1):
     • The Walker Institute (henceforth Walker, directed by Cornforth) focuses on the
         development of climate-resilient and sustainable livelihoods, in some of the world’s most
         vulnerable regions. It uses evidence-synthesis generated through field work and
         stakeholder engagement, to translate research into evidence to inform decision-making.
     • The Centre for the Mathematics of Planet Earth aims to catalyse initiatives at the
         intersection between mathematics, theoretical physics, and earth sciences. It is led by
         the Department of Mathematics & Statistics with strong Meteorology involvement;
         Broecker and Shepherd are two of the Centre’s six board members.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 S.Harrison is a Co-Director of the cross-disciplinary Leverhulme Centre for Wildfires,
 Environment and Society (led by Imperial College).

 The University is lead partner in, and hosts, the Institute of Environmental Analytics (IEA). IEA is
 closely associated with the Unit, and a major development since REF2014. It was established
 via a 2014 HEFCE Catalyst Fund proposal led by O’Neill (now retired), providing £5.6m funding.
 It is now financially independent, having secured over £9m in further grant funding. IEA’s current
 FTE staffing level is ≈30. IEA includes, among 21 University and commercial partners, the
 Universities of Oxford and Surrey, Microsoft, and the Met Office. It focuses on ‘late-stage
 research, development of software applications and training’ across areas including renewable
 energy, infrastructure and food and agriculture, and has worked with the Environment Agency,
 Highways England and governments and energy utilities in various tropical states. It plays an
 important role in enabling our research impact beyond academia.

 We are involved in several doctoral training programmes which facilitate interdisciplinary
 interactions and help cement and expand our industry and policy partner engagement:
     • We lead the NERC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) SCENARIO (Science of the
         Environment: Natural and Anthropogenic pRocesses, Impacts and Opportunities), which
         provides the core of our PGR cohort. Launched in 2014 and renewed in the second
         NERC DTP round (cohorts starting 2019-24), it has six host partners: University of
         Surrey, NERC’s Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (CEH) and British Geological Survey
         (BGS), NCAS, NCEO and the Zoological Society of London. Four strategic partners
         contribute substantially to training: the Met Office, the European Centre for Medium-
         range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) and the
         Environment Agency. It has a further 22 UK public sector, industry and NGO partners.
     • The University co-leads, with Imperial College, the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral
         Training (CDT) in the Mathematics of Planet Earth (cohorts starting 2014-18); Our
         staff are involved with leadership, training and supervision.
     • The University is one of 3 HEI host institutes of NERC’s CDT in Quantitative and
         Modelling Skills in Ecology and Evolution (cohorts starting 2017-20). We contribute
         PGR training and supervision.
     • The Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Programme in Climate Justice (cohorts starting
         2015-18) is led by the University’s Department of Politics and International Relations and
         aims to improve ‘understanding of … scientific and justice aspects of climate change’; its
         Steering Committee includes 7 of our staff.
     • The BBSRC FoodBioSystems DTP (cohorts starting 2020-24) is led by the University
         which is also an associate partner in the BBSRC-Waitrose Collaborative Training
         Partnership (cohorts 2017-20). We contribute expertise in environmental science
         underpinning food production. Walker provides interdisciplinary training courses for the
         Food BioSystems DTP.

 Our STFC Consolidated Grants qualify us for STFC quota studentships (now labelled DTPs;
 typically one to two student starts per year) in solar system science.

 The Unit supports extensive undergraduate and taught postgraduate programmes, founded on
 research-led teaching. These provide training opportunities for PGR students and are one
 important feed for PGR recruitment. Taught-course students undertake individual research
 projects, some in collaboration with outside organisations including the insurance and risk
 management, energy, water, retail, transport, and land-management sectors. Various initiatives
 support summer vacation placements. These activities benefit our research effort and ethos,
 including the testing of new ideas and enabling impact beyond academia.

 1.3 Research strategy in REF2014
 Our REF2014 mission was ‘to carry out world-leading curiosity-driven environmental and Earth-
 systems research and use it to provide robust, focused and timely science evidence to support
 policy and business development’ with a strategy to ‘focus on areas where it has recognised
 world-leading strengths where there is a pressing need for applications outside academia’. We

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recognised that ‘blue-skies research is essential to the long-term quality of translational
 research’. Indicators of success in meeting our mission (noting our submitted staff FTE
 increased by 11%) include:

    •   Our submitted staff have been highly productive, on average publishing ≈320 papers per
        year (286 in 2014; 365 in 2020); ≈27% are in the top 10 citation percentile and ≈4.4% are
        in the top 1 citation percentile (of papers of a similar age) (SciVal, citation data excludes
        self-citations).
    •   Evidence of policy relevance includes high contribution to the Intergovernmental Panel
        on Climate Change (IPCC) Sixth Assessment Report and heavy involvement in the
        Newton Fund and the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF).
    •   Average annual research income is 32% higher than in REF2014.
    •   Research income from UK industry (including the Met Office) increased seven-fold
        compared to REF2014; it now constitutes ≈10% of the total (2% in REF2014).
    •   We have been proactive in shaping the research landscape, by proposing NERC
        Strategic Programme Areas and Highlight topics, and via involvement in senior
        committees of research funding agencies.
    •   The establishment of IEA aided translational activities to businesses through
        collaborative projects and training activities.
    •   We maintained our strong relationship with the Met Office and grew further links with
        ECMWF and NPL.
    •   The establishment of Loddon Observatory in collaboration with Environment Agency/
        Defra’s Catchment Partnership programme and other partners, allowed an
        interdisciplinary approach to address challenges of local flooding, water quality and
        sustainable agriculture.
    •   Walker’s strategic collaborations in the development arena helped accelerate research
        translation.

 1.4 Current research vision and objectives
 Our strategy set out in REF2014 fed into the University’s Environment Theme (‘to explore,
 understand, and address the challenges of environmental changes, both natural and those
 shaped by humans’) which is the principal mechanism for integrating environmental science
 research across the University. The strategy has been re-articulated with more specificity
 through the visions of our four Divisions. Delivery of these visions has been a principal focus
 during the REF2021 period and will continue to guide our strategy post-REF2021. The visions
 highlight our research breadth and focus:
     • Climate: to innovate and provide scientific leadership across the breadth of climate
         research on the coupled atmosphere-ocean-cryosphere-land system, ranging from
         fundamental processes to global climate prediction, extending to impacts on human and
         natural systems, and including synergy with weather dynamics in the area of climate-
         related extremes.
     • Earth Observation and Space: to deliver world-class research on the Earth system,
         from the solid Earth and deep oceans, via the atmosphere, to the magnetosphere and
         solar system environment. Our research will have both external impact and scientific
         rigour, achieved by approaches rooted in physics and exploiting a range of Earth
         Observation data, advanced data-assimilation techniques and numerical models of the
         Earth system and its components.
     • Environmental Science: to deliver excellent cross-disciplinary environmental science
         with impact, with a focus on critical-zone functioning and related services and risks (such
         as in relation to floods, droughts, heatwaves, fires, glacier retreat, and exposure to
         pesticides and pollution) on a range of scales co-delivered with stakeholders.
     • Weather: to conduct internationally leading weather-scale research with an increased
         emphasis on high-impact weather and its relation to climate-scale processes; and to use
         weather research to advance the science of wider environmental prediction through
         interdisciplinary collaboration.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Each Division has a professorial-level Leader (RDL) who works with the Research Dean for the
 Environment Theme; they meet regularly together to coordinate cross-working. Each Division
 has specific priorities which provide a structure for organising research. Yearly operating plans
 are agreed with the Dean, informed by annual Personal Research Plans submitted by Division
 members, as well as broader considerations. This structure has proven effective for highlighting
 wider and division-specific opportunities. Our approach emphasises cross-collaboration which
 extends to other Divisions including Mathematics & Statistics, Computer Science, Built
 Environment, Sustainable Agriculture & Food Systems, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Global
 Development, and Archaeology.

 1.5 Research groups
 Informal research groups meet on weekly to termly intervals and are open to all research-active
 staff, PGRs and MetOffice@Reading staff. These operate within and across the Division
 structure; individual staff and students may belong to several groups. Currently active groups
 include:

      -   Aerosol-Climate Interaction                   -   Polar Processes
      -   Atmospheric Composition, Radiation            -   Remote Sensing and Clouds
          and Climate                                   -   Space and Atmospheric Electricity
      -   Aviation Meteorology                          -   Tropical Applications of Meteorology
      -   Biogeochemistry                                   (TAMSAT)
      -   Dynamical Processes                           -   Tropical Weather
      -   Energy Meteorology                            -   Turbulence
      -   Mesoscale Meteorology                         -   Urban Meteorology.
      -   Ocean Processes
      -   Palaeo Environments and Climate
          Analysis

 Further groups enable interdisciplinary research between and beyond Divisions: the Soil
 Research Centre, the Data Assimilation Research Centre, Water@Reading, and the Land
 Surface Processes Cluster.

 Research groups support a culture of research integrity. Research presented at meetings is
 subject to criticism and feedback; it is rare for research to be submitted for publication without
 constructive scrutiny in these or other meetings.

 1.6 Open research
 We are pro-active in implementing the University’s Open Research strategy (IES Section 2.2)
 which nourishes the culture and practice of transparency and reproducibility. Examples that
 demonstrate that culture, combining open-source data, methods, code and documentation,
 include:
     • The open availability of global river flow forecasts and associated documentation as part
        of the Global Flood Awareness System (GloFAS), a joint Copernicus Emergency
        Management Service with ECMWF.
     • TAMSAT-ALERT’s open-data, open-source models and free and open tools, providing
        information on potential adverse weather impacts for African agriculture.
     • IEA’s open-source software, ncWMS, enabling online exploration and visualisation of
        large-scale environmental datasets.
     • Numerous palaeo environments and climate databases (e.g., Speleothem Isotopes
        Synthesis and Analysis, SISAL; EMBSeCBIO modern pollen biomisation; Modern pollen
        data for climate reconstructions, SMPDS).

 Open-source code is made available via environmental repositories (including the NCAS-CMS
 publicly accessible code repository) and more generic code repositories (including GitHub).

 The University’s open-access policy requires staff to deposit papers in its CentAUR repository
 (IES Section 2.2). We achieved high percentages of Gold Open Access publication, via internally

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publicised institutional arrangements with publishers or individual research grants. In the
 REF2021 publication period 89% of publications from our submitted staff were open access, with
 50% gold or hybrid-gold (data from SciVal; Russell Group averages were 63% and 27%
 respectively. The proportion of gold/hybrid-gold papers increased from 39% (2014) to 65%
 (2020) (Russell Group: 18% and 37%). In 2019 (the last full year unaffected by journal embargo
 periods), 95% of our publications were open access, up from 78% in 2014. Outputs comply with
 funder and publisher data depository requirements and use national services (notably NERC
 data centres), open-access repositories (e.g., Zenodo) or the institutional Research Data Archive
 (IES Section 2.2). Widespread use is made of journals with open peer-review processes
 (particularly European Geosciences Union journals); many staff have editorial roles in these
 journals (Section 4.9).

 Gregory (with colleagues in NCAS-CMS and IEA) continued his lead role in the development
 and governance of the CF (Climate and Forecast) metadata standard. CF provides a
 standardised way to describe variables in geoscientific datasets stored in netCDF files. It is a
 widely used international standard for Earth system modelling and, increasingly, for Earth
 observation. It has, for example, helped enable efficient and open sharing of model output in the
 many model intercomparison projects that support IPCC assessments. S.Harrison chaired the
 International Science Council’s World Data System, until 2019.

 1.7 Impact strategy
 Impact beyond academia is deeply embedded in our research ethos. It is a key motivator for
 much of our research and is considered throughout the design and execution of most projects.
 Project partners include weather forecasting agencies, insurance and re-insurance companies,
 national and local government, overseas development agencies, utilities (including the water,
 transport and energy supply industries), and businesses involved in agri-environmental quality
 and sustainable food production. Impact includes deep local engagement (e.g., the Loddon
 Observatory), direct collaboration with developing countries (e.g., via GCRF) and science
 translation (e.g., co-production of the Catchment Management Modelling Platform with Defra,
 NERC, Scottish Government, CEH, ADAS and Atkins).

 Each Division has an Impact Lead (IES Section 2.3 and 3.3) to promote the research impact
 culture and identify opportunities for engagement and science translation. The Lead is supported
 by the University’s Impact Development Manager for the Environment Theme.

 We have engaged strongly with the University’s impact development programme (BOISP) (IES
 Section 2.3), a major strategic investment since REF2014. BOISP provides a structured
 approach for identifying potentially impactful research, providing pump-priming funding for
 activities (including short-term staff, workshops, travel). BOISP includes a formal mechanism for
 regular progress reviews and suggests ways to broaden and evidence impact.

 BOISP supported 20 projects in the Unit ranging from those with embryonic impact to those we
 selected as our submitted Impact Case Studies (ICS). The selected cases, which showcase the
 breadth and diversity of our impact, are:
     • enabling humanitarian organisations to exploit seasonal flood forecasts
     • enabling international climate agreements to compare the impact of emissions of
        different greenhouse gases
     • delivering drought/rainfall early warning systems to sub-Saharan African farmers and
        insurance sector
     • enabling the private sector to make health and safety decisions on risks to marine oil and
        gas infrastructure from mid-latitude and tropical storms
     • enhancing airline flight planning through improved turbulence forecasts
     • inventing now-iconic visualisation methods to make global audiences aware of historical
        climate change
     • changing how the Met Office represents urban areas in weather and climate forecasts.



                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ICSs submitted to other UoAs involve our staff, emphasising the interdisciplinary nature of our
 research and its impact. Dance co-led a UoA10 ICS on ‘Improved accuracy of weather
 forecasting internationally through advanced use of observational data’; this enabled a greater
 volume of data to be used in weather prediction by the Met Office, ECMWF and US Naval
 Research Laboratory. Lawrence, a joint appointee with Meteorology, led a UoA11 ICS on ‘New
 computer systems for exploiting big environmental data for worldwide usability, model and policy
 development’. This has been used in developing the Earth System Grid Federation and by the
 European Copernicus Climate Change Service.

 Other BOISP-supported work includes:
    • the use of weather information to inform decision-making in the solar photovoltaic and
        wind sector including the National Grid
    • the impact of climate change on freshwater resources in Kazakhstan
    • enhanced methods to predict the impact of volcanic dust on aviation via interaction with
        regulators and engine manufacturers
    • influencing policy on environmental exposure of humans and biota to hazardous
        substances
    • use of lidar/radar data to improve weather forecasts.

 One notable success was that our research (G.Harrison, Nicoll), assisted by the University’s
 Knowledge Transfer Centre, led to commercial production of ‘geigersondes’ in collaboration with
 a UK electronics manufacturer; these measure atmospheric ion production rate via a Geiger
 counter integrated with conventional radiosondes. Via a long-term arrangement with Vaisala, a
 world-leading radiosonde supplier, over 200 such devices with a commercial value exceeding
 £100k have been supplied.

 BOISP, aided by the Impact Development Manager, will continue to provide the basis of our
 future impact strategy, both in advancing existing impact and identifying and aiding emerging
 areas. The Impact Development Manager also provides input on funding-streams (e.g.,
 Knowledge Exchange Fellowships, Innovation and Follow-on Schemes) aimed at ensuring
 knowledge is effectively shared.


 2. People

 2.1 Personnel
 Following strong growth during the REF2014 period, when 18 new academic staff were
 appointed, we have grown further to fill strategic gaps. Category A FTE grew by 11% from 75.68
 to 83.9; headcount grew from 84 to 89. We have 13 ECRs (by FTE and headcount).

 In addition to Category A staff, on the Census Date there were 111 (FTE 105) non-independent
 Grade 6/7 researchers (GES 13, Meteorology 42, NCAS 48, NCEO 6, Walker 2) and 109 PGR
 students making a total headcount of 309 researchers.

 Twenty-two Category A staff from REF2014 are not submitted: 8 retired or left academia
 (Blackburn, Bengtsson, R.Gurney, S.Gurney, Highwood, Hoskins (who remains an active
 emeritus), O’Neill, Skeffington); Belcher is now Met Office Chief Scientist, Hogan is now a Senior
 Scientist at ECMWF (retains an FTE<0.2 position in the Unit); 7 left for research-active posts
 elsewhere (Chiu, Johnes, Migliorini, O’Connor, Osborne, Pinto, Watt); 3 are no longer deemed
 research-independent (Bannister, Blower, Mason). Lawrence (joint Meteorology-Computer
 Science appointment, and NCAS Director of Models and Data) is submitted to UoA11; Mayle is
 submitted to UoA15.

 Reflecting our extensive interactions with the Department of Mathematics & Statistics, 4 staff
 with joint appointments (Broecker, Dance, Fowler, Lawless) are submitted to UoA7; 3 further
 staff researching in UoA7 areas are submitted to UoA10. Roy (Associate Professor in Remote
 Sensing in Ecosystems Sciences) was submitted to UoA6 in REF2014.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Newly appointed academic staff are Carrassi (Professor and Director of Data Assimilation for
 NCEO), Cornforth (Director, Walker Institute), Morrison (Professor of Earth Observation with
 Radar, part-funded by NPL), Sizmur (now Associate Professor in Environmental Chemistry) and
 Stein (now Associate Professor in Clouds). These appointments reflect case-by-case strategic
 decisions. Professorial appointments were made where a leadership role, including contributing
 to national initiatives, was required; more junior appointments were appropriate to maintain
 breadth and critical mass in key areas.

 Five staff with individual fellowships (NERC, Royal Society, Leverhulme) in REF2014 moved to
 permanent positions, progressing to either Associate or Full Professorships (Hawkins,
 Holloway, Stephens, Turner, Williams). This emphasises our proactive role in career
 advancement for ECRs. Nicoll continued her NERC fellowship (split with University of Bath),
 moving to a 0.6FTE academic position in the Unit in October 2020.

 There are three new NERC Independent Research Fellows: Klingaman (2015-20), Ryder
 (2015-22, including career breaks) and Sun (2017-22). Eighteen research staff (Grades 7-9)
 were appointed as, or progressed to, independent researcher status (Bulgin, Carrea, Coceal,
 Dong, Fowler, Grant, Harvey, Kretschmer, Kuhlbrodt, Maidment, Martínez-Alvarado,
 Mittaz, Robson, Schiemann, Schroeder, Smith, Tarnavsky, Wilcox).

 2.2 Staff support structures
 We are strongly supported by the Institutional staff strategy (IES Section 3); Human Resources
 support staff recruitment and management.

 Newly appointed staff follow the University’s induction and probation procedures (6 months for
 post-doctoral researchers and senior appointments, 3 years for new lecturers) to ensure
 appropriate training. A peer-mentor provides a route for more informal advice. Mentoring for new
 lecturers continues throughout their probation; for research staff it continues throughout their
 contract. We actively implement the Researcher Development Concordat (IES Section 3.3).

 All research-active staff participate in the University’s annual Performance and Development
 Review (PDR) process, with mandatory training for reviewers. For academic staff and GES
 research staff, PDRs are normally with their line manager. Meteorology’s research staff usually
 have PDRs with someone other than their PI, following their expressed preference; this provides
 opportunities for additional, more detached advice. Staff are encouraged to reflect on their
 research output quality by self-assessment using the University’s Research Outputs Support
 System (see Code of Practice for details). Independently of the PDR process, academic staff
 (and optionally research staff) provide annual Personal Research Plans to their RDL, to highlight
 proposed future activity and indicate where resource availability may inhibit ambitions.

 To accompany the PDR, Meteorology research staff complete a Research Staff Development
 Prompter form. This was developed with research staff to consider additional activities to
 broaden experience, such as mentoring, teaching (including project co-supervision), conference
 organisation, learned society involvement, and media/outreach. The PI provides input to ensure
 activities are consistent with a researcher’s other commitments. For GES research staff,
 broadening academic experience is discussed and documented within mentoring pairs.

 Both Departments operate workload models to monitor academic staff load in funded research,
 teaching, administration, outreach, mentoring and academic citizenship. Staff see their
 colleagues’ load profiles (in anonymised form) to compare their commitments. Newly appointed
 academics build up administrative and teaching loads gradually over a two- to three-year period.
 Both Departments operate sabbatical schemes; the norm is effectively one term’s sabbatical for
 nine teaching terms (irrespective of periods of parental or other leave). Relief from teaching and
 administration is given based on time costed on research awards.



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Peer mentoring is available to all staff (e.g., at career transition points such as promotion
 planning, preparing for a role change or career-break returnees). There are regular calls for
 mentors together with advice on appropriate training. Meteorology’s mentoring pool includes
 visiting/emeritus staff who have often taken diverse career paths.

 A School-wide Research Staff Committee (chaired and organised by research staff) reports to
 the SMPCS Executive Board each term. In 2019, Meteorology ran a career-development
 workshop for Grade 6 researchers, covering promotions, research funding and research
 independence, and intends to make these biennial events. Meteorology’s termly staff meetings
 are open to all staff, with papers available on the intranet.

 Academic staff hold individual Staff Development Accounts (SDAs) that enable discretionary
 spending on conference travel, books, and short-term staff funding. A set fraction of overhead
 income is allocated to SDAs annually; part is allocated equally to all academic staff (to reflect
 that overhead-earning opportunities vary with career stage and other commitments); part is
 allocated in proportion to overheads earned by individuals. Consultancy income can also be
 directed to SDAs. Further internal schemes to support research are available (IES Section 4.3).

 2.3 Support for research proposals
 Backed by strong institutional support from Research Development Managers, and specialist
 support for EU and GCRF funding streams (IES Section 4.2), our staff are alerted to funding
 opportunities and provided with pro-active support in developing proposals, including finance
 and collaborative agreements.

 Collective action is often organised in response to funding calls. Inclusive meetings are
 convened to discuss calls, rather than dissipating energy in internal competition. This bottom-up
 activity is an example of the open, collaborative and interdisciplinary research environment in
 which we strive to operate.

 During the REF2021 period, a formal mechanism was implemented to assess potential grant
 applications, partly driven by NERC’s demand management process. Expressions of Interest
 (EoIs) are submitted to a panel consisting of the Research Dean and RDLs; their advice on
 strengthening proposals, and ultimately a decision on when/whether to submit, is informed by
 internal peer review and panel discussions with PIs. We escaped the NERC demand
 management ‘cap’ early in the period and have remained free from it since. The University runs
 a similar process for BBSRC responsive mode, for staff working in the sustainable food
 production priority area. ERC proposals are supported in a similar way, with mock interviews
 where appropriate.

 For individual fellowships, the University runs an EoI process. This is open to our current
 research staff and promising researchers from outside. Those successful at the EoI stage are
 assigned a mentor, actively supported by Research and Enterprise Services, and invited to a
 proposal development workshop.

 2.4 Training and supervision of PGR students
 2.4.1 Overview
 PGR students are immersed in our research environment and are a vital strand in our research
 activity. On the census date we had 109 students registered (63 in Meteorology; 46 in GES). Of
 students registered in 2019/20, 46% were female, 54% male, 62% UK and 38% from outside the
 UK (33 different nationalities). Averaged over the REF2021 period, 55% were UKRI funded, the
 others from diverse sources. The average number of completions was 22.8/year, compared to
 20.8/year in REF2014 (roughly constant per FTE); completions exceeded 23 from 2015/16
 onwards, and reached 26.5 in 2019/20; 90% required no or minor thesis amendments. 94% of
 full-time students starting between 2010/11 and 2014/15 (and hence mostly completing in the
 REF2021 period) submitted within 48 months.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Extensive use is made of CASE (and National Productivity Investment Fund, NPIF)
 arrangements, enabling students to build links beyond academia; 29 students completing in the
 REF2021 period had CASE or NPIF studentships, as do 26 current students. We won 13
 Industrial CASE studentships from NERC and 5 from BBSRC. The Met Office is a major CASE
 partner (20 completed, 12 current). Others come from a wide range of partners, including water
 companies (Affinity Water, Anglian Water, South East Water, Thames Water), energy/utility
 companies (BP, BT, EDF), the finance/insurance sector (AON Benfield, AXIS Capital, Risk
 management Solutions, XL Caitlin) and environmental, agricultural, forestry and fisheries sectors
 (EA, Defra, CEFAS, Forest Research, Syngenta).

 Arrangements for training and supervision vary depending on which (if any) programme a
 student is attached to. Students identify both as members of these programmes and members of
 their host Department. Part-time students are welcome, with pro-rata arrangements for training
 and monitoring. PhD-by-distance students (e.g., Met Office employees, typically 2 per year) also
 follow these arrangements. SCENARIO has a strong multi-disciplinary element and in addition to
 in-depth subject-specific training, it provides broader training opportunities (e.g., computing
 skills, policy awareness) often via collaboration with DTPs elsewhere. Examples include an
 Annual DTP Conference (jointly with Imperial and London NERC DTPs) and Innovating for
 Sustainable Development (with Imperial), a group activity to explore and find solutions to
 environmental challenges. Our admissions procedure assesses relevant work experience, as
 well as academic background, to attract students from diverse backgrounds.

 The PGR programme benefits from international capacity-building initiatives. Two students from
 Dhaka University, supported by the World Bank, and three students from the University of the
 Philippines, Diliman, supported by national initiatives, are currently enrolled, as part of their
 preparation to take up Faculty positions in their home countries. Other students have been
 supported by prestigious scholarships in DAC ODA list countries (e.g., Bolashak Scholarship,
 Kazakhstan) or bring external experience while on extended sabbaticals to complete a PhD
 (e.g., via Japan’s Long-term Fellowship Program). Walker is experimenting with a new approach
 to address issues facing students from developing countries. It has recruited students from east
 Africa by supporting distance-learning and part-time approaches which mitigate visa and some
 funding difficulties.

 Overall organisation of PGR programmes falls under the University’s Graduate School (IES
 Section 3.6) which organises networking events and annual Doctoral Conferences, enabling our
 students to engage with the University’s wider environment. Within each Department, student
 arrangements fall under a Director of Postgraduate Studies. All students have a lead supervisor
 and at least one co-supervisor, in addition to any external co-supervisors.

 2.4.2 Induction and training
 All students attend an induction programme, which includes guidance on the transition from
 taught-course environments. General information and guidelines are set out in each School’s
 Research Student Handbook. Students are allocated a ‘buddy’, a student from an earlier cohort,
 to provide informal advice and guidance. Students participate in the generic Reading
 Researcher Development Programme (IES Section 3.6), taking 11 courses (or equivalent
 training elsewhere).

 Mandatory subject-specific training is tailored to each student’s background. Some have
 completed a directly relevant undergraduate or taught masters; others have more general
 degrees including physics, mathematics or geography. Each student completes a Learning
 Agreement with their supervisor which is monitored by Departmental PGR Boards of Studies. If
 larger budgets are needed (e.g., for fieldwork), students develop outline budgets with their
 supervisor. In their first year, students normally take up to 6 modules from our postgraduate
 Master’s programmes, including 3 appropriate advanced modules. Performance in assessed
 modules is a major factor in considering student progression. Students are encouraged to attend
 focused short courses and summer schools, including extensive NCAS training opportunities
 and specific training programmes organised by DTPs. Some have training opportunities

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 associated with participation in larger research grant activities (e.g., NERC LANDWISE,
 FATHUM) and other University initiatives such as the Loddon Observatory.

 As much as possible, training opportunities are open to all students, including international
 students, irrespective of their funding. The Climate Action Studio, where students interview COP
 (Conference of the Parties) delegates in person and virtually (led by Walker and SCENARIO) is
 a good example that has been recognised as a partnership activity with the United Nations
 Framework Convention on Climate Change. All students are strongly encouraged to attend our
 regular seminar series.

 2.4.3 Monitoring, progression and representation
 Arrangements are broadly aligned in Meteorology and GES. Students usually meet supervisors
 weekly or fortnightly. Each student has a Monitoring Committee (MC) which meets biannually.
 Meteorology’s MCs have 2 staff members; ordinarily one has knowledge of the student’s
 research area. In GES, MCs consist of supervisors and an independent Panel Chair who is
 responsible for reporting progress to the Graduate School. Students prepare a progress and
 planning report and defend these at MC meetings; supervisors prepare short assessments of
 student progress. In Meteorology, supervisors attend part of each MC meeting but leave when
 supervisory arrangements are discussed and when the MC completes its report. The report
 assesses research knowledge, technical progress, and plans for future work, and considers
 overall progress to submission; it makes recommendations to the Director of Postgraduate
 Studies on progression and can place actions on the student and supervisors which are
 reviewed at subsequent meetings.

 Students are members of our research groups, which provide frequent opportunities to present
 their work; they also give poster and oral presentations at Departmental annual postgraduate
 research conferences and new-intake induction events. Meteorology students run their own
 weekly Research Student Club; GES students lead a Journal Club.

 In both Departments, students feed back on their experience via a Postgraduate Research
 committee which meets 3 times per year. It includes elected representatives from each cohort.
 Meteorology’s committee is convened by a student chairperson and includes an international
 representative; the Director of Postgraduate Research Studies and a Head of Department
 attend. In GES it is chaired by the School Director of Postgraduate Research Studies. PGR
 representatives sit on the equality and diversity committees in both Schools.

 2.4.4 Other training aspects
 Students are encouraged to attend national (normally one per year) and at least one major
 international conference. In Meteorology they receive a meeting budget of £2000, plus funds for
 summer school attendance, if this is not available from their funding source; in GES, funds are
 also available for these purposes. There are opportunities for paid demonstrating on taught
 courses (up to 60 hours/year including problems classes and instrumental and computing labs);
 the Graduate School’s Preparing to Teach programme is mandatory for such students. An
 Annual Distinguished Visitor Programme is organised by Meteorology PhD students, with
 extensive scientific interaction (normally over one week) and discussion of career paths. During
 the REF2021 period, visitors included Jürg Beer (Eawag Institute, Switzerland), Craig Bishop
 (NRL, USA), Cecilia Bitz (University of Washington, USA), Olivia Romppainen-Martius
 (University of Bern, Switzerland), Richard Rotunno (NCAR, USA) and Tapio Schneider
 (JPL/Caltech, USA).

 2.4.5 Career outcomes
 Our students are highly successful in obtaining employment for which their postgraduate training
 is relevant. Available first-destination statistics covering cohorts graduating in 2013/14 to
 2017/18 show all respondents in employment: 48% were postdocs at UK HEIs (including
 Reading), 8% were postdocs elsewhere, 17% worked in non-HEI research establishments and


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 15% worked for commercial companies including environmental consultancies, government, the
 insurance/finance sector, and the energy sector.

 2.5 Equality and diversity (E&D)
 Institutional strengthening in this area since REF2014 is described in the IES (Section 3.1). Both
 our Schools have Athena SWAN Silver Awards. SMPCS renewed its award in 2017; SAGES
 attained Silver in 2015, renewed in 2019. To advance E&D commitments, both Schools initiated
 standing committees. In SAGES, an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee includes staff
 and student representatives from all areas of the School and is chaired by a School Diversity
 and Inclusion Champion. Responsibility for Wellbeing has moved to the School Health and
 Safety Committee, which is better placed to act on workplace stress. In SMPCS a Director of
 Wellbeing, Inclusion, Diversity and Equality (WIDE) is supported by a committee drawn from
 across the School.

 Examples of good practice, applying to all academic and research staff, include:
    • promotion of flexible working, including location and working pattern; since 2019, 9
       female and 3 male Meteorology staff have taken advantage of this scheme for reasons of
       health, childcare, work-life balance or semi-retirement, and three female staff in the
       relevant part of SAGES have flexible working arrangements for childcare
    • recognition of the value of part-time arrangements; between 2016 and 2019, 13 male and
       6 female part-time researchers were promoted, with 18 male and 6 female part-time
       academics being promoted between 2017 and 2019
    • mentoring schemes
    • mandatory unconscious bias training for staff involved in recruitment
    • support for promotions. SAGES ran a mandatory disability awareness training session
       (the first time this has run in the University) and self-confidence/combatting imposter
       syndrome/diversity workshops as part of the Water@Reading cluster.

 SMPCS organised a survey to identify principal sources of stress (e.g., workload,
 communications, short-term contracts) and to identify remedial actions (including training for
 staff and managers, enhanced communication and a review of contract processes). SAGES has
 a similar approach to stress management, including a survey and a Stress Action Plan; it ran a
 Stress Management Workshop for all staff in 2019/20.

 We take a pro-active approach to staff and PGR well-being. Our initiatives include Department-
 wide celebrations of significant events such as PhD passes and prize awards, and social events
 such as a summer barbeque and Christmas pantomime; these continued, in virtual form, during
 2020.

 Overall, the submitted staff male/female headcount split is 72%/28% compared to 75%/25% in
 REF2014. This compares with the HESA 2018/19 national average in earth, marine and
 environmental sciences of 64%/36%. Meteorology’s staff are largely drawn from mathematical
 and physical sciences; our gender balance compares more favourably with HESA figures for
 Physics (80%/20%) and Mathematics (78%/22%). We are not complacent about these figures
 and, as part of Athena SWAN planning we are committed to advancing gender equality,
 including the balance in senior roles. An increase in female applicants for senior posts is
 encouraged through unconscious bias training and gender-balanced search committees. Two of
 our four current RDLs are female.

 Feedback from the 2019 Athena SWAN awards commended SMPCS’s recruitment process,
 communications, and career development and SAGES’ positive impact in terms of promotion,
 culture and flexible working, with gender balance achieved in the professoriate and on the
 School Management Board. SAGES’ strong promotion support mechanisms, including
 workshops, mentoring and one-to-one meetings, were noted. For SMPCS, identified areas for
 improvement include gender imbalance within the workload model and a requirement for more
 beacon activities (i.e., activities promoting good practice more widely). Workload models within
 the School were reviewed and beacon activities are continually being developed such as our

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentoring scheme and stress survey. SMPCS is currently preparing a Gold submission. For
 SAGES, areas for improvement include enhancing the Action Plan to include success measures
 to enable more detailed future evaluation, and further thought to career progression for
 professional and support staff.

 Both Schools aspire to a supportive and inclusive working environment for all staff and students.
 We recognise equality and inclusivity issues for people with protected as well as unprotected
 characteristics (e.g., socio-economic status, health). We recognise that diverse institutions are
 more successful and innovative, and that people are more productive when they feel free to be
 themselves.

 We strive to extend working practices to cover PGR students. For example, feedback from an
 informal survey among PhD students was included in our stress management action plan. One
 resulting action was a mental-health workshop at the last Annual Joint DTP Conference.

 Both Schools proactively support parental leave. Expectant mothers are sent information on
 University guidance and policies. Keep-in-Touch Days are scheduled during maternity and
 shared parental leave. SMPCS has a quiet room where staff can rest during pregnancy and
 express milk on their return. SMPCS has a parents’ network which meets monthly and cascades
 information about the recently established University Parents’ Network. A flexible approach to
 work following birth is available for both parents, in agreement with line managers. As University
 policy, a sum of money is kept aside to facilitate a flexible return to work after parental leave
 (25% of salary during the period of leave).

 To enable transparency and inclusivity, internal vacancies for senior leadership and academic
 administrative positions are openly advertised. Coaching is available for those with significant
 line management responsibilities from the University’s Henley Business School, as is
 accreditation from the Institute of Leadership and Management through the University’s Inclusive
 Leadership programme. Both Departments adhere to the University’s LGBT+ ally programme
 and Working Together principles.

 E&D played a significant role in constructing this submission, following the University’s Code of
 Practice. Staff were kept informed of deadlines and the process of assessing independent
 researcher status. All submitted staff were asked to provide assessments of their most suitable
 outputs, and periodically to update them. Assessments were subject to an internal peer review
 process, with each output graded by two staff. These grades, along with self-assessment and
 appropriate use of bibliographic metrics, informed final selection. The internal peer review was
 more inclusive than previous assessment exercises; all submitted staff took part (not just senior
 staff). We achieved a peak of 2 in the distribution of outputs attributed to submitted staff and
 examined cases for significant deviations, to ensure there were strong academic reasons.

 During the COVID-19 lockdowns, both Schools quickly moved activities online (e.g., PhD
 supervision, seminars, staff meetings and line management) to enable home-working.
 Subsequent communications from Heads of School and support staff ensured important
 information was shared quickly, including advice on well-being and creating an effective and
 safe home-working environment. This included allowing essential equipment and furniture to be
 taken home.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Our average research income increased by 32% to £14.6m/year (REF2014 £11.1m/year),
 compared to our 11% increase in FTE; it reached £17.2m in FY2019/20. We achieved a marked
 diversification of funding sources; direct UKRI funding remained at an average of about
 £8.4m/year but dependence on it decreased to 60% (REF2014 74%). While UKRI income is
 dominated by NERC, more than £0.4m/year came from BBSRC, EPSRC and STFC.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 External funding confirmed during FY2019/20 with end-dates in FY2020/21 and beyond,
 amounts to £14.6m (excluding any funding-in-kind) which indicates our continued
 competitiveness. Additionally, one new Royal Society University Research Fellow and one new
 NERC Independent Research Fellow were confirmed during FY2019/20, with start dates in
 FY2020/21.

 We achieved a notable seven-fold growth in income in the UK Industry, Commerce and Public
 Corporations category to £1.5m/year (REF2014 £0.2m/year). About 65% of this was from the
 Met Office, much due to their role as delivery partner for the Newton Fund Weather and Climate
 Science for Service Partnership Programme. Other sponsors in this category include BP
 Exploration, Mars Chocolate, NPL, National Grid, Risk Shield (a Zambian agriculture insurance
 company) and BT.

 Funding in the EU Government and EU Other categories increased from 6% to 20% (and by
 factor of four to £3m/year), partly due to our strong involvement in the EU Copernicus EO
 Programme. [Note that European Space Agency was incorrectly reported in HESA Finance
 Return in 2013/14 - 2017/18 as UK other. As per REF team guidance, the reported income on
 REF4b aligns with HESA reporting.] Four staff won five ERC Advanced Grants (Gregory x2,
 S.Harrison, Shepherd, van Leeuwen) and one ERC Synergy Grant (PI Grimmond, with a total
 of ≈£2.25m to Reading). A total of £3.7m came from the European Space Agency including lead
 roles in ESA’s Climate Change Initiatives in Sea Surface Temperature (PI Merchant) and Water
 Vapour (Science Lead Hegglin).

 This large income is a key factor in enabling our production of high-quality research outputs; it
 provides funding to maintain our large post-doctoral researcher community, to maintain and
 enhance the University’s research infrastructure, to allow access to national facilities, and to
 enable collaboration with other leading research groups in the UK and worldwide.

 UKRI income comes from national capability funding to support NCAS and NCEO long-term
 science programmes (ACSIS and UKESM), research programmes and standard grants.
 Examples of our leadership in UKRI research programmes, with funding to Reading noted,
 include:
     • IMPETUS (Improving Predictions of Drought for User Decision-Making; £975k over 4
        years, led by Shaffrey, and including collaboration between our Climate and
        Environmental Science Divisions) as part of NERC’s UK Droughts and Water Scarcity
        Programme; this has seven collaborating institutes and project partners including
        weather forecasting organisations (Met Office, ECMWF) and water authorities.
     • FATHUM (Forecasts for Anticipatory Humanitarian Action; £1.9m over 4.5 years) led by
        Stephens as part of the NERC/DFID/ESRC Science for Humanitarian Emergencies and
        Resilience (SHEAR) research programme. It includes collaboration with the Red Cross
        Red Crescent movement, the World Food Programme and universities in three African
        countries.
     • BRAVE (Building understanding of climate variability into planning of groundwater
        supplies from low storage aquifers in Africa; £1.2m over 4 years, led by Cornforth) as
        part of the NERC/ESRC Unlocking the Potential of Groundwater for the Poor
        Programme; it focuses on the Upper Volta catchment and includes collaboration with
        institutes in Burkina Faso and Ghana.
     • Three projects from NERC’s five-year Flooding from Intense Rainfall Programme
        including FRANC (Forecasting Rainfall exploiting new data Assimilation techniques and
        Novel observations of Convection) (led by Dance), SINATRA (Susceptibility of
        catchments to INTense RAinfall and flooding) (led by Cloke) and TENDERLY (Towards
        END-to End flood forecasting and a tool for ReaL-time catchment susceptibilitY) (led by
        Cloke and Dance).
     • Three projects in the NERC/Met Office Understanding and Representing Atmospheric
        Convection across Scales programme. Revolutionizing Convective Parameterization (led
        by Plant); Circle-A: Parametrizing Convection in the Hard Grey Zone: Modelling the
        Interaction of Turbulent Cloud processes with Explicit Cloud Dynamics (led by P.Clark);

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Understanding and Representing Atmospheric Convection across Scales (led by Plant);
        this totals ≈£2.5m over 4 years including collaborations across all Meteorology Divisions.
    •   LANDWISE (£1.46m over 4 years) funded by NERC’s Natural Flood Management
        Programme, led by J.Clark. It includes four external research institutes and over 40
        project partners from environmental policy, regulation, consultancy, conservation,
        farming and farm advisory sectors, water industry, local authority and community groups.
    •   Reading Solar System Science (£1.6m over 7 years) via STFC Consolidated Grants
        (Owens, G.Harrison, Lockwood, Scott) to further our space plasma physics and
        planetary research, including space weather in near-Earth space, with UK and
        international partners. This group is also part of a NERC-funded consortium Space
        Weather Impacts on Ground-based Systems led by the British Geological Survey.

 Examples of leadership roles in EC H2020 projects include:
    • FIDUCEO (Fidelity and Uncertainty in Climate data records from Earth Observations) a
       4-year €5.5m project coordinated by Merchant which applies metrological principles to
       the creation of satellite-based fundamental climate data records. The project included 11
       other partners across Europe, including NPL and EUMETSAT.
    • PRIMAVERA (PRocess-based climate sIMulation: AdVances in high resolution modelling
       and European climate Risk Assessment) a 4-year €5.5m with Vidale as Scientific
       Coordinator, and co-led with the Met Office, involves 18 other partners across Europe
       including ECMWF.

 An example of success in diversification of funding is Electrical Aspects of Rain Generation
 funded by the United Arab Emirates’ Rain Enhancement Program (US$1.5M over 4 years, led by
 G.Harrison) which advances understanding of electrical properties of clouds and aerosols
 through theoretical and experimental work.

 A major development in the assessment period has been heavy involvement in Newton Fund
 (including Weather and Climate Science and Service Partnerships in Brazil, China, India, South
 East Asia) and GCRF projects. This involves about one-third of our submitted staff as PI or co-Is
 across all Divisions. The diverse funding includes collaboration on cocoa cultivation (including
 soil remediation, environmentally friendly exploitation of husks, and climate impacts);
 understanding and sustaining Brazilian biome resources; urban air quality in China; convective
 and urban-scale modelling in China; monsoon variability and teleconnections in south-east Asia;
 impact of aerosols and dust on weather and climate in south-east Asia; and supporting
 exploitation of weather forecast data, and assessing sub-seasonal forecasts of the hydrological
 cycle in Brazil. We have supported capacity building in countries on the DAC ODA list; one
 example is initiating and growing a water quality and isotope monitoring network with local
 researchers in the Tien Shan mountains of Central Asia for work on climate change and glacier-
 fed catchments, including training activities in the region and in GES.

 An example of a major GCRF project is African-SWIFT (led by NCAS-Leeds, £1.33m to Reading
 over 4 years). This focuses on improving weather forecasts from short lead times to seasonal,
 and involves partners in Ghana, Nigeria, Kenya, and Senegal and two Regional Climate
 Centres. We lead the Evaluation (Stein) and the Sub-seasonal (Woolnough) work packages
 and ran two forecasting test beds in Kenya and a summer school in Ghana.

 Our staff are heavily involved in novel satellite missions. Illingworth is the Science Lead of the
 joint ESA/Japanese Earth’s Clouds, Aerosols and Radiation Explorer (EarthCARE), due for
 launch in 2022. Morrison and Wadge are Science Team Members for Hydroterra, a
 geostationary synthetic aperture radar, a candidate mission for ESA’s Earth Explorer 10 (launch
 2027-28); Black and Quaife are involved in associated feasibility studies.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities (see also IES Section 4.4)
 Staff and PGRs are mostly located in five buildings on the University’s Whiteknights Campus.
 During the assessment period, extensive refurbishment helped co-locate NCAS and Earth
 Observation staff.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The University’s Chemical Analysis Facility provides access to instruments for mass
 spectrometry, optical spectroscopy, thermal analysis, NMR spectroscopy, SEM and TEM. Our
 staff also use the crops research facilities to conduct field experiments and large-scale plant
 growth experiments in controlled and semi-controlled environments.

 SAGES houses purpose-built laboratories supported by six technicians for experimentation and
 analysis in environmental physics, chemistry and biology with equipment maintenance and
 replacement supported by SAGES and University equipment budgets. Laboratories include:
 automated wet chemistry analysis; elemental analysis; gas chromatography for greenhouse
 gases and lipid/non-polar organic pollutant analysis; high performance liquid and ion
 chromatography; inductively coupled plasma optical spectroscopy; water isotope analysis; laser
 granulometry; polymerase chain reaction and gel documentation; soil moisture release analysis;
 total organic carbon analysis; and UV/VIS Spectrophotometry. SAGES also use a four-frequency
 Ground Penetrating Radar and maintain two unmanned aerial vehicles. One is used for low
 altitude photogrammetry. The other provides multispectral and thermal imaging, in addition to
 photogrammetry. These also support work in Meteorology to develop a drone-based Synthetic
 Aperture Radar platform for forestry research.

 Together with the University’s School of Agriculture, Policy & Development, we lead the Loddon
 Observatory. This brings together several projects working in the Loddon catchment, close to the
 University, that address globally relevant challenges in food and water, e.g., LANDWISE (see
 above) and PASQUAL (Monitoring and prediction of pasture quality and productivity from
 satellites). The Loddon Observatory consolidates environmental experimentation, monitoring
 and modelling, in relation to flooding and biogeochemical cycling in an exemplar lowland river
 catchment ecosystem, and also addresses social aspects of catchment management.
 Networking events bring together researchers (including PGR students) across the University
 with local partners. Long-term monitoring platforms have also been set up to monitor natural
 flood management in the Upper Whitewater (Loddon Catchment) and the Bourne (Pang
 Catchment). Long-term water quality monitoring has been carried out in the Loddon and the Exe
 catchment in association with the water industry.

 Meteorology’s five technicians support laboratory and field measurements, including PGR
 projects. The Department invested in a Reading Radar Facility during 2016-17 following
 Morrison’s appointment to characterise geo- and biophysical environmental targets, notably soil
 moisture; this enabled the development of a portable outdoor rig for soil moisture measurement
 for LANDWISE. Lab-based projects include NERC-funded research on the aerodynamics of
 complex ice crystals, enhanced radiosonde measurements, and miniaturised instruments for
 measuring atmospheric electrostatics.

 The Urban Meteorology group has deployed extensive instrumentation in London; our London
 Urban Meteorological Observatory has sites in Islington, Kensington and Chelsea, Southwark,
 Westminster and instrumentation on the BT Tower. This includes two types of lidar, infra-red
 thermal cameras, and radiation and eddy covariance systems.

 The University’s Atmospheric Observatory, located on campus, has been further enhanced to
 include more extensive automation and the addition of instruments including a cloud lidar,
 visibility probes and equipment to monitor atmospheric electricity. An almost complete daily
 record from 1908 is readily available on the Observatory website; we ensured that these
 observations continued uninterrupted during COVID-19 lockdowns. We continue to host a Defra
 facility for daily ozone and spectrally resolved ultra-violet measurements, which Defra make
 available in near real-time.

 In the REF2021 period, the University’s support of academic computing was centralised. A new
 Academic Computing Cluster was purchased and expanded and is available to all research staff
 and PGRs. Dedicated nodes can be purchased for individual projects. The compute nodes
 currently provide about 1000 CPU cores for serial and parallel batch jobs. Several login nodes,

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equipped with multi-core processors, large memory and fast network connection to the research
 data storage volumes are available for interactive use, including data analysis, visualisation and
 code development. Multiple methods to enable remote access are available (including VPN, web
 browser and Secure Shell); capacity was enhanced during the COVID-19 closure. Research
 Data Storage has been expanded to provide three tiers of resilient storage, including a new
 Research Data Archive.

 3.3 Exploitation of external facilities
 We make considerable use of national research facilities, which contribute extensively to our
 submitted outputs, including:
     • NERC’s Facility for Airborne Atmospheric Measurements (FAAM) (a BAE-146-301 large
        research aircraft) to support field campaigns for research projects on weather systems,
        clouds and aerosols
     • the NCAS Chilbolton Facility for Atmospheric and Radar Research for its cloud and radar
        research (often in tandem with FAAM)
     • the NCAS Atmospheric Measurement Facility Environmental Flow Wind Tunnel, based at
        the University of Surrey, for urban meteorology research
     • NERC’s Field Spectroscopy Facility and Airborne Research and Survey Facility for in-situ
        environmental research field studies and airborne surveys, to support NERC and
        Innovate-UK funded projects and PGR work
     • NERC’s Biomolecular Analysis Facility to support research in GES
     • various national computing facilities including ARCHER, the UK National
        Supercomputing Service; the Met Office and NERC joint supercomputer system
        (MONSooN); and the JASMIN ‘super-data-cluster’ funded by NERC and the UK Space
        Agency, to support modelling and data analysis.

 As an example of the diversity of our research, we have used FAAM (at PI or co-I level) in a
 range of applications, sometimes funded via collaborators (including the Met Office) or at the
 programmatic level. SAVEX (Sunphotometer Airborne Validation Experiment) and AER-D
 (Aerosol-Dust) campaigns (Ryder) investigated properties of Saharan dust. NAWDEX (North
 Atlantic Waveguide and Downstream Impact Experiment) (Methven) explored the impact of
 diabatic processes on disturbances of the jet stream and their influence on downstream high-
 impact weather events. PICASSO (Parameterizing Ice Clouds using Airborne observations and
 triple-frequency doppler radar) (Westbrook) investigated how the scattering behaviour of
 snowflakes changes with radar wavelength. INCOMPASS (Interaction of Convective
 Organisation with Monsoon Precipitation: Atmosphere, Surface and Sea) (Turner), believed to
 be the first deployment of a foreign atmospheric research aircraft in India, aimed to improve
 monsoon rainfall prediction. CLARIFY-2016 (Cloud-Aerosol-Radiation Interactions and Forcing)
 (Bellouin), targeted the interaction of aerosols from wildfires with the stratocumulus off the coast
 of southern Africa.

 We also exploit the UK Environmental Change Network, most notably Forest Research’s Alice
 Holt site. This has supported research projects looking at forest carbon dynamics (e.g., NERC
 iCASE). Further collaboration with Forest Research across their research forests and BioSoils
 monitoring programme has supported PGR projects.

 Extensive use has been made of ECMWF models, its high-performance computer, and its
 forecast archives.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Earlier sections highlighted our many collaborations with private sector and research-led
 organisations in the UK and beyond. The following sections focus on specific major
 collaborations.




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1 Contribution to major NERC activities
 Sutton, as NCAS Director of Science (Climate), is a member of the NCAS Management Board.
 Nationally, NCAS has three Science Themes; two are led by Unit staff (Climate and High-Impact
 Weather Theme, Shaffrey, and Long-term Global Change, Kuhlbrodt). We host most of the
 NCAS CMS group (8 staff) (including its Director, Lister).

 We contribute strongly to NCEO, providing the Director of Data Assimilation (Carrassi) who is
 one of their five-member Executive Team. It provides ‘Capability Leads’ of three of NCEO’s
 twelve sub-themes: Ocean-Atmosphere Data Assimilation (Haines), Integrated Climate Data-
 Model Systems (Merchant) and Data Assimilation Framework and Theory (Carrassi). Some
 University NCEO staff are based in Mathematics & Statistics and submitted to UoA10; they
 collaborate strongly with our staff.

 We are heavily involved in two of NERC’s five long-term science, multi-centre projects: Reading
 provides four members of the Core Development Team (including Kuhlbrodt and Smith) of the
 joint NERC/Met Office UK Earth System Modelling Project (UKESM). Sutton is Project Director
 and Robson is Scientific Programme Lead of the North Atlantic Climate System: Integrated
 Study (ACSIS).

 We have strong involvement in the Centre for Polar Observation and Modelling (CPOM), a
 NERC Centre of Excellence. Feltham is a CPOM PI, and the sea-ice lead. The NERC-led £8m
 Soil Security Programme was coordinated by C.Collins (2015-20).

 4.2 Met Office collaboration
 We are one of six universities in the Met Office Academic Partnership (MOAP) which, in the Met
 Office’s words, is ‘a cluster of research excellence that brings together the Met Office and
 institutions who are among the leading UK Universities’. The Unit has a Met Office Joint Chair
 (Grimmond) and an Honorary Fellow (P.Clark). MOAP includes priority access to Met Office
 CASE studentships; we typically receive 4 new starts per year. Of ≈2900 papers published by
 Met Office authors in the REF2021 period, the University was the top collaborating institute, co-
 authoring 19% (SciVal).

 MetOffice@Reading consists of about 20 staff. Four Met Office staff were Category C staff in
 REF2014; six current staff are at or above Science Manager/Expert Scientist level and would
 have been listed as Category C in REF2021 had that option been available. MetOffice@Reading
 includes two Met Office research groups almost entirely based in Reading (Data Assimilation
 and Convective-Scale Modelling, including urban-scale modelling), as well as activity in
 observational networks, ensembles and predictability, climate change and the next generation
 dynamical core for Met Office models. In all areas there is substantial synergy with our core
 activity. As of July 2020, the Met Office, including MetOffice@Reading, were project
 partners/collaborators in over 50 funded projects (including 20 funded by UKRI, 17 from
 European sources, 17 Newton Fund).

 Our MOAP interaction is organised via a committee with joint University and Met Office chairs
 and includes Met Office staff (based both at Reading and Met Office HQ in Exeter), our 4 RDLs
 (or their representatives) and the Research Dean for Environment. It meets twice yearly to
 discuss collaboration foci. Cross-MOAP governance is via a Science Programme Board which
 includes the Joint Chair and Research Dean.

 Current collaboration foci include:
    • improved models and data assimilation for space-weather forecasting
    • cloud electrification parameterisations for Met Office models
    • high-resolution modelling of urban areas, including use of observations for model
        evaluation and parameterisation development
    • data assimilation including assimilation of the coupled atmosphere-ocean-land surface
        system and use of novel surface observations for convective-scale assimilation
    • exploitation of radar observations for model evaluation and nowcasting

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   regional scale climate risks
    •   Earth’s energy imbalance
    •   computational science for next-generation models and informatics
    •   high-resolution model evaluation through novel observations.

 Two themes (in data assimilation and computational science) also involve staff from
 Mathematics & Statistics and Computer Science, reflecting our cross-disciplinary links.

 In addition to MOAP and MetOffice@Reading, we are heavily involved in the Met Office and
 NERC’s Joint Weather and Climate Research Programme (JWCRP). This includes (i) UKESM
 development; (ii) the Joint Sea Ice Modelling Programme (Feltham is co-chair); and (iii) the
 High-Resolution Climate Modelling Group (Vidale is co-lead). Quaife is on the management
 board of JWCRP’s Joint Land Modelling Programme.

 The Met Office is a strategic partner in SCENARIO and an industrial partner in the Mathematics
 of Planet Earth CDT. A notable activity is an annual one-week summer course co-organised with
 MPE CDT.

 4.3 ECMWF collaboration
 We continue to work closely with ECMWF which is located in Reading. ECMWF, a 34-nation
 partnership, develops and uses an integrated global Earth system model to produce global
 forecasts on time ranges up to one year ahead. Of ≈1250 papers published by ECMWF authors
 in the REF2021 period, the University was the third-highest collaborating institute, co-authoring
 15%; and the highest-placed UK university (SciVal).

 Since 2014 about 50 projects included collaboration with ECMWF. These include:
    • the Copernicus Emergency Management Service-Floods operational services EFAS
        (European Flood Awareness System) and GloFAS (Global Flood Awareness System)
    • IMPETUS (Section 3.1)
    • SHEAR (Section 3.1)
    • IMPREX (IMproving PRedictions and management of hydrological Extremes)
    • TOPROF (COST action: Towards operational ground-based profiling with ceilometers,
        Doppler lidars and microwave radiometers for improving weather forecasts)
    • ANYWHERE (EnhANcing emergencY management and response to extreme WeatHER
        and climate Events).

 A further focus has been the World Weather Research Programme Sub-seasonal to seasonal
 prediction project, co-led from ECMWF; our staff (Woolnough, Klingaman, Charlton-Perez)
 are members of the steering committee or lead activities. Shepherd led a task force to improve
 the representation of the stratosphere in ECMWF models.

 We are involved in nine projects as part of the EU’s Copernicus Climate Change Service (with
 IEA involved in six), and lead a Copernicus Atmospheric Monitoring Services project, both of
 which are implemented by ECMWF. ECMWF is a strategic partner in SCENARIO and an
 industrial partner in MPE CDT.

 A relocation of ECMWF’s Headquarters and core staff to the University’s campus is in planning
 between the UK Government and ECMWF Council, with a final decision due in 2021 (IES
 Section 2.1.1). The project demonstrates the University’s ambition to enhance further its
 reputation as a world-leading centre for weather and climate science. The resulting co-located
 cluster of weather and climate researchers and operational forecasting would be the world’s
 largest (by most measures). It would be a strong attractor for research talent and offer potential
 to attract companies in private weather and climate services that contribute to medium and long-
 term planning in sectors including water, transport, agriculture and food, national infrastructure,
 and energy.



                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 NPL collaboration
 In 2017 the University signed a Memorandum of Understanding with NPL leading, among other
 activities, to a jointly funded Chair (Morrison) and a five-year Grade 7 research fellowship
 (Mittaz) plus a visiting chair position (Fox, NPL). Morrison’s work focuses on quantifying
 uncertainties in retrieval of forest carbon stocks from radar remote sensing. The TRUTHS
 satellite mission (led by Fox) was accepted into ESA’s Earthwatch programme in 2019, to make
 SI-traceable measurements of the Earth’s radiation budget. It brings together two strategic
 strands in our relationship: quantifying climate and developing the fundamentals of EO
 metrology. This interaction represents net growth of joint activity and builds on extensive
 research grants and PGR interaction on the interface between metrology and environmental
 sciences. NPL is a strategic partner in SCENARIO and an industrial partner in MPE CDT.

 4.5 International assessments
 Our heavy involvement in IPCC Assessment Reports continued. In its ongoing Sixth
 Assessment Report (AR6), due for publication in 2021/22, six staff (Allan, Arnell, Bellouin,
 W.Collins, Hawkins, Turner) are Working Group I lead authors (The Physical Science Basis);
 the University is believed to have the largest number of lead authors of any single-site institution.
 Other staff provide input to AR6 as contributing authors and reviewers. Arnell was Lead Author
 of IPCC 5th Assessment Report Working Group II (Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability)
 published in 2014.

 The UN’s Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer requires Scientific
 Assessments of Ozone Depletion ‘to periodically update governments on the latest scientific
 findings related to the ozone layer’. Two assessments were published in the REF2021 period. In
 2014, Shepherd was on the Scientific Steering Committee, Hegglin a convening lead author
 and Charlton-Perez a co-author. In 2018, Hegglin was a convening lead author and Ferreira a
 contributing author. Other staff were reviewers for both assessments. Hegglin was co-author of
 the IGAC Tropospheric Ozone Assessment Report and a co-lead author of the 2020
 WMO/UNEP Interim Assessment Report on Increased Emissions of CFC-11.

 4.6 Outreach, public engagement, citizen science
 Meteorology has a senior Academic Lead for Public Engagement and a dedicated Executive
 Support Officer for Outreach and External Affairs. We aim to (i) promote and enhance our
 reputation for scientific excellence; (ii) promote, more generally, meteorology, atmospheric
 science and environmental physics to policymakers, industry and the general public; (iii) in our
 role as ‘good citizens’, act to reduce our carbon footprint and communicate actions taken and if
 they have been successful.

 During a typical 6-month period in 2019 there were:
    • 17 interactions with primary school and other Key Stage 1 and 2 groups (estimated
        audience 640), two visits to secondary schools (estimated audience 100) and 9 public
        outreach events (estimated audience 650)
    • 422 media engagements were recorded, including 25 on national radio, 7 on national TV,
        62 in national papers and mentions in 125 on-line news sites.

 Several staff are active on Twitter; Hawkins’ continued climate science engagement is
 particularly noteworthy, with over 50,000 followers; his work on visualising climate change for
 non-specialist audiences is reported in an ICS. The ShowYourStripes website was developed in
 collaboration with IEA.

 We have been highly active in several citizen science projects.
   • Scott led Solar Stormwatch which uses data from the NASA STEREO mission to track
       eruptions of material from the solar atmosphere as they expand through the inner solar
       system. Now in its tenth year, this has attracted around 30,000 active volunteers (over
       6,600 to date for the most recent activity) contributing to 8 scientific publications and a
       PhD thesis. An associated project ‘Protect our Planet from Solar Storms’, in conjunction


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        with the Science Museum’s exhibition ‘The Sun’, attracted 3,688 volunteers; results will
        contribute to another PhD thesis.
    •   Hawkins led the Weather Rescue and Rainfall Rescue projects, attracting over 20,000
        volunteers to digitise millions of weather records from across the UK and western
        Europe, including hourly measurements collected at the Ben Nevis Observatory (1883-
        1904), sub-daily and daily European weather observations (1862-74 and 1900-1910),
        and 5 million monthly UK rainfall records (1800-1960). These have been used to assess
        and improve meteorological reanalysis products and enhance Met Office reconstructions
        of past climate. These efforts have inspired collaborations with groups in other countries.
    •   National Eclipse Weather Experiment (NEWEx) (G.Harrison, Gray) collected ≈15000
        observations from about 500 locations during the 2015 UK partial solar eclipse leading to
        a clear demonstration of robust reductions in observed temperature and wind speed
        during the eclipse, as well as research outputs.

 Our staff also play active roles in learned society outreach activities. We make regular
 contributions to Royal Society’s climate science briefings, including recent briefings on IPCC’s
 AR6 Special Reports. Staff also contribute to Royal Meteorological Society’s (RMetS) climate
 science briefing papers and membership of its Education and Outreach Committee.

 Our staff contributed to Royal Society Summer Exhibitions in 2017 (A Model Earth), 2018 (Soil:
 Our Buried Treasure) and were to have presented ‘Beware: Floods Ahead!’ in 2020 (moved to
 2021).

 4.7 Visitor programme
 We run active visitor programmes. Meteorology’s is led by a member of academic staff with
 dedicated administrative support. At any one time, there are typically 12 visitors, with duration
 ranging from a few days to over a year. As a snapshot, in early 2020 there were 5 Chinese
 scientists visiting for durations of about a year or more, in areas such as space physics, data
 assimilation, urban meteorology and climate variability. Each visitor has a named host to enable
 a two-way interaction with the wider Department. The Visitor Programme has an annual budget
 of £12,000 for visits by both researchers and PGR students registered elsewhere; this includes
 the Distinguished Visitor Programme organised by PGR students. In GES, Environmental
 Science staff host an average of 5 international visitors each year (including from Australia,
 central Asia, China, France, Ghana, India, Spain and South America) typically for 3-12 months.
 Walker is an associate member of the Himalayan University Consortium, hosting visiting
 scientists from South Asia as part of this.

 4.8 Committee membership
 We continued our high level of service to national and international science initiatives and
 programmes during the REF2021 period. Selected examples illustrate the range and depth of
 activities.

 UK Learned Societies
    • RMetS: Atmospheric Electricity Specialist Group (G.Harrison, Nicoll); Climate
       Communications Group (Hawkins); Data Assimilation Specialist Group (Lawless);
       Meteorological Observing Group (Nicoll); Education Committee (Charlton-Perez); Book
       Series Editor (Williams); Publications Committee (Methven)
    • Other: Royal Society of Chemistry Environmental Chemistry Group (Sizmur); Wind
       Engineering Society Steering Committee (Barlow); Institute of Physics Environmental
       Physics Group (Ryder); Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry Society Publications
       Committee (White); Royal Society Science Policy Expert Advisory Committee
       (Shepherd); Royal Society Publishing Board (Lockwood); Royal Society Sectional
       Summer Exhibition Committee (Lockwood).

 UK Government and industry
    • Defra Hazardous Substances Advisory Committee (C.Collins, chair); Natural Capital
       Committee (C.Collins); Defra Air Quality Strategic Evidence Leadership Group (Coceal)

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Met Office Scientific Advisory Committee (Barlow); Met Office Hadley Centre Science
        Review Group (Shepherd, Chair)
    •   UK Space Agency Earth Observation Advisory Committee (Merchant)
    •   Airports Commission Expert Advisory Panel (Shine)
    •   Environment Agency Long Term Investment Scenarios Advisory Group (Cloke);
        Defra/Environment Agency Flood Incident Management Theme Advisory Group (Cloke);
        Environment Agency Future Flood Hydrology Roadmap Advisory Group (Cloke)
    •   UK Climate Change Risk Assessment Advisory and Peer Review Panels (Arnell,
        Hawkins); UK Climate Projections Peer Review Panel (Hawkins, Haines)
    •   London Climate Change Partnership (Grimmond)
    •   REF2014 Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences Sub-Panel (Shine).

 UKRI
   • NERC: Science Committee (Sutton); High-Performance Computing Committee
      (Woolnough); Centre for Ecology and Hydrology Science Direction Group (Wade);
      Constructing a Digital Environment Panel (Van Leeuwen); Governance Group of NERC-
      Met Office Joint Marine and Modelling Programme (Feltham); Natural Flood
      Management Coordination Team (J.Clark); Peer Review College (18 staff; many others
      have served on panels for individual calls, fellowship and doctoral training programme
      selection); FAAM Strategy Committee (Methven); NCAS Atmospheric Measurement and
      Observation Steering Committee (Westbrook)
   • Other: EPSRC UK Fluids Network Low Energy Ventilation Network Steering Committee
      (Barlow); EPSRC UK Fluids Network Urban Fluids Steering Committee (Grimmond);
      BBSRC Pool of Experts (Committee B) (Shaw); NERC/DFID/ESRC panel on Disaster
      Risk Forecasting (Gray); EPSRC Environmental Change Challenge Fellowships Call
      (Dance).

 European institutions
    • EUMETSAT Climate Monitoring Satellite Applications Facility Review Board (Allan)
    • ERC Earth System Science Advanced Grants and Consolidator Grants Evaluation
       Panels (S.Harrison, Shine)
    • H2020 Gap Analysis and Integrated Assessment for Climate (GAIA-CLIM) Steering
       Committee (Merchant)
    • External evaluator of tenders to the Copernicus Climate Change Service (Cloke).

 Other national
    • US Department of Energy Regional and Global Climate Modelling Programme Panel
        (Klingaman)
    • NOAA Climate Grant Panel (Lawless)
    • US National Academy of Sciences Committee on Extreme Weather Events and Climate
        Change Attribution (Shepherd)
    • NASA Clouds and the Earth’s Radiant Energy System science team (Allan); NASA
        Physical oceanography review panel (Ferreira); NASA Mission Selection Review Panel
        (Owens)
    • American Meteorological Society Board of Urban Environment (Barlow); American
        Meteorological Society Nominations Committee and Fellows Committee (Grimmond)
    • Consultation panel on DFG German Research Centres/Excellence Clusters (Hegglin)
    • Irish Flood Forecasting Centre Scientific Advisory Group (Cloke)
    • Dutch National Research Agenda programme and Dutch Spinoza Prize Selection
        Committee (Verhoef)
    • Canada Research First Excellence Fund review group for Environment and Agriculture
        (Wade)
    • Advisory board of the Japanese Institute of Statistical Mathematics (Van Leeuwen).

 International organisations and subject associations


                                                                                     Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   WCRP/SPARC Stratospheric Network for the Assessment of Predictability (Charlton-
        Perez); WCRP/SPARC Dynamics and Variability Committee (Kretschmer); WWRP Data
        Assimilation and Observing Systems Working Group (Dance); WWRP Predictability,
        Dynamics and Ensemble Forecasting Working Group (Methven); WCRP CLIVAR
        Scientific Steering Group (Hawkins); The Decadal Climate Prediction Project of the
        WCRP/WWRP Sub-seasonal to Interdecadal Prediction Working Group (Robson);
        WCRP Polar Climate Predictability Initiative (Shepherd)
    •   WMO Expert Team on Megacity Implementation Plan/ Integrated Urban Services
        (Grimmond); WMO Madden-Julian Oscillation Task Force (Klingaman, Woolnough)
    •   IAMAS-IUGG International Commission on Atmospheric Electricity (G.Harrison)
    •   INQUA Palaeoclimate Commission (S.Harrison, President)
    •   IGAC/SPARC Chemistry Climate Model Initiative and SPARC Data Initiative (Hegglin)
    •   Committee on Earth Observation Satellites (CEOS) Working Group for Climate
        (Merchant)
    •   GEO-BON Ecosystem Function Working Group (Roy)
    •   CLIVAR/GEWEX Monsoon Panel (Turner)
    •   GEWEX System Studies Panels (Verhoef, Woolnough)
    •   International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam (Tailleux)
    •   ICSU World Data System (S.Harrison)
    •   Committee on Earth Observation Satellites Working Group on Calibration and Validation
        (Morrison)
    •   NATO Science and Technology Organisation SET-250 on Multi-Dimensional Radar
        Imaging (Morrison)
    •   GHRSST Climate Data Records Technical Advisory Group (Mittaz, chair)
    •   International Precipitation Validation Working Group (Tarnavsky).

 Staff played a pro-active role as steering committee members or convening session conveners
 at major national and international meetings, including the EGU General Assemblies, European
 Meteorological Society Annual Meetings, AGU Fall Meetings, AMS Annual Meetings, IUGG
 General Assemblies, IGARSS and EUSAR.

 4.9 Editorial
 Editorial roles for major journals (both established and newly emerging open access) included:

 Senior Editorships
    • Geophys.Res.Lett. (Williams)
    • Hydrology and Earth System Sciences (Cloke)
    • Proc.Roy.Soc. A (Lockwood)
    • QJR.Meteorol.Soc. (Methven).

 Associate Editorships and memberships of Advisory/Editorial Boards
    • Advances in Atmospheric Sciences (Dong)
    • Agriculture and Forest Meteorology (Verhoef)
    • Agronomy (Robinson)
    • Ann.Geophys. (Scott)
    • Atmospheric and Oceanic Science Letters (Dong)
    • Atmos.Sci.Lett. (Black, Dacre, Gray, Holloway, Kretschmer, Martínez-Alvarado,
        Westbrook)
    • Current Climate Change Reports (Gregory)
    • Environmental Research Letters (G.Harrison, Shine)
    • Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (Sizmur)
    • Frontiers in Climate (Wilcox)
    • Frontiers in Marine Science (Roy)
    • J.Appl.Meteor.Climatol. (Grimmond)
    • J.Atmos.Oceanic Technol. (Grimmond)

                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   J.Climate (Allan, Charlton-Perez)
    •   J.Geochemical Exploration (Sizmur)
    •   J.Geophys.Res.Space (Owens)
    •   J.Atmos.Sci. (Holloway)
    •   Meteorol.Appl. (Brayshaw)
    •   Mon.Wea.Rev.(Carrassi, Gray, Fowler, Lawless, van Leeuwen, Weller)
    •   Nature Scientific Reports (J.Clark, Hegglin, Singarayer)
    •   npj Climate and Atmosphere Science (Gray, Grimmond)
    •   Nonlinear Processes in Geophysics (Carrassi)
    •   Phil.Trans.Roy.Soc (Williams)
    •   Plant and Soil (Shaw)
    •   PLoS ONE (Charlton-Perez)
    •   QJR.Meteorol.Soc. (Ambaum, Frame, Illingworth, Turner)
    •   Quaternary (S.Harrison)
    •   Quaternary Review (S.Harrison)
    •   Remote Sensing for Ecology and Conservation (Roy)
    •   Remote Sensing in Earth Systems Science (Roy)
    •   Soil Biology and Biochemistry (Shaw)
    •   Solar Physics (Owens)
    •   Surv.Geophys. (G.Harrison)
    •   The Anthropocene Review (S.Harrison)
    •   The Cryosphere (Feltham, Schroeder)
    •   Urban Climate (Grimmond)
    •   Vadose Zone (Verhoef)
    •   Weather and Climate Dynamics (Dacre).

 4.10 Senior fellowships
 Dance is an EPSRC Senior Fellow in Digital Technology for Living with Environmental Change
 (2016-21). Arnell held a Cabinet Office High Level KE Fellowship (2018-20).

 4.11 Awards and prizes
 Prizes and elections to learned societies are an indicator of reputation and standing and
 contribution to the wider community. During the REF2021 period:
     • Cloke received an OBE ‘for services to flood forecasting and the development of hazard
        early warning systems’ and Hawkins an MBE ‘for services to climate science and
        science communication’.
     • Shepherd (2016) and Gregory (2017) were elected Fellows of the Royal Society,
        bringing our total number of submitted FRSs to four (along with Lockwood and Shine).
     • G.Harrison was elected to Academia Europea.

 UK learned society awards
    • British Hydrological Society’s President’s Prize (Cloke)
    • Royal Society Kavli Medal and Lecture (Hawkins)
    • RMetS: Mason Gold Medal (Shine); Buchan Prize (Allan, Gray, Methven); Climate
        Science Communication Award (Hawkins); RMetS FitzRoy Prize (Dacre, Gregory)
    • Royal Astronomical Society Gold Medal (Geophysics) (Lockwood)
    • Royal Geological Society Murchison Medal (Wadge)
    • Institute of Physics Appleton Medal and Prize (G.Harrison).

 Awards recognising impact and communication
   • NERC Early Career Impact Award (Cloke)
   • NERC Societal Impact Award (Williams).

 Awards recognising high-quality reviewing of papers
   • Publons Sentinels of Science reviewers award (Allan)

                                                                                       Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   RMetS Quarterly Journal Editor's Award (Ambaum)
    •   AMS Editor’s Award (Holloway).

 International awards
     • International Association for Urban Climate Luke Howard Award (Barlow)
     • EGU Plinius Medal (Cloke)
     • IAMAS Union Lecture (Hawkins)
     • Gregory was co-recipient of the 2019 €400k BBVA Foundation Frontiers of Knowledge
         Award (Climate Change Category).

 Seven staff have been Web of Science Highly Cited Researchers between 2014 and 2020:
 Arnell, Bellouin, W.Collins (4 times), Gregory, S.Harrison (3 times); Hawkins, Shepherd
 (twice).




                                                                                     Page 24
