Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University

 Unit of Assessment: 27

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context

English Language and Literature at Ulster is based in the School of Arts and Humanities in the
Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences. It is a cultural leader in its region with a long
engagement with academic and public audiences and an increasing global outreach. It operates as
an international centre in Irish literary and bibliographical research, Irish and Scottish studies,
creative writing, biographical scholarship, 19th-century literature and gender and American studies.
During this period members of the English research Unit have disseminated their research on the
world stage through publications (125 outputs); conference organisation (10+) and participation in
major research projects and consultancy with government, education and the creative industries.
The Unit has 12 full-time members of staff with a dedicated research professor, and as in REF2014,
100% of staff in English are submitted to REF2021. In this period the Unit has produced 17.82
successful PhD completions and continues to support a vibrant postgraduate community of doctoral
researchers. The Unit’s research spend for this period is £1,176,591, an increase of 53.5% on our
spend of £766,348 in REF2014.

Research and Impact Strategy

Our strategy is supported by the Ulster University Research and Impact Strategy (2017-2022) which
designates 4 strategic priorities: social renewal; sustainability; healthy communities; and creativity
and culture. The Unit aligns its research strategy under the following principles:

   1. To operate as a key local and national centre for research in English literature with
      particular specialisation in literary criticism, theory, biography, creative writing and Ulster-Scots
      studies.

   2. To build on our successes in the RAE2008/REF2014 exercises and expand our range of
      scholarly activities founded on the research strengths of colleagues and their development
      of dynamic, interdisciplinary collaborations with local, national and international partners.
      These activities aim to produce important research, disseminated through the best possible
      channels and to generate timely and considered impact.

   3. To nurture, mentor and promote the research activities of all staff in an inclusive and
      supportive manner. Particular attention is paid to assisting and guiding all colleagues to
      develop their careers as academic researchers within the subject.

   4. To partner with the Doctoral College to nurture the next generation of researchers in English
      literature at postgraduate and early-career doctoral/postdoctoral levels.

Research Strategy from REF2014

As part of its strategy the Unit has worked toward the following goals in the present research cycle.

    •     Maintain quantity and quality of outputs.
    •     Expand our vibrant research environment within the discipline, region and economy.
    •     Focus efforts on extension of research centres that enable all colleagues to develop as
          researchers.
    •     Generate a flexible, sustainable and ambitious research plan for the next cycle.


                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Maintain quantity and quality of outputs

The Unit prides itself on the strong tradition of research produced within the subject team. The former
UoA 29 emerged in the last REF as one of the most successful units within the faculty in
delivering internationally significant research outputs. This created solid foundations to build on
this success in the most recent cycle. Ulster’s geographical position situates it very well in a
confluence of academic and industry interconnections, including scholarly networks in the UK and
avenues for collaboration and cultural exchange with Irish institutions. The research interests of
colleagues in literary biography, minorities and indigenous cultures demonstrate the reach of the
Unit’s work into European and North American networks.

Significant outputs have remained the bedrock of the Unit’s productivity over the past seven years.
In this cycle we exceeded our group target of outputs by 278% (an additional 80 outputs). This
has been led by the internationally-recognised work of Bradford in literary biography and theory,
including major biographies of Orwell and Hemingway and a well-received examination of Larkin.
Bradford and his co-editors and contributors from the Unit, including Butler, Byrne, De Ornellas,
Hancock, Jedrzejewski, Keanie and Ward, have showcased their literary scholarship in a range of
publications including A Companion to Literary Biography (Wiley Blackwell, 2018), The Wiley
Blackwell Companion to Contemporary British and Irish Literature (Wiley Blackwell, 2020) and
Contemporary Publishing and the Culture of Books (Routledge, 2020). Colleagues including
Bradford, Byrne and Ward have produced significant monographs in their research areas, and all
colleagues have published significant essays in journals with international reputations. Creative
writing has also produced a broad range of publications in prestigious journals, and McCracken’s
work won the Seamus Heaney Award for New Writing in 2019.

Extension of Outreach

The current cycle has shown the Unit’s ambition to extend its research environment and impact to
match the high quality of its outputs. This has been assisted by strategic restructuring by the
university that placed developing research as a priority under the Five and Fifty Strategic Plan,
provided proactive support for colleagues engaged in research, and created a Doctoral College to
enhance the experience of PhD researchers and supervisors.

Extension of Research Centres

With institutional support, the Unit saw a continued focus on a series of major projects which
generated public outreach and impact, including: The Representation of Jews in Irish Literature
(Ferguson, Kennedy-Andrews, Montgomery, Ó Dochartaigh [Galway], Peters (2013)); Ulster-Scots
Education Project (Ferguson, White, Clarke [Education] (2013-18)); Ulster-Scots Collectors Project
(Ferguson, Jedrzejewski, White, Thompson [QUB] (2013-19)), Ulster International Literary Festival
(Ferguson, Jedrzejewski, Glover (2016)), Stendhal Hedge School (Byrne, Ferguson, Murphy
(2017)), Willa Cather Symposium and Festival (Ferguson, Murphy (2018)) and John Steinbeck
Community Festival (Murphy (2019)).

The Unit has further extended its reach through the creation of the Ulster Literary Biography
Research Centre (ULBRC) (director Bradford). The centre is unique globally as the first research
centre to use literary biography to further theoretical inquiry into the nature of literary
creativity, applying its findings to key figures in English language writing. ULBRC is host to a major
research and publishing project devised by Bradford, who acts as General Editor. ‘The Life of the
Author’ is a series of at least 75 single-authored, peer-reviewed volumes published by Wiley
Blackwell, covering major writers and movements in English, Irish and American literature. It will be
unique in its objective of building bridges between literary biography for the general reader and its
academic counterpart.

ULBRC operates alongside the Ulster Centre for Irish and Scottish Studies (director Ferguson). In
the last five years this centre has hosted two major externally funded projects for the Unit, The Ulster-
Scots Education Project, funded by the former NI Department for Culture, Arts and Leisure, and The
                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Representation of Jews in Irish Literature, funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council
(AHRC). The centre’s role as a focus for interdisciplinary examinations of minority cultures in Ulster
and globally has seen it engage in symposia in partnership with universities in Scotland, France,
Poland and the USA. Ferguson, White and Sneddon [History] have been consultants on Ulster-Scots
issues for the NI administration, local councils, museums and film and radio production companies
in the UK and Ireland. The centre has also assisted in hosting major international conferences such
as the Canadian Association for Irish Studies Annual Conference, Derry~Londonderry 2017, and the
Sylvia Plath Conference, Belfast 2017.

Flexibility in Planning

The relative stability in personnel and institutional change that the Unit has enjoyed in the last cycle
has enabled effective planning and greater research activity than in REF2014. All Unit members are
research-active and attuned to their roles within the Unit and School, which has enabled them to
adapt to changes with agility. For example, during the Covid-19 pandemic, colleagues have moved
to virtual conferencing and running activities via electronic platforms. Byrne, Ferguson, Jedrzejewski
and White have used these platforms to deliver conference papers and talks. Butler has organised
an AHRC ‘Being Human’ café event on Dystopian Literature. Ferguson has taken part in Culture
Night and Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) café events focused on linguistic diversity.
As part of Halloween celebrations with Derry and Strabane City Council, a major regional festival,
Byrne and Ferguson have given talks based on their published research. Byrne has worked with the
university’s Riverside Theatre in developing online lectures, and with Ferguson has developed
cultural exchange activities with St Petersburg College, Florida.

Research Structure and Outlook

Research is managed by the Research Director (RD) who, along with the Head of School (HoS),
liaises with colleagues in the development of their research through annual discussion on each
individual’s research plan. Decision-making for the submission of research is carried out by a sub-
group of internal and external reviewers which includes the RD, HoS and Associate Dean for
Research & Impact (ADRI). This also helps inform the process of developing research objectives for
future years.

Our objectives for the next REF cycle are to:

   •   maintain and support academic development of all colleagues within the Unit;
   •   encourage research collaborations within the Unit and across disciplines;
   •   nurture and extend knowledge exchange with our various partners in academia, creative
       industries, education, government, and the public sector, with focus on bio-festivals, creative
       writing, literary biography and Ulster-Scots literature;
   •   expand our vibrant group of researchers through external funding awards;
   •   increase our reach in consultancy with stakeholders in order to provide guidance on issues
       of local, national and international significance including ecology, ethnicity, gender, linguistic
       identities, medical humanities and race; and
   •   continue our commitment to equality and diversity. We will maintain and enhance our
       relationship with minority and marginalised groups, considering issues of race, diversity and
       openness.

To achieve these aims the Unit will devolve an agreed amount (20%) of its research budget each
year. This will be carried out within the wider aim of progressing toward an open research
environment. This process has begun, with Ulster University being a signatory of DORA and a
supporter of the principles the Leiden Manifesto and the Metric Tide. This process will be regulated
in the context of research integrity. All work carried out by the Unit is conducted according to
appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards: for example,
English has 100% staff completion of the research integrity online course.


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development

Since REF2014 Ulster University has sought to extend, enhance and intensify research and impact
within each Unit of assessment. This has resulted in the creation in each Unit of a full-time Research
Director post (Ferguson), whose role is to direct and drive the Unit’s research and impact in
collaboration with colleagues; a Grade 5 Academic Excellence Administrator assists this role.
Ferguson also covers the role of Postgraduate Tutor in the Unit to support and manage PhD
researchers, with the assistance of a Grade 3 Clerical Officer. At Faculty level, the Associate Dean
for Research and Impact chairs the RD Forum (RDF) which meets monthly to drive strategy, and a
Faculty Peer Review College supports the development of grant applications. To extend the
Faculty’s core support for staff, Ulster’s Doctoral College was established in 2017, offering
centralised support for researchers, advising on research activity, coordinating postgraduate
admissions and providing guidance for researchers to sources of funding and postgraduate
employment specific to their skills and expertise.

Recruitment

The subject team consists of 12 full-time members of staff, who are committed to the research aims
of the Unit. Sadly, the team lost the highly respected Kennedy-Andrews, who passed away in 2015;
otherwise the team has remained constant during this period. The Unit’s considerable research
experience means all colleagues enjoy established status as academics who, having consolidated
their positions within their scholarly areas, focused in the last period on building their reputations
further. All colleagues are on permanent contracts. There is considerable managerial experience in
the team and good succession planning for the next cycle for roles including Research Director and
Postgraduate Tutor.

Employment

Career progression opportunities remain strong at Ulster, where two new lecturer posts were created
in the last cycle, and Butler and White successfully completed their probationary periods and have
advanced to Grade 8 lecturers. The most significant promotion in the cycle was a female
appointment, with White having achieved the role of Associate Head of the School of Arts and
Humanities. Ferguson gained promotion to Senior Lecturer in 2015 and was appointed as the Unit’s
Research Director in 2017. Jedrzejewski served a distinguished term as Dean of the Faculty at Arts
and returned to the Unit, where he has proved a major asset with his expertise and international
contacts.

Research Culture

The Unit works with our Department for Research and Impact’s dedicated research development
managers, and staff receive guidance and financial support to:

   •   prepare and submit funding applications;
   •   lead strategic research initiatives aligned to the Unit’s impact strategy;
   •   invite external colleagues to secure contribution from outside sources; and
   •   attend international conferences and undertake archival research.

Senior members of the team play a major role in the peer review, training and mentoring of staff
within the Unit and elsewhere in the Faculty. Bradford, Ferguson and Jedrzejewski have served on
the university Research Mentoring Programme for colleagues in English, Education and History.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Professional Development

Alongside the University-wide research training programmes RIGOUR (grants), SOARING (outputs),
Impact Development Series, research training and review is incorporated into all subject committee
meetings. Each colleague maintains a research and impact plan, discussed annually with the RD,
and guidance is provided on approaches to research through the RD and HoS. This is supplemented
by the input of Bradford, who provides guidance on project proposals, editing and theory, and by
Jedrzejewski, who offers expertise in relation to research development, governance, ethics and
project management.

In addition, strategic support is provided through associated Visiting Professors, Fellows and
external examiners (for both taught and research degrees) who have been chosen as additional
mentors to contribute to high-grade research-led teaching and Unit meetings. The three Visiting
Professors, Prof David Hayton (QUB), Prof David Pattie (Birmingham) and Prof Norman Vance
(Sussex), are leading academics in their respective fields.

Career Development

In addition to the input of the RD, the Unit has created a range of research mentors who provide
seminars on their work, deliver guidance to colleagues and researchers, help with project scoping
and project management and support the review process for major initiatives such as the Ulster-
Scots Education Project. The research mentors have expertise in European settings (Prof Wesley
Hutchinson, Université Sorbonne Nouvelle Paris 3), in industry and heritage (Robert Heslip, Heritage
Officer, Belfast City Council) and in local, migration studies and FE (Alister MacReynolds, Ulster).
They support the Unit in its closer alignment with the region’s cultural and economic networks, while
opening potential to extend the Unit’s reach into national and international partnerships. This process
operates as part of the Unit’s implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development
of Researchers.

Research Environment

The Unit provides extensive support, including financial support, for individual and collective
research. UoA 27 has received £54,907 in the past four years as part of its research budget, which
has provided each Unit member with over £1,000 per year to conduct research, with the potential to
seek further financial support from the Faculty.

Since the last research exercise, the Unit has moved to a £11M purpose designed arts building, the
I-block, that incorporated the latest technology and ecology, where every colleague is assigned their
own office space, alongside communal breakout areas, teaching and meeting rooms, and
conference facilities. Colleagues are provided with their own PC and laptop for research, and
specialist software if required, which has been supplemented during the Covid-19 period with
additional resources for colleagues to facilitate working from home. Colleagues take advantage of
excellent research facilities at the university library and are supported by a Subject Librarian. The
library’s archives have particular strength in local and Irish literature, particularly in Ulster literature
of the 19th to 21st centuries, and the Unit has collaborated with the library to curate physical and
virtual exhibitions on subjects including the poet John Hewitt, Ulster-Scots poets, and the
representation of Jews in Ireland. Its work with partner organisations to disseminate knowledge on
these collections has generated impact with institutions, educators, the creative industries and the
public.

Support for research is underpinned through a series of measures. At least two days a week (40%
of working time) is dedicated for research, with the exception of Bradford who has a 100%
research designated contract. Workload allocation enables the Unit to offer agility on time
management so that teams and individuals can concentrate on project delivery when necessary.
The long-standing fair and equitable teaching grid system in the Unit seeks to apportion all teaching
time transparently across the subject and permits colleagues to balance their teaching effectively
across the academic year. This operates alongside the universally-available system for funded
                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sabbaticals/research leave, which has enabled all colleagues to produce outputs incorporated in the
present return. It has enabled Byrne, Jedrezejewski and White to apply for further funding and/or
complete research projects.

Early Career Researcher support

The Unit draws on the existing University structures to enable early career researchers to develop
and flourish in their positions. In this cycle White has successfully moved from ECR status to a full
lectureship role. ECRs are assigned a mentor who provides support and guidance on settling into
the Unit and the subject area, alongside support from People and Culture, and assistance from the
HoS, the RD and the subject team leader in the initial period. ECRs are provided with guidance on
targets for research, outputs, project management and delivery, and have access to the University’s
training programmes (RIGOUR, SOARING and Impact) and the mentoring programme. These
initiatives, engaged with by the majority of colleagues, offer additional opportunities for team building
within the Unit. White has benefitted from the appointment of Visiting Professor Pattie, who acts an
additional mentor in her field of expertise and helps drive the development of her research networks
and project creation.

The Unit’s strong ambitions to develop more opportunities for ECRs were realised in two major
externally-funded research projects: The Representation of Jews in Irish Literature and the Ulster-
Scots Education Project, which together created 4 ECR posts (3x100% FTE and 1x50%FTE). Each
fellow/assistant was offered the university and Unit’s full mentoring and training programmes,
alongside the mentorship provided by the PI and CIs on each project. These colleagues were fully
integrated into the Unit, with the opportunity to develop their teaching experience on subject modules
and/or summer schools. They had access to university promotion routes: some found full
lectureships in the Unit (White) while others (Peters) were supported in seeking promotion to
Research Fellow. All ECRs were encouraged and given time to develop publications and outputs
and to attend conferences and archives relevant to their research.

Equality and Diversity

English Language and Literature is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive environment and
to working within Ulster University and with wider societal initiatives to realise this aim. Diversity and
inclusivity are actively promoted and embedded in all research processes and policies as outlined in
our Code of Practice (CoP). The CoP places people at its centre, is mindful of the needs of all staff
and ensures barrier-free processes to maximise inclusivity and participation in REF, and we used it
as our roadmap to identify SRR staff and select outputs for REF2021. A quarter of staff come from
outside the UK/RoI. In the past seven years, the proportion of women in the Unit has increased
from 26.67% to 33.33%, and 50% of our promotions involved women. The Faculty is developing its
Athena SWAN policy, to be implemented by 2022. All staff are compliant with research ethics and
100% have taken the institutional equality and diversity training. The Unit offers and encourages
uptake of unconscious bias training.

The research interests of the Unit in ecocriticism, feminist theory, gender, race and minority cultures
have long placed issues of diversity and inclusion at the heart of our research ethos, and this focus
continues. The Unit is motivated by research interests on gender and race (Butler, Byrne, De
Ornellas, Hancock, Keanie, McCracken, Murphy and Ward) to explore ways of ‘Decolonising the
Curriculum’ and challenging hegemonies within academia and beyond through research
dissemination and outreach. The Unit furthermore is scrupulous in ensuring that all outputs and
activity generated for REF2021 are selected under fair and inclusive equality and diversity criteria.

The Unit contributes to the university’s planning on diversity. Ferguson sits on the university
assessment group for bilingual signage and is working with Comer [Celtic] and Morrow [School of
Applied Social and Policy Sciences] in a series of outreach panel discussions on linguistic diversity
in NI society run in collaboration with Culture Night, Derry and Strabane Borough Council, the
University’s Diversity Hour and the ESRC Festival.

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Unit provides flexible working arrangements for colleagues with family/carer responsibilities, or
who have other personal needs. Support is offered by the RD and HoS, as well as People and
Culture, and a range of options is available to support colleagues through difficulties, with potential
to seek emergency/family leave or to balance work-life commitments in a way that is beneficial to
the individual. In the reporting period two colleagues benefited from the University’s maternity and
paternity leave respectively, and one colleague took advantage of emergency family leave.

Research students

Support mechanisms for and evidence of the training and supervision of post-graduate
students

The English unit has cultivated a thriving postgraduate research community of 13 current
researchers and we have awarded 17.82 successful doctorates in the present cycle, well above
the national benchmark figure. The Unit has secured three funded places each year in the last
four years, predominantly in Department for Education NI or Vice-Chancellor’s Research Scholarship
(VCRS) funding. VCRS is an internal award offered by the university and permits the funding of
international PhD researchers; in the last cycle the Unit gained 18 research scholarships. In 2020
the Unit gained its first AHRC Northern Bridge Collaborative Doctoral Award in association with UoA
23 and Causeway and Glens Museum Service. This highly sought-after award from an AHRC-funded
programme provides additional funding and training for candidates who also gain industry
experience as part of their doctoral research.

The Doctoral College (DC) supports PhD supervisors with a development programme aimed at
enhancing understanding of their roles and responsibilities, providing workshops for new and
experienced PhD supervisors to explore the key features of an effective supervisor-PhD researcher
relationship, and consider potential solutions to common challenges. These workshops ensure a
shared understanding of the PhD process from enrolment to graduation at Ulster University, including
the associated timelines, milestones and assessment procedures. The workshops are mandatory
from 2020 for all PhD supervisors who wish to apply for studentship funding. Results of the PRES
indicate high levels of satisfaction among our researchers: in 2019, Ulster University was ranked
8th out of 103 UK universities for postgraduate researcher satisfaction, and 3rd out of 103 for
research culture.

In the last cycle all members of the Unit were involved in the supervision of PhD researchers; this
has enabled the Unit to provide a range of experience on each supervisory panel and also to increase
capacity for supervision.

The Unit seeks to provide dedicated support and mentoring to PhD researchers through a variety of
opportunities. Generally, full-time researchers are offered at least two seminar groups to teach over
one semester, under the supervision of the RD and the relevant Module Co-ordinator. They are
further mentored through the university’s “First Steps in Teaching” qualification which is carried out
under the guidance of a full-time member of the Unit.

PhD researchers benefit from a superb working environment within a dedicated suite of rooms on
the top floor of our new building, shared with peers from elsewhere in the Faculty, which encourages
the development of interdisciplinary networks including a lively, researcher-instigated group who
rehearse presentations in advance of assessment meetings and conferences. In addition, PhD
researchers in English are supported by the Postgraduate Tutor (Ferguson), who provides additional
pastoral care and a warm welcome during induction on arrival on campus. Researchers are
encouraged to take part in DC events and competitions and celebrations of success. The DC
organises a week-long Annual Festival of PhD Research across all four campuses, bringing
together researchers and staff in a programme which includes keynotes, presentations and social
interaction. The conference programme is developed entirely by PhD researchers supported by DC
staff. Since 2018, PhD researchers within the Unit have taken part in the Three Minute Thesis (3MT)
competition.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PhD researchers also gain experience in conferences and symposia organised by colleagues in the
Unit. They obtain insights into the design, implementation and running of these events, alongside
traditional sources of development such as offering papers and disseminating their work in
conference proceedings. Researchers are also encouraged to work on major projects the Unit has
undertaken, which provides experience of assisting in project management and the chance to
network with academic, educational, cultural and other public bodies and individuals. They also gain
experience of developing project ideas, applying for funding and fellowships, and awareness
of the creation of impact through research and outreach. PhD researchers can participate in the
Unit’s research seminar series (including those run by English Research and the School of Arts and
Humanities), seek funding through the RD for research-related activities and offer papers to the
Faculty postgraduate journal. They can also take advantage of membership of the Unit’s two research
centres, which offer routes to publication, the option of presenting at conferences and symposia, and
the opportunity to network with industry, public and academic bodies. The unit has sought in this
cycle to expand opportunities in creative writing, with McCracken overseeing a growth in applications
for research by creative writing at Ulster. In 2019 the unit advertised for the first time an innovative
University Writer-in-Residence PhD, and in the most recent cycle the unit sought a PhD researcher
to work with Bradford in the ULBRC to gain insight into the theoretical nature of the subject and to
develop first-hand knowledge of book production within the trade book sector.

The Unit recognises and celebrates success in research and hosts launches for publications and
outputs by its staff and PhD researchers, including events for Bradford, Byrne, Davies, Ferguson,
Jedrzejewski, Keanie, Kelly and White. Such events underscore the commitment of the Unit to
producing good work, and act as focal points to disseminate work to colleagues, academia and the
public. In this cycle the Unit assisted in the revival of a creative writing anthology The Paperclip,
enabling publication of work by students, researchers, staff and writers in the university’s alumni
network. The project was edited by doctoral researchers and MA students, who have gained valuable
experience from their involvement in the project, and a second anthology is in press.

Doctoral graduates within the Unit have gained lectureships and other prestigious appointments
within their discipline or cognate areas in a number of institutions; they include Gray (Dalarna
University, Sweden), Hughes (Wave Trauma Centre / QUB), McCreedy (Sofia University ‘St. Kliment
Ohridski’, Bulgaria), Morrissy (UCD), O’Brien (University of Glasgow), Reynolds (Fulbright
Scholarship-in-Residence, University of Tulsa), O’Brien (UCD), Hughes (Wave Trauma Centre,
Belfast) and Woods (Ulster). Other researchers have gained professional roles in arts management,
such as Glover (Glasgow City Council).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The English Unit has during the period secured external research awards to the value of £405,486
which has enabled it to increase its research spend on the last REF cycle by 53.5% from £766,348
to £1,176,591. This represents a 65% increase in spend per fte from £59,047 to £98,049.

The funding research strategy was to support colleagues with a strong track record in gaining funding
and to assist colleagues who had not gained funding in the past to enhance their capability to do so.
This approach resulted in unprecedented success for the Unit in the previous REF cycle, with the
majority of this work and spend carrying into the present cycle. Lessons learned from this success
have been shared with all colleagues, meaning that the Unit has moved from a minority of
colleagues seeking funding to a majority who regularly engage with income generation to
extend the reach of their work. Major applications are currently in progress for the next research
cycle.

Ferguson, Jedrzejewski, Kennedy-Andrews, Murphy, Ward and White have spearheaded the
development of project income generation with successful bids to the AHRC and other funding
providers. Ferguson, Jedrzejewski, McCracken and White (when at ECR status) have been
particularly successful in attracting non-standard streams of income from local government
sources in Northern Ireland.
                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Infrastructure

The Unit budget, devolved from the ADRI to the RD, is used for conference attendance, research
events, purchase of research services, seminars and academic visitors, and to support the teaching
requirements of PhD researchers. The university funds secretarial and administrative support and a
technician supports staff and PhD researchers.

The university provides access to competitively awarded internal funding streams, in particular the
Research Challenge Fund. Of which the Unit secured £1,000 to enable staff aligned to the Centre
for Irish and Scottish Studies, to bring in Professor Wesley Hutchinson - who was appointed as a
Visiting Scholar in 2014 as part of this fund. This culminated in English assisting Professor
Hutchinson to publish The Ulster-Scots Imagination as part of a joint project with the Irish
Government and an NI-based community group (Pretani Associates).

The research strategy for funding income generation remains a priority within the Unit. Through the
period under review Ferguson, in association with Jedrzejewski, McCracken and White, has
continued to generate major- and medium-scale funding success. In addition to his
accomplishments on local government-funded projects, Ferguson has undertaken the role of CI on
the AHRC project The Representation of Jews in Irish Literature. The Unit mentors and supports all
colleagues in developing their projects with funding and impact opportunities in mind and has helped
all its members to develop their skills and capacity in this area. This has seen successful bids return
from the British Academy (Jackson [Media] and Ferguson £9,102) and the British Council (Ferguson,
McCracken £3,000). Support has been given from the UoA budget to assist colleagues with seed
funding for networking events to stimulate further major bids for the Wellcome Trust (Byrne) and the
AHRC (White).

The Unit has collaborated with the University’s Research Development (RD) team to help identify
the most appropriate and prestigious funding opportunities and to develop large-scale, high-quality
and multidisciplinary applications. Together with Research Development and Research
Management, the team provides a continuous and effective pre- and post-award service to Ulster
researchers. RD provides an open and competitive opportunity to secure seed funding and pump

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
priming to identify and develop projects and bids through the RD Strategy fund and the Collaborative
Research Fund. In addition, the Department for Research and Impact offers expert review services
and PhD match funding to strengthen strategic, prestigious and interdisciplinary applications. It
works with Global Engagement and Development and Alumni Relations to identify partnerships that
will strengthen applications and leverage financial support. Colleagues also benefit from talks and
mentorship provided by the RD team.

These interactions have generated valuable interdisciplinary projects with Belfast City Council,
Causeway and Glens Council, Derry and Strabane District Council, Mid Ulster Council, The Maine
Ulster-Scots Group, Université Sorbonne Nouvelle Paris 3, France, and University of Silesia, Poland.

PhD recruitment is aligned to research strategy with a growing focus on encouraging interdisciplinary
links: approximately 30% of our projects have interdisciplinary supervision teams, including
links with Communication and Media UoA 34, Education UoA 28, Language and Linguistics UoA 26
and Psychology UoA 4. We aim to involve all staff and work with external experts in advisory roles,
including Visiting Lecturers and academics from other HEIs. The Unit has three full-time PhD
studentships each year, which include tuition fees, stipend (currently £15,100 pa) and research
training grant (currently £900 pa). These studentships are funded primarily from the Department for
the Economy, and our Vice-Chancellor’s Research Scholarship programme utilising the university’s
annual research budget. PhD research projects are proposed by supervisors and funded on a
competitive basis with the RD considering the strategic fit of the research to our Unit and ensuring
appropriate supervision is in place. Ferguson and Clarke [Education] have succeeded in attracting
a Northern Bridge PhD scholarship focused on Ulster-Scots Education and the music of Sam Henry.

Planning is under way for the next five-year cycle, with financial and teaching relief assistance
provided to support colleagues who have been earmarked to seek major research bids (Butler,
Byrne, De Ornellas, Ferguson, Hancock, Keanie, Murphy, Ward, White). Preparation is ongoing to
ensure that management of the research Unit is balanced in the coming years against increased
funding targets and the personal development plans of colleagues within the Unit. As the RD post
will come up for appointment in the next review period, the current RD will explore with the Associate
Dean for Research, the HoS and other senior colleagues the best way to maximise research
creation alongside succession planning and inclusive team-driven management for the Unit.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The Unit makes a strong contribution to the research base, economy and society through:
    • maintenance of strong publication quality and quantity and project completion;
    • working with a range of partners in government, education and creative industries; and
    • commitment to civic engagement by widening access activities.

Research networks and partnerships

One of the Unit’s key aims in this cycle has been to extend local, national and global
collaborations, building on an already strong regional engagement. All members of staff in the
English Unit make a positive contribution to the discipline, through activities from the organisation of
conferences and symposia to the establishment of national and international networks and
partnerships.

   •   Ferguson, Jedrzejewski and White’s research on the John Hewitt collection at the University
       makes the literary heritage of the university’s region more widely available through
       digital enhancement of local archives relevant to Irish and Scottish studies and embeds
       this approach in the Unit’s research objectives. The work has also provided a platform for
       cultivating national and international collaborative links.

   •   Ferguson has forged concrete links and joint research projects with the University of
       Glasgow, Queen’s University Belfast, the Université Sorbonne Nouvelle Paris 3, the
                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           University of Silesia, Poland, and St Petersburg College, Florida, resulting in a conference
           series and several edited collections on Ulster-Scots writing.

   •       Ferguson’s noted work on Ulster-Scots language and literature continues with
           membership of the Educational Sub-committee for the NI Executive’s Ministerial Advisory
           Group on Ulster-Scots and the Language Forum for Ulster-Scots. He is a consultant for the
           Ulster-Scots Broadcast fund, the Seamus Heaney HomePlace and several television
           production companies. He has co-organised conferences, events and exhibitions which have
           explored Ulster-Scots and other minority cultures in a European context in Belfast, Coleraine,
           Paris, Katowice and Sosnowiec.

   •       The Unit’s Ulster Poetry Project has developed a range of digital materials and works with
           the John Hewitt Society including an exhibition featured in the John Hewitt Society Spring
           School in Hillsborough in 2018.

   •       The Representation of the Jews in Irish Literature project has included exhibition launches
           and talks in Belfast, Dublin, Waterford, Galway and the American Conference of Irish Studies
           in Washington DC (2017). Partnerships with the Royal Irish Academy, NUI Galway and Irish
           Jewish Museum, Dublin have raised awareness of the significance of Jews in Irish culture
           and been recognised by the NI administration and the leadership of the Jewish faith in
           the United Kingdom.

Collaborations with key research audiences

Scholars within the Unit are active in academic conferences and symposia to further dissemination
of their research and have presented more than 50 papers between 2014 and 2020.

The Unit is supported in its consultancy work by the Innovation & Impact Team, which plays a
critical role in the support and development of academics and enhances the Unit’s impact
culture. The team supports with horizon scanning; developing partnerships; supporting industry
engagement; public engagement opportunities; developing impact strategies; training and support;
impact seed funding; and marketing and communications.

Consultancy

Over the last REF cycle, 100% of colleagues have provided consultancy and advisory roles in
a range of disciplines. All staff either sit on review boards of presses and journals or offer consultancy
to local government and cultural bodies.

Some notable instances of consultancy are as follows:

       •    Bradford acted as an adviser for the BBC programme Through the Lens of Larkin (2017)
            which was inspired by his monograph The Importance of Elsewhere. He was the main
            adviser for several events during Hull’s City of Culture year (2017) and served as adviser
            for three major trade publishers (Constable and Robinson; Bloomsbury; and Biteback) on
            their general policies and commissioning strategies regarding biographies. He is a regular
            contributor to television and radio programmes as well as an essayist for newspapers and
            magazines.

       •    Along with Ferguson, Bradford, Murphy and White have been recognised over the past two
            cycles as the main generators of impact in the Unit.

       •    Byrne provides consultancy to the UK press on Downton Abbey and other period dramas.
            Her work has been recognised by an approach to contribute to the Oxford Bibliography
            Project. De Ornellas is on the steering committee for the Irish Renaissance Society and his
            research into Renaissance and Early Modern drama has enabled him to play a role in the

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        local theatrical community, working for the university’s Riverside Theatre as advisor and
        introducer.

    •   Ferguson sits on the advisory committee for the Seamus Heaney HomePlace, provides
        expertise to NI Screen, Ulster-Scots Broadcast Fund, television and radio production
        companies, the NI Executive, and the museums sector on Ulster-Scots issues, and is
        the Honorary President of the Belfast Burns Association. He and White have acted as
        consultants on a number of television and radio productions in the last cycle.

    •   Ferguson is currently working with poet Gerald Dawe, DoubleBand productions and the
        Burns Library, Boston College, on the development of a documentary, exhibition and
        conference series based on the life and work of the poet.

    •   Jedrzejewski is the Vice-President of Lettres Européennes (since 2016), a Europe-wide
        network of experts on European literature and culture, and is co-editor of a new edition
        of Lettres Européennes / History of European Literature. He co-ordinates a team involving
        academics from Bangor University, University of Edinburgh, University of St Andrews,
        University of the Highlands and Islands, National University of Ireland Galway, University of
        Cyprus, Open University of Cyprus and Ilia State University, Tbilisi, Georgia.

    •   Jedrzejewski is a member of the Royal Irish Academy’s Study of Languages,
        Literature, Culture and Communication Committee (from 2018), and since 2019 has
        been a member of the AHRC Peer Review College. He is a reviewer for the Irish Research
        Council (from 2017), as was Ferguson (2017), and was external consultant for strategy
        development, University of Łódź, Poland (2019). He is a founding member of the Polish
        Association for Irish Studies (from 2019) and, with Ferguson, was instrumental in developing
        the institutional partnership with the University of Silesia. He has provided research
        mentorship for Professor Haider Al-Hussain (independent scholar, UAE), supporting his
        research on Thomas Hardy (from 2020).

Guest lectures and keynote addresses

    •   Bradford was invited as keynote speaker on three occasions for the Oxford Literary
        Festival, and has addressed Hay Festival and the Cheltenham Literary Festival. He
        has been keynote speaker at two conferences at the University of Avignon as well as the
        Universities of St Andrews (Evaluation), York (Evaluation), Mainz (Evaluation), and Østfold,
        Norway (Evaluation). During the Hull City of Culture year (2017) he was invited to deliver
        two keynote addresses on the work of Philip Larkin. Byrne was invited as guest speaker to
        Northumbria University (2019).

    •   Jedrzejewski has spoken on ‘Hiberno-Polish Literary and Cultural Relations from the
        Perspective of Northern Ireland’ (Polish National Day, PRONI, Belfast, 2018), on ‘Alternative
        Ascendancies: Anglo-Irish Identities in the Nineteenth Century’ (Polish Association for the
        Study of English conference, University of Łódź, Poland, 2018) and on ‘Poland’s Paths to
        Independence: November 1918 in Historical Perspective’ (Polish Independence Day, Ards
        and North Down Borough Council, Bangor, 2018). At the Salon du Livre de Paris, he joined
        a round-table discussion panel on European literature (2019). He delivered ‘Literature and
        Politics in Modern Ireland: Independence and Division’, ‘Victorian Literature and Politics:
        Chartists, Reformers, and Imperialists’, and ‘Easier Said than Done: The Brexit Saga from
        the Perspective of Northern Ireland’, as invited lectures at the Université Catholique de Lille,
        France (2020). In November 2020 he gave an invited talk on Northern Ireland at the Ulysses
        in the Times of Brexit conference, Polish Association for Irish Studies (online).

    •   McCracken has delivered a range of readings in the UK, Ireland and the USA in the last
        seven years, while White has spoken on the work of Margaret Atwood at the NI Human
        Rights Festival in 2018 and 2019.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Academic Prestige Based on Research

Members of the Unit have assisted in the quality management and examination processes for
research degrees in the UK, Ireland and internationally.

    •   Bradford’s Avignon Visiting Professorship, which has continued into this cycle has seen him
        sit twice on appointment committees for permanent academic posts and as the external
        examiner on doctoral examination boards three times at Avignon and once at Montpellier.

    •   Ferguson is a reviewer for doctoral applications to the AHRC’s Northern Bridge Consortium
        and to the Government of Ireland Postdoctoral Fellowship Programme.

    •   Jedrzejewski has examined PhD theses at the Université Catholique de Lille 3 (2017) and
        Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (2018) He received the prestigious medal
        ‘Universitatis Lodziensis Amico’ from the University of Łódź (2016).

    •   Ferguson’s work on Ulster-Scots was recognised by Ulster University with a Distinguished
        Research Fellowship Award in 2014.

Editorial Boards

All members of the research Unit drive publication and outputs in their disciplines through their work
as members of editorial boards in key presses and journals. They act as readers on editorial boards
for significant academic presses and journals:

    •   Bradford (Wiley Blackwell, Routledge, Oxford University Press)
    •   Butler (Edinburgh University Press, Crime Fiction Studies)
    •   Byrne (Cambridge University Press, Edinburgh University Press, Routledge, Social History
        of Medicine, Australasian Journal of Irish Studies, Polish Journal of Aesthetics, Journal of
        Popular Television)
    •   De Ornellas (Routledge, Eighteenth-Century Ireland)
    •   Hancock (Modern Language Review Journal)
    •   Jedrzejewski (Routledge, Text Matters, Polish Journal of English Studies, Prace
        Literaturoznawcze)
    •   Keanie (Greenwich Exchange, Edinburgh University Press, Palgrave Macmillan, Studies in
        Romanticism and Romanticism)
    •   McCracken (Encyclopedia of Irish-American Relations)
    •   Murphy (Church History, Cather Review)
    •   Ward (University of Delaware Press, Eighteenth-Century Ireland, Irish Studies Review,
        English, Swift and his Contemporaries book series)

Civic Outreach

The Unit has undertaken outreach activities that reflect the role of colleagues as discipline experts
in local, national and international settings.

    •   Following the success of the first conference in the Guilty Pleasures series, Byrne hosted
        ‘Guilty Pleasures 2: From Poldark to Partridge: masculinity and contemporary television.’
        This included Ulster colleagues and PhD researchers, as well as international scholars.
        Proceedings will be published in 2021.

    •   De Ornellas carries out engagement activities with University of the Third Age and delivers
        lectures to A-level students based on his research. Ferguson and Hancock manage lectures
        and workshops for A-level students on Heaney and Frost at the Seamus Heaney
        HomePlace (approximately 1,000 since 2017).

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Ferguson has hosted and interviewed authors including James Kelman and Helen Vendler
        and at the HomePlace as part of its events programme.

    •   Ferguson, Hancock, and White provided ongoing consultation on GCSE and GCE A-
        level English for NI’s regulatory body, the Council for Curriculum, Examinations and
        Assessment (CCEA).

    •   White was appointed CCEA Subject Advisory Panel member (English) in 2019. The panel
        provides a forum for CCEA to have discussions with subject teachers to support the
        development and delivery of CCEA qualifications to ensure they continue to be of a
        high standard and meet the needs of stakeholders.

    •   As a member of the CCEA panel, in June 2020 White took part in an online focus group, at
        subject level, to discuss possible ways to address speculative scenarios for the 2020/2021
        academic year.

Schools Outreach

    •   The Ulster-Scots Education Project delivered approximately 12 outreach events to schools
        across NI between 2012 and 2014.

    •   Colleagues in English, led by Jedrzejewski, revived their popular sixth-form conference in
        November 2019 with 300 pupils and teachers attending lectures and workshops on the
        Coleraine Campus. Ferguson and Ward visited schools to offer lectures to pupils who could
        not attend this event.

    •   Ferguson and Hancock worked with the Widening Access Department on a shared
        education project with local schools in 2019-20 that saw 200 pupils drawn from four schools
        take part in literacy and STEM-based workshops on the Coleraine campus.

    •   Hancock is an assessor of proposals / applications for NUI Travelling Studentship in the
        Humanities.

    •   Jedrzejewski has been organiser of the Robert Welch Public Lecture in Literature,
        UUC/UUB (from 2013), which has hosted speakers including Christoph Bode, Terence
        Brown, Ciaran Carson and Eiléan Ní Chuilleanáin.

    •   Ferguson and McCracken have gained funding from the British Council to appoint an
        International Writer in Residence to offer student and public workshops and readings.

    •   Ferguson and McCracken have partnered with the university’s Widening Access
        Department and Seamus Heaney HomePlace to run a province-wide poetry competition
        aimed at Year 13 pupils. They have also received approval for funding from Widening
        Access (£1,000) to develop poetry workshop and associated activities for four secondary
        schools in NI at GCSE level.

    •   Ferguson, Hancock and Jedrzejewski, in association with Widening Access, have led the
        Unit in the development of an online learning platform open to A-level and GCSE pupils in
        NI.

Literary Festivals

    •   McCracken partnered with the Institute for Conflict Research on a collaborative visual arts /
        poetry project as part of the Ards and North Down Peace IV programme and the Minority
        Ethnic and Cultural Awareness programme.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   She has worked with the visual artist John T. Davis to create a gallery exhibition of
        photographs and poems (Mustangs), which will be the main exhibition at John Hewitt
        Summer School in 2021 following the postponement of the 2020 festival. Her reputation has
        grown steadily in this period and she has been recognized on prize lists and given readings
        across Ireland and North America.

    •   Murphy has demonstrated her commitment to working with local and international partners
        and organised the programme of events at Stendhal Festival 2017, Willa Cather Symposium
        2018 and John Steinbeck Conference 2019.

    •   Ward collaborated with the Belfast Metropolitan Arts Centre on Atheist NI talk series.

    •   White developed the Bann Beckett Project in association with Riverside Theatre (2016/17)
        and launched the Festivals Project: Beckett, Ireland and the Biographical Festival in
        partnership with Trish McTighe, Queen’s University Belfast (2019).

Subject leadership

    •   White serves as Vice-Chair and the NI representative on University English (UE), the
        executive of the UK English subject association. This is the key professional body
        consulted by funding bodies when gauging the views of the English subject community in
        the UK. UE has considerable influence in key areas of educational policy; for example, in
        partnership with the English Association, it provided a consultation response for REF2021
        and a response to Plan S (Open Access publications). It also produced the Good Practice
        Guide for Employing Temporary Staff in English (agreed at the April 2018 AGM). White
        helped organise key meetings for representatives from English departments across the UK,
        including the panel at the 2017 OGM which focused on supporting early-career
        academics. This panel discussed pressures on early-career academics including the use
        of precarious (temporary / part-time) and teaching-only contracts. It sought answers to key
        questions including: What can English departments do to mitigate these pressures? What
        constitutes good practice in supporting these staff?

    •   At the UE 2019 OGM, White helped organise a panel on ‘English A-level: Behind the
        headlines’, which reviewed research on causes of the decline in the number of students
        sitting English A-level. She is also a judge for the annual Book Prize, awarded for the best
        scholarly book by an early-career academic working in an English department affiliated to
        UE. Ferguson and White contributed to the Arts Over Borders Festival 2018, in partnership
        with Sean Doran.

    •   Ferguson has an ongoing collaboration with poet Gerald Dawe and Burns Library Boston to
        develop an exhibition, documentary and conference series based on Dawe’s work,
        biography and cultural interests. As part of this project, he has helped DoubleBand
        Productions to receive funding support from Future Screens NI.




                                                                                           Page 15
