Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment: 17 (Business and Management Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1. Strategy

 1.1 Mission, Goals and Achievements

 We contribute to the three-fold mission of UEA for excellence in research, teaching and civic
 impact (UEA achieved 17th place overall in REF2014 under Business and Management, top 200
 globally in THES 2021 under Business and Management, and TEF Gold status). We aim to
 enhance impact and world reputation by increasing the reach, quality and volume of research
 across business and management disciplines, and related areas. We have made significant
 progress over the assessment period in achieving our strategic goals related to the vitality
 (outputs, impact) and sustainability (capability, diversity) of the research environment. We
 evaluate our performance annually using eleven key performance indicators (shown in Table 1)
 along with feedback from external reviews (e.g., Athena SWAN Award process, post-REF2014
 strategy review in 2016) and from consultation with staff (e.g., via group meetings, School board,
 staff appraisals).

 Following on from the strategy for REF2014, we focused on growing staff capability (increase
 of 38.1% in Category A Eligible Staff headcount) while advancing diversity (e.g., approached
 gender balance in professors with 7 out of 15 being female; proportion of international staff
 increased to 74.1%) in Norwich Business School (NBS). We made significant improvements to
 support for staff (e.g., personal annual research budget increased by 40% to £3,500; NBS
 investment in research per capita increased by 28.5%) and for doctoral students (e.g.,
 supervision time allocation increased by 25%; additional scholarships introduced worth £1.4M).
 As a result of the improvements we made, volume of outputs per staff member increased
 (18.26%) and international recognition in terms of academic citations per output have more
 than doubled (from 4.3 to 9.2) over the assessment period (UEA is ranked 39th globally in terms
 of citations for the subject area of Business and Management, THES 2021).

 We maintained our established area of strategic strength in Business Regulation through the
 UK’s leading Centre of Competition Policy (CCP). CCP has forty-one faculty members from four
 UEA schools (producing 244 outputs since 2014), seventeen of which are from NBS (producing
 two impact case studies and 64 outputs). Since 2014, CCP brought in more than £1.6M of funding,
 with more than half of this generated by NBS staff through their involvement in funded projects
 worth £6.8M to UEA. We developed a new area of strategic strength in Work and Wellbeing
 with eighteen NBS staff members. Since 2014, they generated two impact case studies, 225
 publications and were involved in funded projects worth £4.7M to UEA. Since 2015, they have led



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the £3.5M ESRC-funded Research Centre Evidence Programme for the What Works Centre for
 Wellbeing. We are playing a leading role internationally in these two areas of strategic strength
 through the contributions of staff in multinational funded projects, cross-country impact and the
 wider academic discipline.



 Table 1. Research Environment Dashboard

  Goal              Objective    Section   Key Performance Indicator (KPI)        REF2014   REF2021     %
                                           Outputs per year/capita*                 1.15     1.36     18.26
                    Outputs        1
   VITALITY




                                           Interdisciplinary outputs (% total)*     47.6     55.1      15.8
                                           Academic citations per output*           4.3       9.2     114.0
                     Impact       1, 4     NBS citations in news (Nexis)            243       533     119.3
                                           International conferences organised       6        10       66.7
   SUSTAINABILITY




                                           Category A Eligible Staff                42        58       38.1
                                           PhDs awarded                             23.4      49      109.4
                    Capability    2, 3
                                           External Research Support (£M)**         1.8       4.6     155.6
                                           Staff Personal Research Budget (£)      2,500     3,500      40
                                           Proportion Female Professors (%)***      41.7     46.7      12.0
                    Diversity      2
                                 Proportion international staff (%)***  64.3                 74.1      15.2
 Related to 6-year periods: REF2014 (2008-2013) and REF2021 (2014-2019).

 * Output and citation data are drawn from the Scopus database. We count the number of citations for
   outputs published with an NBS affiliation only within each 6-year period. Interdisciplinarity of outputs is
   measured by the proportion of outputs that combine the subject area “Business, Management, and
   Accounting”, or, “Economics, Econometrics and Finance”, with another subject area.

 ** Refers to research funding allocated to NBS.

 *** The ratio of female/male Professors increased in NBS from 5/11.4 to 7/15 FTE. HESA data from the
    Advance HE Equality in higher education statistical report (2020), suggests that over 2018/2019 in the
    business and management subject studies area the proportion of female professors was 24.5%, while
    the proportion of International (non-UK) academic staff was 37.2%, respectively.


 Staff published over half of their outputs in publications with a subject classification (by Scopus)
 that included Business and Management (“Business, Management, and Accounting”, or,
 “Economics, Econometrics and Finance”) in addition to other disciplines (for example,
 engineering, computer science, environmental sciences, energy, humanities). This is an increase
 of 15.8% compared to the previous period, thus contributing to a broader interdisciplinary
 understanding. We promote interdisciplinary research in our areas of strategic strength through
 two structures. The Centre of Competition Policy (CCP) established in 2001, is an
 interdisciplinary UEA research centre focused on business regulation, competition and consumer
 policy. It spans business, economics, law and political science. CCP brings together the expertise
 of researchers with external academics, professionals, industry partners and regulators. It
 supports impact across the social sciences, including two of the impact cases in this Unit. An
 example of work in this area is the £490,000 EPSRC/UKERC funded multidisciplinary research
 project in 2016 led by NBS Emeritus Professor Waddams that examined equity and justice in the

                                                                                                       Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UK retail energy markets. The Work and Wellbeing group in NBS provides a platform for
 interdisciplinary research and knowledge exchange with policy and professional users at a
 national and international level. Much of this took place through the ESRC Work, Learning &
 Wellbeing Evidence Programme. NBS Professor Daniels led this from 2014-2021 as one of the
 foundational research programmes of the What Works Centre for Wellbeing. The Programme
 examines evidence across a range of subjects, including, psychology, sociology, economics,
 education, politics and health sciences. It works with stakeholders to develop evidence for policy
 makers and user groups on practical interventions, tools and processes that protect and enhance
 the wellbeing of workers, adult learners, and those seeking work.

 We also support interdisciplinary research in other areas that build on strengths within NBS and
 wider strengths of UEA within funded projects and impact activity. A notable example is the €13.7M
 TILOS Horizon 2020 project. This is a collaboration between thirteen participating enterprises and
 institutes from seven European countries from 2015 to 2019 that blends engineering with social
 and environmental sciences to develop an innovative energy-storage system for an island in
 Greece. In addition to the principal investigator NBS Professor Chalvatzis, this involved ten NBS
 faculty members (four Professors, three Lecturers and three RAs) from disciplines that included
 energy, regulation, finance, accounting, innovation management and wellbeing. In the €8M ERDF
 funded Intelligent Community Energy project, an NBS team led by Chalvatzis collaborates with
 regional innovation authorities and engineering academic partners across the UK and France. The
 aim is to advance user engagement with sustainable energy technologies. The “Who Buys My
 Food” project, led by NBS Professor Fearne, is an action research project in its sixteenth year
 which has received funding from ESRC, BBRC and Invest NI. This brings together NBS faculty in
 supply chain, retail, regulation, marketing and accounting. Finally, the Ethics Forum is an
 interdisciplinary group running since 2015 that supports ethics-related research across UEA
 through a seminar series hosted and funded by NBS.

 We enhanced support for national and international impact of research over the assessment
 period. Following an internal competitive process, we provided new impact related funding of over
 £360,000 from UEA (through ESRC IAA and HEIF) over the assessment period. Since 2016,
 sixteen staff members applied and received additional support in the form of 0.5 days per week
 for undertaking impact activity. This amounted to over 700 staff days over the assessment period
 worth £542,824 (in terms of Full Economic Cost). The five impact case studies in this submission
 all benefitted from this support. Impact is coordinated by two members of staff that act as Impact
 Champions (who receive 3% FTE each for this role since 2014). They facilitate communication,
 raise awareness on funding, organise training and oversee impact case writing workshops. Two
 of the impact cases in this submission have primarily international impact (Ormosi in the area of
 Business Regulation; Connolly in the area of Work and Wellbeing), two have national impact
 (Waddams in the area of Business Regulation; Daniels in the area of Work and Wellbeing) and


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 one has national and regional impact (led by Fearne in the area of Transformative Food Systems).
 Our support for impactful research beyond the REF benefits the economy and society, supports
 staff development and ensures the sustainability of impact activity in the future across all subject
 areas. For example, the research by NBS Professor Patacconi, in collaboration with faculty from
 Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, is having significant international impact in the area
 of science and innovation (this has received wide media attention and has been ranked 48th in the
 world in terms of Social Impact by the Financial Times, 2/2020).

 Impact has benefited from the additional support we offered for dissemination of research. We
 provided all staff a 5% time allocation since 2016 that can be used for engaging with external
 stakeholders to disseminate research and develop impact. We improved communication through
 the publication of “Shine and Rise”, an annual review magazine that highlights research and other
 achievements of NBS staff. We published this annually since 2017 with a total cost of £67,000.
 We distributed the magazine in electronic form and as a hardcopy (2,500 copies per annual issue)
 to staff and external stakeholders (including 840 businesses, 35 MPs and MEPs, and 160 local
 schools). In 2014, we introduced the role of Media Coordinator to support research dissemination.
 The coordinator liaises with staff and the UEA Press Office once a paper is accepted for
 publication to produce and promote a press release. As a result, mentions of NBS in the media
 more than doubled over the assessment period with a significant element of international
 exposure.

 Internally, we organise monthly school-wide research seminars for staff and PhD students. This
 further promotes interdisciplinarity. Presenters are high profile researchers from the UK and other
 European universities with a strong track record in publishing, often holding senior editorial
 positions. They typically discuss research with staff before the seminar in individual meetings and
 meet socially after. Shorter sessions are often organised specifically for PhD students and junior
 staff on publication strategies and techniques or on methodology. Along with the established CCP
 Annual international conference that has run since 2005, we supported four new international
 conferences that were co-organised by NBS staff since 2014: the Lisbon Accounting Conference
 (Professor Marques, 2019) and three deliveries of the International Symposium in Finance
 (Professor Markellos, Greece/2018, Greece/2019, online/2020). We provide financial and in-kind
 administration support to these new conferences.



 1.2 Moving Forward

 We will focus the strategy over the next five years less on expansion and more on consolidation
 and leveraging strengths of the Norwich Business School and the University. We will invest more
 resources in developing our research areas of strategic strength. For example, we supported
 Business Regulation since 2005 through staffing along with funding for an administrator and RA


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in CCP. Since 2020, we have supported activities in the area of Work and Wellbeing through a 0.6
 FTE research fellow and a 0.4 FTE research administrator. We will also support two research
 areas of emerging strength where there is growing interdisciplinary activity and significant
 achievements: Sustainable Energy (led by Chalvatzis) and Transformative Food Systems (led
 by Fearne). We will continue to invest in these areas through RA staffing on the basis of funded
 projects, impact support and investment in databases (e.g., the dunnhumby database of retail food
 preferences). We will focus our efforts on putting together funding bids in these areas that bring
 together staff from different disciplines within the school, especially in relation to our areas of
 strength.

 We will build stronger links outside the School, as development in these areas builds on
 broader research strengths across UEA around climate and food research. For example, we
 supported the appointment of Chalvatzis by UEA in 2019 to lead on ClimateUEA and coordinate
 the activities across the Norwich Research Park (NRP). The first of a planned portfolio of major
 interdisciplinary research themes set by UEA with key local, national and global impacts. NBS
 staff are already actively participating in ClimateUEA activities including defining cross-campus
 research agendas and preparing multi-disciplinary research bids. Within the PGR programme,
 Chalvatzis is the Co-investigator in the UEA-wide £1.35M Leverhulme Doctoral Scholars
 programme (Critical Decade for Climate Change) that will fund fifteen PhD scholarships (with UEA
 funding a further five) starting from October 2021. The students will identify the drivers of
 environmental change and form a new generation of thought leaders for societal action against
 climate change. We will support research in Transformative Food Systems around the Norwich
 Institute for Healthy Aging (NIHA). This is a multi-agency partnership across UEA that develops
 and implements effective strategies to promote sustained population behaviour change, in order
 to improve physical and mental wellbeing. It is particularly relevant to our researchers around food
 but also extends to well-being. NBS Professor Dobson is part of the NIHA Executive Group and
 is collaborating with other staff members in the school (Daniels, Fitzhugh, Fearne) and across the
 university in preparing research bids.



 1.3 Research Structure

 Research in the school is organised within groups across five areas (the first two are areas of
 strategic strength):
   i.    Business Regulation
   ii.   Work and Wellbeing
  iii.   Strategy, Entrepreneurship and Marketing
  iv.    Accounting and Finance
   v.    Innovation, Technology and Operations



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Groups provide valuable communities for social and academic interaction along with opportunities
 for personal development. To promote interdisciplinarity, we encourage staff to participate formally
 or informally in the activities of several groups. Groups communicate their activities using
 electronic newsletters. Group research seminars invite internal and external speakers to discuss
 their latest research findings. Regular group meetings provide an opportunity to exchange ideas
 and inform on achievements and research plans. Groups also provide informal internal peer
 review for developing papers, revisions and grant applications. Each year groups allocate seed-
 corn funds for pilot research projects. Evaluation criteria are weighted towards income generation,
 impact, publications and involvement of early career researchers in the proposed project. Groups
 support the development of PhD students by cultivating a friendly and welcoming environment.
 They are invited to attend group meetings and present their work at group seminars (up to 50% of
 seminars are delivered by research students). The School has an annual budget of £35,000 to
 cover costs for group seminars and seed-corn funding.

 The configuration and membership of the five research areas (as of July 2020), with some
 examples of the research undertaken, are as follows:


   i.   Business Regulation

 There are nine research staff members working within this area (Category A eligible staff: Bowen,
 Burlinson, Cuomo, Dobson, Fairbrass, Lam, Ormosi, Vasilakos; SRA funded by NBS: Deller).
 There is a strong focus on impact in the group and providing practical, research-informed, answers
 to policy questions around regulation, competition and business responsibility. Most of the impact
 activities occur via CCP (discussed in section 3) with the support of three key group members:
 Professor Ennis and Professor Fletcher (non-category A eligible NBS staff with a focus on impact
 and funding) along with Emeritus Professor Waddams (retired from NBS in 2018 but remaining an
 active member of the CCP community, playing a vital mentoring role). Two impact cases for
 REF2021 are led by group members (Ormosi, Waddams). CCP has a central role with the group
 providing in effect a core constituency. Research on Business regulation is supported by CCP
 members from other areas in NBS (Chalvatzis, Klusak, Korfiatis, Markellos, Tian).

 Research by Professor Bowen analyses the drivers and consequences of symbolic corporate
 environmentalism. This has been funded by three multi-year research grants totalling £500,000
 awarded by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC) and the
 Canadian federal government. Her Cambridge University Press monograph (2014) and
 publication in Strategic Management Journal (2018) have become a standard reference within
 corporate environmental strategy, primarily for their original integration of both traditional and
 critical perspectives on greenwashing. The monograph’s scope and impact has been recognised




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internationally by the award of runner up for Best Book Award in two Divisions of the (US)
 Academy of Management (ONE in 2015 and SIM in 2016).

 Research by Professor Dobson examines retail pricing behaviour by food and alcohol vendors
 (supported by projects funded from ESRC and MRC) and how this may be used to steer
 consumers into overbuying. His Journal of Monetary Economics (2015) paper tests for obfuscation
 in price setting by the UK’s leading retailers to show that large numbers of small price falls were
 used to disguise large basket price rises. This research links to problems on overeating and waste
 with significant social and economic implications. Through extensive media coverage and oral
 evidence to UK parliament, the research by Dobson has informed and influenced the public policy
 debate for government-led public health measures that encourage vendors and grocery retailers
 to price responsibly with an evidence base for sugar taxes and alcohol minimum unit pricing.




  ii.   Work and Wellbeing

 There are eighteen members of research staff within this area, doubling in size since 2014
 (Category A eligible staff: Baric, Connolly, Daniels, Fida, Game, Martinaitye, Michaelides, Nayani,
 Vergel, Skovgaard-Smith, Tregaskis, Unger, Watson; RAs/SRAs funded by the ESRC and other
 externally sources: Fitzhugh, Graham, Patey, Thushel, Woodard) and fifteen PhD students.

 Professor Daniels has led as PI two major research projects over the assessment period: the
 ESRC funded ‘Work, Learning and Well-being Evidence Programme’ (2015-21), and ‘Practices
 and Combinations of practices for wellbeing and productivity’ (2019-2021). The former brought
 together twenty collaborators from five departments at UEA, four separate universities, and the
 What Works Centres for Wellbeing (WWCW) and for Children’s Social Care. The latter involves a
 collaboration with the policy research institution RAND Europe. Systematic review, analyses of
 large-scale data sets and longitudinal case studies, has provided a robust evidence base for policy
 change. Daniels worked with WWCW to develop a wellbeing assessment tool which embeds a
 wider set of indicators of employment practices than were previously included in traditional risk
 assessment approaches.

 Professor Vergel, who joined NBS as a Lecturer in 2013 and was promoted to Professor in 2017,
 uses innovative diary designs, measuring the experiences of dual-earner couples as well as dyads
 of colleagues over a working week or over several weeks. Her research examines the interplay
 between the work and the home domain in order to increase the wellbeing of employees and their
 families. Her work has received extensive media coverage, particularly around how family
 problems and work conflicts lead to stress and confrontation, and the psychological effects of the
 COVID lockdown.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research by Professor Tregaskis examines the dynamics of learning and skills systems and how
 these influence individual wellbeing and organisational outcomes. Working within large
 interdisciplinary, inter-faculty and cross-institution research teams (attracting in excess of £7M
 from ESRC, SSHRC and the EU), her work provides core insight on organisational actors as
 system architects and implementers. Her work tackles applied problems including how UK
 multinationals redesign their people capabilities to compete as global leaders (ESRC funded
 Globalizing Actors Project), how organisations design for productive and happy workplaces
 (ESRC Wellbeing Practices Project), and how organisations are building environmental mindsets
 (CAST – ESRC Research Centre for Climate and Social Transformations). Beyond academic
 publications, this research has collectively led to the creation of open access practice tools and
 publications designed for policy groups, organisations and individuals published through the
 WWCW, the CRIMT International Partnership on Institutional Experimentation for Better Work.
 This brings together an international network of 150 researchers and 20 leading-edge partner
 centres in 12 countries specialized on issues of work and employment.




  iii.   Strategy, Entrepreneurship and Marketing

 There are fifteen Category A eligible staff working within two groups in this area: Strategy and
 entrepreneurship (Bika, Botelho, Filippaios, Karakas, Pandit, Patacconi, Xia, Wang), and
 Marketing (Aroean, Assadinia, Meunier-Fitzhugh, Yip, Tian, Usrey, Zeriti).

 Professor Patacconi, who joined NBS as a Lecturer in 2013 and was promoted to Professor in
 2017, focuses on corporate governance and science and innovation. He explores innovation
 ecosystems and corporate decision-making through recent publications in Management Science
 (2020), Harvard Business Review (2019), Nature (2017, 2019) and Strategic Management Journal
 (2016, 2018, 2019). The Financial Times (24 February 2020) listed his Strategic Management
 Journal publication (2018) among the most significant global 100 “Business School Research with
 Social Impact” during the period 2015-2020. The Economist, the New York Times, the Washington
 Post, the Financial Times and Fortune magazine have also featured his research. His work has
 attracted interest by policy makers, including U.S. Senator Chris Coons, Co-chair, Senate
 Competitiveness Caucus (Washington, June 6, 2017).

 Research led by Associate Professor Bika explores rural and family entrepreneurship along
 with social innovation (funded by the ESRC and a five-year £10.3M Interreg programme
 involving eleven partners in France and the UK). Her interdisciplinary study published in Human
 Relations (2020) shows how family-like behaviours motivated by shared ethics and affects
 influence family business in Scotland. Two other related research papers have won respectively
 the ‘Best Family Business Paper Award’ at the 2018 US Academy of Management Meeting and
 the 2020 US Family Firm Institute ‘Best Unpublished Research Paper Award’. Her social

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 innovation work has been submitted as written evidence to a UK Parliamentary Group Inquiry, has
 won the 2020 UEA Engagement Award, and was nominated for the 2020 UEA Innovation and
 Impact Award.


  iv.   Accounting and Finance

 This area consists of eleven Category A eligible staff working in two groups: Finance (Klusak,
 Kourtis, Markellos, Scherrer, Stancu, Tsvetanov, Uymaz, Yang) and Accounting (Guven-Uslu,
 Marques, Santana).

 Empirical asset pricing and methodology are areas of particular strength in the Finance group.
 Research by Associate Professor Tsvetanov in Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
 (2019) identifies the best performing stock pricing models with important implications for
 investment valuation and management. Associate Professor Stancu shows in Journal of Financial
 and Quantitative Analysis (2019) how investors can extract information by the options market in a
 novel way in order to predict stock market returns. Research co-authored by Associate Professor
 Kourtis and Professor Markellos in Journal of Banking and Finance (2018) exhibits for the first
 time which is the best covariance forecasting model for portfolio management. Another area of
 strength is corporate governance and disclosure, led by Professor Marques and Professorial
 Fellow Mallin (retired from NBS in 2015) through their publications and editorial appointments. Of
 particular importance is the 6 th edition of the Oxford University Press (2018) by Mallin on Corporate
 Governance. This provides an extended coverage of CSR, culture, board diversity and executive
 remuneration, including organizations' new responsibilities and directions for change.

 Marques co-organizes the Lisbon Accounting Conference (a partnership between Nova SBE
 and Catolica) since 2015. This brings together leading accounting researchers in an informal
 setting for a one-day conference of high-quality academic papers in financial accounting.
 Presenters in 2019 included Mary Barth (Stanford), Luzi Hail (Wharton) and Rodrigo Verdi (MIT).
 Markellos founded and co-organised the International Symposium in Finance (ISF) since 2017
 in partnership with several academic institutions (including NBS with total funding of £5,000 p.a.)
 and sponsors (including the Bank of Greece). This has involved several prestigious keynote and
 plenary speakers (including Bart Lambrecht, Xi Li, Ian Tonks, Geoffrey Wood, Anna Pavlova,
 Kathy Yuan, Dimitri Vayanos, Emre Ozdenoren, Kevin Aretz, Marie Dutordoir) and nearly 300
 delegates in total. Markellos has co-organised professional development workshops and tracks
 within the British Academy of Management (BAM) conference since 2018 (35 papers presented
 at the BAM2020 conference). He led as co-chair the development within BAM of a new Financial
 Management Special Interest Group (SIG) in 2021 as an interdisciplinary meeting platform for
 finance and management scholars (30 academics across the UK have already committed to this).




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  v.    Innovation, Technology and Operations

 There are thirteen research staff members working within one group in this area (Category A
 eligible: Bhattacharya, Chalvatzis, Fearne, Harrington, Karatzas, Korfiatis, Lettice, McKenna, Zisis,
 Gao; RAs/SRAs: Ioannidis, Stephanides, Tsitsiou). Much of the work involves action research
 around funded projects in Sustainable Energy and Transformative Food Systems. This is highly
 interdisciplinary and involves researchers across the school and university. Other research in the
 group looks at Digital Technologies, Data Analytics, Social Media and Digital Transformation.
 Research uses both qualitative and quantitative methods, but draws in particular on specific
 expertise in business analytics and a variety of modelling and data driven decision support and
 optimisation techniques. A range of sectors are addressed, but there is a particular focus on food
 systems, pharmaceuticals, digital tourism and the experience economy.

 As Professor of Sustainable Energy Business, Chalvatzis focuses on energy policy, energy
 supply security and innovation in the energy sector including smart grid and storage. He completed
 his PhD at UEA and then joined NBS as a Lecturer in 2010, promoted to Professor in 2017. He
 has been involved in projects that have received funding of €27M from sources that include EU
 Commission, Newton Fund and British Council. The recently completed TILOS project won two
 awards in the EU Commission Sustainable Energy Week 2017: the prestigious EU Energy Island
 Award and the Citizens' Award. His industrial engagement and research involves organisations
 such as OECD, FIAMM, SMA, Systems Sunlight, Schleswig-Holstein Netz, SAFT, OpenEnergi,
 AEG, Wipro and Younicos. He also advises civil society organisations such WWF and
 BananaLink.

 Fearne leads multi-disciplinary and cross-functional research on Transformative Food Systems
 across all stages of the supply chain. His main areas of research are consumer behaviour, inter-
 organisational relationships and value chain analysis. He is the founding editor of the International
 Journal of Supply Chain Management. Over the past sixteen years he has conducted research
 mining the most comprehensive supermarket panel data in the world in collaboration with
 dunnhumby and Tesco. As part of the “Who Buys My Food” project, insights from analysing this
 data are shared with farmers and small food producers to support the development of sustainable
 business models and marketing strategies. This forms the basis of one of the impact cases
 submitted to REF2021.

 2. People
 We are committed to helping staff achieve their full research potential. We foster a research
 environment that supports wellbeing and enables career progression through merit-based
 recognition of the achievements of individuals. We provide a number of support mechanisms that
 include:




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Personal Research Funding: We increased by 40% in 2015 the annual research funding
     provision available to each staff member from £2,500 to £3,500. Following requests by staff,
     we also made this funding more flexible so it can be used, for example, to attend conferences
     (without necessarily presenting), travel to meet collaborators, undertake research training,
     purchase data and obtain RA support. We can provide additional research funding and support
     if required through applications to the Head of School. For example, Patacconi has received
     additional support on three occasions to travel to the US and meet research collaborators for
     periods of up to four months.

 •   Research Time Allocation: We provide research staff with a 40% time allocation for research.
     We manage this through the School Work Allocation Model, which records the use of time
     across research, teaching, administration and other activities. We provide an additional 5%
     time allocation since 2016 for engaging with external stakeholders for the purpose of research
     dissemination and impact. We provide new staff under probation an extra time allowance of
     18.5% in their first year and 6% for the following four years. In late 2020, we had fourteen
     probationers that received this support, with three of them in their first year of service. Staff
     can also use external funding to expand the time allocation for research through buy-out.
     Research buy-outs, impact and PhD supervision are included as separate headings in the
     workload allocation, in addition to 40% for research. We ensure that teaching is concentrated
     around two semesters within the academic year, so that staff have at least one semester to
     focus on research.

 •   Study Leave: We offer the opportunity to research staff to apply for study leave every third
     semester of service. Seventeen NBS staff members took study leave since 2014, over which
     they submitted 34 outputs for publication, published 18 outputs and submitted bids worth over
     £3.5M. Staff also used the time to work on impact and conduct research visits and
     collaborations. For example, the work by Connolly and Daniels during their study leave
     significantly progressed their impact case studies in terms of dissemination of research and
     engagement with stakeholders.

 •   Office and IT facilities: We provide a single occupancy office with computer facilities and a
     suite of research and other software covered by a UEA-wide licence. Offices are located in
     one of the two buildings occupied by NBS on the UEA campus. Staff surveys indicate that this
     is considered a valuable resource. Staff can request a computer with higher performance and
     specialised software, if this is required for their research. Examples of such software includes
     Eviews, Qualtrics and MPlus. We can provide access to High Performance Computing through
     the UEA ADA Unix platform along with relevant training. Research staff and doctoral students
     in the area of finance routinely use this facility for simulations, data intensive econometric
     estimations and text analytics.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are flexible in the support we offer to researchers and adapt to changing circumstances.
 For example, during the COVID19 pandemic, we retained the minimum allocation of 40% time for
 research along with additional time allocations in relation to funded projects, PhD supervision and
 impact. We accommodated requests by international staff to work remotely outside the country to
 provide support to their families. Personal research funding was reduced, as travel for conferences
 was not possible. We continued financial support by considering individual requests, with
 examples including data acquisition, editorial support and journal submission fees. We
 encouraged staff to attend online conferences to promote visibility. We continued to support
 conferences organised by NBS staff that moved online (such as the CCP conference, International
 Symposium in Finance, PGR Colloquium) along with School and group seminars. We supported
 staff in getting IT equipment and furniture from their office for use in their working environment at
 home. Although offices remained closed over some periods of time, we provided special
 permission so that researchers could use their office if access to specialised resources was
 necessary (e.g. computing and databases), or if working from home was not possible. With respect
 to Brexit, beyond specialised advice and support to staff, we covered the financial cost for settled
 status of research staff in three cases.




 2.1 Staffing Strategy

 We have followed a growth strategy since 2014 that aims at developing a sustainable research
 capability and ensuring diversity through recruitment and promotion. Through our supportive
 research environment and people strategies, we have increased staff in a very competitive labour
 market. Specifically, we grew by 38.1% from 42 to 58 members of Category A eligible staff (41.4
 FTE to 57.8 FTE). We have carefully managed this expansion so that it was coupled by
 improvements in terms of output quantity, quality, impact and external research income over the
 assessment period. Over this period, student to staff ratios (SSR) decreased by 6.3% from 17.92
 (2013/14) to 16.79 (2019/20).

 Through recruitment and promotion, we increased the number of Associate Professors, which
 doubled from 12 to 24 (increase in proportions from 28.6% to 41.4% of total staff). This provides
 a sustainable feeder into professorial appointments in the future to expand current numbers and/or
 replace those that leave or retire. At the time of REF2014, we had a relatively high proportion of
 early career researchers relative to more senior staff, which stretched the resources for mentoring
 support and PhD supervision. The situation has improved over the assessment period with the
 proportion of Assistant Professors decreasing from 43.5% to 32.8%. We use a mix of recruitment
 methods, including professional academic employment agencies and internal search committees
 comprised by senior NBS academics. We mostly attract good fields of applicants from standard
 advertising.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.2 Staff Development

 We consider organic growth though staff development as a key aspect of our sustainable growth
 strategy. The main structures for staff development are the following:
 •   Induction: We begin support for development even before new joiners arrive on campus. The
     induction process includes meetings with key School members about UEA/NBS goals, work
     processes and support, including staff development. With the increase of staff arriving at NBS
     from abroad, feedback indicated that information about local amenities was especially valued,
     and is now included as standard. Evidence from staff surveys suggests that new recruits highly
     value our approach to induction.
 •   Appraisal: We support career planning and professional development through the annual
     appraisal process. Staff Appraisal training is mandatory for appraisers and recommended for
     appraisees. Following a review of the process, since 2017, we provide a checklist for
     appraisers to ensure that all key points are covered. We also started providing a summary of
     school performance expectations to appraisers. 86% of respondents in a recent staff survey
     reported that their last appraisal was useful.
 •   Mentoring: We offer mentoring to all new research staff and probationers. Since 2016,
     following feedback from staff, upon request we have provided senior staff mentoring. Going
     forward, we will be developing formal mentoring for mid-career staff, especially to support more
     women to apply for promotion to senior positions.
 •   Research Activity Plan (RAP). The Director of Research and Head of School use the RAP
     to review research performance. This is a developmental rather than a performance
     management tool as the focus is on providing advice and identifying how to best support staff.
     Each year, staff complete plans for publications, funding and impact. Research achievements
     (drawn from the PURE database) and RAPs are evaluated to provide staff with feedback.
 •   Training: We encourage all staff to undertake at least 2 days personal/professional
     development per year. Needs and resources are often identified through the appraisal,
     mentoring or RAP processes. The Centre for Staff and Educational Development (CSED)
     provides a wide range of training programmes within UEA. Staff can use their personal
     research funding of £3,500 to undertake external training in areas that are not covered by
     CSED. We also organise bespoke training as needs are identified. For example, following
     requests by several staff members, we organised a voice coaching course to improve
     communication skills and training on statistical packages such as Stata and MPlus. We will
     cover the costs for training and development of staff assuming or considering senior leadership
     positions. Recent examples, include Away Days organised by BAM and AMBA, and the Deans
     Directors Development Programme (3DP). We have supported at least three women through
     the Aurora leadership programme organised by Advance HE, following which one became a


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Member of UEA Council. In 2016, we introduced an annual Staff Development Day for all
    academic staff dedicated to training and policy updates.


 2.3 PGR Student Training and Supervision

 We recognise that sustainability of the research environment, school reputation and impact on the
 wider academic community, depend on the ability to attract and develop the next generation of
 researchers. We met our PGR strategy objectives of increasing the scale, financial support and
 diversity of the programme, while improving outcomes in terms of student satisfaction and
 employability. In terms of inputs, we have strong demand with around 200 applications received
 per year. We keep acceptance rates low to avoid compromising quality and over-stretching
 resources. We followed a managed growth strategy since 2013/14 that has increased the full-time
 student headcount by 119.4% by 2019/20 (79 students). On a per capita increase, the number of
 PhD students grew by 58.1% from 0.86 to 1.36 per Category A Eligible staff member. We also
 improved the diversity of the programme as the proportion of International to Home/EU students
 increased over the assessment period (from 55.1% to 66.3%). Finally, we realised a large increase
 in the number of overseas government-funded students (from 3 to 21).


 Table 2. PhD and Professional Doctorate (PD) Awards in NBS

             2013-14    2014-15    2015-16   2016-17    2017-18    2018-19    2019-20     Total
   PhD          4         10          4         8          8          6          9         49
    PD          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0
   Total        4         10          4         8          8          6          9         49


 The 2019 UEA Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) results show an overall
 satisfaction level in Business and Management Studies that exceeds the average for the sector.
 We improved completion rates and graduating students have made significant achievements
 (PRES results on “Confidence to complete within expected timescale” for sector/UEA: 81/89). As
 noted in Tables 1 and 2, PhD degrees awarded increased significantly to 49 from 23 in the
 previous assessment period. We do not accommodate professional doctorates in the school, so
 there are no such awards. Recent graduates from the PGR Programme have published in
 prestigious journals such as Corporate Governance: An International Review, Economics Letters,
 European Journal of Finance, European Journal of Operations Research, Harvard Business
 Review, Human Relations, Human Resource Management, International Journal of Forecasting,
 International Journal of Human Resource Management, Quantitative Finance, Journal of Banking
 and Finance, Journal of Management, Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, Journal of
 Production and Operation Management, and Tourism Management. The doctoral programme has
 had success in terms of employability (PRES results on “Professional Development” for
 sector/UEA were 81/89). Recent graduates secured academic posts in, Banking Academy of

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Vietnam, Bemidji State University/US, Brunel University, Cardiff University, Royal Guard of Oman
 Pension Fund, University of Cambridge, UEA, University of Edinburgh (2 students), University of
 Exeter, University of Leeds (2 students), University of Sussex and University of Swansea (2
 students). Three of our doctoral graduates have been employed by UEA (currently holding
 positions of Professor, Assistant Professor and RA, respectively). The support mechanisms we
 offer to the doctoral programme include:

 •   Graduate Training Assistantship (GTA) Programme: In 2016, we established the GTA as
     a way to attract high quality PhD students through an attractive package of financial (fees and
     stipend) and professional (teacher training and experience) support. As a result, there has
     been a more than threefold increase in the number of UEA-funded students in the School from
     8 in 2013/14 to 28 in 2019/20. The first students are currently graduating from the programme,
     with two already employed under RA contracts (UEA and University of Cambridge).
 •   Scholarships from funded projects. We encourage staff to make provisions in funding bids
     for PhD scholarships. For example, the ESRC CAST project generated investment in two PhD
     scholarships, one funded by NBS and one funded by the Faculty of Social Sciences. The Work
     and Wellbeing ESRC funded research, generated three PhD scholarships.
 •   Supervision: Since 2015 the annual time allocation for PhD supervisors has been 100 hours
     per year for each student (an increase of 25%). All research students are supervised by at
     least two staff members. A third supervisor is often added as a means of making the team
     more diverse or allowing opportunities for early career staff to gain supervising experience.
     We require that supervisors complete supervisory training provided by the Graduate School
     every three years.
 •   Doctoral facilities: Since 2014, we have developed two bespoke PGR rooms in the two main
     NBS buildings with 29 hotdesking working stations/computers in total. We also provide an
     additional open plan hotdesking area in the NBS building with 30 stations that are available for
     PGR students. Printers and refreshment facilities are available as well as secure storage and
     lockers. These facilities are accessible at all hours and additionally our students have access
     to the PGR area in the library, which is open 24/7 and 365 days a year.
 •   ESRC SeNSS Doctoral Training Partnership: We are a member of the ESRC-sponsored
     South East Network of Social Sciences (SeNSS) doctoral training partnership. This is a
     consortium of 10 leading UK universities funded by the ESRC since 2016 as a Doctoral
     Training Partnership (the largest one of the 14 DTPs in the UK). NBS Professor Filippaios is
     Deputy Director of SeNSS with responsibility for Training, Employability and Development of
     doctoral students, while NBS Professor Bowen is Chair of the Strategy Board. We participate
     in the Business and Management Studies pathway offered by SeNSS. This offers world-class
     opportunities for social science research, training and collaboration. Fully funded doctoral
     studentships, post-doctoral fellowships and placements are available. It also provides


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     opportunities for a wide range of subject-specific, generic and advanced training tailored to
     individual needs, as well as opportunities for overseas visits and fieldwork. It has a strong
     focus on the interdisciplinarity, in particular via joint supervision and research methods training.
 •   Doctoral Colloquium: Since 2001, we have supported an annual colloquium where PhD
     students organise a multi-disciplinary academic event, are exposed to research from other
     disciplines, present their work and receive feedback from their peers and staff. External
     collaboration and speakers are included on the prrogramme as well as input from local
     businesses and charities.
 •   Training: Following a needs analysis, supervisors and students design their training
     programme which includes bespoke sessions organised by the group or school. Regular
     training sessions exist at the faculty and university level, while students have access to training
     from CSED. Students have a budget of £1,500, which they can use for their personal
     development through external training and attending and presenting at conferences.



 2.4 Equality and Diversity

 We recognise equality, diversity and inclusion as a source of competitive strength for our
 research environment. We have made significant improvement in this area over the assesment
 period as a result of systematic work led by the Equality and Diversity Director. We are proud of
 our efforts towards becoming one of the most diverse business schools in the UK. Whilst the
 proportion of female research staff has remained similar to 2014, with 4 females per 10 staff in
 2020, NBS has achieved gender balance in the professors, a key metric of diversity, increasing
 the proportion from 41.7 in REF2014 to 46.7% in REF2021. As shown in Table 1, our proportion
 of female professors is significantly higher than the 24.5% average in the business and
 management subject area (Advance HE Equality in higher education statistical report, 2020). We
 have also achieved better international diversity with over seven out of ten staff being international
 (REF2014: 64.3%, REF2021: 74.1%). The number of FT PGR female students has also grown
 over the assessment period.

 Diversity extends to senior leadership roles, with NBS Professor Lettice as UEA Pro-Vice
 Chancellor for Research and Innovation, and NBS Professor Bowen as Pro-Vice Chancellor for
 Social Sciences. Diversity extends to initiatives that the school is involved in. For example, the
 International Symposium in Finance (ISF) organised since 2018 by Markellos has a strong
 diversity agenda. This has been developed with the support of several leading scholars, including
 Professor Renée Adams who co-founded AFFECT, the American Finance Association’s
 'Academic Female Finance Committee’. As part of this agenda, ISF retains a gender balance in
 the keynote speakers and scientific committee. Also, it has a family friendly policy, where
 delegates are encouraged to bring young families with them in order to support the participation



                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of parents. A number of activities and support mechanisms are organised for young children during
 the symposium and children are allowed in rooms during presentations.

 In 2018, we achieved the Athena SWAN Bronze Award and became one of 21 Athena SWAN
 Business Schools in the UK. We treated this as a valuable opportunity to scrutinise holistically all
 the strategies, policies and procedures related to the recruitment, support and development of
 research staff and PhD students. We analysed annual data between 2009 and 2017 and collected
 evidence from staff surveys, student focus groups, committee discussions, and working groups.
 Although the focus was equality and diversity, we used the process to build a better understanding
 of all people-related issues.

 In recruiting staff and PGR students, we adopt neutral language, minimise ‘Essential’ criteria
 and provide information about UEA’s Nursery and flexible/family friendly policies. We ensure
 shortlisting and recruitment emphasises equality and diversity via training, and female
 representation on all shortlisting and recruitment panels. We also improved transparency of the
 promotions process through presentations at School Board and workshops for staff. Post-
 application, evidence suggests that women across all levels are generally equally likely to receive
 offers and accept a position. We are reviewing recruitment materials to attract more female
 applicants at all levels. Examples of changes we are considering include changes in imagery and
 testimonials on the NBS website, ‘further particulars’ emphasising NBS commitment to equality
 and diversity, and placement of job adverts. While some variation in the proportions of female and
 male leavers is evident from year to year, there is little indication of a systematic trend.

 Building on this generally positive picture, we recognise that there is more to do. We have recently
 put in place measures to support RA career development and progression. We are also developing
 actions to strengthen appraisal, mentoring systems, promotion transparency and support. For
 example, we have put in place a specific induction process for RAs, as done with other staff,
 including meetings with the RA co-ordinator, Research and Staff Development Directors about
 possible career paths. In relation to appraisals, the Staff Development Director organises briefings
 with the NBS Faculty to emphasize the developmental aspect of the appraisal meeting and explain
 the responsibilities of the appraisers and appraisees. We organise additional briefings on
 promotions where staff can ask questions about the process and the Staff Development Director
 explains the main existing mechanisms of support. Staff members can prepare a career plan with
 the help of their mentor/appraiser and the Staff Development Director. While benefitting all, these
 actions are especially advantageous for female staff in supporting their career progression. A key
 challenge for inclusivity is the growth of the School, necessitating division into groups dispersed
 between two buildings. To facilitate informal cross-disciplinary interaction and create a ‘whole
 School’ community, we are not allocating offices according to research areas and groups. We plan




                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to revise our people strategies as part of the completion of the self-assessment process towards
 the Athena SWAN Silver Award in 2022.

 We recognise that a focus on gender does not capture the whole picture of staff and students.
 The Athena SWAN Charter also recognises that all individuals have identities shaped by several
 different factors. We commit to considering the intersection of gender and other factors wherever
 possible. All staff and students are part of the community with their own identities and voices. We
 recognise the importance of all staff feeling a sense of belonging but also in being able to connect
 with like-minded individuals and role models. We routinely share information (e.g., during
 induction, via emails and through the school newsletter) about the different networks that UEA
 supports, such as the staff pride network and the BAME staff and student networks. In 2020, the
 NBS Equality and Diversity Director in conjunction with a group of dedicated PhD students, started
 a BAME student network in the school. The student and staff body at NBS is very diverse, coming
 from many different countries. It reflects many different cultures and in the words of the PhD
 student body, this intercultural exchange is a source of inspiration and celebration. Research
 students were prompted by the recent events of “black lives matter” to engage with NBS staff
 members and were met by understanding allies. Following this, “decolonising research” was the
 theme of the annual PhD colloquium in October 2020, where students arranged for a panel of
 academics and Lord Hastings of Scarisbrick gave an inspiring keynote talk.

 We continue to look for ways to work in partnership with our student and staff body to promote a
 sense of belonging. We recognize that most of the actions in our current Athena Swan action plan
 are aimed at achieving gender balance in terms of committee representation and equal
 opportunities for promotions. But we are also taking steps to introduce the debate of inclusivity in
 our day-to-day academic life. For example, the application of the UEA Unconscious Bias Tool is
 promoted in the school (e.g. in staff development days, school board presentations and training).
 This collates documentation and audio-visual material addressing diversity, which is not only
 based on gender but also includes ethnicity, religion, age and sexual orientation.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1 Income
 The income strategy over the assessment period had two objectives. First, we aimed to diversify
 our income sources so that we can expand funding opportunities and smooth income streams.
 We met this objective by reducing the share of funding from UK research councils to 46.7%
 compared to 72.6% in the previous period whilst still increasing our research income. Over 80 staff
 members (including RAs and junior staff) were successful individually or in teams in raising
 external funding. The second objective was to expand income, especially by developing
 collaborative bids for larger grants around our four areas of strategic focus. We made significant


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 progress as external funding increased by 155.6% (85.1% on per capita basis) compared to the
 last REF period, exceeding in total £4.6M. We provide an overview below of the main grants
 secured:
 •   Business Regulation: The CCP has been highly productive and brought in £1.5M from 45
     contracts since 2014, with more than half of this funding generated by NBS faculty. CCP
     secured £491,469 in 2016 from EPSRC/UKERC for a multidisciplinary research project led by
     Waddams as PI. This was part of the UKERC programme comprising of 7 work packages on
     equity and justice in the UK retail energy markets. The funding over the assessment period
     builds on £7.75M of funding received from the ESRC between 2004 and 2014.
 •   Work and Wellbeing: The main funding is related to the Work, Learning & Wellbeing Evidence
     programme led by Daniels (ESRC, 2015-2021, UEA part £923,531). This was extended twice,
     receiving in total funding of £1.1M. Connolly and Daniels are CoIs in the ESRC funded
     Productivity outcomes of workplace practice, engagement and learning (PrOPEL) hub (2019-
     2022, £1.58M). This collaboration with seven other universities and partnership with the CIPD
     aims to support the growth of better, more productive, workplaces by sharing insights based
     on the latest research on health, wellbeing and productivity with employers and other key
     stakeholders. Globalizing Actors was a multi-agency funded project with £199K ESRC funding,
     $380K from the University of Montreal and £54K from Seoul National University. Tregaskis
     (CoI) collaborated to investigate how norms within organizations are created, disseminated
     across borders, and adapted over time. Another large grant in this theme involves the Increase
     Valorisation Sociale project led by Bika (2017-2021, funding by Interreg/ERDF, UEA part
     £328,145). This will develop a new cross-border training programme to help social housing
     residents set up their own micro-businesses or achieve other forms of employment. Additional
     funding in related topics have been provided by British Academy, British Academy of
     Management, Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, European Association of Work and
     Organisational Psychology, European Institute for Gender Equality, Innovate UK, Italian
     Institute for Insurance Against Accidents, and the Society for Occupational Medicine.
 •   Sustainable Energy: The TILOS project developed an off-grid energy supply system
     complete with innovative batteries, solar and wind energy production, and smart demand side
     management. The system has been installed and is still commercially operational on the Greek
     Island of Tilos. The project solved the longstanding problem of polluting and unreliable power
     generation faced by many islands internationally. Capitalising on TILOS’ success the ICE
     project aims to design and implement innovative smart energy solutions for isolated regions in
     the France Channel England area. Another recent project in this area was CIRCLE that was
     funded by EU INTERREG FCE. This aims to develop and test a new type of sustainable
     concrete based on circular economy principles and have it applied in real demonstration cases
     within the France Channel England region (timeline: October 2020-March 2023, total funding:
     £4.88M, NBS funding: £579,000). Tregaskis is leading for UEA as Co-I in the ESRC £955K

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Centre for Climate Change Transformations (CAST) project. This is a consortium of five
     universities and the charity Climate Outreach, explores how we can live differently – and better
     – in ways that rapidly reduce warming emissions.

 •   Transformative Food Systems: the main funding has been provided for the project
     “Sourcing, interpretation and presentation of market intelligence to food producers in Northern
     Ireland” (2016-2019, N. Ireland Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment, UEA value
     £483,479) and activities around the “Who Buys My Food” project involving funding from Safe
     Food, EPSRC, BBSRC, Invest NI, Oxfam and the Agriculture and Horticulture Development
     Board. These are led by Andrew Fearne and aim at providing farmers and small food and drink
     producers with actionable insight derived from the analysis of retail data, to facilitate evidence-
     based decision-making and planning.




 Table 3. NBS Internal Investment Budget for Research
  Item                                                          2014-2020     Proportion
  Research workload time allowance (40%)*                      £21,551,404         55.1%
  Probation time allowance (6% - 18.5%)*                         £601,253            1.5%
  Engagement time allowance (5%)*                               £2,370,654           6.1%
  Impact case study time allowance*                              £542,824            1.4%
  Impact funding                                                 £361,515            0.9%
  Study Leave budget*                                           £5,229,000         13.4%
  Personal research funding                                     £1,183,000           3.0%
  Group funding for seminars/seed corn scheme                    £210,000            0.5%
  School Research seminars                                         £36,500           0.1%
  Conference support                                               £22,000           0.1%
  GTA scholarships                                              £1,420,500           3.6%
  PhD supervision time allowance*                               £3,756,292           9.6%
  PhD training financial support                                 £603,750            1.5%
  Director roles (Research, PGR, Impact, CCP)*                  £1,227,150           3.1%
  Total                                                        £39,115,842          100%
 * Cost estimates have been made on the basis of Full Economic Costs (FEC) for time of staff
 involved.

 As discussed in previous sections, we have increased investment in research in order to support
 researchers in publishing, raising income, achieving impact and training. A breakdown of this
 investment since 2014 is presented in Table 3 with the total investment being £39.1M or £780K
 per capita. Comparing the years 2020 and 2014, investment in research has increased by
 77.5% or 28.5% on a per capita basis.




                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The Centre for Competition Policy (CCP) is a UEA research centre established in 2001 and
 partially funded by NBS. NBS Professor Ennis leads the centre as the Director (since January
 2019). CCP currently employs five research and administrative staff, and has a further forty-one
 faculty members and twenty-four PhD student members. CCP staff explore competition policy and
 incentive regulation from the perspectives of business and management, economics, law, and
 political science. They engage in interdisciplinary research that is academically rigorous,
 independent and policy relevant.

 CCP practices and allocation of resources (including financial support, buy-outs and research
 assistance) facilitate the interactions that enable policy-relevant research and help develop the
 next generation of researchers of competition and regulatory policy. The Centre has paying
 subscription members that include The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy,
 Ofgem and The Competition and Markets Authority. These members regularly use the opportunity
 to test emerging ideas with the Centre during workshops hosted at CCP. In addition to acting as
 a national hub for research, CCP organises a weekly seminar series (around 32 p.a.), supports
 funding bids, publishes a working paper series (10 papers p.a.), organises PhD workshops and
 supports members in responding to regulator/government consultations. The CCP Annual
 conference is a widely recognised event since 2005 that fosters exchanges between
 professionals, policymakers and academic researchers. For example, in 2019 it was organised in
 London with 160 participants, while in 2020 it was organised online with 600 registrations (more
 than half of which were international).

 Three large infrastructure investments over the assessment period have supported research
 in NBS. First, in 2014 CCP was rehomed in part of Earlham Hall, a beautiful Grade II* listed 16th
 century building located in a parkland setting adjoining historic courtyard buildings and walls, as a
 result of a major £8M refurbishment of the property. This provided CCP with an open-plan office,
 capable of hosting eight researchers, two private offices, one guest office for academic visitors
 and social space. Second, in January 2019, we moved some of our staff into 3,250m 2 of new
 space in the Elizabeth Fry Building. This complements the 4,000m2 of existing space in the
 Thomas Paine Building, which since 2010 was the home of NBS. These investments have
 supported the growth of the School and meant that research staff have access to single offices,
 social space and meeting rooms. The expansion also provided the necessary space for the growth
 of the PGR programme over the assessment period. Third, the opening of the £11.6M UEA
 Enterprise Centre (TEC) in 2015 provided a thriving and supportive hub for 150 start-ups and small
 and medium size enterprises. NBS staff use the space to organise conferences and events that
 support impact. For example, in 2017 NBS staff organised at TEC the inaugural conference for
 Norwich’s Financial Services Cluster of firms as part of a research impact project.



                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 We incentivise research staff through appraisal and promotion criteria to contribute to the wider
 academic profession, society and the economy.


 4.1      Research

 We use appraisal and the work allocation model to support staff members in contributing to their
 discipline internationally through editorial positions in academic journals and membership of
 academic boards. Staff currently hold 45 editorial appointments across all research areas in
 the school. We encourage all staff on taking on such roles, for example 71.7% of roles are held
 by women, 8.7% of roles are held by Assistant Professors and 30.4% are held by Associate
 Professors.

 We make a particularly strong contribution to the discipline of Work and Wellbeing with 22
 appointments in a number of prominent academic journals that include:



 •     Applied Psychology, Unger, Editorial Consultant and Vergel, Associate Editor

 •     British Journal of Management, Daniels, Associate Editor and Game, Editorial Board

 •     European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, Daniels, Editor and Nayani,
       Editorial Board

 •     Human Relations, Daniels, Editorial Board and Tregaskis, Associate Editor

 •     Human Resource Management Journal, Tregaskis, Editorial Board

 •     Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, Vergel, Editorial Board

 •     Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, Daniels, Editorial Board

 •     Journal of Managerial Psychology, Tregaskis, Editorial Board

 •     Work and Stress, Vergel, Associate Editor



 Staff in this area make a significant contribution also through membership of academic boards
 that include: British Psychological Society (Daniels, Fellow), Academy of Social Sciences (Daniels,
 Fellow), ESRC Grant Awarding Panel (Connolly, Member, 2013-16), ESRC Peer Review College
 (Tregaskis, Member) and REF2021 Sub-panel for UoA17 (Tregaskis, Member).

 We also make a strong discipline contribution in the area of Business Regulation through
 11 editorial appointments and memberships that include: Taskforce for Business Schools and the

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public Good (Bowen, Advisory Board Member), Academy of Social Sciences (Bowen, Fellow),
 ESRC Peer Review College (Dobson, Member), International Accounting Section of the American
 Accounting Association (Marques, Member and Country Liaison for UK). The work of Fletcher in
 this area is recognised by her appointment as Council Member for the Royal Economic Society.
 She was also appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2014 New Year
 Honours list for services to competition and consumer economics, and Commander of the Order
 of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2020 Birthday Honours for services to the economy.



 4.2 Economy and Society

 As signatories of the UN Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) and the
 European Education Initiative for Sustainable Finance (EEI), we review our achievements and
 benchmark the School against key targets. This provides the foundation for a number of NBS-led
 initiatives and activities. The Norwich Good Economy Commission (funded by the UEA, ESRC,
 LEP and local government) is a partnership led by Waddams since 2019 that strives to ensure
 that Norwich has an inclusive and sustainable economy. MoneyHack (funded from NBS, UEA and
 local firms) is an initiative Markellos launched in 2018 to help schoolchildren learn about fintech
 with a focus on employability, diversity and widening participation. The contribution of NBS
 researchers beyond academia across different areas of research is summarised below:
 •   Business Regulation: An influential line of work has been led by NBS Professor Fletcher
     through a major report commissioned by Which? (The Role of Demand-Side Remedies in
     Driving Effective Competition, 2016) and her contribution to a report by HM Treasury
     (Unlocking Digital Competition, 2019). On the basis of a comprehensive review of over 55
     demand-side remedies, Fletcher concluded that many interventions have not been as effective
     as expected and some have even been detrimental for consumers. This work has led to more
     regulatory focus on the effective design of demand-side interventions and a shift away from
     disclosure requirements towards interventions that facilitate consumer choice. Group
     members have also served on boards of public entities (Ofwat for Waddams and FCA and
     CMA for Fletcher). They have also served as academic advisors to UKRN (Waddams), CMA
     (Ormosi) and advisors for particular projects to BEIS (Ennis, Lam, Fletcher), European Union
     (Ennis, Ormosi) and OECD (Ennis, Fletcher, Ormosi). Since 2015, CCP has worked on four
     contracts with the European Commission (DG Comp), World Bank and UNCTAD, securing
     £240,000 in tender work, including as part of a consortium researching a large EU State Aid
     Project on renewable energy schemes. The Centre was extremely active in responding to the
     Competition and Market Authority’s (CMA) investigation into failings in the UK’s energy market,
     being widely cited by the CMA at all stages of the consultation process and attending
     roundtable events. During the course of the REF period, CCP staff have responded to sixty-
     four public consultations, many of which brought together members of CCP/RB with a wide

                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     variety of public and private sector organisations (including BEIS, HMT, House of Lords, CMA,
     Ofcom, Ofgem, Ofwat, FCA).

 •   Work and Wellbeing: The group organises an annual open (public) event from an external,
     practitioner speaker (external speakers include those involved in Bromley-by-Bow community
     wellbeing projects, the managing director and human resources director of a regional
     professional service firm who won national awards for their workplace wellbeing programme,
     occupational health practitioners, and the director of people and culture from brewery Adnams
     plc). The group organised a practice-oriented conference in January 2016, with speakers from
     Department of Work and Pensions, Health and Safety Executive, East of England Co-Op and
     British Telecom in addition to research presentations from the group. In January 2020, the
     group organised a workshop on ‘Wellbeing and the Productivity Puzzle’ in Cambridge. This
     was part of on-going ESRC-funded research, with attendees from DWP, local government as
     well as occupational health/wellbeing practitioners. Staff in this area engage in a variety of
     engagement activities outside academia. In 2017 and 2018, Fida organised a series of twelve
     workshops on wellbeing topics for non-academics in public spaces in Norwich (Café
     Conversations). Practitioner outputs through the ESRC-funded What Works Centre for
     Wellbeing included seventeen research briefings and reports, three interactive tools, including
     video case studies and an interactive calculator. Group members produced numerous
     supporting blogs and more recently briefings disseminated through the £1.58M ESRC-funded
     PrOPEL hub (Connolly, Daniels and Fitzhugh, NBS received £149K). This initiative aimed to
     help businesses boost productivity and wellbeing by providing practical lessons, ideas and
     tool-kits, all informed by the very latest research and evidence. Connolly also contributed to
     the debate on parental leave polices across the EU (based on two studies funded by the
     European Institute for Gender Equality). Connolly, Daniels, Fitzhugh and Michaelides worked
     with the College of Policing under a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) to examine the
     resilience and wellbeing of more than a thousand police officers and staff. This culminated in
     a free online mindfulness package and a plain English evidence pack on what makes a good
     supervisor in policing. Researchers in this area have a strong impact agenda and lead two out
     of five of the REF2021 impact cases in NBS (Daniels, Connolly). As part of this activity
     members have delivered since 2015 over fifty presentations at practitioner conferences and
     workshops, including seminars for civil servants at the UK Government Social Impact
     Taskforce (twice, Connolly, Daniels), OFSTED (Daniels), DFID (Daniels), DWP (several
     involving Connolly, Daniels and a PhD student from the group) as well as regional and national
     conference presentations for CIPD (Daniels, Tregaskis) and Learning and Work Institute
     (Connolly, Daniels, Tregaskis, Watson). Other dissemination activities relate to chairing the
     British Psychological Society track at the leading national occupational health industry




                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     conference (Daniels since 2019) with 5,000 delegates and leading as part of the organising
     committee in 2019 the CIPD Applied Research Conference (Tregaskis).

 •   Sustainable Energy: TILOS, awarded by the EU Commission in 2014, had a significant
     economic and social impact on the island of Tilos in Greece between 2015 and 2019. This
     island became the first in the Mediterranean that was capable of being powered by wind and
     solar energy alone. The project also made significant contributions in changing the legal
     framework for autonomously powered islands in Greece. Its success triggered subsequent
     moves by the Greek State to seek tenders for commercial deployment of similar solutions in
     dozens of other Greek Islands, many of which are now underway. This project fostered strong
     links with the islands of Pellworm (DE), La Graciosa (ES) and Corsica (FR), creating a platform
     for technological and societal engagement with sustainable energy. Chalvatzis, who led the
     UEA team, has used the early TILOS findings and won ERDF funding for the Intelligent
     Community Energy project. This aims at advancing the use of low carbon, off-grid energy
     innovations at remote locations with case studies at the French Island Ushant and the UEA
     campus. Within the broader sustainable energy domain, Burlinson and Waddams have worked
     on research that analysed aspects of energy poverty and the impacts of energy billing and
     literary on consumers. Vasilakos has published on the determinants of innovation for
     sustainable energy and used advanced techniques to evaluate climate services for
     stakeholders such as electricity suppliers and energy network operators (project SECLI-FIRM,
     EU Horizon 2020, led by ENV).

 •   Transformative Food Systems: A key project in this area is the “Who Buys My Food” project
     (led by Fearne) that provides farmers and small food and drink producers with actionable
     insight derived from the analysis of retail (epos and loyalty card) data. It has been running for
     over sixteen years and has assisted over 700 small food and drink businesses across the UK.
     A report (led by Fearne, Kourtis and Markellos) commissioned by the Agriculture and
     Horticulture Development Board (AHDB) in October 2018, investigated ways and tools to
     mitigate risk and building resilience in the GB red meat supply chain.

 •   Productivity East: UEA’s £7.4M, state-of-the-art Productivity East is a new regional hub for
     engineering, technology and management and involves collaboration between three UEA
     Schools (Computing, Engineering, NBS). It enables businesses in our region to work alongside
     our world-class researchers and students to discover practical solutions to current and future
     challenges. Lettice led the development of the bid, supported by Harrington, that secured the
     funding from New Anglia LEP, and Lettice is part of the Productivity East Advisory Board and
     has the role of aligning the strategy of UEA with that of broader stakeholders. Daniels is on
     Productivity East’s academic board and professional development group. Markellos and
     Pandit have undertaken three projects that aim at enhancing productivity in the region and



                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    internationally through a cluster-based approach. First, they have taken a leading role since
    2019 in designing the way that UEA researchers and students will engage with the advanced
    engineering and manufacturing cluster in Norfolk and Suffolk. This project funded by the LEP
    and UEA, developed the strategic and action plan for the NAAME (New Anglia Advanced
    Manufacturing and Engineering) trade association. Second, since 2016 they have designed
    several evidence-based interventions (UEA funded) that have transformed interaction,
    collective action and strategy in the Norwich financial services cluster thereby affecting 66,000
    employees producing GVA of £5bn. Third, in 2020 they undertook a project funded by Luoyang
    National University Science Park in China that supported the development of a regional
    business cluster and interaction with NAAME.




                                                                                             Page 26
