Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: De Montfort University
 Unit of Assessment: 20
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 OVERVIEW, STRATEGIC AIMS AND MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
 Overview of the submitting Unit
 The 37 (36 Category A and 1 Category B) staff submitted in UOA 20 are drawn primarily from
 the School of Applied Social Sciences, the largest of four schools in the Faculty of Health and
 Life Sciences. It is a multidisciplinary School with expertise in social policy, social work,
 sociology, education, criminology and psychology, contributing to three REF UOAs. Nine staff
 are drawn from elsewhere (allied health sciences, nursing and politics) and are included
 because they contribute to our interdisciplinary health research. Our research is largely applied,
 theoretically informed and practice-relevant, benefiting from excellent practitioner and other
 collaborations.
 Strategic aims
 The strategic goal of DMU is to produce research that contributes to the public good through
 societal impact, challenges existing social arrangements and ways of thinking, and has both
 local relevance and global reach. The only British university to have been awarded Global Hub
 status for United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 16, DMU seeks to embed the
 SDGs into its research, teaching and community work.
 DMU staff teaching and researching in the fields of criminology, education, health and health
 policy, social work and youth work, share a set of values that privilege social inclusion, social
 justice, a recognition of the fundamental equality of all people, and the public good. As a result,
 there is an interest in challenging power imbalances and enabling the voices of less powerful
 and marginalised groups to be heard, and a desire to address inequalities and improve the
 quality of services upon which many depend. Much of our research has therefore set out to find
 novel ways of eliciting the voices of the under-heard, developing a stronger understanding of the
 experiences of different social groups and allowing effective take-up of research findings in
 practice and policy. Located in Leicester, one of the first UK urban areas in which no single
 ethnic group holds a majority, the commitment to engaging with the concerns of local
 communities can be seen in our extensive research on diversity and inequalities.
 These values have shaped our Unit’s strategic aim, which is to produce high-quality research
 which is internationally excellent and seeks to address power imbalances and inequalities and to
 enhance human well-being through impact on academic debates, practice and policy within our
 University and in wider society.
 Medium-term strategic objective following feedback in 2014
 In 2014, there had been a drop in the number of staff submitted since 2008, we were rated 2* for
 our environment and the Panel indicated that our research culture had yet to be established. We
 had fewer PhD students and limited capacity for PhD supervision. These 2014 weaknesses
 have shaped our medium-term strategic objective which has been to enhance our research
 capacity, in the context of substantial commitments to teaching excellence, through developing
 an enriched and supportive research culture to become increasingly a destination of choice for
 motivated and capable postgraduate students and future research leaders.
 A more systematic approach to building capacity has been put in place since REF 2014 via the
 University strategy and, more locally, through the School Research Planning Group (RPG) which
 has succeeded not only in increasing the numbers of staff returned in UOA 20 but also in
 fostering a first submission in Psychology (UOA 4). To achieve this, we have created a more
 inclusive approach to research planning, restructuring the RPG to include relatively junior
 researchers (ECRs) and ensuring this functions as the main forum for agreeing and monitoring
 strategy. We have strengthened our research culture by intensifying support for research,
 building new collaborations, appointing to research-focused posts, putting our research Institutes
 onto a target-based and accountable footing, increasing research support for staff at all stages

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of their research career, integrating PhD students more explicitly into our research activities and
 building external recognition of DMU as a key venue for research events.
 Evidence of our success in these medium-term strategic priorities can be seen in the following:
    •   an increased number of staff being submitted in UOA 20 (68% rise);
    •   an improved profile of women in our staff submission, now over 60% of our submission,
        with a greater presence in senior roles;
    •   increased numbers of ECRs in our submission (2 current ECRs with a further 9 appointed
        as ECRs or to research-focused posts for relatively junior academics during the census
        period);
    •   increased capacity for and success in PhD supervision (doubling the number of
        postgraduate researchers (PGRs) returned); and
    •   increased annual research income (55% higher than at beginning of the REF period).
 Good ECR retention, the increased number of non-British nationals (5) in our submission and the
 growing presence of visiting researchers also point to our success in creating a more attractive
 environment for research.
 1.2 DEVELOPMENTS SINCE 2014
 Since 2014 we have focused our research in three thematic fields, all of which have produced
 international collaborations and impact.
 (i) Health, healthcare and health inequalities
 As planned in 2014, we have sustained multidisciplinary strengths in health, expanding research
 in mental health and chronic conditions, supported by new appointments (Berghs, Hanna,
 Northcott), and increasing our profile in transdisciplinary health and humanities research.
 Creating strategic and international collaborations has enabled us to bid successfully for funding
 for interdisciplinary and international health research. Extending further our strengths in arts,
 creativity and well-being around mental health, we are leading two Grand Challenges Research
 Funding (GCRF) projects (Raghavan PI, Brown £870,000) and are co-investigators in an
 Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (£122,000) project. These projects have
 strengthened our partnerships with government agencies and major NGOs in India and build on
 Brown’s Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)–funded research (£1,500,000, CI) on
 arts and mental health recovery. Building on research user collaborations, Yates’ award-winning
 Department of Health / Public Health England–funded (Yates PI £107,000) research on parental
 mental illness has resulted in changed professional practices. Hanna’s cutting-edge research on
 amputation has been recognised in an Advanced National Institute for Health Research NIHR
 Fellowship.
 Responding to current policy priorities and by strengthening our relationships with the NHS, we
 have broadened our research on chronic health conditions. Northcott’s (£525,000 CI) multi-site
 NIHR research into the care of people with dementia in acute settings has resulted in training for
 NHS Trust leaders and dementia carers, the production of training films with the Open
 University, a Radio 5 documentary and parliamentary debate. Fish’s research on cancer
 (Macmillan, Hope Against Cancer) has shaped understanding of the distinctiveness of LGBTQ
 healthcare needs internationally. Our collaborations with Leicester University and Leicester’s
 Diabetes Centre have generated £2,000,000 (NIHR, Hudson CI) to research diabetes self-
 management education programmes in multi-ethnic primary care settings. With Leicester as our
 immediate context and reflecting DMU’s commitment to social inclusion, an understanding of the
 experiences and perspectives of people from Black and Ethnically Minoritised (BEM)
 communities is central to much of our research. Raghavan secured (£350,000 CI) NIHR funding
 to investigate the diagnosis of dementia in BEM communities with Leicester University, and
 social isolation in migrant communities in collaboration with Sheffield University. Jaspal’s public
 health research, including (with Fish) on BEM men who have sex with men, has led to the
 development of the Health Adversity Risk Model.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cited in the UK Sickle Cell Society’s 2018 Standards for Clinical Care, Dyson’s research is at
 the forefront of our understanding of the interaction of race and ethnicity with sickle cell and
 thalassaemia, with a current focus (with Berghs) on the employment experiences of Black
 people (Big Lottery / Disability Research on Independent Living and Learning: DRILL £100,000,
 Dyson PI). Dyson’s earlier work on education has resulted in the adoption of his school policy
 guide by countries across three continents. Berghs’s research on ableism has been used by the
 special UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Special Rapporteur on the Rights of Persons
 with Disabilities. Her co-edited Routledge Handbook of Disability Activism won the 2019 Taylor
 and Francis award for Most Outstanding Handbook in the Social Sciences.
 Following grant successes (e.g. Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), NIHR,
 Wellcome Trust) in new areas of inquiry, we have significantly expanded our interdisciplinary
 research on human reproduction, now coalescing within the Centre for Reproduction Research
 (CRR), supported by new appointments (KBaldwin, Herbrand, Law) and the appointment of a
 chair (Hudson). Hudson’s ESRC-funded work (£495,000 PI, £765,000 CI) advances our
 comparative social, political, economic and technological understanding of egg donation.
 Collaborating with Endometriosis UK and the Royal College of Nursing (RCN), the Centre’s
 ESRC-funded research on endometriosis has influenced healthcare guidelines internationally
 and shaped nurse training in the UK.
 (ii) Criminology, particularly probation and prisons
 Since 2014, we have capitalised upon our knowledge of European justice systems securing, as
 planned, EU and UK government funding to advance our probation research and shape
 European probation practices. Continuing as Scientific Expert to the Council of Europe on
 probation rules, Canton has collaborated with the National Offender Management Service
 (NOMS), 5 universities and 3 European penal organisations in two EU Framework projects
 (£175,000, Canton PI), influencing thinking on prisons and probation in 10 European countries.
 Kemshall led the research stream of Serious Offending Mobile European Criminals (SOMEC), a
 two-year project funded by the European Commission Directorate-General for Home Affairs
 (£143,000 Kemshall PI). Her research has influenced risk strategy in offender management in
 the UK and Europe.
 We have built a body of research informed by the voices of the less powerful. As part of DMU’s
 SDG 16 work, Sadique is collaborating with the Srebrenica Memorial Museum and Balkans
 Investigative Reporting Network to develop a culturally specific oral history methodology for
 collecting the accounts of survivors. We have used new appointments (Little, Quinlan, Warr) to
 extend existing expertise (LBaldwin, Knight) on the experiences of prisoners and former
 prisoners. Building on research into digital technologies and prisoners’ perspectives on
 television, Knight is developing digital strategies with national prison services in the UK,
 Canada, Finland, Sweden, Czechia and Singapore. LBaldwin’s research on maternal
 imprisonment has influenced national policy and practice. We have developed a new cross-
 disciplinary multi-professional Sexual Violence and Domestic Violence Research Network (Fish,
 McKie, Quinlan, Turgoose), with collaborative research boosted by local authority funding; and
 have launched and lead (Canton) a new international platform for criminal research and justice
 (International Network – Criminal Justice) with participation from US, Australian and European
 universities, the Confederation of European Probation and the Counter-Terrorism Unit of the
 United Nations.
 (iii) Education
 Following internal restructuring, we are developing a body of expertise in education: specifically,
 the nature of work in universities, access among marginalised groups and the uses of
 technology in pedagogy here and overseas. Hall’s HEFCE/Office for Students–funded
 collaborative research (£500,000, Hall CI) examined how a value-added metric and inclusive
 curriculum framework can address the BEM attainment gap, resulting in DMU’s Decolonisation
 project and one of UUK’s 13 Tackling Racial Harassment Case Studies. Smith’s access to HE
 in Cuba research (Leverhulme ECR Fellowship-funded), DCudworth’s research on spatiality
 and inclusion in education with Traveller Communities, Wolf’s on music for social inclusion, and
 Davy’s research on supporting transgender schoolchildren, along with her international

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration to produce The Sage Handbook of Sexualities, contribute further to our equalities
 and diversity portfolio.
 We have enhanced international uptake of our research through collaboration for implementing
 change. Working with the UNESCO Teacher Task Force, International Voluntary Service
 Overseas and the International Council on Education for Teaching and drawing on a
 translational research methodology, Younie is summarising research findings for educational
 practitioners worldwide, via a digital platform she co-founded, now operating in 190 countries
 (MESH – Mapping Educational Specialist KnowHow). Younie, undertaking interdisciplinary
 research into children’s handwashing practices involving a team drawn from three DMU
 research Institutes, and collaborating with a broad range of stakeholders in the UK, India and
 Sierra Leone, has co-created culturally relevant and impactful packages of educational
 resources for children to learn about germs and the importance of handwashing (ICS for
 UOA 4).
 Impact strategy
 We have a strong tradition of participatory research, using models of stakeholder engagement
 to increase the value of our research to policymakers, practitioners, academics, service users
 and the public. This includes stakeholders shaping the focus, design and oversight of our
 research and working with beneficiaries to enable findings to influence practice. Ongoing
 collaborations, ad hoc workshops and regular seminars all provide ideal linkages.
 We have a wide body of impactful research and our ICSs – LBaldwin on the care of female
 offenders, Hudson, Law on care for endometriosis sufferers and their male partners, Kemshall
 on European management of mobile violent and sexual criminals – illustrate effective
 approaches to securing impact and demonstrate our commitment to action-centred social justice
 and public good values.
 Impact has been established through strong collaborative links and networks with
 practitioners and policymakers at national and international levels. For example, Kemshall
 worked with 14 European partners in the SOMEC EU project in order to promote impact on
 European Probation, Policing and Prisons. Improving international responses to sexual
 offenders was extended through her Leverhulme (£52,000) network involving 5 countries and 46
 NGOs focusing on effective practice in the community management of sexual offenders
 including across borders. The Leverhulme research also examined the effectiveness of public
 awareness campaigns in reducing child sexual abuse. The dissemination of LBaldwin’s findings
 among practitioner and policy networks and UK media drew her research to the attention of
 national policymakers, including in the Ministry of Justice. Hudson and colleagues undertook
 ESRC-funded research in collaboration with Endometriosis UK and the RCN’s Women’s Health
 Forum and shared findings with a range of stakeholders in a workshop which led directly to
 several strands of impact, including the co-production (with the RCN and the British Society of
 Gynaecologists who specialise in endometriosis surgery) of a new knowledge and skills
 framework for Endometriosis Clinical Nurse Specialists.
 Impact has been strengthened through the use of consultancy and training to take research
 directly to policymakers and practitioners. For example, Kemshall has shaped multi-agency
 management of high-risk offenders through national training for the NOMS and advised Her
 Majesty’s Prison and Probation Service (HMPPS) on the 2020 Risk of Serious Harm Guidance
 for use by 15,000 HMPPS staff. Hudson and colleagues have improved the care of sufferers
 and their partners: nationally, through training for Endometriosis Clinical Nurse Specialists, and
 internationally through continuing professional development to European healthcare practitioners
 via the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE). LBaldwin has
 changed approaches to the care of convicted mothers through training delivered to professionals
 in prison, probation, social work, youth justice and midwifery across five UK areas; and her
 programme for mothers in prison is being rolled out across all female prisons in England and
 Wales.
 Advice and consultancy have been key routes to impact. At an international level Kemshall
 advised EuroPris and European policing, including a guidance manual on information exchange
 for police, prison and probation staff across the EU. Hudson and Law’s advice to ESHRE

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resulted in new guidelines for professional practice across 110 countries. At a national level,
 LBaldwin provided policy recommendations to Lord Farmer and the Ministry of Justice and
 advised a range of third-sector and commercial providers of prison services such as Sodexo and
 the Prison Advice and Care Trust on the care of women in prison; Kemshall advised NOMS,
 HMPPS, Probation Board of Northern Ireland; Hudson and colleagues advised the National
 Institute for Health and Care Excellence, reflected in a new care guideline.
 Since 2014, our research has been strengthened and invigorated by:
 •   strategic appointments in areas of existing strengths;
 •   the creation of more strategic international collaborations and closer relationships with the
     NHS, facilitating grant capture;
 •   strong practitioner networks and collaborations supported by an annual programme of
     research events enabling the development of ideas and new projects with research users;
 •   diversified dissemination of research via media coverage, public engagement and advocacy,
     enhancing impact;
 •   a system of research allowances with associated accountability for outcomes; and
 •   better sharing of information about grant opportunities.
 Open access and research integrity
 We believe that the more widely shared research is, the greater the potential benefits. All
 outputs are published by the green route on DMU’s open access repository, including, where
 possible, early version manuscripts; and we share abstracts via repositories such as
 ResearchGate. We use internal and external funding to publish selected journal articles under
 gold open access and have persuaded some journals (e.g. Methodological Innovations) to waive
 open access fees. New publications are tweeted and research is promoted through mainstream
 media coverage. We encourage researchers to publish their findings in a wide range of outlets
 suitable for reaching different types of audiences to enhance discoverability and accessibility.
 Staff write for open access publishers such as The Conversation and Open Democracy.
 With regard to data sharing, we comply with funder requirements, and data relating to several
 projects (e.g. UKRC, Big Lottery) are lodged at the UK Data Archive at Essex University. Some
 of our staff are using Figshare, DMU’s data management software. In keeping with DMU’s
 commitment to open access, we will increase use of Figshare, including for PhD projects, where
 appropriate.
 All research projects, including PhD projects, must receive approval from the Faculty Research
 Ethics Committee (FREC). Approvals are issued only after approaches to matters of ethics and
 integrity (including data management, GDPR provisions) have satisfied at least two reviewers.
 Ethics training is provided and staff undertaking NHS research are encouraged to attend Health
 Research Authority training.
 1.3 FUTURE STRATEGIC AIMS AND HOW THEY WILL BE TAKEN FORWARD
 We have three strategic aims for the coming period:
 (i) Developing staff careers and expanding research capability, especially among BEM
     staff
 BEM staff are under-represented in our profile of researchers and, reflecting our Decolonising
 DMU research development priority, we will increase the proportion of BEM staff who have
 significant responsibility for research to meet or exceed the proportionate BEM staff presence in
 the relevant academic population. Four out of 7 staff receiving intensive mentoring through
 DMU’s Next Generation Researchers Scheme are from BEM communities and we are
 monitoring ethnicity-related data regarding the allocation of internal research funds, including
 PhD scholarships, appointments to leadership roles, and the presence of BEM staff in PhD
 supervision and viva panels. We will expand our collaborations with DMU’s new Stephen
 Lawrence Research Centre (SLRC), combining our expertise in participatory and BEM research
 with the SLRC’s relationships with local communities and commitment to advocating on issues

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of race and social justice. We will develop initiatives across our research (and in PhD study) that
 systematically pose questions of ethnic inclusion and equality and broaden participation in order
 to contribute to a shift in the UOA as well as in the University. For example, we will roll out
 existing ad hoc visiting researcher activities as a more structured scheme creating greater
 opportunities for participation by scholars in low- and middle-income countries.
 We will increase the proportion of staff with significant responsibility for research further, meeting
 or exceeding DMU’s goal of 60%. We will support the expansion of high-quality research in
 education with the ambition of a separate submission to REF 2028 in the Unit of Assessment for
 Education. As well as using strategic appointments, mentoring and appraisal to achieve this, we
 will continue to develop staff careers through increasing internal collaborations, integrating
 ECRs into bid-writing teams and supporting applications to DMU’s Future Research Leaders
 Scheme and for NIHR, British Academy, Leverhulme and other fellowships, building on success
 to date (e.g. KBaldwin, Hanna). As well as continuing our current impact strategy, we will
 further embed impact in our work by developing ECRs’ understandings of co-production in
 research and providing training on pathways to impact.
 (ii) Establishing new areas of interdisciplinary research and contributing to DMU’s SDG
      research
 We will continue to align our research with relevant external drivers especially government policy
 concerns, funding body priorities, and the needs of current and potential research users, as well
 as with DMU’s commitment to the SDGs. We already contribute to these goals notably,
 countering Islamophobia (Easat-Daas), peace-building in the former Yugoslavia (Sadique) and
 Cyprus (Kamenou), SDG 16; Smith on access to HE, Younie on germs and handwashing,
 SDG 4; Brown and Raghavan on mental health in India, SDGs 3, 5 and 8. As well as seeking
 external funding and new international collaborations, we will use research Institute strategies
 and DMU Global SDG Fellowship awards (e.g. KBaldwin and McKie SDG13, although travel
 has been disrupted by Covid-19) to advance this work.
 Alongside developing existing areas of strength, technology will form a new focus of our
 interdisciplinary research. Three strands of technology-related research have emerged (in
 education, criminology and reproduction research). Through collaborations between our
 Institutes and beyond, we will exploit overlapping theoretical concerns to develop synergy,
 coherence and interdisciplinarity (e.g. we will investigate governance-related challenges and
 priorities arising from the use of technology across different spheres of service provision). We
 will innovate methodologically in our emerging body of multi-species research (e.g. animal
 companions, animals in domestic violence) and bring together our research on dementia care
 and therapy animals. Our research will consider methodological innovations and the implications
 for marginalisation and deepening/reducing inequalities that arise from the digital shift and
 remote working evident now in public services and everyday life (e.g. service users’ experiences
 of remote services in education and health). We will continue to seek funding in interdisciplinary
 research on arts, creativity and human well-being and play a key role (Brown, DCudworth,
 Higdon and Raghavan sit on the Research Committee) in DMU’s Arts Council England co-
 funded £2,800,000 Talent25 longitudinal project assessing the impact on children and young
 adults of exposure to arts and culture.
 (iii) Putting in place a succession planning strategy as part of a strategy to increase
       research income
 We have established Institute-based income targets, monitored by the Faculty Research and
 Innovation Committee (FRIC), and have improved the support available via DMU’s restructured
 Peer Review College dedicated to grant capture in response to the decline in research income
 in the middle of the REF period. These mechanisms have had a notable impact on grant income
 from 2018/19 and we will continue to pursue this approach. We will use DMU incentives for
 collaborations and create new clinical partnerships to increase our NIHR income. We will make
 new appointments in quantitative techniques, having augmented our quantitative skills (Fish,
 Jaspal, McKie) and extended our portfolio of mixed methods research (including among PhD
 students), as a means to improve our grant successes in large, multi-method projects.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We did not have a succession planning strategy in place earlier in the REF period to address
 the reduction in capability following the retirement of senior researchers and its impact on
 research income generation. We are building a succession strategy for the coming period,
 drawing on best practice in the sector, including bringing appropriate ECRs and mid-career
 researchers into the networks and bid-writing teams of senior researchers, enabling individuals
 and research Institutes to identify competency and skills gaps, creating bespoke training and
 development opportunities to address these, fostering continuity where this is wanted and
 strengthening the talent pool.
 Section 2. People
 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 This submission includes 37 staff (33.59FTE), including 11 professors, 4 Readers/Associate
 Professors (Research), 10 mid-career staff and 12 staff who are ECRs or are relatively junior,
 having been appointed as ECRs or to VC2020 posts. All Category A staff posts are permanent.
 We have aimed to build our research capability, expanding an intellectual community in which
 innovative critical thinking and rigorous empirical work are combined with opportunities for
 personal development.
 A principal feature of our staffing strategy has been significant financial and developmental
 investment in ECRs, exploiting DMU’s strategy to strengthen our institutional research profile
 through the differentiated creation of new types of post. The Unit includes staff (Berghs, Easat-
 Daas, Northcott) who began their employment at DMU as one-year Early Career Academic
 Fellows in a programme designed to support the research capability of talented individuals. We
 secured 10 VC2020 posts (8 female) aimed at recruiting outstanding future research leaders and
 entailing a protected 50% research role and a fund (maximum £5,000) for expenditure on
 research in the first year of employment. Among other things, these budgets have enabled new
 data to be generated as the basis for impact and outputs (e.g. Berghs on sickle cell in Sierra
 Leone, Kamenou on sexual identity in Cyprus). Through these posts, we have been able to
 expand research capacity to include ECRs who demonstrate a strong ability to publish, work
 collaboratively, innovate, raise the profile of our research and win external and internal funding.
 For example, Northcott (graduated Manchester 2016), winner of a DMU ECR Research
 Excellence Award, has published a book and 4 high-quality journal articles and has gained
 £525,000 from NIHR (CI); KBaldwin (graduated DMU 2016) has published a book and around
 10 articles and secured a prestigious Sociology of Health and Illness Mildred Blaxter
 Postdoctoral Fellowship.
 Our strategy to build research capability, in keeping with the sector’s career development
 Concordat, includes supporting members of staff at all stages of their research career. Staff,
 recruited initially for their professional expertise, who wish to develop as researchers are
 supported in undertaking PhD research. Mentoring from senior researchers has resulted in 15
 research-linked promotions among our submitted staff (e.g. Hanna from VC2020 to Reader
 status). Outstanding achievement is also recognised through DMU OSCARS. We have
 supported colleagues (KBaldwin, Herbrand, Northcott) to compete successfully for places on
 DMU’s Future Research Leaders and 7 to secure research leave time (5 female, 1 BEM), again
 awarded competitively to full-time and part-time staff at any career stage on the basis of
 expected outputs. Our Faculty ECR Forum facilitates networking and peer support, helps identify
 research support needs and organises ECR conferences, adding further to multidisciplinary
 debate and our research environment (around 50 participants in events). All new staff are invited
 to Research Induction events and benefit from our Research Mentorship Scheme,
 methodological and other research training, institute events and inclusion in successful (e.g.
 Berghs, KBaldwin, Hanna, Law) bid-writing teams.
 We mentor ECRs to secure university-wide research allowances (one to two days weekly in
 addition to funded research) which are allocated annually on the basis of defined proposals and
 achievement of previous plans. Progress is monitored through annual appraisal processes. We
 have further strengthened our research capability and impact through a series of Research
 Excellence Workshops, designed to advance skills by complementing workshops organised at
 an institutional level, with attendance between 7 and 20 staff and podcasts enabling wider

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dissemination. These have resulted, for example, in more effective impact data capture and
 increased use of social media and digital platforms to raise research visibility. Alongside informal
 or task-specific mentoring, our Research Mentorship Scheme (11 mentees in the current
 submission; 14 mentors of these and of 7 researchers-in-training) is designed to support staff at
 any stage of career development and has helped secure internal funding, high-quality outputs,
 extended networks and promotion. We have an established a Peer Review Scheme and
 Reading and Writing Groups (15 participants) to enhance the production of high-quality outputs
 e.g. resulting in publications in Sociology and Sociology of Health and Illness (many of these
 sessions moved online during the pandemic).
 We host a diverse range of research events to broaden networks and use as vehicles for the
 fertilisation of cross-disciplinary ideas. For example, our interdisciplinary symposium on
 methodological dimensions of researching intersectionality enabled PhD supervisors to support
 several PhD students investigating the experiences of LGBTQ people in bringing greater
 conceptual coherence to their research. Typically these events are organised by individual
 research groups but may be organised by the School RPG, bringing together internal and
 external participants e.g. our multi-stakeholder events on women, families, crime and justice,
 which resulted in new writing collaborations. Other exchanges between researchers and non-HE
 organisations are facilitated by opening up some of our training events, participation in external
 multidisciplinary networks, advisory positions in external organisations and honorary
 membership for NHS personnel on the FRIC. We have appointed impact champions to mentor
 researchers and run impact events at School and Institute level.
 The Professoriate Forum meets twice annually to feed into and receive updates about matters
 relating to University research strategy which are then brought to the School RPG to inform our
 Unit-level strategy. Our professoriate contributes through career and research mentorship,
 assistance in expanding networks and advice on grant applications. Through its appointments,
 DMU has effected a rebalancing of the male : female ratio among senior researchers (Fish,
 Hudson, Jaspal, Younie appointed professors; Hanna, Herbrand, Ruane, Yates appointed
 readers/associate professors (research)). Four out of the five research Institutes and Centres in
 the Faculty are led by women and one by a BEM staff member.
 Our strategy has resulted in successful applications for promotion and good retention of a strong
 cohort of ECRs with grant and publication successes.
 2.2 RESEARCH STUDENTS: SUPPORT, TRAINING AND SUPERVISION
 Our approach to creating an enriched research culture has enabled us to expand our PhD
 portfolio, doubling the number of PhD students returned in this submission and almost tripling
 our completions (34 completions, including iPhDs and PhDs by publication; 69 continuing)
 compared with REF 2014. Recruitment (on an equal opportunities basis) has been boosted by
 16 DMU fees only / full bursaries and High Flyers Scholarships (7/16 to BEM candidates; 12/16
 to women) along with scholarships funded externally e.g. by local NHS organisations and foreign
 embassies, which strengthen the pool of applicants. Staff undertaking PhDs are sponsored by
 DMU, which covers fees and allocates a workload tariff to support PhD study.
 Table 1: PhD completions by year and type
                 2013/14 2014/15       2015/16    2016/17    2017/18    2018/19   2019/20 Total
  PhDs               3          5          3          5         4          8          2        30


 PhD students are integrated into our research culture as members of our Institutes, have
 representation on our FRIC, and are encouraged to participate in research events, Doctoral
 College events such as the PGR Lecture Series, and PhD student networks. For example, we
 host the British Sociological Association (BSA) international Human Reproduction Study Group
 conference annually and free places are made available for PhD students. We facilitate a
 Faculty-wide interdisciplinary student-led conference with attendance of 25–50, enabling
 students to acquire event organisation skills, present their own research and meet external
 speakers. Our strategy has resulted in more conference presentations, more sole or joint

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 authored publications and applications for external funds, for example, for fieldwork support (e.g.
 Parkes Foundation) and conferences (e.g. BSA-funded Postgraduate and Early Career
 Researcher Conference on Public Sociology and the Role of the Researcher). Several of our
 PhD students have won DMU Public Engagement grants and the Doctoral College Best Faculty
 Thesis Award, and have received media coverage for their research.
 Ruane sits on the University’s PGR Training Committee, which has overseen a restructuring of
 doctoral training now integrated into a Researcher Development Programme based on the
 principles of the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Ruane leads the Applied Social
 Sciences strand of this Programme, providing around 70 hours per year in advanced
 methodological and professional development training. Available to all University doctoral
 students and ECRs, this represents a significant contribution to DMU’s strategic aim of
 promoting a high-quality PGR experience and embedding interdisciplinarity in PGR and ECR
 culture. Provision is offered through (1) dedicated research training days organised around
 workshops on methodology, ethics, inclusivity, impact, stakeholder engagement and thesis
 composition; and (2) methodology modules on the Master’s in Research, each of which maps
 onto a number of ESRC PGR research methods learning outcomes. Methodological training is
 complemented by more generic training for instance in bibliographic, computational and
 presentational skills. In a small number of topics (e.g. ethics) training is compulsory; however,
 the majority of uptake of training is determined by a Development Needs Assessment which is
 reviewed annually. Some of our training is co-produced with current/former PGRs and delivery is
 flexible, with almost all training available online. With 12–20 attending most sessions, student
 evaluation shows training is highly regarded and the PRES 2020 survey reported Faculty PGR
 satisfaction with ‘Research Skills’ at 90%, above the sector average.
 Eleven students have used our Doctoral College Development Fund (up to £500) to attend
 external conferences and training. We support the future employability of our PhD students by
 developing their personal effectiveness, project management and research skills, encouraging
 their paid contribution to teaching where appropriate, facilitating professional networking and
 offering support for research collaborations or external mentorship. For example, one of
 Hudson’s students was funded to travel to Austin, Texas where local expertise helped shape
 the theoretical direction of her research and where new contacts led to joint authorship and a
 research assistantship. Students are encouraged to promote their research via events, digital
 platforms and social media.
 PhD students at DMU are guided by supervisory teams of two or three individuals, all of whom
 have completed at least six hours of training and at least one of whom has supervised to
 completion. Monthly progress is monitored via an electronic records system and key milestones
 involve an independent assessor. Additional support is offered to students with disabilities that
 affect learning and our doctoral training is compliant with Universal Design for Learning
 requirements which provides for learning through different media (e.g. live interactive teaching
 and audio recordings with transcripts). PhD students are provided with dedicated space within
 the Faculty, consisting of workstations, a kitchen, a sitting area and lockers, to supplement
 dedicated facilities in the University library. PhD students are able (but not required) to use
 DMU’s data management software.
 2.3 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 As set out in DMU’s Code of Practice, we believe attention to matters of equality, diversity and
 inclusion (EDI), as well as being a good in itself, allows staff and students to flourish; this is
 reflected in equal opportunity recruitment and selection, in DMUfreedom, the University’s charter
 for equality, diversity and inclusion and in the monitoring of EDI data relating to staff and PhD
 students. EDI committees, established at institutional and faculty levels, focus on improving
 outcomes. While all staff have been assisted through flexible working arrangements during the
 pandemic, 9 staff have benefited specifically from family-friendly policies e.g. through parental
 leave and flexible working provisions, which are applied to all full-time and part-time staff
 regardless of gender, age or other protected characteristic. All staff are required to undertake a
 foundation Equality and Diversity Training course, upon which other EDI training is built,
 including recruitment-related training. Staff in UOA 20, along with other employees who are
 members of a University Involvement Group, such as the LGBTQ and Allies Network, Black and

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Minority Ethnic Staff Network Group or Disabled Staff and Allies Group, are given time off with
 pay in order to attend University-approved meetings of these groups that fall within their normal
 working hours.
 Because of our research strengths, the Unit has been central to embedding values of diversity
 and equality into University and Faculty priorities. We contribute to, and encourage researchers
 at all stages of their career to participate in the cross-faculty, multidisciplinary DMU Women
 Initiative, promoting women in academic leadership. Herbrand co-convenes the Faculty’s
 Women in Science, Society and Health network (15–20 participants at each workshop) and
 chairs the School’s Athena SWAN Working Group. Hall and Hudson also sit on this committee.
 We have played a major role in the DMU LGBTQ network, established in 2013, which includes
 students. It promotes a safe and inclusive campus culture, organises a schedule of events,
 including research and DMU Pride, throughout the year, collaborating with, among others,
 Phoenix Arts, Curve Theatre, the Leicester LGBT Centre and local artists. During Fish’s 4-year
 tenure as network chair, DMU was named one of Britain’s most inclusive employers in
 Stonewall’s Top 100 Employer list (in the top 40 of 400+ employers in 2019 and 2020, with our
 work on trans inclusion specifically acknowledged). Davy co-authored the University’s Trans,
 Non-Binary and Gender Fluid Policy for Staff and Students, launched in 2017. Our international
 LGBTQ scholarship has been awarded to recipients in Kenya and Lebanon. Hall led the
 evaluation of the University’s Universal Design for Learning project, focused upon provision for
 disabled students but benefiting all learners including PhD students. As evidenced elsewhere in
 this document, principles of EDI are embedded in our own, and our PhD students’ research (e.g.
 11/34 completed PhDs related to matters of EDI).
 DMU is one of only 17 Race Equality Charter award holders (awarded by the Equality Challenge
 Unit) and was The Sunday Times’ University of the Year for Social Inclusion in 2018. The
 University’s Decolonising DMU programme, building on Hall’s BEM attainment gap research, is
 analysing the impact of changed practices upon staff and students in research and teaching
 outcomes at DMU and exploring ways to become an anti-racist university. Raghavan provides
 training to staff and PhD students on recruitment techniques to enhance BEM inclusion in
 research. Hall co-convened the ‘Radical Pedagogies: Macpherson 20 Years On’ conference
 with the SLRC. We have organised events in DMU’s Black History Season for many years.
 Of a staff population of 83, 53 (64%) are female and 30 (36%) are male; 10 (12%) are BEM. Of
 37 staff in this UOA 20 submission, 22 (59%%) are female and 15 (41%) are male; 8% are BEM
 or other mixed background, and information has been refused in one instance. Under-
 representation among BEM colleagues is being addressed (see Section 1.3).
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 INCOME
 Nineteen submitted staff, along with former members of staff, have secured external income as
 PIs for over 100 UOA 20 projects during the REF period, with other members of the Unit
 contributing to income as CIs. As well internal resources, we have secured grant funding from a
 range of funders, principally Research Councils, the EU, government departments and
 charitable organisations.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         Figure 1: Sources of Research Income
                UK Industry Other
                   0.4%      2%
    UK Charity 12%

                                     Research               Research Council
                                    Council 43%             EU Government
         UK Government                                      UK Government
              35%                                           UK Charity
                                                            UK Industry
                                                            Other

                             EU Government
                                  7%



 We have raised just under £3,000,000 in research income since 2014. Our income dipped in the
 middle of the census period following the retirement of experienced researchers and the arrival
 of ECRs. We addressed this through prioritising research income as a standing agenda item on
 the FRIC, requiring research Institutes to create strategic plans, setting grant submission and
 research income targets and providing annual reports on achievement; and requiring Research
 and Innovation Allowance (RIA) allocations to include income objectives. This approach was
 having an impact by 2018, with income more than doubling between 2017/18 and 2018/19, and
 over the REF period our annual research income has risen 55% from £450,000 annually in
 2013–2014 to £700,000 annually in 2018–2020. As well as a clear increase in income since
 2018, we have had some major successes so far in the current financial year, boding well for the
 new REF period, for instance, Hudson’s (CI) £765,000 ESRC grant on donor conception; and
 Hanna securing DMU’s first Advanced NIHR Fellowship (£636,000) to improve patient
 preparation for amputation surgery.
 Strategies for generating income
 We have sought to build expertise and credibility through small-scale awards and to leverage
 larger grants for national, then international research. For example, Brown in a series of
 external and internal collaborations has built a body of research in health humanities over the
 past decade, using small AHRC grants to create a health humanities network, which then
 became a platform for a collaborative AHRC (£1,500,000, 2013–2018) national project on
 creative practice and mental health. This underpinned successful GCRF applications (£870,000)
 with Raghavan to conduct international research and supported the establishment of DMU’s
 collaborative £2,800,000 Talent25 project with the Arts Council.
 As well as including ECRs onto bid-writing teams to increase capability, we use small internal
 and external grants to capture larger external awards: for example, Hudson used an internal
 pump-priming award plus a Sociology of Health and Illness Foundation award to gain a large
 ESRC grant (£495,000). We support ECRs to pursue modest charity-sector grants to build
 confidence and track record for later bids (e.g. Little’s £5,000 Bell Foundation award for prison
 education research).
 Creating new collaborations has enabled us to secure funding for methodologically innovative
 research: for example, Raghavan’s collaborations with the Tata Institute of Social Sciences,
 Mumbai, India’s National Institute of Mental Health and Neuroscience and community theatre
 groups have made possible the use of theatre and storytelling practices to explore
 understandings of mental health resilience among slum-dwellers in India. Collaborations with
 beneficiaries have enabled us to design fundable research with impact in mind. For example,
 Dyson’s research on employment experiences was supported by Big Lottery / DRILL funds),


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 included people with sickle cell chairing the project management group and policy development
 workshops, and NGOs running focus groups.
 We have deepened links with the NHS to improve grant capture, for example through
 collaborations to aid research (e.g. Yates on parental mental illness) and partnering with
 clinicians on NIHR projects (e.g. Hudson on diabetes, Northcott on dementia). We maintain
 excellent links with the East Midlands Research Design Service (RDS), hosting several RDS
 staff through NIHR funding for part of the REF period and accessing support for methodology
 and public-patient involvement. The RDS East Midlands focus is EDI, especially relevant for our
 research, and Fish sits on the new committee.
 Our cross-faculty, multidisciplinary research Institutes and Centres create an environment in
 which interdisciplinary collaborations are easier to develop. We have clustered our research
 around our three thematic strengths cross-cutting these with our expertise in BEM and gender/
 sexuality inequalities and diversity, yielding funded research on chronic ill-health experiences of
 LGBTQ and BEM people (e.g. grant income from Public Health England, Hope Against Cancer,
 Big Lottery). Raghavan has co-created a toolkit of best practice to enhance the recruitment of
 BEM participants which has supported the expansion of BEM research.
 While we have used medium-sized grants to influence practice internationally (e.g. Canton’s,
 Kemshall’s EU projects; £300,000), significant impact can be achieved through smaller grants
 (for example, Younie’s international impact around understanding germs and handwashing has
 been supported by small grants from Next PLC, the Society for Applied Microbiology, Wederell
 Trust as well as crowdfunding).
 Grant income has facilitated our high-quality publications. For example, ESRC and Big Lottery–
 funded research enabled Dyson to produce his state-of-the-art Sickle Cell and the Social
 Sciences: Health, Racism and Disablement (Routledge). On the basis of their ESRC-funded
 research Herbrand and Hudson have collaborated with a filmmaker and partners in the UK,
 Spain and Belgium to make films about egg donation, launched at the Fertility Fest, London
 Barbican.
 3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES PERTAINING TO RESEARCH AND RESEARCH
 IMPACT
 Leadership infrastructure is provided through the Faculty Associate Dean for Research and the
 Institute and Centre Leads and the University PVC for Research. Research governance at
 faculty level is undertaken through the FRIC and the FREC. The School RPG monitors the
 implementation of research strategy. Administrative support is provided through the Faculty
 Research and Innovation Office.
 The Research Services Directorate (RSD) assists with research funding, finance and post-award
 support and provides training. DMU has restructured its support into a Peer Review College
 which provides one-to-one mentoring for bid-writing. A team within the RSD supports research
 impact. Our Directorate of Social Impact and Engagement (SIE), DMU’s outreach arm, fosters
 collaborations with external stakeholders and knowledge exchange. For example, Younie’s
 research on awareness of germs involved collaborations brokered by the SIE in Leicestershire
 and India; and the Community Solutions Programme connects researchers with Leicester City
 Council for projects aimed at rebuilding after the coronavirus pandemic (current participants
 include Hall, McKie, Ruane). The Talent25 project makes spaces in community centres and
 schools available to researchers and funds a creative and delivery team of five to support an
 interdisciplinary research project promising a high level of future impact.
 Applications under development by staff are aided by the Peer Review College. To ensure all
 applications are being supported equitably, processes are in place to assess past applications
 by protected characteristics to ascertain where further supportive action might need to be
 focused (e.g. early career researchers, BEM staff). Our Faculty’s Women in Science, Society
 and Health Network runs events to foster aspiration among women and facilitate networking for
 mutual support. The Decolonising DMU programme is monitoring the impact of DMU processes
 on BEM staff and PhD students: for example, the allocation of internal grant awards such as for


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 knowledge transfer partnerships, and whether current approaches to research priorities reduce
 or exacerbate BEM inequalities.
 DMU supports research and impact through internal funding schemes, including Faculty-
 administered funds channelled through Institutes, and university-wide schemes: e.g. VC2020
 funds, the QR-GCRF, Research and Innovation Fund, HEIF, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
 and the Research Leave and SDG Fellowship Fund. Around 20 submitted staff in the Unit have
 won funding through these competitive schemes which reward excellence, impact and visibility
 and which incentivise interdisciplinarity, methodological innovation, new collaborations,
 knowledge transfer, impact and public engagement. The staff development fund facilitates
 conference attendance and external training. In addition to University schemes, around
 £275,000 is available annually to support research in the Faculty. DMU further supports
 research through waiving fees e.g. in consultancy work.
 Further infrastructural support is available from other departments of the University. Alongside
 traditional services, Library and Learning Services enable sharing of our research through
 DMU’s open access repository and through data management software. We work with the press
 and media office to aid research visibility and potentially impact.
 Staff have office space, a networked work station and access to computer labs when required
 and are being supported to work from home during the pandemic with additional equipment
 where necessary. Following refurbishment, we have dedicated research spaces in criminology,
 education and reproduction. The £100,000,000 Campus Transformation Programme has
 created bespoke venues for symposia, seminars and book launches in the new Vijay Patel
 building and conference rooms in The Venue. We also use the atrium and auditoria in the Hugh
 Aston Building and the award-winning Queen’s Building for our research events.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS, INCLUDING WITH
 RESEARCH USERS, BENEFICIARIES AND AUDIENCES
 Collaborations have enabled us to energise our research by increasing grant successes,
 extending impact and raising the profile of our work. As well as conference networking, we have
 used stakeholder events, media and dissemination among academic and practitioner networks to
 help identify potential collaborators and stimulate new partnerships.
 We use external collaboration with colleagues, research partners, service users and other
 stakeholders (i) to facilitate comparative and multi-method work, such as Herbrand’s
 collaborative research on cross-border surrogacy in France, the UK, Belgium and Israel, funded
 by the French Ministry of Justice and the Centre National de Recherches Scientifiques; (ii) to
 extend our international research and impact e.g. Younie’s collaborations on handwashing with
 India’s Environment Sanitation Unit, the Together in Development and Education Foundation
 and Manav Sadhna Charity; and (iii) to create connections with, and channels of influence in, a
 range of institutions whose policies and practices we seek to influence e.g. Fish’s work with a
 small group of invited clinicians, scientists, advocates and policy experts at the first National
 Summit on Cancer in the LGBTQ Communities in New York, creating a ten-point plan to
 influence the international LGBTQ cancer policy and research agenda.
 Collaborations have allowed us to develop partnership work for impact (e.g. with a UK-based
 Nigerian paediatrician, an invitation to speak at the medical school of Minas Gerais, international
 medical contacts and civil society links during research on the war-wounded led to collaborations
 with community groups, NGOs and health workers resulting in the translation and adaptation of
 Dyson’s sickle cell school policy guides in Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Brazil). Internal
 collaborations between research Institutes have enabled us to produce interdisciplinary research
 with impact: for example, Jaspal and Fish’s Public Health England–funded research with
 psychology colleagues established connections between stress and barriers to take-up of care
 among marginalised men who have sex with men, contributing to British Association for Sexual
 Health and HIV guidelines and influencing practice in sexual health charities (ICS for UoA4).
 Collaborations create opportunities for joint authorship and have enabled to us to raise the
 profile of our researchers, for example, Kamenou’s collaboration with the Irish Embassy for the

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018 Women in the Peace Process series of events in Cyprus. They have enabled us to reach
 new audiences: Northcott, working alongside others including Dementia UK, collaborated with
 the British Film Institute and Alzheimer’s Society to co-produce a toolkit, Dementia Friendly
 Screenings: A Guide for Cinemas; and Herbrand and Hudson’s ESRC research has led to the
 development of online resources in collaboration with Pride Angel and the SEED Trust to
 address support needs of egg donors. Exhibitions in museums, libraries and health centres have
 also carried our work to wider audiences (Berghs, Ruane, Younie). The quality of research
 underpinning these initiatives is evidenced by publications in high-ranking international journals
 such as Human Reproduction, International Journal of Primary, Elementary and Early Years
 Education and BMJ Medical Humanities.
 Collaborations have enriched our research culture by attracting visiting professors/researchers
 (e.g. Layder (Leicester), Allan (Middlesex), Kuhnt (Duisberg-Essen, Germany)) and by drawing
 ECRs into team-based research more rapidly than would otherwise have been the case (e.g.
 Law in Wellcome Trust Society–funded research). They have extended the network of
 researchers who wish to present their research at DMU (e.g. Profs Fox (Sheffield), Pennings
 (Ghent) and Wahlberg (Copenhagen)), widening the ideas in circulation, creating future research
 possibilities and developing PhD researchers’ professional networks. Visits by external
 collaborators serve multiple research purposes. For example, Prof. Rosemary Gido (Indiana
 University, editor-in-chief The Prison Journal) contributed a keynote address, chaired a
 roundtable discussion and facilitated a workshop for PhD students and postdocs, resulting in a
 special issue of The Prison Journal being edited by Quinlan.
 4.2 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE
 Using research events to advance scholarship, networking and impact
 We have strengthened the research capability of the sector by hosting research events at DMU,
 We have organised scores of such events (now online), typically open to staff, students and
 external stakeholders, to foster debate, advance knowledge, enhance dissemination, cultivate a
 stronger understanding of application to practice and add to the public good. For example,
 alongside seminar programmes, we host the annual international Human Reproduction Group
 and BSA East Midlands Medical Sociology Group conferences and events of the Midlands
 branch of the British Society of Criminology. Other conferences include the Emotion and
 Criminal Justice Annual Conference (2017, 2018); the Probation Institute Conference (2017,
 2018); and World Social Work Day Conference (2018, 2019). Staff serve on conference
 organising committees (e.g. British Education Research Association) and have delivered
 numerous keynote and plenary addresses.
 Contributions to journals
 We serve or have served on the editorial boards of 25 international journals, including:
 •   Sociology (Davy)
 •   European Probation Journal (Canton)
 •   British Journal of Social Psychology (Jaspal)
 •   Ethnicity and Health (Dyson)
 •   Sociology of Health and Illness (KBaldwin, Herbrand)
 •   Journal of Integrated Care (Baggott)
 •   Sociological Research Online (Davy)
 •   BMC Public Health (Berghs)
 •   Journal for Critical Education Policy Studies (Hall)
 •   The Prison Journal (US) (Quinlan)
 •   Disability and Society (Yates)



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   The Probation Journal (Kemshall)
 •   Prison Service Journal (UK) (Knight)
 •   Technology, Pedagogy and Education (Younie, Editor-in-Chief)
 As well as conference abstracts/papers and book proposals/scripts, staff review articles for more
 than 100 journals and have examined almost 100 external PhDs.
 We have edited special journal issues such as Hall on Neoliberalism, Policy and Primary School
 Communities in Power and Education, Hudson on Methodological Innovation in Reproduction
 Research, Ruane on Taxation and Social Policy in Social Policy and Society and Brown on
 Textualities of Trauma in the Journal of Medical Humanities. Hudson is joint series editor for the
 Emerald Publishing Book Series Reproduction, Culture and Society and Younie is joint series
 editor for the Routledge Publishing Book Series Learning to Teach.
 Advising on funded research
 We contribute through reviewing grant applications for around 15 organisations, including for the
 ESRC, the AHRC, the GCRF, the NIHR, the Wellcome Trust, the Leverhulme Trust, the
 European Science Foundation and the Medical Research Council. We advise on several
 international research projects e.g. the European Research Council–funded Citizenship, Care
 and Choice led by Coimbra University (Davy) and contribute to research advisory bodies
 including the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council Canada (Fish) and Research
 for Social Care Committee of the NIHR (Raghavan).
 4.3 CONTRIBUTIONS TO SOCIETY AND THE ECONOMY
 Shaping debate through reports and submissions in response to inquiries
 We share our expertise through research-informed reports for external stakeholders, for
 example, the Ministry of Justice on Circles of Support and Accountability (Kemshall); Ministry of
 Education, Sri Lanka on digital sharing of education research (Younie); the Gender Advisory
 Team, Cyprus on women in the peace process (Kamenou); and Macmillan Cancer Support on
 experiences of cancer care among LGBTQ patients (Fish). About 12 staff have also submitted
 briefings to ministers or evidence to parliamentary committees: for example, Herbrand on the
 science of mitochondrial donation to the Australian Senate Community Affairs References
 Committee; Ruane on integrated care systems to the Health and Social Care Committee;
 Younie to the House of Lords Committee on Digital Skills; Fish on health and social care
 inequalities among LGBT communities to the Women and Equalities Select Committee and the
 Department of Health roundtable on LGBT health inequalities; and Kemshall on managing high-
 risk offenders to Parliament, and to Members of the Legislative Assembly, Northern Ireland, with
 briefings to the Home Secretary’s Office, Number 10 Office, Justice Office Northern Ireland,
 Scottish Office and Scottish Executive, Welsh Office, Gibraltar Police, and Governor's Office
 Cayman Islands. Berghs’s evidence to the United Nations Human Rights Office of the High
 Commissioner is cited in its Disability and Bioethics Report. We have undertaken reviewing for 2
 support charities, a think tank and 7 departmental and non-departmental bodies including
 NOMS, the Ministry of Justice and the Equality and Human Rights Commission.
 A broad range of our research informs mainstream media including news programmes, national
 newspapers, and magazine or investigative programmes such as Woman’s Hour (Davy),
 Thinking Aloud (Knight), File on 4 (Ruane) and the World Tonight (Herbrand). We have
 supported ECRs to disseminate their research via the media: for instance, coverage of
 Northcott’s research on the care of people living with dementia in The Observer and BBC
 Radio 5 Live resulted in a formal statement from the DHSC and engagement with the House of
 Lords and Welsh Assembly.
 Seeking influence through advisory positions
 Individuals entered in UOA 20 have sought influence through advising and serving on a number
 of committees/boards, including Board of the Risk Management Authority (Scotland), Advisor to
 the Welsh Government on female offenders, Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics, Advisory
 Board of the Terrence Higgins Trust, Advisor to HM Chief Inspector of Prisons on its inspection

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategy, Chair of Trustees, Open Library of Humanities, International Council on Education for
 Teaching, National HIV Commission Advisory Group, Singing in Music steering committee of the
 European Association of Music in Schools, Tell MAMA National Advisory Board, Committee of
 HIV Prevention England, Advisor to the Council of Europe on the ethics of digital technology in
 prison, NSPCC Prevention Committee, Equality and Diversity Advisory Group of Public Health
 England’s 100,000 Genome Project. As evidenced above, we are equally committed to bringing
 our expertise to local organisations e.g. Hope Against Cancer Board of Trustees, Healthwatch
 Derby Board, Leicester Primary Pupil Referral Unit Management Committee and the
 Independent Monitoring Board for a Leicestershire prison.
 We undertake consultancy (e.g. Canton to the Council of Europe on Probation
 Recommendations and to the Cabinet Office on restructuring the National Probation Service);
 and generate commercial income (e.g. Fish, Turgoose on service user involvement in domestic
 violence services). Ruane was Executive Director for the think tank, Centre for Health and the
 Public Interest, which she co-founded.
 Awards
 Our researchers have been formally recognised. Canton was made Honorary Life Member of
 the European Probation Confederation for distinguished contributions to probation in Europe in
 2018 and Knight won the Rising Star Award from Cambridge University in 2016. Jaspal was
 awarded a Ten Out Of Ten award by Countdown to Zero for his contribution to achieving the UN
 Target for ending new HIV diagnoses by 2030 and the nOSCARS South Asia award for his
 contribution to sexual health among BEM communities. In 2016, Dyson received the Social
 Health Impact Award from Ontario’s Sickle Cell Disease Association and in 2020 the UK Forum
 on Haemoglobin Disorders 25 Year Award for Lifetime Achievement for his research on sickle
 cell.
 4.4 SARS-COV-2 PANDEMIC
 The 2020 coronavirus pandemic represents a major challenge to all societies. In addition to our
 Community Solutions work with Leicester City Council, we have responded by collaborating with
 the government (e.g. Knight with the Ministry of Justice on the use of videos in court cases),
 submitting evidence to consultations (e.g. McKie to the Environmental Audit Committee’s
 Inquiring into Greening the Post Covid-19 Recovery); presenting at international online events
 (e.g. Ruane in a symposium on European–Latin American comparative health policy responses
 to the pandemic); securing grant income (e.g. Yates, Leicestershire County Council on parental
 mental illness); conducting empirical research (e.g. Hanna with colleagues at Cambridge,
 Imperial and Glasgow on wearing face masks); and writing blogs and other outputs (various).
 The Centre for Reproduction Research has created an online digest on all Reproduction and
 Covid-19 related calls for projects, news articles and other content, shared via the CRR blog.
 Berghs and Turgoose have received expert acknowledgement from Parliament for sharing their
 Covid-19–related expertise. Following survey research, Dyson has created a policy guide for
 NHS Trusts to improve services for shielding patients with sickle cell; these are being used in
 three Midlands Trusts, they have been endorsed by the National Forum of Haemoglobin
 Disorders for sharing nationally and have been requested by Australian Sickle Cell Advocacy
 Inc. Younie is a member of the Emergency Advisory Group for Learning and Education
 responding to SAGE Independent’s request for advice on the implications of Covid-19 for
 schools and is working with Voluntary Services Overseas on how lower-income countries
 are managing education in the pandemic, collating good practice across low-income countries.
 4.5 CONCLUDING REMARKS
 In conclusion, our research has contributed to social policy by adding to understandings of the
 experiences of LGBTQ and BEM communities, advancing knowledge and interdisciplinary
 expertise in novel fields of human reproduction, and playing a significant role in the movement to
 use arts in health.




                                                                                            Page 16
