Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Buckinghamshire New University

 Unit of Assessment: 32 - Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA 32 is an established unit at Buckinghamshire New University (BNU), with previous
 submissions dating to RAE 2001. Due to institutional structural changes and subsequent staff
 changes in the latest assessment period, BNU has experienced a significant change in strategic
 direction within Art and Design compared to REF 2014. The departure of lead researchers and
 subsequent launch of the University’s Transformation Programme has led to the shift in research
 focus away from Art Contexts, Practices and Debates (Simpson), Furniture (Kaner), and
 Creative and strategic communications research (Springer). Furthermore, the successful
 incubation of UoA 7 at the University meant that some research staff in Art & Design refocussed
 their work towards this UoA (Ioras, Buck). Despite these changes, the strength of this
 established UoA and the continued support for research in the subject enabled this submission.

 Our key ambitions for REF 2014 included:
    1. supporting specialist niche expertise to attain a worldwide reputation through strategic
        collaborations;
    2. driving innovation in wider international subject communities by encouraging the growth
        of externally funded research centres;
    3. developing a track record in research into learning, teaching and knowledge acquisition
        (practice and theory).

 We have achieved some of these objectives, specifically in relation to supporting specialist niche
 expertise (for example, in the ceramics industry), as well as developing a track record into
 research in learning, teaching and knowledge acquisition. New staff have enhanced our focus on
 research-based pedagogies contributing to interrogative critical studio practice and stimulating
 connections between practice and theory: our critical, cultural and contextual research-led
 teaching informs students' studio work and makes it more responsive to current global
 challenges and conceptual issues. An example of this within fashion design, is the integration of
 the 'Cultural Triangulation Theory' (Future Laboratory) which provides a structure to concept
 research and trend forecasting, promoting skills in critical thinking and intellectual engagement.

 The departure of key research leaders over the REF period has limited the ability to drive
 innovation in wider international subject communities by encouraging the growth of externally
 funded research centres. With new roles in place, this will be achieved with a shift in discipline
 focus. Successful incubation of design and sustainability research previously submitted in this
 UOA (Ioras) has attracted high profile international, externally-funded projects and has led to a
 new submission in UOA 7 (Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences).

 The current submission comprises 6 staff (4.2 FTE). Chance and Crawley were submitted in
 REF2014, with other staff joining BNU during the REF period (Leet, Kalpaxi, Arya, Cseh).
 Reference is made to Brownsword and Buck, who left during the REF period and new
 developing researchers (Stockton, Marasini, Murphy).

 During the REF period, Brownsword, Crawley and Chance continued to develop their research
 in design and culture to achieve impacts on cultural and environmental institutions locally and
 nationally, and the introduction of new courses to the portfolio in the last two years has attracted
 staff with a range of research interests and broadened the scope of research activity in the
 School. These include photography (Leet, Kalpaxi), creativity and positive psychology (Cseh)
 and solar-based design engineering (Arya). Research in art and design focuses on the following
 developing themes:




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     1. Heritage of industrial and post-industrial space
 Research during the REF2021 period has focussed on design and culture within social and
 industrial heritage (Chance, Brownsword), with the strategic goals to develop partnerships
 offering new understandings of industrial heritage, highlighting the loss of heritage skills,
 shaping the direction of heritage organisations, and connecting communities to their tangible and
 intangible heritage. Through artistic interventions engaging over fifty artists and ten cultural
 institutions internationally, Brownsword’s research has revitalised the heritage of the North
 Staffordshire ceramics industry and addressed the wider effects of post-industrialisation on
 people and places. Brownsword’s artistic interventions and residencies have impacted policy
 and curation decisions. These have included events at the Gyeonggi International Ceramic
 Biennale in South Korea (2015), British Ceramic Biennial (2015), the First Central China
 Biennale (2016), the Crafts Council, the Victoria and Albert Museum, Oslo National Academy of
 the Arts, Shrewsbury Museum and the Ashmolean Museum.

 Chance’s research on the history of industrial landscapes has raised awareness of the social
 and economic impacts of non-elite 20th century industrial landscapes and the need to record
 them. Stakeholders utilising Chance’s research include Historic England, the Garden History
 Society and the Friends of the Landscape Institute Archive at Reading University. Chance has
 developed partnerships to protect and better utilise the unique Landscape Institute archive.
 Chance has built project partnerships in the heritage and landscape conservation sectors in
 Buckinghamshire - Wycombe Museum and the Chilterns Conservation Board - to benefit people,
 communities and the environment. Her 5-year social history project in Buckinghamshire,
 ‘Woodlanders Lives and Landscapes’ has proven impact on people’s sense of place, identity
 and health and wellbeing. Going forward, this research impact will build capacity and
 sustainability through new projects developing in partnership with museums, archives and other
 stakeholders, connecting people to their industrial and landscape heritage. Connecting
 communities and people to place and past is a theme within the unit’s strategic goal to develop
 research into design and its impact on health and wellbeing.

     2. Design for Performance
 Since REF 2014, the strategic goal to develop the number of collaborations, networks and
 partnerships in the museums and galleries sector has significantly increased public and
 stakeholder engagement with research (Crawley). Crawley’s research and professional practice
 spans the visual arts and architecture, scenography, science and geopolitics, and her interest is
 in design for performance as an expanding practice that can engage an audience beyond
 theatre through external collaborations and creative partnerships across disciplines. Her
 research works from the premise that the function of design is not merely to illustrate the
 performed text, music or movement, but to provide a further layer of visual narrative. Bringing
 together academic networks with curators, artists and heritage professionals from national and
 international agencies and organisations, new knowledge and understanding of the interplay
 between scenography and exhibition design has been disseminated through exhibitions in
 London, Paris and Oslo, and through publications and conference presentations. Her paper for
 the NORDIK XII conference session entitled "Untitled Spaces: Scenography and Nordic Art
 History" (Copenhagen, Denmark 2018) related to practice-based research in the design of
 scenographic solutions which brought about new understandings of the performative aspects of
 space and possible interpretations of site-specific iconography. Teaching and learning within the
 design curriculum at BNU benefits from this research and its networks, and in the future will
 ensure the sustainability of its impact in design for exhibitions, film, television and theatre.

     3. Photography: Practice and Theory
 New staff members to the University have introduced photography research as a new area of
 development within this UoA. Leet’s research covers both photographic practice and theory, with
 particular interest in the use of photography in participatory arts practices, constructions of place,
 and its applications within a larger cultural context with reference to migration and identity. Her
 participatory project, I Dream of Home (2014) was externally funded by California-based
 Photowings, with outputs presented at exhibitions (UK, USA) and at a Photography and
 Anthropology conference at the British Museum. She was also lead author for the second edition

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Context and Narrative in Photography (Bloomsbury/ Taylor and Francis 2019). Kalpaxi’s
 discursive interests lie with practice-based research in art, narrativity and photography’s
 contemporary criticality; also, with current discursive shifts in art history, theory and practice and
 changing narratives influenced by technological and socio-political/economic developments. The
 goals of her research activities and publications are to foster better understanding of
 photography’s mediumistic specificity and narrative potential and promote the broader relevance
 of photography in cultural history and knowledge production within and outside art. Her work,
 theoretical and practical, has been presented in a number of exhibitions and conferences.
 Publications include Context and Narrative (2019) written with Leet; ‘Photography and Museums
 of Mutuality’ (2019) in Stedelijk Studies; and ‘Self-portraiture: On Photography’s Reflexive
 Surface’ (2016) in JAR: Journal of Artistic Research.

      4. Product and Design Engineering (Solar-based technologies)
 Design engineering has a long history at BNU. Research and development in Design
 Engineering has been in the forefront to devise design solutions that are not only advancing
 engineering design and technology but also adding social value towards quality of life,
 environmental protection and support to businesses. Key projects developed include the
 Horizon2020 funded WATERSPOUTT project (Buck), where the aim was to design, develop and
 pilot solar-based technologies for treating drinking water at the point of use. This is a key
 example of successful incubation of design and sustainability research which has led to a new
 submission in UOA 7 (Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences). A follow-on project, also
 funded by Horizon-2020 is in progress and is led by current staff in the school (Marasini).
 PANIWATER (Photo-irradiation and Adsorption Novel Innovations for Water-treatment) is a joint
 EU-Indian funded project through the Horizon2020 programme and Indian Department of
 Science & Technology (DST) which consists of 18 partners in 6 countries. The aim of the project
 is to develop a range of prototypes and technologies for the treatment of wastewater and
 drinking water to remove contaminants of emerging concern (CECs) and other pollutants.
 PANIWATER aims to work with end users on site with actions such as mapping CECs, removing
 CECs, health impact assessments, assessing social impacts of these interventions with the
 prototypes to invoke awareness for safe reuse of wastewater for irrigation, and preservation of
 potable water sources.

 Two projects in the field of Solar Energy systems (Arya) include a three-year EPSRC funded
 research project (EPSRC/ EP/K010107/1) for the development of an evacuated flat plate solar
 collector, and Concentrating Photovoltaic Evacuated Glazing, the latter funded under the Invest
 Northern Ireland ‘Proof of Concept’ scheme (POC 302). Research relating to the development of
 Energy Saving systems has involved the design of a novel, highly insulating energy efficient glass
 façade for cost-effective retrofitting and construction of new buildings. This project has been
 funded under the Horizon2020 funding scheme and has involved collaboration with a group of 14
 universities and industry-based research groups from across the EU. This solar-energy and
 energy saving systems research helps to deliver a sustainable built environment (and reduces
 building carbon emissions), playing a significant role in improving building energy performance
 and increasing benefit for building owners, users, and governments.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 Our ambitions for the next REF will include:
       • Developing research clusters within the School of Art, Design and Performance,
            aligned with the University’s planned research impact centres
       • Extending our external collaborations and partnerships
       • Supporting future research development in key areas, including, sustainable design,
            digital design/culture, museum and heritage studies, photography, and design
            engineering.

 Following a portfolio review (2018-9) and staff changes in the REF period the School has
 invested in new staff who are research-active in disciplines relating to curricula and new course


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development, specifically photography, visual culture, dance science, performing arts and
 engineering. Additionally, the re-launching of BA (Hons) Fine Art in 2021 (as interdisciplinary,
 socially engaged and collaborative) will be key to attracting relevant research-active staff who
 will contribute to this UoA in the next REF. As a School, the plan going forward is to develop
 research clusters around art & design, performing arts, and the built environment. This will align
 with the University’s setting up of impact centres to develop and support research.

 Research activity and emerging core themes identified above will continue to feature strongly
 within our future strategic aims, such as the development of research into design and its impact
 on health and wellbeing, extended to familial and social considerations within kitchen and interior
 design. Strategically, emerging themes with new staff recruited cover photography (Leet,
 Kalpaxi, Murphy), Psychology (Cseh) and Engineering materials and design (Arya). This is
 supplemented by an emerging profile in learning and teaching research in art and design
 (Chance, Traversing Creative Digital Perspectives), and developing-researcher Stockton, whose
 research focus relates to pedagogy and diversity in design education. The research aims to
 extend the discourse on how pedagogy can consciously extend diversity in student thinking.
 Research interest in a number of new staff relevant to curatorial practices will continue to
 develop; for example, exploring the relationship between photography and the taxidermy
 specimen, primarily through the natural history museum collection and its representation through
 cultural theories on metapsychology, museology and photography; as well as interest in
 sustainable design practices with a focus on global challenges, democratic practices and issues
 of identity representation.

 Furthermore, there is a body of research emerging around the application and impact of digital
 technologies in art and design. Extending conventional methods of design development, staff
 are engaged in practice-based research into 3D digital garment prototyping using Clo3D
 Software. With an increasing focus on sustainability within the industry and the impact of Covid-
 19 on physical shows, virtual product development is being rapidly adopted. At the same time,
 the use of 3D printing technologies in stage and production design, and the ‘expansion’ of
 narrative environments is being explored.

 Further emerging research in design engineering includes Building Information Modelling (BIM)
 process improvements in the design and management of construction engineering projects and
 the use of life cycle analysis approach (LCA) encapsulating the use circular economy concepts.
 (Marasini) LCA modelling is currently being developed to evaluate the design and performance
 of TJCs in the PANIWATER project. BIM consists of the development of intelligent 3D building
 models that are developed collaboratively by various engineering and built environment
 professionals to co-ordinate building design, run what-if scenarios, carry out life cycle analysis
 and manage buildings and facilities throughout their whole life cycle. Recent publications explore
 the use of additive manufacturing for electric propulsive leg to improve a product used in the
 shipping industry and has helped a SME to adapt new designs to improve the efficiency of the
 ships.

 2. People

 The staffing strategy for this unit reflects the university commitment outlined in the Strategic Plan
 and People Strategy. This strategy includes the implementation of the Bucks Academic
 Framework (BAF) which was introduced in 2019, through which staff have been able to prioritise
 research alongside their teaching responsibilities. It also provides staff with the opportunity to
 identify training needs, including applications to support research development and conference
 attendance. Further, when coupled with the impact of the current university strategy document
 (2020) “Impact 2022” which emphasises research, enterprise and staff development this
 streamlined approach has resulted in increased recognition of and support for both experienced
 staff and ECRs undertaking research activities and enables a greater focus of tailored support
 and development opportunities – including mentoring from experienced researchers - for those
 staff where research is a significant focus within their role. Academic staff contracts provide


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dedicated time to undertake research, scholarly, enterprise or professional practice activity of up
 to 550 hours per year.

 BNU is a teaching-focused institution, and the applied learning approach to course delivery and
 emphasis on industry embeddedness within art and design led to the appointment of staff mainly
 engaged with professional practice. These staff are mentored by the Research Leader and
 senior colleagues active in research, and future training is planned to support them in translating
 their professional practice into critically engaged outcomes. Furthermore, in 2019, job
 descriptions as well as guidelines for the appointment and interviewing of new staff were
 updated to place equal emphasis on research experience and quality, hence re-shaping the
 profile of staff attracted to the institution. Whilst this approach has worked for subjects with
 established areas of research, there are new areas of the School’s portfolio which are
 embedded in vocational practice (such as Hair/Wig Design and special effects make-up for film
 and television). Tutors in these fields are engaged in professional practice and whilst they are
 supported to participate in ECR networks, they have made more active and immediate
 contributions in relation to knowledge exchange with industry, as well as setting up industry
 liaison panels to connect HE with industry.

 Staff development

 All researcher development opportunities are run centrally, as outlined in the institutional
 environment statement, with a specific focus during the period on developing early career
 researchers. Activities have focused on developing academic writing, research funding bids and
 research impact. Additionally, staff are supported through central funding to undertake research
 qualifications, including Doctoral study as many staff join Bucks from industry or professional
 practice in their first academic post.

 Staff are supported financially and with allocated time to disseminate research within both
 academic and professional practice forums. In 2019, Bucks commenced production of a
 biannual Research newsletter “Research Notes”, and a research journal, “NOVOS”, as a forum
 to encourage staff and students to publish their research and impact.

 Academic staff have been supported to present at national and international conferences: The
 University supported Chance to deliver papers on her research on the history and contemporary
 practices of design for corporate landscapes at two conferences in the USA; the International
 Conference of the Constructed Environment (University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 2014),
 and the Design History Society conference at the California Institute of the Arts in San Francisco
 in 2016. These papers contributed to her submitted output, a monograph ‘The Factory in a
 Garden’. A History of Corporate Landscape from the Industrial to the Digital Age’ (MUP 2017), in
 which she compared the history and practice of design for corporate landscapes in Britain and
 the USA. These visits to the USA also gave Chance the opportunity to undertake additional
 primary research for the book. Site visits to the Facebook and Google campuses in Silicon
 Valley and research in the San Francisco library were of central importance to the completion of
 the last chapter. A three-day research visit to the town of Hershey in Pennsylvania and to the
 company archives led to the publication of this new research (Hershey was not included in the
 book) in Chance’s output (2019) ‘Chocolate heaven: productive consumption and corporate
 power in the recreational landscapes of Cadbury, Bournville and Hershey, Pennsylvania in the
 early twentieth century. Studies in the History of Gardens and Designed Landscapes. Special
 Issue ‘The Didactic Landscape’ 39(1) pp.22-29. Chance co-edited this special issue of six
 articles with Dr. Megha Rajguru from the University of Brighton.

 In 2016, the University supported Chance in developing the social and economic impact of her
 research on corporate landscape design, She delivered a paper ‘Tech Nirvana’: Why gardens at
 the office are good for you.’ at the ‘Workplace Wellbeing’ conference at the City of Glasgow
 College, organised by Impact Engagement. At this continuing professional development
 conference for planners and architects, Chance raised awareness of historical contexts for, and
 good practice in, corporate landscape design.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In 2015, the University supported Chance to co-deliver a paper ‘Gardens for well-being in
 workplace environments’ with Bell (Bucks New University), Wagenfeld (Rush University USA),
 Winterbottom (University of Washington, USA) at the Design4Health conference. The paper was
 published in ‘Proceedings of the 3rd European Conference on Design4Health, Sheffield, July
 2015’ https://research.shu.ac.uk/design4health/wp-
 content/uploads/2015/07/D4H_Chance_et_al.pdf

 Support for conference attendance in 2017 led to opportunities to build new partnerships to
 develop research impact in the Landscape Design and in the Heritage sectors. Chance delivered
 a paper ‘Ecological Humanism and the Design of Corporate Environments’ at the Design History
 Society Conference, University of Oslo. This led to a partnership with four other HEIs to seek
 funding for a networking grant to protect and better utilise the Landscape Institute Archive at the
 University of Reading.

 Research Development Funding supported Crawley, in curating the exhibition Traces of the
 Future: archaeology of modern science in Africa (2017), at the Nunnery Gallery in Bow Road,
 London. It showcased new work from photographer Evgenia Arbugaeva and multi-media artist
 Mariele Neudecker alongside objects and materials collected during historical-anthropological
 research at Amani Hill Research Station, Tanzania. (https://bowarts.org/nunnery/traces-of-the-
 future).

 The University central research fund also supported research and publication activity including
 £5K to support writing the book Factory in a Garden, 2017 (Chance).

 Staff have access to research supervisor training through Staffordshire University and
 Epigeum’s suite of online supervisor development modules. Three members of staff (Bell, Kirby-
 Ginns, Penhaligon) have received/ are currently receiving financial support to undertake
 Doctoral study aligned to this UOA. Staff development for practice-based research has also
 been organised, for example, on the subject of Research integrity in the Arts and Humanities,
 led by Dr Fenby-Hulse, in a School development session on ethics in practice-based research.

 Training and supervision of PGR students
 Approximately 3-4 applications are made each year to undertake Doctoral study in Art and
 Design. The offer of our Vice-Chancellor’s PhD Awards encourages further interest.

 Five PGR students have completed during the REF period aligned with this UOA. (Circuit, Tear,
 Oliver, Grover, Lee) and two are current (Harlow, Aborode). Harlow has a full-time bursary
 through Horizon2020, and the other students are self-funding.

 From 2019, students have had access to the UEA PGR online programme, covering quantitative
 and qualitative research methods, academic writing, teaching skills and completing a Doctorate.
 Monthly newssheets are disseminated, summarising local and external events and development
 opportunities. Students are required to use the Vitae Researcher Development framework
 planner and given individual support for their researcher development plan.
 .
 In addition to centralised development activities, the following activities have been funded for
 PGR students aligned to this UOA:
     • Visit to Bath Spa University to discuss ethics of proposed PhD research Art residency,
         Italy
     • Product Design students exhibited work at Taiwan-Britain Design Camp, National Taipei
         University of Technology (Taipei Tech) in an exhibition of outcomes in May 2018
         sponsored by Taiwan Ministry of Education/Taiwan Forestry Research Institute/NTUT
         Design
     • Glasgow design conference
     • Attendances at GuildHE Research Summer School


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Students (and graduates) have ongoing access to the University’s MyBucksCareer platform,
 which provides support for future employability. Additionally, a skills review identifies areas of
 development for the undertaking of the PhD, and the School allocates resources to support
 individual needs (e.g. 3D CAD knowledge and training). Furthermore, PhD students are
 supported, wherever possible, to contribute to UG teaching as Associate lecturers (maximum of
 6 hours a week). This also enables them to engage others in their ongoing research.
 PGR students are also invited to engage with the School’s annual Creative Futures Week event,
 a programme of visiting talks and workshops by a range of artists, researchers, and design
 professionals. Specific talks also focus on developing resilience in the face of uncertainty, as
 well as sessions to promote health and wellbeing. Both staff and students have access to
 support all year from the Health and Wellbeing Unit of the University.

 Equality and Diversity

 Buckinghamshire New University is a vibrant, inclusive learning community that strives to create
 an environment free from discrimination and which actively celebrates and values diversity. We
 are committed to the fullest equal opportunity. Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) underpins
 the University’s values and influences everything we do, with annual action plans led by an EDI
 working group, reporting to a new University-wide EDI committee chaired by the Vice-
 Chancellor.
 Research support and facilities are open equally to all staff, irrespective of circumstances,
 contract hours and periods of absence. The University’s provision of flexible development
 resources widens access to part-time staff and staff who cannot always be on-site. All staff
 recruitment and appointment of research positions are in line with institutional policies on
 equality and diversity.

 Across the sector, the track record for BAME appointments in Art and Design has been
 significantly low. There has been a concerted effort made in recent years to attract a diverse
 range of staff to the institution. As an indication, during the REF period, less than 5% of staff in
 Art and Design at Bucks were from BAME backgrounds in 2017, compared to 25% of non-white
 staff in the School in 2020. This includes a research associate contributing to a funded project
 for outputs in UoA 7, as well as technical staff who support our students in our workshop areas.
 As a School, we broadly have 33% of students from BAME backgrounds, and it was essential to
 have a staff population which aligned with this profile.

 We have established a solid, developing relationship with the recently formed Bucks Cultural
 Strategy Partnership to set up projects that specifically create opportunities for BAME staff and
 students, for example, in exhibition or curation projects such as Storytelling (2020/1). At the
 same time, discussions are ongoing with OYAP (Oxfordshire Youth Arts Partnership) to explore
 funding opportunities to run a leadership programme for BAME Level 6 and PG students. We
 have supported ongoing community collaboration and research engagement with existing
 networks and embedded an inclusive approach in our practice (for example, with colleagues in
 Dance who undertake intergenerational projects within the broader community).
 Staff development opportunities are set up to promote inclusivity and diversity, for example, a
 workshop was organised with Shades of Noir, an anti-racism platform that challenges and
 encourages dialogue and cultural value, promoting diversity and inclusive practices in the arts.

 The institution is in the process of applying for the Race Equality Charter mark and as such all
 recruitment processes are aligned with our developing robust approaches to Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusivity. More recently, a BAME network has also been set up to promote greater
 awareness and inclusivity in our staff and student populations.




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External funding awarded:
    • Design History Society publication bursary (£1000, Chance, 2016) Contributed to
        permissions fees for 8 colour plates and 60 black and white illustrations in monograph
        ‘The Factory in a Garden’. A History of Corporate Landscapes from the Industrial to the
        Digital Age. (Manchester UP 2017)
    • Heritage Lottery Funding, Woodlanders’ Lives and Landscapes - Chalk, Cherries and
        Chairs Landscape partnership scheme (£55k, Chance, 2019). Provided funds to buy out
        Chance’s time to lead community social history project investigating domestic and social
        lives of people working in home-based industries in the Chilterns – chairmaking,
        lacemaking, straw-plating and tambour-beading. Grant also funds a part-time research
        associate and project expenses. Feedback from project partner, local museums and
        volunteers reveals impact on methodologies for recruitment and management of
        volunteers and on motivation and wellbeing of volunteers, particularly during the
        pandemic.
    • HEFCE (now OfS) funding for Traversing digital-creative perspectives: preparing design
        and technology students for interdisciplinary work (£39,000, Mather, Chance). The
        project improved the work-readiness of graduates by delivering authentic work-related
        experiences. Working with local and district councils, interdisciplinary student teams
        produced two web/mobile-ready applications drawing on digital, creative and design
        skillsets. Funding enabled course teams to deliver and evaluate the project over two
        years.
    • Bergen Academy of Art “Resurrecting the Obsolete: Exploring the Site Specific and
        Associated Histories of Post-Industry - Phase 1 and 2” (£12k, Brownsword) provided
        ongoing support to ‘Topographies of the Obsolete’ (TOPO), a research collaboration co-
        curated with Ann-Sophie Mydland from Bergen Academy of Design, 2012-2020. TOPO is
        an expansive programme of collaborative investigation, including symposia, publications
        and exhibitions, which engaged 91 cultural commentators from 16 institutions
        internationally.
    • Arts Council England, Factory Project: Icheon World Ceramic Center South Korea/British
        Ceramics Biennial 2017 (£15k Brownsword): supported development of ‘Topographies of
        the Obsolete’ project (above) including exhibition and multi-media installation in the UK
        and South Korea.Supported by these funding streams, Brownsword’s research and
        practice has had significant cultural impact at local, national and international level, in re-
        activating post-industrial spaces, raising awareness of the impact of globalization on
        industrial craft skill, shaped curatorial and artistic practice and decisions made by local
        authorities and national heritage organisations.

 NDACA Archive
 The National Disability Arts Collection and Archive (NDACA), is a repository of items and a
 research centre hosted by Bucks New University giving physical access to the NDACA digital
 archive which was launched in June 2018. The archive, the first in the world to offer a major
 retrospective of disabled people's art and activism, was developed in partnership between Bucks
 New University and the disability-led organisation Shape Arts and funded by the National
 Heritage Lottery Fund, Arts Council England and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation. The
 purpose-built learning wing and repository was installed in the BNU library in 2019, giving
 researchers direct access to over 3,500 images and objects celebrating the history of the
 Disability Arts Movement. The archive is embedded into levels 5 and 6 modules in the School of
 Art and Performance as a key research and learning resource. Students are engaging with oral
 history films, original works of art and many other resources about the Disability Arts Movement.
 Between May 2019 and March 2020, researchers from the Universities of Brighton, Glasgow
 and Doshisha University (Japan) have used the archive.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 High Wycombe Furniture Archive
 The University continues to fund the costs of the High Wycombe Furniture Archive - £11,000
 since 2014, The archive, originally funded by an AHRC grant and launched in 2009, is an online
 searchable database of more than 60,000 documents and photographs relating to the High
 Wycombe furniture industry in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. High Wycombe was the
 leading centre for chairmaking in the UK and second only to London in its significance in
 furniture-making. The website is a research valuable resource, receiving about 650 new users
 per month and the users look at approximately 130,000+ assets per month. Dwell time is high,
 and the website bounce rate is low, meaning visitors who come spend time exploring the
 archive. Images are free to download for research purposes only.
 The University is also seeking to enhance its collections of furniture company archives with the
 acquisition of the archive of High Wycombe furniture company Nicholls and Janes, a key
 resource for understanding the history of UK furniture-making in nineteenth and twentieth
 centuries.

 Horizon2020 projects have been awarded for product design research related to solar water
 disinfection (Also referred to in UOA 7). BNU is partner in two Horizon 2020 projects led by the
 Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, providing product design and social science expertise for
 sustainable solar water disinfection in Africa (WATERSPOUTT: Sustainable Point-Of-Use
 Treatment Technologies, £141k) and India (PANI WATER Photo-irradiation and Adsorption
 based Novel Innovations for Water-treatment, £222.5k). (Buck, Marasini)

 Arture EU Erasmus+ funded project (Art and Furniture Strategic Partnership) and IM Future
 projects (totalling £700K, 2015-9) A consortium led by Buckinghamshire New University, the aim
 of the ARTURE Project was to create a strategic partnership between VET (vocational education
 and training) and HEI in the arts as well as the organisations that support the furniture industries.
 The partnership sought to facilitate the exchange, flow and co-creation of knowledge to address
 the vocational skills mismatches and shortage of skilled workforce.
 A Cloud-based repository template for training material was the main intellectual output of the
 project. This MOOC platform template contains content accessible by Higher Education and
 research institutions active in aesthetic design and the visual arts
 (http://imfuture.cetem.webfactional.com/)Buck was co-investigator; Product Design students
 exhibited furniture work produced as a collaborative research project (2019)

 £1.3m (March 2017) Digital Innovation Hub at BNU (Aylesbury) including a virtual/augmented
 reality engineering design studio. The development will incorporate a business service to meet
 graduate level skills gaps and a technical design facility to support the development of technical
 businesses and inspire the region's young people to consider careers in STEM (science,
 technology, engineering, and mathematics) subjects.

 LEP funding: BTVLEP, in its Local Industrial Strategy, identifies creative and digital economy
 with Pinewood studios at its core as an alignment between the aspirations of young people and
 the skills needs of creative industries. The plan cites investment in skills and talent, connectivity
 as a means to invest in skills infrastructure and programmes to encourage young people to
 pursue higher level skills. The University’s development of an industry-based learning
 environment at Pinewood Studios (2018) as a result of a successful LEP bid – including a range
 of cutting-edge equipment for staff and students, to support a suite of courses such as BA
 (Hons) Costume Design and Making, BA (Hons) Production Design, and BA (Hons) Hair and
 Make-Up for Film & Performance, will improve our infrastructure and support emerging research
 projects. (£1.645m of which £900K allocated to the purchase of equipment).

 BNU has 4,000M2 of specialist facilities supporting design research including prototype labs, 5
 axis router CNC, laser cutting, Stoll digital flat-knitting, 3D scanning (including a Creaform
 Metrascan) and printing. Facilities supporting make, including wood, metal, ceramics, mixed
 media and printmaking enable postgraduate researchers and staff to develop collaborative
 practical research. All specialist facilities are supported by technical staff and tech tutors.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The different components of our research strategy support our staff in participating in a range of
 research activities that sustain the vitality of our discipline. The contributions of staff research are
 recognised nationally and internationally through the following activities:

 Research Collaborations and joint research projects
 Chance collaborates with local authorities, museums, the landscape and wildlife conservation
 sector and with community groups in her aim to connect people to their landscape and industrial
 heritage. Research impact evidence has been collected for her Impact Case Study. Chance is
 currently in partnerships with Wycombe Museum, the Museum of English Rural Life at the
 University of Reading, Buckinghamshire Archives, and the Chiltern Conservation Board (CCB).
 She worked in partnership with the CCB in the £2.8 million National Heritage Lottery funded bid
 to deliver the 5-year project ‘Chalk, Cherries and Chairs’ a landscape partnership scheme with
 the aim to connect local people to the wildlife and cultural heritage of the Central Chilterns.
 Chance was awarded £55k to deliver one of 18 projects within the scheme ‘Woodlanders Lives
 and Landscapes’. Chance’s project, which began in 2019, has contributed cultural impact in
 shaping the planning, development, methodology and success of the landscape partnership and
 the local heritage sector. She is collaborating with local museums and libraries, heritage and
 family history organisations and local historians, informing their research methodologies data
 collection methods and archiving systems and improving participants’ resilience, wellbeing,
 motivation and skills during the Covid-19 pandemic.
 Chance has brought together an international team of academics from the universities of
 universities of Oxford, Kingston, Tusada University Tokyo and Columbus State University in co-
 editing a special issue journal, ‘The Didactic Landscape’ (Studies in the History of Gardens and
 Designed Landscapes’ (2019) to define and explore for the first time a typology of institutional
 gardens and designed landscapes, conceived and designed with agendas, explicit or implicit, to
 advise, educate, or moralise. She has created a network of academics from the universities of
 Brighton, Newcastle, Manchester and Reading and with the Landscape Institute, the Museum of
 English Rural Life and English Heritage to develop a research project raising awareness of the
 Landscape Institute archive in Reading and its value as a resource for design practitioners. The
 network is collaborating on a bid to the AHRC for a networking grant to support the project.

 Brownsword has collaborated with multiple agencies across sectors and cultures locally,
 nationally and internationally in his strategic aim to enhance public understanding of the value of
 post-industrial space and the legacy of endangered industrial crafts. Brownsword’s research has
 led to the safeguarding of industrial sites and practice, attracted funding, enhanced international
 relationships and shaped physical and cultural regeneration. His research impact evidence
 informs his Impact Case Study for REF 2021. Working in partnership with Bergen Academy of
 Art and Design, (2012-2017), Brownsword has engaged over ninety artists and cultural
 commentators from institutions internationally. These institutions include Shrewsbury Museum
 and Art Gallery, the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Ashmolean Museum and the First China
 Central Biennale and the Icheon World Ceramic Centre in Korea. His exhibition Factory was
 endorsed as a key exhibition within the UK/Korea season initiated between Arts Council Korea,
 British Council and Arts Council England to promote cultural exchange and ‘showcase the UK's
 innovation and excellence in the arts and creative industries’.Brownsword’s research has been
 central in the renewal of Stoke-on-Trent as a centre for excellence in ceramics history and in
 contemporary ceramics. His research has contributed significantly to ‘the expanded field’ of
 ceramics and created opportunities for artists to traverse disciplinary boundaries. His work has
 been acquired by permanent museum collections including the Victoria and Albert Museum, the
 Potteries Museum and museums in Taiwan and South Korea. According to Alun Graves, the
 Senior Curator of Ceramics and Glass at the V & A, Brownsword ‘has arguably had a greater
 impact on the study and appreciation of contemporary ceramics than any other contemporary
 practitioner.’

 Leet was awarded an international grant by California-based PhotoWings in partnership with
 Ashoka U for InSights: Past, Present, and Future Self through Photography (2014). The goal of

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 InSights was to demonstrate ways that photography and the ideas around it could act as triggers
 in cross-disciplinary, cross-cultural, and cross-generational contexts, engaging communities and
 catalyzing social change. In addition to a physical exhibition, a paper ‘I Dream of Home:
 Constructing an Archive of the Intangible’, was presented for the conference Photography and
 Anthropology, organized by the Royal Anthropological Institute, Clore Centre, British Museum,
 London (2014). As part of the PhotoWings network (led by Suzie Katz), a further opportunity to
 collaborate with fellow grant-awardees at Dublin City University on an intergenerational
 photography project was developed on Irish migration into Northampton. ‘Homeplaces: A Visual
 Exploration of Migration, Photography and Memory’, presented at the Inaugural Age-Friendly
 Universities Conference, Dublin City University, Ireland (2015). Ongoing discussions currently
 with colleagues in the Dance team interested in intergenerational projects in the community.

 Crawley works on projects that cross disciplinary boundaries, collaborating with academics and
 practitioners within the fields of performance, landscape design, museums and curatorship. Her
 publications and curatorship have placed the art of scenography within a broader conceptual,
 literary and historical artistic framework. Examples of collaborative research outputs/projects
 include: Costume and New Materialism with Donatella Barbieri, Senior Research Fellow and
 Principal Lecturer in Design for Performance, UAL; project with Kate Bailey, Senior Curator and
 Creative Producer, V&A Theatre and Performance Collections; presentations in Copenhagen
 and Prague with Dr Harriet O’Neill Assistant Director British School in Rome and Rebecca
 England, Exhibitions Manager, Royal Academy.

 Crawley is a practising landscape designer, editor, curator and researcher, Associate of the
 Museums Association, Editor for Blue Pages the quarterly journal of The Society of British
 Theatre Designers, of which she is Director; member of exhibition co-ordination committee and
 editor for UK Design for Performance UK, and commissioner for OISTAT Publications
 commission. Crawley has also collaborated with Professor Mariele Neudecker, Bath Spa
 University and Wenzel Geissler, Professor of Social Anthropology University of Oslo - a series of
 parallel interventions combining artistic, scientific and public engagement work, which will
 produce published and public outcomes – from literary and academic writing to exhibitions.
 involving a series of installations and expositions in London, Paris, Oslo and other sites). Future
 installations will be mounted based on creative re-sitings of African laboratory materials and
 memorabilia to UK scientific locations and exhibition spaces; engendering public engagement
 and debate on the past futures and present potentials of research in Africa. The research
 involved in this project and its dissemination through exhibition makes an original contribution to
 knowledge. It also provides the opportunity to give wider exposure to Buckinghamshire New
 University’s research and enable access to the partners’ established networks of national and
 international organisations and agencies.

 Cseh collaborated with academics on two outputs - David Pearson (now at Anglia Ruskin) and
 Louise Phillips (University of Aberdeen), Karl Jeffries (University of Central Lancashire. A book
 chapter review on theoretical conflicts between theories of flow and creativity was written as part
 of a collaborative book with members of the European Flow Researchers’ Network (EFRN), and
 she is currently collaborating with fellow researchers in the MAPP (MSc Applied Positive
 Psychology) teaching team at BNU – Piers Worth, Matthew Smith, Ceri Sims. At the same time,
 she is working with other creativity researchers at UCLan (Linden Ball) and elsewhere towards a
 book chapter in a handbook of creative cognition. Cseh is also waiting to hear back about a
 possible grant for a collaboration with a researcher in China, Yanhui Mao on flow, identity,
 culture, and creativity.

 Arya has been actively participating in writing research proposals for research funding from
 national and international funding bodies and made significant contributions to the development
 of several research projects on Solar Thermal Collectors, Photovoltaic Evacuated Glazing and
 Highly Insulation Glass Façade Systems. Since 2016 Arya has been involved in a research
 project funded under the Horizon2020 funding scheme collaborating with a group of 14
 universities and industry-based research groups from across the EU. He has prepared a few
 research proposals for research funding; he is in touch with several universities from UK

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 especially the University of Warwick, Loughborough and Ulster Universities to collaborate on
 these proposals.

 Supervisory and Examining Roles
 In addition to supervising internal PhD candidates, colleagues have undertaken external
 examiner PhD roles, including: PhD Programme in Architecture and Visual Culture University
 IUAV Venice; External examiner Nevena Mrdjenovic's doctoral thesis University of Technology,
 Sydney Graduate Research School; External advisor Doctoral candidate, Department of Film,
 Television and Scenography, School of Arts, Design & Architecture, Aalto University, Helsinki,
 Finland; External advisor Doctoral candidate Leeds Beckett University.


 Lectures, Keynotes and Visiting Professorships
 Colleagues have delivered lectures nationally and internationally (e,g, France, China, South
 Korea). Brownsword: Nottingham Trent University, Innovation Across Disciplines seminar series
 (2018); Kookmin University, Seoul, South Korea (2018); ENSAB, National School of Architecture
 De Bretagne, France, Visiting Professor (2017); Geneva University of Art and Design (2017);
 Royal College of Art, London (2016-18); Nanjing University of the Arts, China, Visiting Professor
 (2016); Sheffield Hallam University, Transmissions Lecture series (2016); Place and Practices:
 Factory, Victoria and Albert Museum (2018). https://www.vam.ac.uk/event/ovxpXYvX/lunchtime-
 lecture-artist-in-residence-jan-2018

 Organisation of Research Events
 Examples include Brownsword, Place and Practices, British Ceramics Biennial (2017), exhibition
 performances throughout installation – disseminating research via public facing event; and
 Pattern Book, Victoria and Albert Museum, London. Live performance 20/21 (2018) Daylit
 Gallery. Disseminating research undertaken during the residency.
 https://www.vam.ac.uk/event/WLXdO6Lr/neil-brownsword-pattern-book-with-paul-holdway-april-
 2018
 Crawley has also contributed to the organisation of successful research events, for example,
 Prague project with the British School in Rome.

 Networks
 Chance has developed networks in three research areas; cultural heritage, green infrastructure
 and the history of 20th century landscape architecture. Her networks in cultural heritage in
 Buckinghamshire led to an invitation by the Chilterns Conservation Board (CCB) in 2018 to
 develop a social history project as part of their National Heritage Lottery fund bid to develop their
 project ‘Chalk, Cherries and Chairs’. The project leader has confirmed that Chance’s
 involvement in the bid and partnership with Bucks New University contributed to securing £2.8
 million to run the 5-year project. Chance was also invited to join the Chalk, Cherries and Chairs’
 steering group to support the project and she is now embedded in networks supporting
 landscape conservation, biodiversity, social enterprise and youth action in the region, including
 the Chiltern Society, Chilterns Rangers, Buckinghamshire Archives, Berkshire, Buckinghamshire
 and Oxfordshire Wildlife Trust. Chance is also a member of the Bucks NEP Green Infrastructure
 Task Group to advise on policies to improve green infrastructure in Buckinghamshire and Milton
 Keynes. In 2019, Chance joined the Buckinghamshire Archives and Heritage Network (BAHN)
 which meets quarterly and comprises archivists, curators and museum directors across the
 region with the aim to share best practice in support for tangible and intangible heritage in the
 region.

 Chance has developed academic networks nationally in the fields of design and landscape
 history leading to publications and funding bids including with Dr. Megha Rajguru, University of
 Brighton, Dr, Claire O’Mahony, University of Oxford, Professor Daniel Winterbottom, University
 of Washington; Professor Amanda Rees, Columbus State University, Professor Penny Sparke,
 Kingston University. She is currently leading a team of academics and heritage professionals to
 develop a networking bid to promote and interpret the archive of the Landscape Institute at
 Museum of English Rural Life, University of Reading.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Crawley has broad networks in the field of performance, landscape design, museums and
 curatorship. Examples include Dr Laura MacCulloch, (College Curator Royal Holloway), Kate
 Bailey, Senior Curator Victoria and Albert Museum; Sarah Saunders, Head of Learning and
 Creative Partnerships British Museum; Rebecca England, Exhibitions Manager, Royal Academy
 of Arts; Farnborough Air Sciences Trust; Ariane Koek, CERN Arts/Science International Director;
 Alice Sharp curator and director of Invisible Dust; Una McCarthy, curator/ director Limerick City
 Gallery of Art; James Peto, Director of Wellcome Trust; Brian Dillon, Royal College of Art,
 international art critic and writer, Editor of Cabinet magazine; Dominic Grey, Opera North
 Projects; Pontus Kyander, University of the Arts Helsinki, museum director; Harriet O’Neill,
 Assistant Director British School at Rome; Gareth Bell – Jones, Curator Flat Time House,
 London; Sophie Hill, Co-director Bows Arts and the Nunnery Gallery, London; Dr Thea Brejzek,
 Professor for Spatial Theory at the University of Technology Sydney (UTS), Director of the IKEA
 X UTS FUTURE LIVING LAB and Co-Director of the Joint PhD program ‘Critical Spatial
 Thinking: Performative Practices and Narrative Spaces in Design’ in collaboration with the
 Architecture Faculty at Technical University Berlin.


 Partnerships
 Partnerships were developed by Chance with High Wycombe Museum on the Heritage Lottery
 fund bid ‘Living Laughing and Learning in High Wycombe Furniture Town’, developing a
 community social history project to raise the public profile of High Wycombe’s unique industrial
 heritage, secure the remaining heritage of the furniture industry, and research its history from
 fresh perspectives, focusing on the domestic and social lives of the diverse employees and their
 families and the role of women.
 Additionally, she secured a partnership with Chilterns Conservation Board on a successful £2.8
 million bid to National Heritage Lottery fund for 5-year Chalk, Cherries and Chairs Landscape
 partnership. And a further partnership project ‘Woodlanders Lives and Landscapes’ £56K was
 developed to research the domestic and social lives of the industrial and craft workers in the
 central Chilterns. Working with volunteers including students, the project will connect local
 people to their heritage, connect family and local history groups across the region, provide new
 data for local history collections, and involve the development of new walking and virtual tours
 and maps.




                                                                                          Page 13
