Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Strathclyde

 Unit of Assessment: 28

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

History at Strathclyde is distinguished by its position in the multidisciplinary School of Humanities
that enriches our interdisciplinary research in our key areas of excellence: health history, oral history
and Scottish & International History. Our distinctive strengths in these fields also inspire and underpin
our strongly impactful knowledge exchange activities, making History at Strathclyde a place of
learning at the cutting-edge of research, innovation and public engagement across a diverse range
of themes. English Literature & Language (UOA27) also sits within the School of Humanities and
comprises Creative Writing, English, History, Journalism and Modern Languages (French, Italian
and Spanish). History is overseen by the Head of School and a Research Director for History, with
support from a History Impact Coordinator and Postgraduate Research Coordinator. Teaching and
research collaborations are embedded as standard practice and the School Management structure
ensures the Research Directors, Impact Coordinators and Postgraduate Research Directors in both
areas work closely on strategic and operational matters. As a result, through our connections to the
wider School and Faculty, History benefits from structures that would otherwise not be feasible for a
unit of this size.

Our REF2014 submission reflected on a period of transition following the restructuring of the School
and Faculty. Since then, we have focused on consolidating and expanding our core research areas
with the aim of securing the continued success and expansion of this unit at a challenging time for
Humanities nationally. Investments in staffing (Section 2), research infrastructure and environment
(Section 3) have been designed to continue to bring in promising early career researchers and
enable their development to become future leaders in their chosen areas.

History has also been able to benefit from Strathclyde’s cross-cutting Strategic Research Themes
under which internal research networks are created and support for funding is available. Research
in History relates to the Strategic Research Themes of ‘Society and Policy’ and ‘Health and
Wellbeing’. As noted in subsequent sections, this has enabled History to continue to participate in
larger collaborative research projects including Strathclyde’s largest ever research award the GCRF-
funded OneOcean Hub (see Section 3).

Structure

Research in History is organised within the context of two research centres and four research groups.
Since REF2014, as per our ambitions for this period, History has maintained its focus on
consolidation and expansion of these core research areas:

The Research Centres

1. The Centre for the Social History of Health and Healthcare Glasgow (Barton, Cooke, Eisler,
   Kelly, Mills, McIvor, Newlands, Olszynkyo-Gryn, Richert, Richardson)

The Centre (known as the CSHHH) is one of the UK's leading centres for research, teaching and
training in the history of health and medicine in the UK and sits within the University’s ‘Health and
Wellbeing’ strategic theme. Established in 2005 as a collaboration between historians at the
University of Strathclyde and Glasgow Caledonian University, 10 staff for this REF submission are
among its members. This number is complemented by colleagues working in related Humanities
subjects and a lively postdoctoral and postgraduate community. Members of the CSHHH have

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
published on subjects as diverse as contraception and pregnancy, narcotics and medicines, diet and
nutrition, medicine and warfare and sports and health. The environment is built around regular
activities to connect Centre members with colleagues in the field around the world, which include the
seminar series, the annual lecture and regular workshops and conferences (see Section 4).

2. Scottish Oral History Centre (Cooke, Kelly, McIvor, Newlands, Olszynkyo-Gryn, Smith)

The Centre (known as the SOHC) was founded in 1995 and is one of the UK’s leading
interdisciplinary research centres for oral history. The SOHC operates in tandem as a knowledge
exchange hub between academic and community oral history. The SOHC sits within Strathclyde’s
‘Society and Policy’ strategic theme. The SOHC promotes collaborative research in oral history
across disciplinary and geographical boundaries and facilitates capacity building and the intellectual
development of the next generation of scholars/researchers in oral history. The Centre is involved in
a wide range of teaching, research and outreach activities designed primarily to encourage the use
of ‘best practice’ oral history methodology in Scotland and beyond. The Centre currently has 13
affiliated staff, 22 external research affiliates, and 15 postgraduate research students deploying oral
history methodologies.


The Research Groups

1. The history of science, technology and medicine
This is the largest, and most interdisciplinary grouping in History. It is based around the CSHHH
and links to the ‘Health and Wellbeing’ research theme. Barton, Mawdsley, Mills, Richert and Smith
all share a common interest in the history of drugs consumption and control. Barton and Mills have
also published on health and medicine in colonial contexts. Cooke works on 19th century Italian
medicine, focussing on the manuscript evidence offered by documents held in the Wellcome Trust,
while applying the insights of translation studies to understand the circulation of medical ideas and
concepts. Eisler and Olszynko-Gryn share an interest in the history of technologies: Eisler’s research
interrogates the intersections of public policy and science, technology, and industrial engineering,
while Olszynko-Gryn’s research examines the history of pregnancy testing and reproductive
technologies. His work also involves the analysis of novel sources, such as medical films. Newlands’
work has focused on the military and the body in Britain. Proctor, the most recent appointment to the
CSHHH, works on the histories, theories and practices of ‘radical psychiatry’. Richardson’s research
focus on the interaction between medicine and the imagination, science and the supernatural,
psychology and the occult.

2. Oral History
This group comprises the 8 historians who use oral history techniques and methodologies in their
research and links with the ‘Society and Policy’ research theme. Cooke has used oral testimonies
for his work with Italian partisans and terrorists. For his work on the history of technology Eisler has
interviewed some of the key figures in the history of the battery. Kelly has interviewed activists
involved in the campaign for birth control in Ireland. McIvor is a world leader in the field of oral history;
his work has focused on masculinities and the social history of work and occupational health in
modern Britain. Newlands’ current project on health in the British Armed Forces in the postwar era
involves conducting oral history interviews with ex-service personnel to understand how they have
engaged with and resisted military healthcare regimes. Olszynko-Gryn’s major project on the rise
and fall of hormone pregnancy tests uses oral testimonies to help map this complex history, while
Smith’s work on the history of social psychiatry in the USA involves interviews with psychiatrists and
social scientists. Telepneva is the most recent member of staff to join this group, with her research
on the Cold War further expanding its geographical reach.


                                                                                                     Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3. Scotland, Ireland and the World
This grouping focuses on the history of Scotland and Ireland and their global connections from the
early modern to the modern period. It also links with Strathclyde’s ‘Society and Policy’ research
theme. Cathcart examines early modern Scottish maritime connections, particularly with Ireland.
Finlay works on Scottish involvement in nineteenth-century British imperialism. Kelly works on social
and gender history in modern Ireland, in particular her work has focused on medical education,
activism and birth control. McIvor researches the social history of work in the UK. Whelehan works
on modern Irish history in transnational and comparative contexts, focusing on political violence,
diaspora and social movements. Wilson, the most recent appointment to the grouping, explores the
interplay between maritime activity and imperial authority within the context of early modern empires,
including the subjects of piracy, trade, slavery, maritime law, and coastal communities. Young is a
specialist in Scottish-Irish relations in the 1600s and uses comparative history in his study of the
Scottish parliament in that period.

4. European and International History
This grouping brings together colleagues with shared interests in war and violence and connects to
the ‘Society and Policy’ research theme. Cooke explores the long-term impact of the Second World
War on Italian society, politics and culture, while Ellis examines World War One and the ambiguities
in discourses of race in the USA in the early twentieth century. Jessee has been at the forefront of
developing oral history methodology as a means of interrogating the phenomenon of genocide in
Rwanda and Bosnia. Pastor-Castro examines the functions of French diplomats, while Telepneva,
the most recent appointment to the grouping, studies the history of the Soviet Union and the Cold
War, especially in Africa. Varley’s recent work has explored French foreign policy in the Vichy Era,
particularly relations between France and Italy. This cluster, with colleagues in Law and Politics,
established the highly popular and interdisciplinary MSc in Diplomacy and International Security in
2017, creating a pipeline for future doctoral researchers.


Research & Impact Strategy

History at Strathclyde has a long-term strategy of sustainability, underpinned by the centres and
groups and by our commitment to the appointment of ECRs who benefit from a stimulating and
supportive environment that encourages best practice and stimulates intellectual endeavour.
Consequently, our research and impact strategy has moved forward as follows:

Research Strategy
Our strategy for this period comprised four strands: consolidation and expansion of the four core
areas, utilisation of the Chancellor’s Fellowship scheme to recruit promising ECRs to continue our
success in developing future leaders, development of supportive (infra)structures to help staff
achieve their research objectives, and leverage of university-level initiatives to continue to increase
post-graduate recruitment.

Consolidation and expansion of research quality in the core areas was supported by:
   - An emphasis on books as the most appropriate vehicle for communicating high-level, original,
      research in our subject area. All members of staff in History, in consultation with the Director
      of Research identified a book project with a target of 0.5 monographs/FTE by 2020. We also
      aimed to increase the impact of our monographs via high-profile book launches involving
      invited speakers.
   - Prioritisation of the publication of articles in international journals and book chapters in peer-
      reviewed volumes linked, where appropriate, to international conferences.
   - Pre-publication peer review, prior to submission, of all publications (monographs, articles,
      chapters) with a focus on ensuring that they were: 1) as well-researched as possible; 2)

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       published in the most appropriate environment, balancing factors such as prestige, audience,
       interdisciplinarity and impact; 3) written in a clear and accessible style.

Our publications strategy has led to 8 monographs being published during the REF period, with a
number of other books due to be published from early 2021 onwards. In addition to this, staff have
published a total of 42 articles and 24 book chapters in the period.

Recruitment
Our recruitment strategy has been to continue to attract future leaders at early career stage,
particularly through Strathclyde’s Chancellor’s Fellows Scheme. We have demonstrated that History
provides a great environment for early career researchers to thrive and we focus on retaining these
high performing academics as part of our plan to strengthen our research depth and quality as well
as to ensure the long-term sustainability of the unit and the wider subject area. Further details can
be found in Section 2.

Supportive infrastructures
In order to facilitate the development of our staff, we have a range of supportive measures in place
at unit, school and faculty level that are fully described in Sections 2 and 3. These supportive
structures are provided in group settings, such as weekly seminars, and at an individual level,
including research conversations with Directors of Research, peer review of publications and funding
applications, and funding for activity including attendance at events and archival visits, as well as
seed funding for research projects.

Post Graduate Recruitment
The recruitment of postgraduate students is central to the development of our staff and is part of our
contribution to sustaining the research area through the development of new researchers. We have
supported recruitment in two major ways. Firstly, through expectation setting in relation to our staff
that supervision is an essential part of their role as academic staff and by providing them with
mechanisms to communicate their areas of research to interested students. Secondly, through the
targeting of a greater range of sources of funding for studentships in which we have been
increasingly successful as detailed in Section 2.

Impact Strategy
With its mission to be ‘a Place of Useful learning’, Strathclyde has always valued impactful research.
In REF2014, our future planning for impact was built around pooling collective experience and
examples of best practice with a big emphasis on cross institutional collaboration to generate impact
through the embedding of historians in more applied areas of research like engineering, statistics,
business and health. This has been facilitated at an Institutional level by the Strategic Research
Themes. At an individual level, the annual Accountability & Development Review (ADR) process
(see Section 2), includes Knowledge Exchange (KE) and KE can be recognised alongside research
in promotion cases. This stems from a recognition that KE is a key mechanism to produce impact.

At unit level we also recognise that public engagement is another mechanism for impact creation.
Following REF2014, a decision was taken that every member of staff in History should enhance the
public engagement element of their research as a means of fostering impact. Such engagement is
broadly interpreted in order to embrace a wide variety of potential interactions (media appearances,
public lectures, publications in popular journals such as The Conversation, school visits and so on).
Staff have also been encouraged to showcase their work through University initiatives such as
‘Images of Research’ and ‘Engage with Strathclyde’ (see Institutional statement). This has led to a
significant increase in outreach activities by all staff (see section 4), in addition to those outlined in
the Impact Case Studies. These activities have included teaching diplomats the value of diplomatic
history (Varley, Pastor-Castro), introducing the medical humanities to Scottish schools (Kelly and

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Newlands), and telling the public the story of controversial contraceptives (Olszynko-Gryn). The two
impact case studies chosen for submission are linked to the two history research centres
demonstrating the key role the centres play in providing a supportive context for impact development.

In future, we will continue to support all staff so that they can maximise the public engagement and
impact potential of their research. In particular, we will seek to enhance our historians’ interactions
with the culture and museums sector, and create further interdisciplinary synergies with colleagues
across the School of Humanities.

Open Access and Research Integrity
History aligns with university, faculty and school policy that requires, on acceptance for publication,
that staff deposit the author-accepted manuscripts in the institution’s repository. University and
School funding is available to support OA publications and the Director of Research (DOR) has
quarterly meetings with the Open Access Advocacy Librarian. This has resulted in 100% compliance
with the REF open access policy.

Additionally, the DOR briefs colleagues on OA debates, and our editorial interactions with scholarly
journals mean we are fully aware of the latest developments around ‘transformative journal’ status
and are involved in shaping current thinking. We are sympathetic to the AHRC’s view of the
‘significant social and economic benefits of Open Access’ and plan to increase the number of OA
articles/book chapters and, in particular, monographs in future. However, we are also aware that
there is an on-going debate, particularly in relation to long-form publishing and issues connected to
funding, peer review and quality assurance, and embargo periods.

The School is fully committed to observing research integrity principles, as set out in the University’s
Research Code of Practice and Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings, and
Universities UK’s Concordat to Support Research Integrity. The peer review process established to
review papers submitted for publication ensures that the research adheres to established principles
of honesty, rigour and transparency. All staff receive online training in research integrity as part of
the induction process and concerns about research integrity can be raised with the Associate
Principal (Research and Innovation).

The School has robust procedures around ethical review and accountability. Its Ethics Committee
(SEC; chair: Eisler), meets monthly to process applications, with applicants encouraged to view it as
an exercise in ‘reflexive imaginative empathy’. Applications are referred to the University Ethics
Committee in cases of high risk. All School research, including undergraduate and postgraduate
dissertation projects, is subject to these procedures. The oral history training offered by the SOHC,
which includes a section on ethics and integrity, was updated to include COVID-19 restrictions on
face-to-face research.

Future Strategy
Looking forward, our strategy is to maintain our focus on monographs of the highest quality,
published where possible by presses that will ensure the widest dissemination of our research. In
addition, we will maintain our emphasis on the highest quality articles and chapters. We will continue
to ensure and enhance quality by maintaining rigorous and supportive internal review processes led
by senior staff.

Our priorities will remain the same, but we will increasingly emphasise ECR career development and
promotion, international collaborations, public and policy engagement, and building capacity in the
history of science and technology and in oral history. The recent appointment of Bueltmann to a
Chair in International History is clear evidence of Strathclyde’s continued commitment to the


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
discipline and will further stimulate comparative approaches and the transnational turn in the
Scotland, Ireland and the World, and in the European and International History groups.


 2. People

Our staffing strategy for this period, articulated in REF2014, consisted of two core aims: to appoint
outstanding ECRs and to provide the necessary support mechanisms to maximise the potential of
new and existing staff. We have vigorously maintained and enhanced this approach, recruiting
strategically in order to grow and sustain research capacity.

Recruitment
Our focus has been to recruit ECRs via Strathclyde’s highly competitive 5-year Chancellor’s
Fellowship (CF) scheme, as well as to make robust business cases for lectureships, with all
appointments aligned to our research themes and centres. This strategy has led to the appointment
of 10 ECRs who, following a global search for excellence, have demonstrated a sense of the future
of their fields, identified key developments and emerging concerns, and shown how their work
engages with them. These ECRs are: Kelly (Lectureship then Senior Lectureship), Whelehan (CF),
Mawdsley (Lectureship, funded by a Wellcome Trust award), Olszynko-Gryn (CF), Eisler (CF),
Richardson (fixed-term lectureship then CF), Richert (Lectureship), Telepneva (Lectureship), Proctor
(3 year Wellcome Research Fellowship), Wilson (3 year Lectureship).

Staff Development & Support
Our support for staff is individualised based on the needs and ambitions of the researcher. We utilise
Strathclyde’s ADR system as a framework within which we can identify and discuss needs and plans.
These discussions are further supported by research conversations with the Director of Research.
While we utilise the training and development opportunities available through the Organisational
Staff Development Unit, we supplement this with local provision based on the needs of our staff.
This blend of institutional and local support is in evidence throughout our approach.

For example, the School of Humanities houses a weekly seminar, funded by the School’s R+D fund.
The seminar, currently run by Richardson, hosts a mixture of invited and internal speakers from
across the disciplines in the School, and therefore acts as a dynamic, interdisciplinary forum for all
staff in English and History. In addition, both Centres hold regular seminars and public lectures with
a mixture of internal and external speakers. For staff who have returned from study leave these
seminars offer the opportunity to test out new research and develop ideas for publication.

All staff are eligible to apply for funding (~£500/year) from the School of Humanities Staff
Development Fund. The Fund has supported archival visits, conference organisation, language
acquisition and software skills development. The fund is designed, above all, to support ECRs, but
offers assistance to all colleagues, particular those seeking initial seed-funding to advance a project
to a level whereby it is suitable for a major funding application. Colleagues in History also have
access to a Faculty Conference Fund (FCF), established in 2018. Staff in The Centre for the Social
History of Health and Healthcare (CSHHH) have access to additional funds (~£500/year) for archival
and conference trips.

Starting in 2020, staff with a track record of grant capture have been able to apply for a Faculty
Research Support Scheme to pay for a semester’s worth of research leave (or equivalent in research
assistance support) to develop a major grant application. Staff who win UKRI or EU funding also
benefit from a new Research Incentive Scheme, which sees the Faculty provide additional
teaching/administrative relief to grant holders proportionate to time spent on the grant. The scheme


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ensures that grant-holders have adequate time to fulfil their objectives, and has already benefited
Olszynko-Gryn.

We support our ECRs to develop in ways that suit their career ambitions. All ECRs select a mentor
within the unit and are able to seek additional mentorship outside their unit through the University’s
mentoring scheme. This support occurs formally through the ADR and promotion/probation
processes, but also through more informal research conversations with the DOR. While some have
focussed on obtaining grant funding (Olszynko-Gryn, Telepneva, Proctor and Kelly), others have
concentrated on public engagement (Richardson, Whelehan, Newlands), leadership (Kelly,
Newlands) and developing their supervisory skills (Whelehan, Newlands, Richardson, Kelly). In 2018
Kelly was promoted to SL, and all have been advised through conversations with mentors on
pathways to promotion. ECRs who want to develop their leadership skills are also welcome to join
the Faculty’s New Leaders Academy (NLA), which organises training and networking activities based
on members’ needs.

Strathclyde now has a ‘Teaching and Scholarship’ track that extends to Professorial level. Amongst
the history staff Williams has benefited from this provision, moving to a Teaching Fellowship in 2017,
subsequently promoted to a Senior Teaching Fellowship in 2019. History also has one Knowledge
Exchange Fellow, Pastor-Castro, among its permanent staff. In terms of senior appointments, Smith
was promoted from Senior Lecturer to Professor in 2016, while Bueltmann was appointed to a Chair
of International History in early 2020.

Our successful approach to career development is further evidenced by those staff who have moved
to senior positions in other institutions: Heimann to a Professorship at Cardiff University; Richert to
the George Urdang Chair at the University of Madison-Wisconsin; Cathcart to an Associate
Professorship at Stirling; Jessee to a Lord Kelvin Adam Smith Research Fellowship at Glasgow
University, and Mawdsley to a lectureship at Bristol University.

Research Students
History has a vibrant, cohesive and increasingly international postgraduate community, with students
from Bulgaria, China, Canada, Italy, the US, the UK and elsewhere. We increased the number of
external applicants for doctoral studentships from 2014, and nurtured Strathclyde-based students,
particularly those who joined us via Widening Access. The 31 PhD completions in this cycle were
funded as follows: AHRC (3), the ESRC (3), the Wellcome Trust (5), the Buffalo Bill Center of the
West (4), University Awards (9), self-funded (6), staff member (1).

Recruitment
PGR recruitment and supervision is central to the career planning of all staff in History. It is strongly
encouraged and supported for all our academics, is a key area of discussion at ADR, and is an
important element in relation to promotion. Colleagues’ individual web profiles give a direct indication
of areas in which they can offer supervision and we showcase current and past PGR students’
experiences. Staff are also encouraged to identify promising UG and MSc students from within
Strathclyde (Historical Studies; Health History; and Diplomacy and International Security), and assist
them to align their interests with our research clusters and secure funding. In 2019 this approach
was boosted by a Wellcome Trust Masters Award that brought 3 Wellcome Trust Masters
Studentships (matched by 3 additional Faculty studentships). We have clear and straightforward
website guidance for potential students.

A survey of PGR students and an analysis of application, offer and completion data identified no
consistent patterns of gender inequality emerging from this research and, encouragingly, our pipeline
data (showing proportions of female/male students at undergraduate, PGT and PGR levels) showed
improvement over the census period such that the ratios are now comparable across all levels.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Our approach has led to the recruitment of doctoral researchers from a full range of sources who
have both strengthened and broadened our research clusters. For instance, our relationship with the
Buffalo Bill Center of the West has added an American dimension to our International History cluster,
with 3 of the 4 doctoral researchers supervised by Ellis examining transnational themes. Similarly,
by examining topics ranging from diabetes and acne to allergies to animals, Smith’s 4 Wellcome
Trust-funded students have consolidated CSHHH’s position as a site for the history of chronic
disease. Kelly’s doctoral students (internally and Wellcome Trust-funded) have helped her establish
herself as an expert in gender and the history of sexuality.

We have also supported a very diverse cohort of doctoral researchers who face an array of
challenges. We have supported students in a variety of ways: through voluntary suspension,
switching to part-time, and routing them to Disability Services. Students have an interim and annual
review with supervisors (which involves a reviewer external to the supervisory team), which monitor
progress and identify training needs. From 2018, PhD students in Humanities have also benefitted
from the support of our Royal Literary Fund Fellow who works one-to-one with students to enhance
their writing and editing skills. The Graduate School gives access to shared study space with other
students from across the Faculty. They also have hot-desking space, bookable rooms, and a Faculty-
wide seminar programme that provides opportunities for enhancing interdisciplinary connections.

PGR Career Development
Strathclyde was the first UK university to create a mandatory PG Certificate in Researcher
Development for all doctoral researchers and is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Career
Development of Researchers. By completing the Strathclyde certificate, PGRs develop a wide range
of academic skills that are specific to their research programme and more generally applicable.
Gaining credits for a variety of academic activities, PGRs complete their work on each course with
a reflective essay that summarises their activities, their learning and identifies how they can develop
further. Supported by the PG Certificate training and encouraged by their supervisors, many of our
History PGRs have succeeded in publishing articles, chapters and books, and two have won
postgraduate prizes (e.g. the British Society for Paediatrics and Child Health’s Cadogan Prize).
PGRs are also encouraged to take up leadership opportunities that have included: running the SOHC
seminar series; organising the annual SOHC conference for oral history students; organising the
2015 ‘Health History in Action: The Society for the Social History of Medicine (SSHM) Conference
and Career Development Workshop’.

We strongly encourage our PGRs to develop a wide range of transferable skills that will help them
obtain employment. In particular, we have urged our PGRs to take up 3-month internships funded
by the SGSAH (Scottish Graduate School in Arts and Humanities) and the SGSSS (Scottish
Graduate School in the Social Sciences), and most have done so, successfully applying for and
completing positions with the Scottish Prison Service, the Scottish Government, the NHS, the
Festival of Political Science and other organisations. Strathclyde PGRs have been able to gain
valuable international opportunities, including taking up Wellcome Trust Shanghai Fellowships, a 12-
month research and teaching fellowship in Shanghai. We have also had collaborative doctoral
partnership studentships with the Imperial War Museum, the National Railway Museum and the
National Library of Scotland. Two of our PGRs have won Wellcome Trust Secondments to work at
the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology (POST), and the Science Museum.

Our focus on PGR career development has resulted in numerous career successes for graduates.
Highlights have included permanent and fixed-term academic posts (Strathclyde, Glasgow, Bangor,
Newcastle, Northumbria, Nottingham Trent, the Open University), posts with the Scottish
Government, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the finance industry and Glasgow City College,
and promotions for graduates already in employment (National Museum of the American Indian).

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Equality and Diversity
The School recognises the need to respect principles of equality and diversity and is committed to
the full implementation of all University policies in this area. In addition to the Equality and Diversity
Policy itself, these also include the Equality and Diversity Strategy Committee Policy on LGBT+
students and staff, and the University’s Disability Policy. The School of Humanities successfully
applied for Bronze Athena Swan status in April 2020. The increased awareness of gender issues
has led to changes in the School, including: better support for parental leave; more inclusive timing
of research seminars; gender-balancing of appointment committees. In developing our 2020
application, we undertook our most extensive survey yet on staff and student experiences. The data
gathered through this process has underpinned the development of our equalities action plan,
including the formation of the School’s Gender Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (GEDI) sub-committee.

This male/female ratio for category A staff in this unit is 10:8, with the recent appointment of
Bueltmann meaning that we are now close to a balanced gender profile. Of the 45 outputs submitted
to REF2021, 60% are by male staff and 40% by female. This information will be considered by GEDI
to help inform our future planning and support for female academics. GEDI has taken the lead in
advancing School and Faculty-level discussions about the differential impacts of COVID-19 on the
impact of research careers and opportunities.

We aim to ensure that all staff are able to attend conferences and other development activities.
Conference funding priority is given to ECRs. We recognise that some staff have caring or other
responsibilities that may impede conference attendance and, where possible, provide support to
help overcome this. In 2016, we implemented the University’s new Family-Friendly Research Leave
Policy. We also support phased returns to work for colleagues who have experienced long-term
sickness. We have ensured gender balance applies to the leads of the Research Centres (Kelly and
McIvor) and in 2021 the current DOR for history will be succeeded by Bueltmann.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Following the success of REF2014, where we generated approximately £1 million in research
income, History’s strategy in this area has been to encourage and support ECRs through their first
funding bids, and identify and nurture larger projects suitable for major bids by more senior members
of staff. In both cases, we have used the experience and the institutional memory derived from
previous successful applications via, in particular, the two research centres (CSHHH and SOHC).
This strategy has proven successful in increasing our levels of research funding to over £3m in the
period (with an increase in the average research income per year from £189k in REF014 to £438k
in REF2021).

As part of our drive to encourage all staff to apply for research funding, we developed the ‘grant
culture’ in a number of ways: research conversations with the DoR have helped to identify potential
targets at an early stage, while grant seminars (for example on ‘How to get your first grant’) have
brought together colleagues who have shared their experiences and inspired colleagues to apply.
Additionally, the Faculty Editor runs regular grant-writing workshops and provides expert input on an
individual basis. Support is also available to ECRs through the New Leader’s Academy. The Faculty
Sabbatical Scheme, piloted in 2019-2020, provides additional support for colleagues working on
large applications.

Funding applications are the result of an on-going collaborative process involving the applicant(s), a
senior member of staff who offers feedback at key stages in the development of the application, and
members of RaKET (the Faculty’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Team). Colleagues in
RaKET assist with the financial, planning and administrative dimensions of the project. RaKET also

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
provides applicants with examples of previous successful applications and helps colleagues to make
contacts within the Faculty who are able to share their expertise.

Each application goes through a review process, and cannot be submitted until this has taken place.
The level of review varies, with applications for Fellowships and Large Research Grants subject to
Faculty scrutiny. The various layers of support, at subject, school and Faculty level means our
success rate has risen considerably – to the extent that in excess of 50% of our applications have
been successful during the census period.

By far the biggest funder of our research has been the Wellcome Trust, with several major awards
secured by staff in the CSHHH. Highlights include: Mills - Investigator Award for The Asian Cocaine
Crisis: Pharmaceuticals consumers and control in South & East Asia, c 1900-1945 (£1.1 million,
2016-2022); Kelly – Research Fellowship for Contraception and Modern Ireland, c.1922-92
(£265,166, 2016-2020); Smith - Research Studentships for A Face to Die For: Acne, Accutane and
the Quest for Perfect Skin. 1950s-present and A Spoonful of Sugar: Dietary Advice and Diabetes in
Britain and the United States, 1945-2015 (total c. £170,000); Mills (PI) and Kelly (CI) for their
collaborative Knowledge Exchange project ‘Building shared futures: co-developing medical
humanities in China and the UK’ (£922,318); McIvor - Programme Award (CI) for ‘Disability and
Industrial Society: A Comparative Cultural History of British Coalfields, 1780-1948’ (£972, 501, which
ended in 2016); Cooke - Wellcome Trust Research Bursary for his work on 18th/19th century Italian
medical history (£22,924).

There have been a number of successful applications for AHRC funding including: Smith -
Leadership Fellow for An Ounce of Prevention: A History of Social Psychiatry, 1939-Present
(£148,451, 2014-2017); Pastor-Castro (CI) - standard grant for The Weight of the Past in Franco-
British Relations and Olszynko-Gryn (PI) – AHRC/DFG award for Risky hormones, pregnant patients
and the contested science of birth defects: the rise and fall of hormone pregnancy tests in the FRG
and UK, 1950-81 (£270,017, 2020-2023. McIvor (PI) - standard grant for Masculinities Challenged?
Gender Identities In The Wartime Reserved Occupations In Britain, 1939-1945 (c. £230,000, 2013
to 2016).

History has also collaborated with colleagues across the University in the ‘One Ocean Hub’, leading
to the largest grant ever awarded to the University. Wilson is a Co-I on this £18.1m GCRF-funded
transdisciplinary project focusing on integrated and inclusive oceanic governance. His part of the
project focuses on providing an historical perspective on oceanic governance in Ghana and the
Solomon Islands between the seventeenth and nineteenth centuries.

In addition to the major awards, we have also continued to encourage colleagues to apply for small
pots of funding from other sources. ECRs, in particular, are encouraged to apply initially for small
awards to funders such as the British Academy and the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of
Scotland. Successes in this area include: Richardson - The First Health Food Empire: Eustace Miles
and Life Reform, 1900-1930 (BA); Jessee - Rwandan Intimacies in Historical Perspective: A Scoping
Project (Carnegie); Cathcart - Archipelagic insular communities and the early modern British state
(Carnegie); Whelehan - Diaspora, Colonialism, Anarchism and the Transnational Life of an Irish
Doctor in South America (Carnegie); Kelly - Abortion activism in the Republic of Ireland in the 1980s
and 1990s. The British Academy partially funds Telepneva’s post-doctoral award for her work on
Winning the Development Endgame: The Political Economy of Soviet Cold War in Africa, 1974-1991,
and supported Kelly’s application for Professor Wendy Kline’s Visiting Fellowship in Psychedelic
Birth: R.D. Laing and the Transformation of Psychiatry.

Under its ‘Working Lives’ programme, the SOHC has also brought a large number of small awards
from a wide range of funders from UK industry, commerce and public corporations such as Diageo

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Scotland Limited, Guinness Storehouse Limited, Inverhouse Distillers, Irish Distillers Limited and
Morrison Bowmore Distillers. McIvor is currently a PI in a new East Ayrshire Council/Historic
Environment Scotland funding bid on an oral history project on the ‘lost mining villages’ of East
Ayrshire and CI on a major transnational funding bid for $2.5m on a Canadian SSHRC project on
the politics of deindustrialisation.

In addition to our base in the Lord Hope Building (refurbished in the REF2014 period). Staff also
have access to the Scottish Oral History Centre’s (SOHC) a designated space at Strathclyde which
facilitates a range of activities, particularly those related to public engagement and impact. There is
a training/teaching room with a capacity of 35; a research room with hot-desk space for five
researchers and a designated archive and technical centre, with space for visitor access to the
SOHC oral history archive. The Centre also has state-of-art recording equipment available to its
researchers to facilitate broadcast quality interview recording. GDPR compliant ‘model’ informed
consent and recording agreement forms are also made available to the research community via the
SOHC website. The SOHC has a major digitised archive of oral history recordings going back to the
1980s, accessible to the public and managed by the University Archives and Special Collections.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Staff in history have contributed to the wellbeing and sustainability of the subject and maintained and
enhanced their engagement with the wider community through a range of interconnected activities:
collaborations (including conference hosting and organisation), at local, national and international
level; membership of professional organisations (including executive roles); editorial work (including
editorship of journals); peer-review for journals and publishers, as well as UK and international grant
awarding bodies; advisory roles; and a range of outreach activities, including media input, designed
to raise the profile of historical studies to a broader public. These various forms of collaboration and
contribution form part of History’s over-arching strategy (see Section 1). The following are selective,
but indicative, of the types of contribution made by historians at Strathclyde.

Collaborations
Members of the CSHHH Glasgow (Mills and Kelly) took the lead in building the Medical Humanities
China UK (MHCUK) Consortium, together with partners at Fudan University, Shanghai University,
the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, and Manchester University. The Consortium supports
Chinese Masters students to study at the Centre, and at Manchester University. Postdoctoral Fellows
in the CSHHH Glasgow spend up to nine months building the research environment in China.

The SOHC has provided support for and promoted oral history in the academic, as well as the wider,
community, notably through collaboration in Heritage Lottery Funding projects and with the heritage
sector. This enables staff and PGR students to become involved in co-production research
techniques with ‘citizen researchers’. The SOHC also hosts other workshops and conferences
including witness seminars and themed conferences (such as on gender in 2016), and hosted the
Oral History Society Regional Networkers Conference in 2017. The centre has a transatlantic
collaborative relationship with the Centre for Oral History and Digital Storytelling, Concordia
University, Montreal. This collaboration includes a joint summer advanced oral history training
institute, which ran in Montreal in 2016 and at the SOHC in 2018. As noted in Section 3, History at
Strathclyde also hosts the SOHC’s facilities and online help to support their use by the wider research
community.

Cooke is a founder member of Resnet, a collaboration between Strathclyde, Glasgow Caledonian
University and the University of Cardiff, which brings together a European-wide network of historians
and museum practitioners with interests in the representation of the European Resistance movement

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in museums and public spaces. Resnet held its founding conference in May 2019. He also
collaborates, as a member of the Doctoral College of the Universities of Florence and Siena, as a
co-supervisor for a PhD in medical history; Eisler works closely with the Society for the History of
Technology, and has participated in workshops at the Huntingdon Library and CALTECH. Ellis and
Smith collaborate with the University of Arizona in the joint supervision of PhD students in
genealogical studies; Kelly and Richardson are Associate members of the Scottish Centre for
Victorian and Neo Victorian studies, an interdisciplinary collaboration between Scottish Universities;
McIvor has worked closely with the ‘European Labour History Network’ (keynote address at Paris
conference, November 2017). He collaborates, via a co-tutelle arrangement, with the University of
Paris (Sciences Po) as a joint supervisor for a PhD on music cultures in the British coalfields since
1945. Newlands is a member of the ‘Second World War Research Group’, an international group of
scholars established in 2014 and focused on supporting the study of the Second World War; Pastor
Castro and Varley held a Royal Society of Edinburgh Research Network Award on ‘Britain and
France in World War Two’ from 2016-2018 which brought together officials from the foreign policy
community; Telepneva has contributed to two international collaborations: 1) an EU-funded research
project ‘Amílcar Cabral, from Political History to Politics of Memory’, Faculdade de Ciências Sociais
e Humanas Portugal and 2) the AHRC-funded project ‘Socialism Goes Global: Cold War
Connections Between the “Second” and “Third Worlds” 1945-1991’; Whelehan has collaborated over
the long-term with ‘Ireland House’ at New York University, with whom he co-organised a public
symposium on Irish historiography held at the Royal Irish Academy in Dublin. He is the organiser of
a network involving musicians, the Scottish Conservatoire and academics at the University of
Limerick which had its inaugural meeting in April 2020; Wilson is one of a large number of Co-Is,
from a wide range of disciplines, involved in the ‘One Ocean Hub’ project which runs from February
2019 to May 2024; Young has continued his collaboration with the Fulbright Commission, and co-
organised the activities of the Fulbright Scotland Summer Institute from 2014-2020.

Conferences/seminars
McIvor organised a conference on ‘Coal miners’ bodies, occupational health and the environment’
at Shanghai University in April 2018 (funded by the Wellcome Trust). The conference led to a special
issue of the Chinese academic journal, Journal of Social Medicine and Health (June 2019). In 2019
the CSHHH co-organised, with Shanghai University, the bi-annual conference of the Alcohol and
Drugs in History Society (ADHS). This was the first time that the ADHS had organized the event in
Asia, and Strathclyde was the lead institution on the Wellcome Grant (c. £40,000 40k). Pastor Castro
has organised or co-organised a number of international conferences: (with Varley) conference on
‘France and the Second World War in Global Perspective, 1919-1945’ at Strathclyde (2-3 July 2015);
colloquium on ‘Britain and France in World War Two’ at the British Ambassador’s residence in Paris
(16 October 2015); the ‘British Embassies in Crisis’ conference at the British Academy (9 June 2016);
(with Varley) the Society for the Study of French History 31st annual conference at Strathclyde (26-
27 June 2017). Telepneva was a co-organiser of a conference on the ‘Secret Struggle for the Global
South’ (Warwick - September 2018). Young was co-organiser of the conference ‘Information and
power in the workings of parliamentary and representative institutions, 15th- 21st centuries’, held at
Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona (June 2017), which led to a special issue of Parliaments,
Estates and Representation.

Professional Organisations
Cooke is Chair of the Association for the Study of Modern Italy (ASMI); Ellis was Chair of the Scottish
Association for the Study of America (SASA); Kelly was recently appointed to the Executive
Committee of the Society for the for Social History of Medicine; Pastor-Castro has been from 2017
the Secretary of the British International History Group; Smith served on the Executive of the Society
for the Social History of Medicine; Varley is treasurer of the Society for the Study of French History;
Wilson is a council member of the Economic and Social History Society of Scotland, and a Board


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Member of the Centre for Port and Maritime History. Young is on the board of the International
Commission for the History of Representative and Parliamentary Institutions (ICHRPI).

Editorships & Editorial boards
Cooke was co-editor of Modern Italy until 2015 and is co-editor of Passato e presente; Finlay is co-
editor of the ‘British Identities since 1707’ series; Smith is co-editor of the Palgrave series ‘Mental
Health in Historical Perspective’; Young is editor of Parliaments, Estates and Representation,
published by Routledge. Members of staff in history are on the editorial boards of the following
journals: Études écossaises; Georgia Historical Quarterly; Labour History Review; Military History;
Rivista storica del socialismo.

Peer review for monographs/journals
Colleagues in history have undertaken peer reviewing for: Ashgate; Cambridge University Press;
Canadian Medical Association Journal; Contemporary British History; Contemporary European
History; Edinburgh University Press; English Historical Review; European History Quarterly; Gender
and History; Georgia Historical Quarterly; Historical Research; Journal of the Northern Renaissance;
Irish Historical Studies; Modern and Contemporary France; Oxford University Press; Palgrave
McMillan (UK and USA); Scottish Historical Review; Toronto University Press.

Peer review for research councils/UK based charities
Cathcart has peer reviewed for the AHRC and the Carnegie Trust; Cooke has been a panel member
for the Carnegie Trust, as well as a member of the AHRC peer review college; Kelly has peer-
reviewed for the Carnegie Trust, the AHRC and the ESRC. Mills chaired the AHRC Collaborative
Doctoral Awards panel in 2014 and 2015, the Wellcome Trust Expert Review Group for early career
funding schemes from 2015 to 2019, and is currently a peer reviewer for the Wellcome Trust and
the Irish Research Council, and a member of the ‘la Caixa’ Foundation Research Team of Reviewers
for Health Research. Newlands has peer reviewed for the AHRC and the Wellcome Trust; Smith has
participated in peer review for the AHRC, ESRC and Wellcome Trust (panel member) and was on
the Prize Jury for the AHRC/Wellcome Trust Health Humanities Medal. He has also participated in
peer review for the French and German Research Councils (CNRS and DFG); Varley is a member
of the AHRC peer review college.

Advisory roles
Finlay is an advisor to the ‘Embers of Empire’ project, housed at the University of Copenhagen;
McIvor is on the advisory board of the AHRC-funded project ‘On Behalf of the People: Work,
Community, and Class in the British Coal Industry 1947-1994’ (2017-2020). Mills is a member of the
Advisory Board on the Wellcome Trust-funded project ‘What’s at stake in the fake? Indian
pharmaceuticals, African markets and global health’. Pastor Castro acted as an advisor in 2019 to
the British Embassy in Paris for its ‘Liberation of Paris’ event. Varley sat on the Committee
established by ‘Souvenir Français’ to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the Franco Prussian
War.

Outreach/Public engagement
Eisler has engaged with the wider scientific community in his article ‘Cold War computers, California
supercars, and the pursuit of lithium-ion power’, published in the trade journal Physics Today
(September 2016). He has also published an article in The Conversation on Bolivian lithium reserves;
Kelly has given public lectures on reproductive health history at the Glasgow Women’s Library;
McIvor was a historical consultant and expert witness on a filmed documentary series on the history
of the European working class, directed by Stan Neumann (ICI Films, 2020). He was interviewed for
‘France Culture’ on 11 Sept 2018 on the health impacts of the end of coal mining in the UK; Newlands
(along with Kelly) has worked with Glasgow schools as part of the MUSE project, specifically with
pupils in the first three years of senior study (S1-S3) in order to raise awareness of the discipline of

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Medical History; Richardson was chosen by the BBC in 2018 as one of its New Generation Thinkers.
She has given many public talks, including one on the diet guru Eustace Hamilton recorded for an
episode of the Radio 3 programme ‘The Essay’. Telepneva was interviewed in a podcast hosted by
the University of Pittsburgh on the relationship between Soviet and Warsaw Pact policy and activities
in African anti-colonial struggles. The podcast, entitled ‘Soviet Intelligence and African National
Liberation’, is available on Spotify; Varley was a panellist in BBC radio 4s ‘In our Time’ broadcast on
‘The Siege of Paris’ (16 Jan 2020), writes a blog on French history and contributed to The
Conversation in 2019 with an article on UK/French relations. She appears in a French/German
collaborative documentary of the Franco Prussian War, entitled 1870-1871, which was screened in
2020; Whelehan was involved in a series of public events in 2016 to mark the anniversary of the
1916 Easter Rising. His involvement in a round-table discussion on ‘Scotland and the Global Irish
Revolution’ (May 2019) is available as a podcast hosted by the History Ireland website. Since 2014,
he has been the organiser of a series of screenings of films related to Irish history; Wilson has been
interviewed by the BBC, CNN and Netflix for documentaries about piracy and has written for History
Today and the National on related issues.




                                                                                              Page 14
