Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham
 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

   1.1.    Overview

Nottingham University Business School (hereafter NUBS) is one of the largest comprehensive
Business Schools in the U.K. offering a dynamic research environment with a primary mission to
make a positive impact on society through responsible management and business. NUBS’
research and knowledge exchange strategy has been refined since 2014 to focus on strengthening
research intensity and performance, and to reflect three core values illustrative of the work we do:
our research is transformative, collaborative and responsible. NUBS’ strategy has evolved
synergistically with those of the University of Nottingham (UoN) to create a world-leading, inclusive
environment that facilitates the achievements of researchers at all career stages, which enables
interdisciplinary and mission-led research with far-reaching societal impact (see UoN Institutional
Environment Statement, section 2.1).

NUBS has been on a growth trajectory, leading to investment in people, a reorganised and
expanded unit structure providing strength and flexibility to respond to emerging business research
opportunities and global challenges, whilst consolidating core distinctive research capabilities. The
COVID-19 crisis has presented continuity challenges and risks, placing pressure on internally
funded research time, with potential effects on specific groups of researchers. At a strategic level,
we continue to monitor these challenges to our research community. The Schools’ financial
sustainability ensures stability of resources to support researchers and groups to maintain the
health of research and knowledge exchange. Indeed, NUBS’ ability to produce high-quality
research, grant capture and impact has not been compromised, since our researchers are leading
projects that will contribute to a better understanding of the effects of the pandemic on work,
employment and impacts on businesses and the economy. Our commitment to fostering an
inclusive research culture based on diversity and comprehensiveness, outlined in our REF 2014
statement, is embedded throughout our research strategy to generate relevant research for
practitioners, policy-makers and society.

   1.2.    Review of REF 2014 research priorities and highlights of achievements

REF 2014 objectives and planned activities (in italics) have been met as follows:

Recognising, promoting and continuing to invest in those research areas for which the School has
earned an international reputation, whilst remaining alert and responsive to emergent research
themes and agendas.

NUBS’ research has been reorganised around a triple-helix research structure comprising
academic departments, research centres and clusters to enable connectivity and collaboration, and
to optimise support structures for research and knowledge exchange in cognate research themes
(see section 1.4). NUBS has continued to invest in its research centres as primary drivers of
research grant income and impact. The Haydn Green Institute (HGI) has consolidated its
reputation as the U.K.’s leading research and education hub for entrepreneurship and innovation,
delivering real-world impact through support for the creation of hundreds of entrepreneurial new
start-up businesses, and through its Ingenuity and Yes! programmes. The latest Higher Education
Business and Community Interaction Survey figures (for 2018/19) placed UoN as first nationally for
the number of social enterprises established and third nationally for the total turnover of active
graduate start-ups, totalling £83.5 million of economic impact.

A significant area of investment in new research capacity has been the establishment of the Neo-
Demographic Lab (N/LAB), an interdisciplinary centre of excellence in data analytics, led by
Professor Andrew Smith. This centre provides a dedicated lab resource space and staff to conduct
research on behavioural summarisation, and descriptive and predictive modelling techniques via

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
novel computational methods. This team’s work has informed consumer insight in the U.K.,
transport and infrastructure policy and development in Tanzania, produced rich data on and insight
into modern slavery, and led to a step-change in our understanding of food poverty and waste
reduction in the U.K.

Further to renewed investment in research and teaching staff in banking and financial services
leading to a new department, NUBS launched the Global Centre for Banking and Financial
Innovation (GCBFI) led by Professor Meryem Duygen to leverage the international reach of the
research and reputation emerging in innovation in Fintech across our campuses in the U.K., China
and Malaysia.

Growing talent and developing capacity across the range of business and management disciplines
by refining and increasing our scholarship provision and portfolio of staff development support.

NUBS has significantly developed its research capacity over the assessment period by investing in
people across the full breadth of business and management disciplines. The School has promoted
24 research and teaching (R&T) staff over the REF period, and the unit has expanded its R&T
faculty base to 137 staff (134.7 FTE, from 89 returned in REF 2014, including 15 new hires since
2018. 54% of staff returned to this unit are senior researchers, including 32% at full Professor level.
The School has recruited teaching and learning academics (T&L) for the first time (including nine
Professors of Practice), taking its total academic staff number to 189. Yet, with 76.5% staff on R&T
or research contracts, NUBS retains a strong research focus. T&L staff may apply for contract
change to an R&T track and receive support through allocated research time and financial support.
This growth strategy has enabled NUBS to maintain and enhance the comprehensiveness and
diversity of research and impact. The School is financially very stable, which allows NUBS to
continually invest in its research capacity and support.

Offering a dynamic, stimulating and supportive environment for research.

Section 2 and 3 outlines how NUBS’ research culture has embedded inclusivity, ambition,
openness, fairness and respect, in line with UoN’s values
(https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/strategy/values.aspx) to enable everyone to maximise their
individual and collective potential. NUBS has made important improvements to its Doctoral training
programme over recent years, enhancing the quality of training, increasing the range of
opportunities, and securing a higher number of prestigious scholarships and awards through
various Doctoral Training Partnerships. The School has continued to provide tailored support to its
early-career researchers (ECRs), in line with the University’s certification in HR Excellence in
Research and full commitment to the implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers (see Institutional Statement section 3.1).

Actively promoting the importance of interdisciplinarity and sharing good practice in the
development and delivery of cross-disciplinary research.

The School has consolidated its reputation for interdisciplinary research and a spirit of
collaboration in line with the UoN strategy (see Institutional Statement 4.c). Researchers make
active inputs to other disciplines through contributions to challenge-led, transdisciplinary models of
the university (see Institutional Statement 2.1.a). For example, a group of seven researchers
working in sustainable development with a focus on China contribute to a new submission for UoN
to UoA 22, Anthropology and Development Studies. NUBS’ origins in finance and business
economics continue to yield collaboration and, therefore, seven researchers undertaking work in
industrial economics, banking and behavioural economics within the School of Economics
contribute to the Business and Management submission. NUBS provides an enabling environment
for staff to develop interdisciplinary research and to promote the accessibility of their research
findings (section 3). Researchers contributed 295 interdisciplinary outputs during the assessment
period, and of the 337 outputs submitted for consideration, 72 (21%) are interdisciplinary (section
1.4).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Generating and disseminating research which is academically excellent, and which is informed by
and relevant to communities beyond the purely academic. Ensuring that researchers are fully
informed of the evolving impact agenda and supported in responding to its requirements.

The unit has submitted 336 outputs (total includes one double-weighted), as required, representing
research produced by 155 people. Figure 1 shows the numbers of outputs submitted by gender
and department for 137 researchers (309 outputs, the remaining 28 attributed to researchers who
generated output during their employment at NUBS).




Figure 1: Composition of returned outputs by gender, interdisciplinary and department.

However, this represents a small proportion of the output produced during the assessment period,
which comprises 1,233 items (see Figure 2, which also indicates 121 co-authored pieces amongst
NUBS researchers). This does not include outputs produced by people who were employed but left
during the period. NUBS makes major contributions to academic research in entrepreneurship,
innovation, corporate responsibility and governance, management, marketing and consumer
behaviour, operations, logistics and supply chain management, and tourism (see Figure 19, page
31).




Figure 2: Total outputs produced by current researchers in NUBS

                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

NUBS has continued to support the generation and dissemination of research through the most
appropriate channels and fora. We are committed to principles of Open Research. 96% of
submitted outputs are compliant with Open Access requirements, and authors have lodged eight
items of open data.

In an era of emerging debate about adaptations required to mitigate future climate change, it is no
longer acceptable to promote dissemination solely through international academic conferences.
NUBS has provided academics with greater flexibility in deciding how best to utilise their research
funding support, which can now be spent on data collection and research itself, including research
assistants, in addition to conference attendance (to which it was previously limited). Over the REF
period, the School has invested over £1.25m in research and conference funding (see section 3)
and has increased the annual allowance for research development and conference funding to
£3000 per person.

NUBS research strives for relevance to a wide range of stakeholders. Research administration was
restructured to include ‘Knowledge Exchange’ during this accreditation period, with the aim of
increasing the impact of the School’s research (see section 3).

The unit submits nine Impact Case Studies:

   1. Inspiring Science and Engineering Researchers: Entrepreneurial Career Development and
      Economic Impact from the YES! Programme (Professor Mosey, HGI)
   2. Informing the Policy and Practice of Safer Hospital Discharge (Dr Bishop, Professor
      Waring, Organisational Behaviour/CHILL)
   3. Neodemographics – Informing UN Sustainable Development Goals via “Big” Consumer
      Data and AI Techniques (Dr Goulding, Marketing/N/LAB)
   4. Reducing the Risk of Labour Exploitation in High-Risk UK Sectors (Dr Trautrims, Professor
      Chesney, Rights Lab/OMIS)
   5. Informing Policy Development to Promote Employee Well-being and Organisational
      Performance, in Europe and Beyond (Dr Jain, OB/HRM)
   6. Improving Medicines Adherence in Chronic Illness (Professor Waring, Organisational
      Behaviour/CHILL)
   7. Improving Governmental Responses to Modern Slavery Risk in Supply Chains (Dr
      Trautrims, Rights Lab/OMIS)
   8. Advancing Trade Facilitation: Informing Policy, Developing Understanding and Facilitating
      International Trade (Dr Grainger, OMIS)
   9. Reducing Food Waste and Food Insecurity Through Computational Social Science (Dr
      Harvey, Professor Smith, Marketing/N/LAB)
In addition to these specific cases, researchers across NUBS have been very active in ensuring
their research has societal and economic impact. To enhance gender diversity in our impact
activities, and to more effectively realise world-leading impact, in 2018 NUBS revised its impact
strategy, appointed a full-time Impact Officer to support a more interventionist approach to impact
development. This appointment, together with IAA funding, has nurtured and supported impact
activity, which will also bear fruit for REF 2028. Section 2, 3 and 4 outlines how this strategy has
made progress towards the development of a more diverse cohort of researchers poised to deliver
transformative impact over the coming years.

   1.3.    NUBS’ research and knowledge exchange strategy 2018-2021

The School’s vision is “…to shape the future of responsible business and management in an
increasingly inter-connected world”. Our goal is to conduct rigorous and relevant research that
influences the discipline and practice of business and management. This is central to the School’s
current research strategy (2018-2021) which aims “to foster the realisation of transformative,
world class research and knowledge exchange that promotes innovative, responsible and
sustainable approaches to global management, business and finance. This is achieved by a

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
commitment to developing and nurturing a research culture based on excellence, inclusion and
diversity, and through support for collaborative, transdisciplinary research and a partnership
approach…”

NUBS research is transformative in that it makes a positive contribution to management
practices, policy and society, often in conjunction with the achievement of Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs). For example, research drawing on ‘big’ consumer and citizen data
and innovations in statistical modelling applied in East Africa has contributed to perinatal mortality
assessment in Zanzibar, transport infrastructure and CO 2 reduction in Tanzania. Research on
organisational communication and collaboration strategies in healthcare management settings has
underpinned National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines and improved
safety in hospital patient discharge, regionally and nationally.

NUBS research is responsible where it tackles challenge-led social and environmental issues
facing business and management nationally and internationally. Responsible management issues
are central to the International Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility (ICCSR), where research
has examined human rights and labour exploitation, sustainable finance and supply chains as well
as corporate responsibility and governance. However, responsible business research extends
across the business school community. For example, Dr Alex Trautrims has been supported
through a 70% secondment (2018-22) to the UoN Rights Lab Beacon, enabling him to lead
multinational research that has shaped private and public sector responses to the problem of
modern slavery in supply chains.

NUBS research is collaborative, built on interdisciplinary partnerships. The School’s strategy is
based on aligning priorities with national and international funding opportunities, supporting
engagement with the UoN ecosystem and leveraging our global footprint. NUBS researchers
engage in cross-disciplinary projects that integrate innovative and responsible approaches in a
wide range of contexts. For example, Dr Muthuri’s multidisciplinary project to enable sustainable,
small-scale artisanal mining in Kenya involves collaboration with local partners in industry and
education. The project is funded by the GCRF (£217,000) to develop policy, create local strategies
and build capacity through action workshops and an exhibition. Dr Muthuri was supported with
study leave to lead this project. NUBS’ impact strategy is based on building partnerships with
industry, the public sector and other civil society stakeholders, engaging with interdisciplinary
groups to ensure research makes a positive and sustained contribution to major challenges facing
business, economy and society.

   1.4.    Unit structure

The School’s expanded provision now comprises seven Departments and one Research Institute
(Figure 3, dotted lines are for illustration purposes). Departments were reorganised in 2018 around
cognate domains constituting research communities of discipline-based specialists. The previous
Management Division was split to differentiate a growing Organisational Behaviour and Human
Resource Management grouping with those working in Strategy and International Business
research. Industrial Economics was divided to create a separate Finance, Risk and Banking
department. Five Research Centres are now administratively organised within Departments,
primarily relating to disciplinary areas, although staff may affiliate with Research Centres
independently of their departmental role.

In addition, there are two geographically based informal groupings of researchers (China and
Africa), working on development and sustainability management research in these regions. Staff
are encouraged to contribute to UoN’s interdisciplinary research ecosystem in the five ‘Beacons of
Excellence’ and numerous Interdisciplinary Research Clusters. This revised structure allows for
greater coherence amongst researchers but also provides the necessary flexibility to facilitate
cross-disciplinary interaction and collaboration.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 3: NUBS unit structure.

   1.4.1. Accounting

   •   Leading research group working in corporate accountability, taxation and market-based
       accounting (see Figure 4).
   •   Produced influential work on corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and
       business ethics.

Research is largely organised around three themes: firstly, corporate governance and
accountability, where research has focused on the drivers of good corporate governance in weak
institutional settings (Professor Adegbite’s award winning paper based on Nigeria for example).
Secondly, market-based accounting, for example managerial compensation, ownership and boards
of directors. Thirdly, business law and taxation, including transfer pricing, tax treaties and tax
avoidance, where, for example, research produced by Professor Frecknall-Hughes is shaping the
tax narrative within accounting discourse, and has been cited in the Office of Tax Simplification
report Taxation and life events: simplifying tax for individuals.

Significant achievements include Professor Adegbite’s research on ‘Africapitalism’ as co-
investigator through the Tony Elemelu Foundation (£310,000), featured in the Financial Times, and
Professor Frecknall-Hughes’ work as evaluator on the ‘Digital Tax Financial Capability’ project
(£163,400). Frecknall-Hughes also produced a report on the tax implications of Scottish
Independence or Further Devolution for the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and on
the tax problems of older people, and until 2018 chaired the Tax Research Network, the U.K.’s
leading multidisciplinary tax research organisation.




                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 4: Outputs produced - Accounting.

   1.4.2. Finance, Risk and Banking

   •   New Departmental grouping of researchers working in banking and financial innovation,
       including two members of the School of Economics (see Figure 5).
   •   Contributing to the emerging agendas around financial technology innovation.
Research is concentrated in the areas of banking, financial regulation, risk management and
financial econometrics, with notable contributions on banking regulation and supervision, efficiency
and productivity in banking, corporate governance, and financial econometrics. The team has
strong links with central banks and policy-makers.

Significant contributions include Professor Banerji’s systemic study on the process and impact of
financial market reforms in India funded by the International Growth Centre. Professor Duygun
leads the ESRC IAA-funded UoN Fintech Research Network. She is also founding president of the
International Finance and Banking Society (IFABS) and a leading researcher on banking, Fintech
and Islamic finance. Professor Benos joined in 2019 from his previous position as a senior
economist in the Markets Infrastructure Directorate at the Bank of England. His highly influential
paper “Centralized Trading, Transparency and Interest Rate Swap Market Liquidity: Evidence from
the Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act” in the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
has been cited in Congressional testimony in the United States, as well as by the Financial Stability
Board, the European Securities and Markets Authority and the Bank of England.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 5: Outputs produced - FRB.

Global Centre for Banking and Financial Innovation (GCBFI)

The GCBFI (formerly the Centre for Risk, Banking and Financial Services) is a global research
centre of excellence, established in November 2019, with links between NUBS’ campuses in China
and Malaysia and the U.K. The Centre’s vision is to deliver long-term impact through engagement
with private-sector and public-sector stakeholders with a global reach and an interdisciplinary
approach in the areas of risk, banking and financial innovation. The Centre comprises more than
20 researchers who have led research in modelling banks, financial industries and markets,
primarily related to Asian countries, including Indonesia, South Korea, Hong Kong and Vietnam
(Professor Simper). However, the Centre nurtures emerging leaders in research on finance and
financial innovation, game theory and behavioural finance (e.g. Drs Bitar, Barakat and Fiaschetti).
The Centre has attracted collaborative Newton and BEIS funding (Professor Duygun and Professor
Xu of Fudan University) in ‘Insurtech’ innovation (£64,000).


   1.4.3. The Haydn Green Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (HGI)

   •   World-leading centre of entrepreneurship education and research in entrepreneurship and
       innovation, comprising nine researchers (see Figure 6).
   •   Develops talent, employing Drs Carter, Lamb, O’Neill and Treanor after their PhDs with the
       Institute.

Significant achievements include research on developing entrepreneurial competences among
STEMM ECRs to support career and economic development (see YES! impact case) with over
2,000 ECRs having participated and developing impact-based student entrepreneurship across
faculties to solve societal problems. Professor Marlow’s research on empowering micro-
entrepreneurship amongst Middle Eastern women refugees has also been funded by the ESRC
(£78,000 from 2016-2019). Notable emerging impactful research includes Dr Treanor’s work with
the Women’s Enterprise Policy Group.


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Important contributions to policy and practice have been made by Professor Marlow as a
Parliamentary Committee member, and a new appointee, Dr Wapshott, as a panellist on the Better
Regulation Executive. Dr Treanor is a board member of the Institute for Small Business and
Entrepreneurship, a learned society.




Figure 6: Outputs produced - HGI.

   1.4.4. Industrial Economics

   •   One of the largest groups of researchers in industrial, labour and financial economics,
       including five staff from the School of Economics (see Figure 7).
   •   Internationally important research on development and labour economics in the developing
       world has influenced policy and practice.

The Industrial Economics group comprises a mix of leading economists and early- to mid-career
researchers working largely in the following sub-disciplines: (1) Industrial economics; (2)
Development (including Labour) economics; (3) Financial or business economics. There is a strong
culture of collaboration in research outputs, grant capture and outreach activities between senior
and junior colleagues. This has yielded high-quality output in areas such as competition and
innovation (Professor Mukherjee, Dr Jiang and Dr Basak) and development economics (Professor
Song, Dr Zhang, Dr Gaggero and Dr Liu). The Department is home to the China Research Group,
an international community of scholars undertaking evidence-based research on sustainable
development, Chinese business and economics.

Significant interdisciplinary collaboration includes Professor Song’s ESRC project on local
government, economic growth and human development undertaken in conjunction with the
Department of Economics, Oxford University; the Centre for the Study of African Economies,
Oxford University; the Department of Global Health and Population at the Harvard, Peking and
Renmin Universities; and the School of Economics, Makerere University, Uganda (£700,000). The
project has already generated early policy impacts, which include the adjustment of Uganda's


                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
policy on poverty alleviation and advice to China’s National Health Commission on the on-going
healthcare reform in China.




Figure 7: Outputs produced - Industrial Economics.

Centre for Research in the Behavioural Sciences (CRIBS)

CRIBS connects researchers who share an interest in understanding behavioural issues in
management, economics, and business. The newly appointed director is Professor Kelsey (June
2020). Areas of expertise include, inter alia, risk and uncertainty, strategic decision-making and
cultural influences on business behaviour. The Centre draws its expertise from different disciplines
at UoN’s three campuses in the U.K., China and Malaysia. This international reach provides rich
opportunities to study business phenomena and collect data in different cultural contexts.

CRIBS hosts a fully supported lab to conduct experimental studies. It is jointly managed with the
internationally renowned CeDEx centre for decision research and experimental economics in the
School of Economics (two members contribute to this return, Professors Sefton and Seidmann).
The management boards have representation from each Centre and researchers collaborate on
research grants and outputs. The CRIBS lab is run on a commercial basis and is staffed by a lab
manager, co-funded by NUBS and the School of Economics.

   1.4.5. Marketing

   •   Renowned and interdisciplinary group of researchers working in analytics, experience,
       innovation and insights (see Figure 8).
   •   Research has impacted service digitisation in health, policy to embed innovation in SMEs
       and transport and tourism policy for people with vision impairment.

The Marketing Department demonstrates research excellence across four clusters: analytics,
experience, innovation and insights. The analytics cluster is championed by the N/LAB, detailed
below. The experience cluster includes work in social and accessible tourism. Professor Rickly has


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
recently received several ESRC Impact Accelerator funding awards to support research with Guide
Dogs for the Blind, which has uncovered systemic barriers to transport accessibility for people with
vision impairment, informing Guide Dogs’ training programmes and awareness campaign.
The innovation cluster focuses on research with SMEs. Dr Toth’s research on digital innovation
has led to a partnership with Relate Nottinghamshire to incorporate digital innovation into its
counselling services in response to Covid-19 demand, with funding from DEAS+ (Digitally
Enhanced Service) Network and ESRC Impact funding of £20,000. The insights cluster is
exemplified by Professor Hibbert’s work in the transformative service research field. This research
involves collaboration with the UoN’s Medical School, School of Biosciences and School of Physics
and Astronomy, and the Population Health Research Institute, Kerala, India, in a project funded by
the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) (£248,321).




Figure 8: Outputs produced - Marketing.

N/LAB – computational consumer and citizen research

The N/LAB is a new, unique, cross-disciplinary data-driven analytics research centre established in
2016 by Professor Andrew Smith following a major EPSRC/ESRC project. NUBS supported Smith
to leverage substantial university investment in people and infrastructure. N/LAB has
unprecedented access to transactional and behavioural data through collaboration with Tesco,
Olio, IPSOS, Walgreen Boots Alliance, Co-Op, 7-11 and Tigo Mobile (among others). Research is
strongly grounded within social science, amalgamated with expertise in data science, made
possible by the unique combination of skills within the team and an outward-facing approach to
collaboration with impressive international reach. This highly interdisciplinary team now embraces
5 permanent researchers, representing computer science, geospatial science, organisation studies
and consumer behaviour (1 ECR, 2 Assistant Professors, 1 Associate Professor and 1 Professor),
7 contract researchers and 7 PhD candidates.

The N/LAB has achieved major successes in grant acquisition with team members involved as Co-
Investigators on major interdisciplinary projects (see section 3.1), delivering transformative impact
exemplified by the two Impact Cases submitted.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   1.4.6. Operations Management and Information Systems

   •   One of the largest U.K. groups of specialists leading the field of innovation in logistics and
       supply chain management (see Figure 9).
   •   Influencing policy and practice on trade facilitation, modern slavery and port resilience.

Research in the department sits in two related camps. The first involves mathematical modelling
and computational simulation aimed at improving decision-making and system optimisation. The
second supplements the modelling research by building qualitative understanding of these areas.
Researchers have a wide range of research interests, but are particularly well known for work on
sustainable, ethical supply, mass customisation, modelling and simulation, collaborative design
and new product innovation, optimisation and scheduling.

Professor McCarthy has been a Co-Investigator on a project (with £1 million in funding from the
EPSRC) on modelling risk, resilience and robustness of supply chains, and McCarthy and
Professor Pawar have been Co-Investigators on a project (with £2.3 million in funding from the
EPSRC) on cloud manufacturing in collaboration with the UoN’s Faculty of Engineering. The
Department participates in interdisciplinary Rights Lab Beacon research on modern slavery. In
addition, it plays a central role in the newly established International Academy of Marine Economy
& Technology (IAMET) at UoN’s campus in Ningbo, China. The Department has strong
partnerships with research users in business and industry, including Astra Zeneca, BAE Systems,
Bombardier, Experian, Rolls-Royce, Motorola, SAP, Bosch and the U.K. government’s Department
for Transport.




Figure 9: Outputs produced - OMIS.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   1.4.7. Organisational Behaviour and Human Resource Management

      •   Leading group of researchers on the sociology of work and healthcare management
          (see Figure 10).
      •   Research has had important impacts on workplace health and safety, safer patient
          discharge and prescribing practices.

   Researchers contribute international leadership in impactful research areas including the
   sociology of service work and public policy; gender, working life and careers; international
   business and human resource management (HRM), particularly in an African context.
   Research is characterised by a distinctive, critical, interdisciplinary outlook, on healthcare
   policy/organisation, workplace discrimination/intersectionality, organisational justice/ethics,
   power/control and migration/collective organising.

   Notable is Korczynski’s highly cited original research on the social history of music in the
   workplace. Members of the Department contribute to research and policy-making in workplace
   health and wellbeing. Dr Jain is a Member of the International Standardization Organization
   Technical Committee and of the Planning Committee of the World Health Organization. The
   Department is enriched by the active contribution of post-graduate researchers (PGRs)
   involved in research. Professor Kamoche is Director of the Africa Research Group, an
   international interdisciplinary community of scholars interested in managerial, socio-economic
   and entrepreneurial issues involving African countries.




Figure 10: Outputs produced - OB/HRM.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Centre for Health Innovation, Leadership and Learning (CHILL)

CHILL is a community of applied social science researchers, studying real-world problems in the
management of healthcare, while retaining a theoretically rigorous approach. Priority areas include:
quality and safety; commissioning and integration; and innovation and change. Collaboration and
knowledge exchange are thus central to the ethos of CHILL, reflected in the strong interdisciplinary
relationships developed across departments such as medicine, nursing, engineering and
pharmacy, as well as with regional (e.g. Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust), national (e.g.
the Health Foundation) and international healthcare organisations (e.g. University of Sao Paulo).
CHILL led the implementation research theme within the National Institute for Health Research
(NIHR) East Midlands Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care
(CLARHC, £12 million 2014-2019); academics are currently Principal Investigators on the two
implementation themes within the East Midlands Applied Research Centre (ARC, £9 million, 2019-
2024).

CHILL has a large and vibrant community of 17 PhD researchers, most externally funded and is
currently host to an ESRC Postdoctoral Fellow. In addition to the Impact Case studies CHILL has
contributed, researchers have advised various NHS organisations, including NHS Improvement
and NHS Health Education England. Timmons is Chair of the NHS East Midlands Advisory
Committee on Clinical Excellence Awards, which allocates £4 million annually.

   1.4.8. Strategy and International Business

   •   Leading group of researchers in the fields of strategy and international business (see
       Figure 11).
   •   Research has been influential in the areas of corporate social responsibility and
       management research policy.

Research in the group covers core areas of strategy and international business with particular
emphasis on; international business strategy including internationalisation, entry modes,
ownership, FDI and Chinese economic history. Secondly, strategy and strategic leadership with
particular emphasis on mergers and acquisitions, alliances, corporate restructuring, business
turnarounds and the interface between strategy and business history. Finally, strategy in the public
sector and public policy, with a particular focus on the NHS and the management of higher
education, including the development of business schools.

Professor Starkey was recently awarded a Lifetime Achievement Award from the British Academy
of Management (BAM). Professor Wang’s work on internationalisation was ranked 11th in the
world in research on multinational firms from emerging markets by the Journal of International
Management (2016).




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 11: Outputs produced - SIB.


The International Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility (ICCSR)

The ICCSR is a globally influential centre for scholarship in responsible business and society, with
a strong and nurturing research environment for Doctoral researcher supervision, ECR mentoring,
and an established research seminar series. The Centre, which is one of the largest of its kind in
the U.K. and globally, has a strong focus on research collaborations between internal and external
networks, such as the Rights Lab and Future Foods Beacons of Excellence as well as its affiliated
tri-campus centres.

Professor Caruana took over the directorship in 2018, and other new appointments include ECR Dr
Ingram at Assistant Professor, following her PhD with the Centre. Professor Keleman joined in
2019, bringing her international reputation in research on cultural animation to address market-
based exclusion, food poverty and disaster reconstruction.

   1.5.    NUBS research and impact strategy 2021-2028

The School has developed the following strategic ambitions:

   a. Support the attainment of transformative research in responsible business and
      management, by empowering researchers through our policies, reward systems, internal
      support and internal communications for Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE).
      NUBS has developed a new three-year research strategy cycle (current version 2018-
      2021). A new post of Deputy Research Director (Prof Kim Tan) was created in 2019 and
      the role profile of the Departmental Research Director was redesigned to enhance and
      direct research and impact leadership in the School.
   b. Increase the diversity of sources of research grant income, the overall value of research
      grants obtained, and the number of grant applications submitted, across all job levels.
      NUBS has created a competitive ‘Strategic Grant Capture Fund’ (budget £30,000 p.a.)


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      which will further support stakeholder engagement and collaboration with businesses and
      policy.
   c. Continue to support a culture of collaborative, internationally focused interdisciplinary
      research and knowledge exchange that contributes to local, national priorities and global
      sustainability challenges. Enhance engagement further with the University’s research eco-
      system, especially its Beacons of Excellence, GRTs and IRCs (Figure 2), which drive
      opportunities for translational, interdisciplinary research and impact.
   d. Maintain and enhance a research environment based on excellence through a supportive,
      collegial and developmental culture; instil shared values, provide clear leadership and
      integrate Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) in alignment with the UoN strategy set out
      in section 3.5 of the Institutional Statement.
   e. Strengthen capacity for PGR supervision and enhance the attractiveness of NUBS as a
      high-quality environment for PhD studies; increase support for ECRs careers and research
      leadership; recognise, celebrate and reward success.
   f. Implement the Concordat on Open Research Data, DORA and Plan S; widely promote
      Open Access and Open Research/Data; ensure research integrity is embedded into all
      policies and strategic decisions. This is to be achieved by ensuring representation on the
      Research Directorate Committee, at whose meetings there will be a standing item on Ethics
      and Integrity.

Initially, we will determine the impact of the pandemic on research environment, informed by the
UoN Recovery Group, the research planning process and monitoring of PGR progress. The UoN
Institutional Covid-19 Annex statement outlines the impact of the pandemic on UoN as well as
funding extensions provided to PGRs. The School will seek to target support to those most
affected, specifically focusing on EDI.


 2. People

   2.1. Strategy and development

Recruiting, developing and retaining excellent researchers is central to our research strategy.
Since July 2018, NUBS has recruited 15 new staff (i.e., additional to replacement staff), including,
three Professors (among them new Dean, Professor Angwin), four Associate Professors and eight
Assistant Professors adding research strength to seven of the School’s Departments.

Of these, seven were women, eight had BAME backgrounds and five were ECRs. Our commitment
to equality of opportunity is embedded in UoN’s recruitment and staff development policies and
processes (see Institutional Statement 3.1.). At School level, all staff benefit from the same
conditions and are allocated equal workloads for research. There are also allowances against the
teaching workload for those staff who have administrative responsibilities. These provisions are
made as part of the School’s commitment to producing a context of equality and support for all
research-active staff at any stage of their career. NUBS has resourced and implemented an EDI
committee, with RKE representation (and cross-representation into Research Directorate and the
REF Task Group), to ensure best practice in supporting staff and that EDI perspectives are
considered in every aspect of research strategy. The School has been working towards Athena
Swan recognition over recent years, leading to Bronze award achieved in 2020.

All research and teaching (R&T) staff are employed on permanent contracts (100% of 137 FTE).
Of R&T staff employed on the REF census date and returned to this unit, 32.1% are
Professors, 21.9% Associate Professors and 46.0% assistant professors (see Figure 12).




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 12: R&T staff by gender and level.

In terms of EDI, 41.6% of R&T staff are women, 3.6% identify as having a disability,
and 35% identify as coming from a BAME background. Overall, the proportion of women at
professor level is lower, at 31.8%, but equal at Associate Professor level (see Figure 12, which
provides numbers of people). Of the 48 staff from BAME backgrounds, 25%
are Professors, 33% are Associate Professors and 43% Assistant Professors.

Of those that declared, five people identified as having some form of disability. Regarding
intersectionality for women and BAME, the proportion is 13.9%, but the majority in this group are at
Assistant or Associate level, with only one Professor. While these figures compare very favourably
with the top 100 European business schools, and already exceeds UoNs EDI strategic targets for
the future (see Institutional Statement section 2.5.), NUBS recognises further work is needed and
(as UoN generally) is committed to continued improvement in our policies and processes for EDI
(Institutional Statement 3.5.).

Training is essential to high standards in research. The School has a long-standing commitment to
the support and development of staff at all stages of their career. NUBS implements the principles
of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, part of an integrated
approach promoted by UoN (Institutional Statement section 3.1-3.3). The School’s approach is to
complement the service offered by UoN’s central department and to offer bespoke training based
on people’s needs.

Our professional practice portfolio coordinates and integrates individual and collective aspirations
and provides appropriate training for people positioned differently in a variety of career trajectories.
The School organises a professional practice team that offers a wide range of training
opportunities to academics at all levels. Our training is structured in terms of ‘getting in’, ‘getting
on’, and ‘getting up’, citizenship and well-being. It is recognised that different colleagues will
engage with professional development in different ways. Two examples of these alternatives
include an early career programme designed specifically for postdoctoral researchers and
assistant professors, and an EDI-focused workshop on navigating the promotion process.

Staff are kept up to date with training opportunities at University, Faculty and School levels via
emails and targeted, personalised encouragement from line managers and mentors. Additionally,
training for research is an integral part of the annual Personal Research Planning process. Staff
wishing to work flexibly and/or remotely, take sickness absence, maternity leave, parental support

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(including paternity leave), special leave to deal with unplanned and urgent domestic
personal/family circumstances, and retirement are all supported by institutional policies. These are
being currently reviewed considering specific issues arising from the Covid-19 pandemic.

   2.2. Promotion, development and mentoring

NUBS’ staff development strategy is aligned with UoN’s competency framework as detailed in the
Institutional Statement (Section 3.1). Academic R&T staff are reviewed by a member of the
School’s professoriate, and research only staff are reviewed by their line manager. Appraisers and
appraisees meet (using a framework of goals according to academic level and role) to discuss
progress towards goal achievement and ongoing professional development. NUBS’s Athena Swan
preparatory research found that men are more likely than women to seek professorial positions,
and that women are more satisfied with their current position. As a result, we have sought to
ensure that appraisal processes are free from unconscious bias, and that leadership positions are
attractive to all potential role-holders. Of the nine Departmental Research Directors in the School
(in one department, HGI, the role is shared), five are women. During the assessment period, NUBS
has promoted 24 R&T staff (10 women, 14 men) to Associate or Professor. Of the nine promoted
to professorial level, four were women. These appointments were all after 2016, which indicates
the positive trajectory resulting from the School’s proactive EDI strategies, policies and processes.

Supplementing the appraisal process, we introduced Personal Research Planning (PRP) in 2016,
designed to help colleagues plan their research and identify the support they will need. PRP is a
developmental tool to support individuals’ research priorities and identify resources required to help
develop researchers’ careers, and in 2019/20 it was redesigned to embrace a broader focus on
grant capture and impact, as well as to incorporate longer-term goals, recognising the timeframes
and resources required to achieve truly impactful research.

The School promotes a culture of continuous personal learning throughout a researcher’s career.
Hence, training is central to the development of our staff. The initiatives and support for the career
progression of academic staff include:

   1. UoN has established programmes for career and leadership development via its
      Leadership and Management Academy, and NUBS as well as the Faculty of Social
      Sciences offer promotion workshops targeted at staff at different levels, bespoke for
      specific cohorts and including women-only provision, and EDI strategies. For example, in
      spring 2018 we ran a promotion workshop specifically for BAME colleagues. Over the REF
      period, NUBS has organised 14 Professional Practice events oriented towards research.
      Topics have included; impact (optimising research outcomes); grant writing; supervising
      PhD students; responding to reviewer comments; getting published in top-ranked journals;
      writing (led by a published novelist); REF; and pathways to publication. Many of these
      events are attended by and specifically target ECRs. Four NUBS colleagues took part in
      the Nottingham Research Leaders Programme (2013-2020), including the current
      Associate Dean for RKE and Deputy Research Director.
   2. In 2017, we launched a programme for ECRs that consisted of four 4-hour workshops over
      a year. The programme includes material on navigating academic careers, building a
      research portfolio, writing academic papers and making the most of conferences. Overall,
      ECRs training needs are met through a combination of initiatives led by the University,
      School or external bodies (e.g. the ESRC). Although participation data were not
      systematically collected throughout the REF period, women were well-represented
      proportionately where records were kept in later years.
   3. iShare paper writing workshops provide an opportunity for colleagues to receive friendly
      and informal feedback from peers, and to give something back by helping others develop
      their work.
   4. Other forms of research support include a visiting scholar scheme, conference and research
      development fund, study leave programme, extensive guidance and support for funding bids,
      and Departmental research seminar series (see section 3).

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Recognising that research grant income was concentrated amongst a small number of high-
performing male professors in a few subject areas, the School devised and trialled a bespoke
training and development programme in 2019 called ‘Advance: Business Research Fellowship
Scheme’. This competitive scheme attracted eight mid-career academics (five women). Consisting
of high-level workshops, tailored, individual mentoring and research support, and additional
funding, the programme was due to be completed in June 2020 with a writing retreat, which had to
be cancelled due to Covid-19 restrictions.

Mentoring

NUBS operates a mentoring scheme for all new academic staff, other staff if desired, and in
instances where research performance indicates that support is required. Mentoring is an
important vehicle for colleagues’ socialisation within NUBS, helping them to develop a sense of
belonging, to establish professional and personal networks, and develop a sense of how their
careers might develop within the School. Beyond NUBS’ provision, mentoring can also be
accessed through the UoN Leadership and Management Academy.

The School recognises that mentoring can be beneficial in a range of ways, from enabling the most
talented colleagues to achieve their ambitious aspirations, to supporting colleagues who need an
extra boost. For those staff who are under-performing in research contribution, NUBS introduced
the Personal Research Enhancement Plan (PREP) programme. This is a structured mentoring
programme designed to lead to a step change in performance through targeted support.

   2.3. Postgraduate Research

PhD and postdoctoral researchers (PGRs) are central to the achievement of NUBS’ research
culture and strategy. During the assessment period, 191 PGRs were awarded their doctorate
degree. NUBS provides a supportive interdisciplinary, multidisciplinary and specialist research
training environment for doctoral students. The programmes attract high-quality applicants from
leading universities, including our own postgraduates many of whom have work experience in the
government, business and charity sectors. Entry is highly competitive: on average we receive over
14 applications for every enrolment. Our PGRs have diverse academic backgrounds, ranging from
business and management, psychology and geography to maths, physics and computer science.
Working towards EDI is central in our work. Of the 191 PGRs awarded their degrees during the
REF period, 49.23% were women (50.76% men); 53.77% identified as coming from a non-white
background; 5.5% identified as having some form of disability; and 5.65% identified with a
Bisexual/Gay sexual orientation.

Many NUBS PGRs received funding through competitive scholarship schemes, including UoN
Vice-Chancellor Research Excellence Scholarships, ESRC and Horizon Centre for Doctoral
Training (CDT) studentships. NUBS is part of the ESRC’s Midlands Graduate School Doctoral
Training Partnership (DTP), which is one of the 14 DTPs nationally. NUBS plays a leading role in
this partnership. Professor Timmons is Head of Training provision for the Nottingham DTC and so
leads on the day-to-day academic running and management of the DTC research training. In 2019,
Professor Korczynski was appointed Director of the DTC and Deputy Director of the DTP. During
the assessment period, nine studentships were awarded to PGRs at NUBS with one so far
achieving a doctoral degree award. Three current ESRC studentships are collaborative, where
industry partners include charities, companies and government departments (Family Holiday
Association, Smith-Nephew, NHS East Midlands Patient Safety Collaborative, East Midlands
Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care, Health Foundation).

NUBS is also part of the Horizon Centre for Doctoral Training (Professor Smith Co-Investigator –
see section 3), which is supported by a multimillion-pound investment from UKRI, UoN and over 40
industry partners and wider stakeholders, including Digital Catapult and Transport Systems
Catapult and British Geological Survey. These strong collaborative links provide opportunities for


                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
our PGRs to engage with external partners in various activities such as fieldwork, placements and
dissemination of research outputs to non-academic audiences.

The NUBS doctoral scholarships scheme represents a significant internal strategic investment,
amounting to approximately £350,000 for a single cohort. The scheme aims to attract the best
trainee researchers to work on cutting-edge research projects for which academic supervisory
teams compete to win. We actively encourage inter-disciplinary projects and/or projects where
ECRs are part of an experienced supervision team. Currently, nine ECRs are involved in 17
supervisory teams (on three of the teams as first supervisor, on 12 as second supervisor and on
two as third supervisor).

Our doctoral researchers are an integral part of the vibrant research community at NUBS. They
actively participate in research seminar series both as audience members and as presenters. The
annual NUBS doctoral conferences, which are organised by students and academics, provide the
opportunity for PGRs to present their work and gain feedback from academics and editors of
leading journals. Doctoral researchers receive a generous individual research allowance (in total
£3,000 during the period of study) to fund research activities such as presenting at leading
conferences and colloquia in the U.K. and abroad. They frequently represent NUBS at important
conferences (including; British Academy of Management, Production and Operations Management
Society (POMS), Academy of Marketing as well as provide strong representation at Midland
Doctoral Conferences). During the pandemic NUBS planned PhD/ECA Webinars to replace
conference engagement for 2020. We encourage our PGRs to share their conference experience
by writing blogposts on the PhD website
(https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/business/programmes/phd/news-and-events.aspx). The doctoral
society, run by PGRs, receives budget to organise events specifically designed to meet their
evolving research needs. We also provide excellent pastoral care through a peer-mentoring
scheme.

Each PGR has at least two supervisors with expertise in the relevant research area. We encourage
interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary supervision within and between schools and across DTPs.
Examples include co-supervision with the School of Medicine (Professor Hibbert) and School of
Health Sciences (Professor Timmons). Supervisors attend training workshops for supervising and
examining, which are organised regularly by UoN and the School. Doctoral study progress is
monitored carefully. All PGRs are required to have at least 10 recorded supervision meetings
annually. Progress is monitored and confirmed via an annual review process, consisting of a report
and presentation to an expert panel. This process is designed as developmental and is reviewed
regularly. Research training is vital in developing students into world-class researchers. Training
and development for PGRs is reviewed on an annual basis (via the Annual Monitoring Review).
The School’s in-house research training programmes have undergone a major review and
restructuring during this assessment period. They provide carefully designed training in research
philosophy, advanced quantitative methods, advanced qualitative methods and discipline-specific
research.

Additionally, PGRs can access an excellent range of research skills training opportunities through
two main avenues. The first involves the Social Science Faculty Researcher Skills Programme,
which combines core and optional training courses delivered by the UoN Researcher Academy
(see Institutional Statement section 3.3.). These cover a range of topics, from managing research
projects to research governance and ethics, and skills training such as quantitative and qualitative
research, working with focus groups and writing, networking and communication skills (in 2018/19,
46 such courses were listed). The second avenue is through the different DTPs and associated
pathways. For the ESRC, students are offered a Nottingham-based training in core (ESRC
specified) and advanced research methods. DTP students also have access to training provided at
the partner institutions of Warwick, Birmingham, Leicester, Loughborough and Aston.

NUBS provides masterclasses and supplementary training workshops run by leading experts from
both inside and outside the School. Methods training workshops, for example on NVivo, Python
and Panel Data Econometrics, are organised on a regular basis. NUBS hosts workshops such as

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
‘conference presentation skills’ and ‘how to respond to reviewers’ to encourage PGRs to
disseminate and publish their research. A notable example was the ‘Paper Development’ workshop
with an associate editor from the International Journal of Management Reviews, where students
received detailed and constructive feedback on papers that they intended to submit to the journal.
In the REF period, 21 joint supervisor/student papers or thesis-based papers were published,
some in top journals, such as Organization Studies, Journal of Management Studies, Journal of
Financial and Quantitative Analysis and Annals of Tourism Research. Given the nature of PhD
study, our main engagement with Doctoral students is through one-to-one support bolstered by
skills-based workshops. Of the 51 Doctoral students who have engaged with the activities of the
Postgraduate Careers Team (i.e., attended career consultation/workshops), 69% have been
women.

NUBS dedicates resources to enhancing Doctoral graduate employability in academia and
industry. Many graduates have attained academic positions at U.K. institutions and abroad (e.g.,
Aston, Bath, Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Lancaster, Liverpool, Leicester, Newcastle, Queen’s
Belfast, Royal Holloway, Southampton) while others take up positions outside academia (e.g. the
Health Foundation, Imani Development), influencing policy and creating impacts with their research
(e.g. improving the retention of nurses in the NHS). Some PGRs undertake placements with
leading institutions such as the IMF, Bank of England and Deutsche Bank, which greatly enhances
their employability.

PGRs also have access to a range of career and professional development workshops provided by
the Researcher Academy and the Careers and Employability Service, face-to-face and via Moodle.
The Researcher Academy also manages a Postgraduate Placement Scheme, which is open to all
postgraduate students. Doctoral researchers are represented on the EDI committee.

Support given to PGRs for academic career progression

All NUBS Doctoral researchers have access to:
•      individual careers consultations through the School’s Postgraduate Careers Team
•      PhD Careers Moodle pages with links to resources such as career planning tools and
       vacancy websites
•      careers networking events on and off campus
•      psychometric assessments to support self-awareness and personal development.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

   3.1. Research income

NUBS has sustained its strategy for external grant income over the assessment period, which has
yielded considerable impact on responsible management and business practices. Research
awards totalling £7.862m (income = £7,102m) have been achieved, with the largest share
attributable to U.K. Research Councils, at 38%, followed by U.K. central government bodies, local
authorities, health and hospital authorities at 31% (see Figure 13). U.K. charities contributed 8.4%
of the awards, at £663,000, with the E.U. funding agencies awarding only 5%, a large decrease on
previous REF performance. The decline in awards from E.U. sources is attributable to the impact
of the U.K.s changing relationship with Europe. However, as part of our strategy to reorient our
grant portfolio, a low proportion of bids were accepted in 2014 and 2015. In recognition of the
challenging funding environment, the School further refocused its research income strategy,
backed up with an entirely new research support team in 2018/19, which is beginning to achieve
positive results. Indeed, 2019/20 saw a return to almost £1m per annum in awards, with over 60%
attributable to U.K. Research Councils, the highest proportion NUBS has reached in its history.




                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 13: Sources of NUBS’ research awards over the assessment period.

A total of seventy-one researchers have worked as named investigators on 130 projects over the
REF period. In terms of EDI in research awards (Figure 14), the proportion of women leading
externally funded research as PIs was relatively strong at 44%, yet they were less frequently
involved as Co-Is, and in their representation on the numbers of projects overall. However, the
most recent data indicates that in 2019/20, women won a greater share of award value than men
(£542,000 compared to £446,000) demonstrating positive improvement resulting from the strategy.




Figure 14: Research awards by gender, role and year.

Additionally, NUBS researchers have contributed significantly to collaborative and cross-
disciplinary research awards. Almost 20% of NUBS’ awards (value) was achieved in collaboration
with the Faculty of Medicine, 10.5% with the School of Computer Science and 6.3% with the
School of Economics. Alongside the University’s strategy to realise the benefits of team-based
research geared towards ambitious and challenge-led programmes of research and impact, the
School has encouraged engagement with the internal research ecosystem (Institutional Statement
section 2.1.). A testament to this is that in 2019 NUBS awards were produced in collaboration with
12 units of assessment, more than any previous year and a 33% increase on 2018.


                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Notable collaborations in addition to those mentioned in section 1 include:

   •   Professor Smith, Dr Smith and Dr Goulding (N/LAB) are co-investigators on the £4m
       EPSRC Next Stage Digital Economy Programme: From Human Data to Personal
       Experience (2016). They are also co-investigators on two CDTs: the £3.38m EPSRC
       Centre for Doctoral Training in Geospatial Systems (partnership between University of
       Nottingham and University of Newcastle, 2018), and the £1.9m EPSRC Centre for Doctoral
       Training in Digital Economy, in conjunction with the School of Computer Science Horizon
       Centre (2018). Dr Goulding is co-investigator on the EPSRC project Risk Prediction for
       Women’s Health and Rights in Tanzania: Novel Statistical Methodology to Target Effective
       Interventions (almost £700,000).

   •   An addition to their role in the CLARHC (£12m 2014-19), researchers in CHILL have been
       key collaborators with the NHS East Midlands Patient Safety Collaborative. Dr Bishop is a
       co-investigator on four current National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) projects worth
       £2.5m. Professor Timmons is part of a £130,000 Health Education England project to
       evaluate the Advanced Clinical Practitioners Programme.

   •   In the Haydn Green Institute, Professor Mosey is co-investigator on a £14m EPSRC funded
       DTC called Atoms-2, “An Integrated Approach to Sustainable Chemistry”, and Professor
       Marlow was a co-investigator on the ESRC/DFiD project Poverty Alleviation and Women
       Refugees in the Middle East: Empowerment through Grassroots Micro-entrepreneurship?

   3.2. Strategies to seek and manage funding to support research and impact

NUBS staff are empowered to achieve the RKE strategy to make a positive contribution to society
through responsible management and business research through the provision of a wide-ranging
and inclusive environment designed to support researchers to achieve our ambitions.

Staff were supported by over £1.25m in internal School funding during the assessment period
through a range of schemes that are constantly reviewed to ensure they meet strategic aims and
targets. These are geared towards increasing the quality of research outputs and ensuring greater
diversity (in terms of career stage, gender and other protected characteristics) in engagement with
research income- and impact-generating activities.

Annual financial support of £3000 per person can be used to pump-prime research projects, to
disseminate research findings at national or international conferences, or to fund Research
Assistants or transcription costs. NUBS investment through this scheme totals £1.19m over the
REF period. This annual allowance replaced the previous less generous fund and the ‘SPARK’
seed-corn scheme that was in place from 2014 through to 2016. The new mechanism increased
the overall level of funding and widened access. Additionally, each member of R&T staff is
provided with a Personal Research Account upon joining NUBS, credited with £750. This is topped
up when external research funding is attained, via an attractive incentive formula.

The School also supports enhanced collaboration opportunities via financial support to inward and
outward visiting scholars. This is complemented by University central funding to support research
collaboration, both generally and in specific schemes, such as the International Collaboration Fund
(ICF), and strategic partnerships with the University of Birmingham and Lund University in Sweden.

We also invest in research through our study leave scheme. Academic staff are eligible to apply for
a full semester of study leave after six full semesters of service. During the assessment period,
NUBS had invested in almost 50 people, representing 400 person-months of study leave, a
significant financial investment. In total 28 women received study leave support, compared with 21
men. Study leave policy is geared towards the achievement of NUBS’ strategic priorities and
supports researchers with their career goals. The scheme is designed to lead to high-quality
outcomes, including training and staff development, creating new research consortia or networks,
strategic grant applications and research outputs.

                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Linked to NUBS’ aims to enhancement the visibility of our leadership in the field of management
research, the School initiated a new scheme in 2018 to provide financial support for research
groups to host international conferences at UoN. This has led to NUBS hosting five conferences
between 2019 and 2020, at a total investment of almost £10,000.

To help support our strategy to increase the numbers of outputs in the top 10% of cited journals, in
2019 a new competitive funding scheme was launched: the 4* outputs boost fund. Two rounds of
funding were allocated in 2019/20, totalling over £17,000. Take-up of the scheme included 16
projects. This scheme will continue to run given the positive outcomes on output submissions and
acceptances.

Support also includes a range of bespoke, local professional practice provision (to enhance wide-
ranging provision available from the University central department) to support the development of
research skills, journal publication and writing bids for research grants (outlined in section 2). The
Advance: Business Fellowship Scheme represents an investment of £28,500, receiving excellent
feedback from fellows, and positive early returns in research grant activity and outcomes.

   3.3. Development of organisational structures to support research and impact

Support for all aspects of RKE is embedded within the organisation. At the University level, the Pro
VC for RKE is involved in setting the institutional strategic research objectives and for overseeing
the architecture of research support and management. At the Faculty level, these functions are
supported by the APVC for RKE in the Social Sciences augmented by the Centre for Advanced
Studies in the Arts and Social Sciences (CAS), which provides expertise in identifying funding
opportunities, developing grant applications, supporting academics in research project planning
and knowledge exchange at all career stages. The CAS also fosters collaborations between
disciplines and with non-academic partners, supports consortium development, and provides an
academic peer-review mentoring scheme for funding applications. The CAS team delivers support
through ECR events advice on crafting funding applications and details of support available,
connecting training opportunities available through the Researcher Academy. Additional events
include workshops on writing fellowship and grant applications and interdisciplinary network
meetings.

At the School level, research is organised by the Associate Dean for Research (ADR), who is
responsible for drawing up the research strategy, fostering a research culture based on excellence
and managing the research budget. The ADR is a member of the School Executive and ensures
that research strategy is fully aligned with the School’s strategic vision and goals. Since 2019, the
ADR has been supported by a Deputy Research Director, who has specific areas of responsibility
including, personal research planning, mentoring, oversight of the PhD programme and liaison with
the University’s international campuses. The ADR chairs the School’s Research Directorate, which
comprises Departmental Research Directors and Heads of Research Centres and institutes and
groups, the Impact Coordinator, Research Ethics and Integrity Officer, the Director of the PhD
programme and an EDI representative. Departmental Research Directors and Centre Heads have
responsibility for determining the nature and direction of research within each organisational unit.
They contribute to the development and implementation of the School’s research strategy,
monitoring the research performance and ‘health’ of their sub-units and organising support for the
achievement of strategic goals, hosting research events and seminars, managing the annual
review process for PGRs, and approving the use of research funds for strategic activities.
Departments and Centres are allocated administrative support for the organisation of research
seminars, workshops and network events, hosting conferences and knowledge exchange
activities.

NUBS has reorganised its administrative systems to provide a full architecture of research support.
There is now a dedicated team comprising a (50% FTE) Research Development Manager (RDM),
the recently appointed Impact Officer, a senior research administrative manager and 4.5
administrators to support project costings, administration of RKE functions and management, and

                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to provide support to all research and impact activities. This team augments the provision offered
at the University and Faculty levels with more specialist and local resource to support bid
development, sharing of intelligence relating to funding opportunities, administration of study leave,
visiting scholar schemes and School-level research funding allocations (see Figure 15).




Figure 15: NUBS RKE support structure.

NUBS has its own Research Ethics and Integrity Committee, which provides oversight to ensure
that all research developed by researchers in the School satisfies the high ethical and integrity
standards set by the subject area and the University. The Committee comprises eight academic
Reviewers from the Schools’ Departments and Institute, and a Chairperson, and is run by the
Research Ethics and Integrity Officer (REIO) with the support of a senior Ethics Administrator.
Typically, the NUBS ethical approval process comprises two stages for staff and three for PGRs,
who need their supervisor’s approval before applying for ethical clearance. The Committee
typically meets once a year. The REIO, through the Committee, maintains the School’s pages
containing the latest policy documents, forms and information, including GDPR and training. The
REIO represents NUBS on the Faculty of Social Sciences Research Ethics and Integrity
Committee and liaises with the ADR where necessary.

In order to ensure a comprehensive and up-to-date understanding of research performance and to
monitor progress towards KPIs, the School maintains a management information database where
all research activity is recorded. This includes details of all outputs, examples of impact,
collaborative research, research funding and various esteem indicators, for example keynote
conference speeches, journal editorships and positions in learned societies.

   3.4. Support for impact and knowledge exchange

Supporting the translation of research into transformative impact and knowledge exchange is vital
the achievement of NUBS’ strategy. The School’s Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE)
strategy, outlined in section 1.2, has involved professional development workshops, highlighting
best practices and emerging cases in its new quarterly newsletter, raising awareness of funding
opportunities, providing workload recognition to those involved in developing KE and embedding
impact into the research planning and career development process.

                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Faculty of Social Sciences has held an ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) since 2014,
first securing £860,000 to support the development of social science-led KE and impact through to
March 2019 and subsequently £1.3M has been secured for the period April 2019 – March 2023.
Additional ESRC IAA awards of £263,000 were also secured in this period to support KE in GCRF
contexts and in relation to the Industrial Strategy.

Through CAS, support is channelled to enable research and KE/impact, whereby each UoA in the
Faculty of Social Sciences has access to wide range of internal funds on an ongoing annual basis.
During the current assessment period, NUBS staff have won a total of £106,075 in funding from
the IAA with an additional £19,828 won by NUBS researchers seconded to the Rights Lab beacon.
This includes projects associated with the holders of Impact Leaders Programme awards,
‘Business Boost’ funding or IAA responsive mode funds. Since 2015, seven NUBS researchers
have won places on the Impact Leaders Programme, of whom five are women and one is from a
BAME background.

Additional, related funding schemes include; International Collaboration Fund (ICF) to support the
development of networks and collaboration, of which NUBS has secured £21,763 in projects,
HERMES Fellowships (NUBS has three projects, with a value of £40,000), and the Nottingham
Strategy for Development-Focused Research (GCRF – since 2018). NUBS has won £217,000 in
UoN GCRF funding for Dr Muthuri’s project on Artisanal mining.

This funding has supported a broad array of projects. In addition to those already mentioned the
projects have included; Competition, IP and Open Technology, in partnership with Northwestern
University’s Searle Center on Law, Regulation, and Economic Growth and the U.K. Intellectual
Property Office (Dr Q.C. [Cher] Li); and improving retention amongst NHS workers around
retirement (Professor Timmons) in association with Nottinghamshire County Council.

   3.5. Support for those applying for research grants

Support for research grant applications and information/guidance about funding opportunities are
provided through the Faculty structure as outlined above (CAS) and by the School’s dedicated
RDM and Research Support Team. Generic opportunities are publicised, while more niche topic
calls are distributed on a targeted basis. The possibility of implicit bias in terms of who is contacted
in relation to particular calls, has been considered by the School, and mitigated by actively thinking
about which researchers might be interested in details of the call. In line with the School’s strategy
to diversify the range of sources of funding and increase the numbers of people applying for
research grants, close cooperation between the RDM, the Associate Dean and Departmental
Research Directors has ensured that ECRs are not placed under undue pressure but instead
receive targeted encouragement and appropriate support.

Assistance with costing, application and compliance with funder requirements is provided by the
Research Support Team. There is a system of peer review at Faculty level for all ESRC
applications and for special prestigious calls or that require ‘demand management’ coordination. At
School level, there is an internal peer review for some types of application. Training workshops on
grant applications are organised in most years by the RDM, in addition to events organised at
Faculty level for Fellowships and for ECRs.

Until 2016/17, gender was not explicitly considered in the targeting of calls or for training and yet
take-up by women of all types of internal funding support is traditionally high. Research undertaken
by the School to inform Athena Swan accreditation found that between 2016-19, women
researchers performed strongly in accessing and securing internal research funding opportunities,
with higher numbers of applications (19 compared to 18 men) and higher success rates than men
(73% compared to 50%). Whilst the number of women applying for external grants was
significantly lower over the period examined (46 compared to 94 for men), success rates were
equivalent (40% compared to 42%). This has led the School to redouble its efforts to support
greater representation of women on research grant applications, and on impact-related funding
schemes.

                                                                                               Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

All research grant applicants are encouraged to think creatively and inclusively about whom to
include as co-investigators on grant applications, and the University’s research development
network offers a match-making and introduction service.

   3.6. Physical infrastructure

The Business School is located on the University’s Jubilee Campus, opened in 1999, which has
significantly expanded during this evaluation period. The majority of the School’s staff continue to
be located in the Business School’s North and South Buildings, and the newer Yang Fujia and Si
Yuan Buildings. All locations are equipped with state-of-the-art ICT facilities, and updated in the
last 3 years. The Business School library occupies the one floor of the South Building and offers
comprehensive online access to research materials as well as a substantial collection of books,
journals and other materials in hard copy.

The School subscribes to a wide range of databases relevant to business and management
research and has site licences for a similarly broad set of software tools. NUBS directly supports
the production of excellent research and scholarship through its purchase of databases such as:
FitchConnect, SNL Financials, BoardEx, I/B/E/S, Wharton Research Data Service (WRDS) and
Thomson Reuters 13F. The School’s total investment in these research databases over the REF
period is over £3million.

The School incorporates the CRIBS behavioural sciences laboratory to support the development of
cutting-edge experimental studies. New investment has been made in state-of-the-art facilities to
support the development of capability in programming and data analytics for the establishment of
the N/LAB, which is housed in the Yang Fujia Building.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

   4.1. Contribution to the research base and collaboration

NUBS academics undertake high quality research with an appetite for collaboration and an
international outlook. Data extracted from SciVal highlights some of our key strengths. The data is
based on all outputs NUBS produced (Figure 2 page 4) for which an exact match could be made in
the SciVal database, yielding a total, robust sample of 389 (31.5% of all output produced). Figure
16 shows that these outputs reached 6,421 citations, 16.5 citations per output, and a Field
Weighted Citation Impact of 2.153 over the assessment period.




                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 16: Impact of scholarly output in a sample of 389 outputs over the REF period.

Additionally, NUBS researchers feature in the most prestigious and high profile outlets in our field.
Figure 17 shows continual improvement in reaching the highest-ranking journals.




                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 17: Proportions of outputs in the top 1% and 10% of journals and in the top 10% most cited
publications worldwide.

Regarding collaboration, NUBS has a high degree of international collaboration in the sample of
389 outputs, at over 60%, yielding a FWCI of 2.39 (see table 1). A further 30% comprises national
level collaboration, and 12% (47) of outputs involve non-academic collaboration, although these
tend to have lower citation impact.




Table 1: Collaborations by category and impact.

Figure 18 presents a dendrogram of the research collaborations and their impact for each
department. Marketing (121 outputs) and Industrial Economics (47) have the largest range, for
example with six different combinations of collaboration. Marketing, OMIS and FRB have almost
equal numbers of international academic collaborations (~58), and Marketing produced the highest
volume of citations, over 2000.




                                                                                          Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 18: Dendrogram of research collaborations by department.

In terms of prominent research themes, NUBS researchers contribute significantly to literature in
entrepreneurship, innovation, CSR, marketing, supply chain management and tourism, with work
and organisation, and monetary policy also being well represented, consistent with our strategic
areas of activity (shown in Figure 19). NUBS researchers have published over 110 outputs in the
top 1% of the highest momentum topics in Business, Management and Accounting, based on
SciVal analysis. Leading topics include alliance portfolios, open innovation, product service
systems, service economy, value co-creation, institutional work, green supply chain management,
environmentally preferable purchasing, green practices, brand community, and consumer culture.




                                                                                          Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 19: Prominent themes of NUBS research

   4.2. Contributions to the academic base

Consistent with an aim of shaping the future of business and management in an increasingly
interconnected world, NUBS researchers make important contributions to the full range of
management and business disciplines and fields, taking leadership positions that have global as
well as regional influence.
For example, Professor Starkey is a Fellow of the British Academy of Management, and of the
Academy of Social Sciences, as well as a member of the EFMD Research Committee, the C-ABS
Academic Journal Guide Scientific Committee, and has recently received a Lifetime Achievement
Award from the British Academy of Management. Professor Lee is also a Fellow of the Academy of
Social Sciences and the National Institute of Economic and Social Research. Professor Tynan is
President of the Academy of Marketing and Professor Perks sits on the Board and Scientific
Committee of EIASM IPDM and of the Product Development and Management Association
(PDMA) (www.pdma.org) academic committee, based in the U.S. Professor Petrovic was a Vice-
President of the U.K. Operational Research Society (2013-18) and has been Chair of the
Committee of Professors of Operational Research in the U.K. (COPIOR) since 2018. Professor
McCarthy has recently been elected onto the board of the Decision Sciences Institute as Vice-
President for Europe, and a Co-ordinator of the EURO (European Association of Operational
Research Societies). Professor McCabe is a Vice-President of the International Sociological
Association Research Committee 50 on International Tourism and an elected fellow of the
International Academy for the Study of Tourism. Professor Wang’s research on foreign direct
investment and international business is widely recognised internationally. He holds visiting
positions in City University of Hong Kong and several leading universities in China such as Renmin
University of China, and Huazhong University of Science & Technology.


                                                                                         Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Researchers also lead their fields of expertise and shape the research agendas of management
disciplines. NUBS hosts international conferences and networking events. Professor McCarthy was
responsible for organising the 10th Annual European Decision Sciences conference at NUBS’
Jubilee Campus in 2019, which attracted over 150 delegates. The Organisational Management
and Information Systems Department hosted the 7th EurOMA Sustainable Operations & Supply
Chain Forum. Professor Duygun is a leading international expert on banking and finance and holds
the Aviva Chair in Risk and Insurance, specialising in financial technologies and Insurtech. She
directs the ESRC IAA funded University of Nottingham Fintech Research Network and is the
current President of the International Finance and Banking Society (IFABS), a leading global
research society, which she founded and which has over 5,000 members in 64 countries.
Professor Korczynski was co-investigator on an ESRC Seminar Series on Migrants, Workplace
and Community: Learning from Innovation in Civil Society (2016-18), and is Director of the UoN
ESRC Doctoral Training Centre/Partnership.
NUBS researchers’ work has received recognition from academic colleagues. Dr Karafyllia and
colleagues won the Albert L. Page Award for their article ‘Leveraging Open Innovation through
Paradox’ in the Journal of Product Innovation and Management. Dr Nixon’s paper ‘Politicising the
Study of Sustainable Living Practices’ was awarded Best Paper in Consumption, Markets and
Culture, 2018. Dr Peter’s research paper ‘The Co-ordinative Practices of Temporary
Organisations’, published in the Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing, was Highly
Commended in the 2017 Emerald Literati Network Awards for Excellence. Dr Jain was awarded an
Early Career Achievement Award at the Work, Stress and Health Conference in Philadelphia in
2019, which was jointly awarded by the American Psychological Association, Society for
Occupational Health Psychology and the US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.
Dr Pouryousefi’s article ‘The Problem of Unilateralism in Agency Theory: Towards a Bilateral
Formulation’ was chosen by a committee of Business Ethics Quarterly as one of the top three
articles the journal published in 2017.
NUBS’ researchers also make important contributions to society through their research. For
example, Professor Paton was a witness for the Oral Evidence Session of House of Commons
Education Committee Inquiry into Personal, Social, Health and Economic Education (PSHE)/Sex
and Relationships Education (SRE) in 2014 following his research on teenage pregnancy in the
U.K. Professor Adegbite’s research has been recognised through his receipt of the, ‘Celebrated
Nigerian Award’ in 2016. Professor Cohen’s 2014 research monograph Imagining Women’s
Careers, published by Oxford University Press and submitted in this return, has led to many media
appearances, for example on BBC Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour. Professor Mosey chairs the award-
winning Young Entrepreneurs Schemes that have developed the entrepreneurial skills of over
5,000 people.
Finally, NUBS researchers influence their fields through leadership positions on influential journals.
Current NUBS R&T staff have held 49 senior positions on editorial boards over the REF period.
For example, Professor Starkey, who is widely respected for his work on the relevance of business
schools to higher education and to society, sits on the editorial boards of Academy of Management
Review, Academy of Management Learning & Education and Human Relations and Organization
Studies. Professor McCabe is co-Editor-in-Chief of the Annals of Tourism Research, the leading
journal in the field with an interdisciplinary social science focus. Professor Adegbite is an Associate
Editor of the Business Ethics: A European Review (BEER). Professor Cohen sits on the boards of
the Journal of Vocational Behavior, Management Learning, Journal of Professions and
Organization and Management Inquiry. Professor Duygun sits on the boards of the Journal of
International Financial Markets, Institutions & Money and is Associate Editor of Frontiers in Artificial
Intelligence - Artificial Intelligence in Finance. She has served as a guest editor for the Journal of
Corporate Finance and the Journal of Banking & Finance. Professor McCarthy is European Editor
for the International Journal of Production Economics and Consulting Editor for the International
Journal of Operations and Production Management. Professor Petrovic has been a guest co-editor
for special issues of the European Journal of Operational Research (EJOR), Journal of Scheduling
and Annals of Operations Research. She is an Associate Editor of the Journal of Scheduling.
Professor Tynan holds positions on the boards of the European Journal of Marketing, the Journal
of Marketing Management, the Journal of Consumer Behaviour: An International Review and the

                                                                                               Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Marketing Review and is also the Founding Editor of the Marketing Review. Professor Winklhofer
is an Associate Editor for the Journal of Services Marketing.

   4.3. NUBS’ networks, partnerships and impact

Collaboration with relevant stakeholders, including research users, is a key underpinning value and
takes place at local, regional, national and international level. Researchers in the School draw on a
wide network of collaborators and partnerships, supported by a policy of ensuring our research
engages with, and is available to, key research beneficiaries and the widest possible audience (as
per Figure 18). Our goal is to ensure our research base generates knowledge that is rigorous, of
the highest academic standard, and relevant, useful in addressing major challenges facing
economies and societies and emphasising outcomes that make real differences to society.

NUBS’ research has had significant impacts upon organisations, both nationally and
internationally. For example, the HGI has developed links with global organisations including P&G,
biotechnology company Syngenta and international business network BDO, as well as national
(U.K.) companies such as GlaxoSmithKline and Santander through its entrepreneur development
programmes and research. Similarly, CHILL works closely with NHS England, Health Education
England, the NHS East Midlands Patient Safety Collaborative and the independent charity the
Health Foundation. The GCBFI’s research led to affiliations with the Royal Bank of Scotland,
Which?, Citizens Advice, the Nationwide Building Society, Aviva and many other U.K. based
organisations.

Additionally, N/LAB has developed an extensive network of stakeholders who benefit from its
research, including Boots, Tesco, Marks & Spencer and Experian. Researchers within NUBS work
closely with the University Rights Lab within the Business and Economies Programme, which is led
by Dr Trautrims, Rights Lab Associate Director, who currently holds a British Academy/DFID grant
to research modern slavery in the meat and timber industries of Brazil. Additionally, the Rights
Lab’s Data and Measurement Programme involves academics from NUBS’ N/LAB research group,
the Department of Marketing and the Department of Finance, Risk and Banking. Other
collaborations include work with the Smart Products Beacon; for example, Professor Winklhofer
researches how smart products are enhancing user experiences and facilitating changes that lead
to wellbeing.

Our research and collaborations have generated impacts in a range of different areas such as
international and national guidance, as well as practical approaches within individual organisations,
for example, to tackle the negative impact of psychosocial risks and work-related stress and to
promote mental health in the workplace. Here we have developed important relationships with the
World Health Organization (WHO), the International Labour Organization, European Employers’
Associations and trade unions. Entrepreneurship and innovation has led to the successful
development of the Ingenuity and the YES! Schemes, has led to impacts across businesses and
social enterprises.

Research produced by CHILL has had demonstrable impacts on national policy, NHS systems and
specific hospitals. For example, research into medicine adherence directly influenced the NHS to
commission the delivery of the New Medicine Service (NMS), which has improved patient
outcomes, impacted pharmacy practice and delivered NHS cost savings. CHILL research has led
to the MBA module ‘Commissioning and Service Redesign’ educating NHS managers in the
complexity of patient discharge pathways in relation to system complexity and coordinated
working. This research has also shaped national and regional policies to improve the organisation
and planning of hospital discharge through supporting better inter-professional communication. It
included the co-design of an online toolkit and resources hosted by NHS England, informed the
formation of a national priority group for care transition, influenced NICE guidelines and informed
the recommendations of a House of Commons Select Committee.

Alongside the Impact Case Studies submitted by NUBS, there are many other ongoing
partnerships stemming from the School with emerging impacts. In 2019, NUBS hosted an

                                                                                            Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
occupational health and safety event with the British Standards Institution (BSI) reflecting the
collaborative research being driven by the School, which focuses on important topics surrounding
business performance and business productivity. To this end, Dr Q.C. [Cher] Li recently won the
BSI Standards Makers Award for Education about Standardisation, in recognition of her teaching
incorporating standards-related topics on undergraduate and executive MBA courses at NUBS,
and her research on standards, innovation, productivity and business performance. Dr Li also won
a full ESRC Doctoral Joint Studentship (Midlands Graduate School) with the BSI as partner and
mentor, which commenced in October 2019, and intends to yield policy implications for designing
effective standards, which expedite the diffusion of technologies to boost firm performance. Dr Li’s
research in collaboration with Professor Kneller (School of Economics, returned to UoA 17) builds
on work started in 2019 within the ESRC PrOPEL Hub on productivity and involves further project
funding through the UKRI QR Strategic Priorities Fund, the HEIF and the ESRC IAA (total across 4
projects: £171,000). This work includes several policy and industry partners (BSI, Innovate U.K.,
CIPD and regional LEPs).

These projects will contribute evidence to inform policy-making on productivity and to co-produce
interventions targeting companies to help accelerate their adoption of digital technologies. This has
already led to Dr Li being invited to contribute as a member of BEIS’s Expert Peer Review Group,
advising on policy evaluation, and as a member of BEIS’s Covid-19 Recovery Working Group
(Local and National Growth ARI), contributing to two government reports on Covid-19 economic
recovery.

Additionally, Dr Shaw’s research looking at how networks of organisations can be orchestrated to
help each other led to the development of an innovative data-sharing system. This tool has been
shared with the Department for Transport, which has the potential to benefit government
departments, port operators, ship operators, importers, agents and logistics firms, as well as local
residents and communities. Dr Touboulic received funding from the Independent Social Research
Foundation and the Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship to undertake research
exploring how researchers and practitioners can collaborate to address how small business
owners make sense of their emotional experiences in changing their business practices to become
more sustainable.

Research led by Professor Rickly involved close collaboration with Assistance Dogs U.K. and
Guide Dogs for the Blind Association, examining barriers and challenges to travelling with an
assistance dog. It has revealed systematic points of discrimination and the need for staff training
across the travel, tourism and transport sectors, which is informing the organisations’ training
programmes and awareness campaigns. This research was supported by a number of grants from
the ESRC IAA, totalling £11,000. Professor Hibbert conducted collaborative, interdisciplinary
research on a GCRF-funded project to build local expertise to deliver interventions to improve liver
and metabolic health in India in association with the Population Health Research Institute in Kerala.

Interdisciplinary ECR Dr Perrat is collaborating on a current project (January 2020-July 2021),
funded by the GCRF (£94,232) and led by the School of Geography, to optimise a research and
impact platform to address labour exploitation in Asia, working with a range of NGOs to ‘fight
slavery from space’. The platform will integrate an up-to-date mapping of brick kilns in South Asia
alongside a survey of key indicators for labour exploitation to support the work of NGOs on the
ground on issues ranging from environmental concerns to exploitative labour.

Beyond national and international collaborations, research within NUBS has also been co-
produced with local and regional organisations. Research undertaken by Dr Toth in the Marketing
Department on business to business branding and networking has informed the planning and
content of SME websites and the development of an ‘SME attractiveness toolkit’, which is being
shared across the East Midlands through a partnership with a regional business network.

Much of the impactful research emerging in the recent years in NUBS is being led by women and
BAME R&T staff. This is being supported by the School’s RKE strategy to engage with the
University’s EDI Strategic Plan as a priority and to ensure that all staff members are given support

                                                                                            Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and encouragement. Whilst this has always been the case, the School has directed additional
support in line with the Strategic Plan. One product of this is research undertaken by Dr O’Neil,
who was supported through the ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) with training on the
Impact Leaders’ Programme, the NUBS Advance Business Research Fellowship programme, and
with IAA funding to extend her research on women entrepreneurs, which uncovered insights into
business founders’ entrepreneurial legitimacy. This led to a collaboration with local women
entrepreneurs and the creation of a toolkit, ‘My Business, My Way’, which has been made
available to the public and is leading to a wider network of women entrepreneurs working in
collaboration with researchers.

Interdisciplinarity

NUBS research approach is closely aligned with the University’s policy of supporting
interdisciplinary beacons of research excellence, an important component of which is the fostering
of collaboration and engagement between disciplines in addressing major economic and societal
challenges, as well as the wider availability of research funding opportunities which are opened up
by developing interdisciplinary teams. For example, HGI involvement in the EPSRC Centre for
Doctoral Training in Sustainable Chemistry provides a successful template for how a higher-
education research group can foster local and national entrepreneurship and innovation in
collaboration with STEM discipline groups, developed in collaboration with industry and a
partnership of several disciplines.

Additionally, the School has made significant appointments that integrate researchers from other
disciplines within the fields of business and management research: Sociology of Work and
Employment (Professors Warren, Korczynski and Dr Pero, in OB/HRM), Computer Science in
N/LAB (Drs Goulding and Gavin Smith); HGI (Dr Carter); Sociology of Health and Medicine
(Professor Timmons, Dr Verydis); Geospatial Sciences (Dr Perrat); Psychology (Dr Jain);
Behavioural Economics (Professor Kelsey); and applied fields such as Banking (Professor Benos,
formerly of the Bank of England). We also have significant interdisciplinary strength in key applied
interdisciplinary fields of research, such as Tourism (Human Geography, Professor Rickly; and
Sociology, Dr Zhang). As such, the outputs we have produced include substantial contributions to
tourism, computer science, health and primary care management, sociology, risk and psychology.

Dissemination

Critical to NUBS’ RKE strategy is to ensure relevance to society, an important aspect of which is
communication of its research to a wider audience. Dissemination is also central to funded
research project work. The School employs a media relations manager who works with both the
UoN central media team and an external media consultant to communicate newsworthy School
achievements and develop press releases and targeted opinion pieces for publicity. The University
team maintains a searchable Media Guide to Expertise for journalists and works with School staff
to encourage and develop spokespeople for media comment and publicity. Research-related news
pieces are shared across a range of Business School and University online and social media
channels, including the School’s dedicated alumni channels. To capitalise on and promote its
expertise in specific fields, such as entrepreneurial skills development and education, the School
targets specialist channels. The Small Business Charter, for example, offers expert insight and
advice from U.K. business schools to owners of SMEs, and staff from the HGI regularly contribute
articles about business topics and challenges faced by the owners of small businesses.
Additionally, to promote its expertise in organisational behaviour and human resource
management, the School is a regular contributor to the People Development Network. Finally,
NUBS’ impressive research and impact are often featured in the UoN alumni blog. For example, a
post in 2019 focused on the future of Fintech to draw attention to the launch of the Nottingham
Fintech Research Network, led by Professor Duygun.




                                                                                            Page 35
