Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Liverpool


 Unit of Assessment: 28 History


    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 We are an interdisciplinary group of historians committed to an engaged approach to the
 global past. We address issues of social and political justice and connect with diverse
 communities and non-academic partners. From slavery and the far right to climate change,
 health care, religious intolerance, and knife crime, we pride ourselves on using historical
 research to inform key contemporary debates. We have particular strengths in medieval and
 early modern history; histories of slavery; medicine; women and gender; animal and
 environmental histories; transnational histories; urban history; histories of religion; and archival
 studies. We work individually and collaboratively to understand the past, and to present our
 research to public and policy audiences. We are committed to fostering the next generation of
 historians by embedding training throughout research and teaching, and by supporting a vibrant
 community of postgraduates and ECRs.


 Most Liverpool historians are based within the Department of History, part of the School of
 Histories, Languages, and Cultures (HLC) since 2010. The UoA also includes historians based
 in the Institute of Irish Studies, the Department of Public Health, Policy, and Systems, and the
 Department of Sociology, Social Policy and Criminology (SSPC). Strong collaborative and
 interdisciplinary relationships have been forged with colleagues elsewhere in HLC (Modern
 Languages and Cultures [MLC], Politics, and Archaeology, Classics, and Egyptology), across
 the wider Faculties of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS) and Health and Life Sciences
 (HLS).


 1.a. Research Strategy: Exceeding the Aims set out in REF2014
 Our core priority is to create, sustain, and enhance conditions whereby all researchers (including
 PGRs and ECRs) are empowered to make the most of research and impact opportunities. In
 working to achieve this, we have met or exceeded the aims we set out in REF2014. These aims
 were to:
    (1) grow further our research income
    (2) enhance PGR provision
    (3) develop research foci on ‘Transnational History,’ ‘Cultural and Social History,’ and
          ‘Reading, Texts and Archives’
    (4) promote continued breadth of research coverage

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    (5) embed impact more fully.


 We have built very significantly on the research income success reported in REF2014 (aim 1),
 with the total value of awards quadrupling from £1,569,400 in the last REF cycle to
 £6,441,821 since August 2013. Grant capture increased markedly in the final two years of the
 current cycle (see section 3), demonstrating the positive impact of our strategy, and laying the
 groundwork for sustained success beyond 2020. Rigorous mentoring and grant-writing
 workshops ensure that colleagues make full use of pump priming schemes targeted at
 international collaborations. As a result, we have established new externally funded
 collaborations with partners in Australia, Zimbabwe, India, Mexico, the USA, and Europe,
 contributing to Liverpool’s connected and global approach (see Institutional Statement). PGRs
 form a key component of our research culture (aim 2), and our training and support of them
 underscores our commitment to the discipline’s future (section 2B).


 Regarding aims 3 and 4, our main priority in this cycle has been to reassess the scope and
 range of Research Clusters. Our structure has extended to six Clusters, each strengthened by
 strategic appointments (* = new since REF2014):


    •   Cultural and Social History (new appointments include: Caslin, Chalus, Effros, French,
        Hazley, Sandy, Whelan, Wu)
    •   Knowledge, Texts and Archives (Caslin, Effros, Fryar, Lowry, Stobo, Wu)
    •   *Political Histories and Cultures (Chalus, Clark, Hudson)
    •   *Religious Cultures (Clark, French, Redden, Whelan, Wu)
    •   *Rural and Urban Environments (Endfield, Hazley, Hudson, Penati)
    •   Transnational Histories (Endfield, Effros, Hazley, Jeater, Penati, Redden, Whelan,
        Wu)


 The key principle informing Clusters is that every historian should have ready access to a group
 of like-minded colleagues with whom they collaborate and from whom they can secure topic-
 specific mentoring on planned grant applications and publications. Clusters offer greater agility
 than Research Centres and University Research Themes and provide training: as one example,
 Davies and Godfrey have organised research methods workshops for those within the Cultural
 and Social History Cluster who work on criminal justice.


 As part of our engaged approach to studying the global past, we embed impact throughout our
 research (aim 5). Impact-intensive research spans the medieval, early modern, and modern


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 periods, and beneficiaries are both numerous and diverse (Section 4). Financial and other
 support is offered to all researchers in History (including PGRs and ECRs), along with individual
 mentoring (section 3).


 1.b. Enhancing Interdisciplinary Research
 We have renewed our investment in interdisciplinary research, not least through strategic
 appointments, such as Effros (whose work explores the synergies between Archaeology and
 History) and Endfield (who works across History and Geography). Interdisciplinarity is facilitated
 by numerous factors: our location within HLC; Sheard’s cross-Faculty role as Head of
 Department of Public Health, Policy, and Systems and as Chair of Modern History; and the
 multi-disciplinary Institute of Irish Studies. Senior Honorary Research Fellow Blackburn
 strengthens connections between History and SSPC and with the University's Heritage
 Research Theme as CI on the 'Work, Authority and Poverty: Charles Booth and Liverpool'
 project (Leverhulme Trust Project Grant; £268,205). Our commitment to interdisciplinary is
 maintained through continued support for the four pre-2014 Research Centres homed in the
 History Department: Centre for the Study of International Slavery (CSIS), Eighteenth-Century
 Worlds (ECW), Liverpool University Centre for Archive Studies (LUCAS), and Liverpool Centre
 for Medieval and Renaissance Studies (LCMRS). We have deepened our interdisciplinary
 research by helping to create three new centres: the cross-Faculty Centre for Health, Medical
 and Environmental Humanities (CHMEH); the Centre for the Digital Humanities and Social
 Sciences; and Europe in the World (based in Politics). Research Centres complement Research
 Clusters by providing a sustainable, interdisciplinary, and long-term platform for research and
 impact, including PGR training (such as PhDs co-supervised with Architecture, English,
 Geography, MLC, Music, and SSPC), and collaborative partnerships. These include CSIS’s
 flagship partnership with Liverpool’s International Slavery Museum, for which the Centre
 received the University’s Research Impact Award in 2019, its workshops with American and
 Japanese universities, and public lectures (such as film director Amma Asante in 2017). Centres
 also support engagement with our local community: LCMRS has hosted successful public
 engagement events, including “Agincourt 1415-2015” (Heale) and Viking Day in 2016
 (Costambeys and Downham).


 Historians contribute substantially to institutional initiatives that promote interdisciplinary
 collaboration (see Institutional Statement). Historians (including Caslin, Davies and Kenny)
 have played a major role in the development of the Heritage Research Theme, helping us to
 secure funded grants contributing to the AHRC’s Heritage Strategic Priority Area (including
 awards to Buchanan, Towsey, and Whelan reported in section 3 below). French contributes to


                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 the Starting Well, Living Well, Ageing Well Theme, Endfield and Hogg support the Digital
 Theme, while Pearson and Sheard sit on the Steering Group of the Infectious Diseases Theme,
 which has pump-primed interdisciplinary projects with a historical focus. Sheard is also
 Knowledge Mobilisation lead for the National Institute for Health Research [NIHR] Health
 Protection Research Unit for Emerging Zoonoses and Infections. More informal interdisciplinary
 networks underpinning our research include the Irish Sea in the Middle Ages Research
 Network (ISMARN), in which Costambeys and Downham play leading roles. This deep and
 varied commitment to interdisciplinary working has led to sustained success in challenge-led
 funding initiatives, including multi-institutional projects investigating Chronic Kidney Disease of
 Unknown Origin in Mexico (Endfield and Redden) and street dogs and rabies in India (Pearson).


 1.c. Open Research Environment
 Motivated by our belief that inclusive, democratic, and informed societies need historical
 research that is open to all we have deepened our commitment to creating an open research
 environment. Historians from across the university (including Alker from SSPC and Marsh from
 MLC) and from every career stage (including PGRs O’Donnell, Trafford, Wall, Williams and
 Wood) contributed chapters to Using Primary Sources, a JISC-funded open access research
 training project edited by Hogg and published by University of Liverpool Press. Organised as
 thematic chapters linked to departmental Research Clusters, this pioneering resource with global
 reach provides students and practitioners with a wide-ranging set of sources to explore (many
 digitised for the first time by the library’s Special Collections and Archives), as well as guidance
 on their interpretation.


 Individual researchers promote open research in other ways. Externally-funded projects have
 created significant new open-access research tools and datasets from previously unpublished
 archival documents: Endfield’s TEMPEST publicly searchable database offers information on
 historical weather events extracted from letters, diaries, church records, school log-books,
 newspaper cuttings, and photographs. Metadata arising from this project is deposited in
 Liverpool’s open-access Data Catalogue, in accordance with the UKRI’s Common Principles on
 Data Policy, and with the open access Centre for Environmental Data Analysis.


 Our commitment to open research extends beyond Britain. To improve access to an overlooked
 yet significant source, Redden’s first English-language translation of The Collapse of Time: The
 Martyrdom of Diego Ortiz (1571) by Antonio de la Calancha was published in Gold open access.
 Lowry leads LUCAS’s role in the Sudan Memory project (£39,491), funded by the British
 Council’s Cultural Protection Fund. Working with Sudanese partners, the project aims to identify
 at-risk cultural heritage material from across the archives, libraries, and museums of Sudan and
                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 digitising them for posterity. PGR Smith has been awarded $15,000 from UCLA’s Modern
 Endangered Archives Program to work in digitising an endangered archive that documented
 artistic resistance to the Pinochet regime in Chile. Wu collaborates on the Chinese Religious
 Texts Authority project, an open-access and international collaborative database project.


 1.d. Future Research Strategy
 In looking to sustain and enhance our successes since 2014, we have established the following
 set of interconnected aims to govern our research strategy beyond 2021:
    (1) Diversity and Inclusivity: Having taken action since 2014 to address the UoA’s gender
        imbalance (section 2), we will continue to develop an ever more inclusive and diverse
        research environment in line with the University’s Equality Framework (see Institutional
        Statement). We will strive to grow BAME representation at all career levels (including
        PGR), while reinforcing through new posts our existing expertise in strategic areas
        highlighted in the Royal Historical Society’s Race, Ethnicity and Equality Report (2018).
        We will seek to mitigate financial barriers across the research pipeline by offering
        MA bursaries, funding PhD studentships, and providing enhanced support to ECRs,
        including promoting applications to the HSS Derby Fellowships, a tenure-track scheme
        designed to recruit and nurture a new generation of outstanding academic leaders.
        Building on our efforts since 2014 to support new parents (section 2), we will work with
        colleagues across HLC to deliver enhanced support for those with parental and other
        caring responsibilities, including dedicated mentoring for those returning from
        maternity/parental leave and funds earmarked to facilitate research-related travel for
        parents and carers.
    (2) Interdisciplinarity and Publicly Engaged Research: we will renew our commitment
        to engaged research. In an era marked by multiple challenges – COVID-19, climate
        breakdown, attacks on democratic norms, racial injustice, and health, social, and
        economic inequalities – we will build on existing projects, expertise, and infrastructure to
        enhance our contribution to challenge-led research. Sheard plays a leading role in the
        city region's response to the COVID19 pandemic, while Robinson’s Leverhulme ECF
        has pivoted to include comparative research on how welfare systems responded to
        seismic global events. Endfield, meanwhile, is CI on the AHRC-funded project ‘“Stay
        home”: rethinking the domestic during the COVID-19 pandemic’ (£495,000) in
        partnership with The Museum of the Home, National Museums Liverpool and The Royal
        Geographical Society (with IBG). We will contribute extensively to the University’s new
        cross-Faculty Climate Futures Research Challenge Group (Endfield is a founding
        member) to consider how best to harness our expertise to address the climate


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        emergency, while we will continue our important work with non-HEI partners on
        developing impactful research that engages with the legacies of slavery and fascism.
    (3) Collaborative Working: We will use our recent success in securing large collaborative
        grants to enhance mentoring, support ECRs, embed impact, and sustain and extend
        links with collaborative partners. To support this aim, a new Collaborative Working Group
        was established in September 2020 to share best practice amongst PIs at all career
        levels, to mentor new grant writers, to provide rigorous peer review, and to enrich ECR
        and PGR training, while also helping existing grant holders to secure follow-on funding.
        We will seek to strengthen our commitment to an open research environment, by building
        on Using Primary Sources and digital projects involving Bocking-Welch, Buchanan,
        Chalus, Endfield, and Towsey (section 3), to extend our capacity to support digital
        humanities research and training.

 2. People


 2.a. Staffing Strategy
 With eighteen permanent staff members recruited since 2014, we have expanded our research
 coverage and addressed imbalances within the unit, particularly in terms of gender and
 experience. To meet our strategic aims we have further diversified our research portfolio in
 global history by appointing historians of Africa (Effros, Endfield, Jeater, Whelan), the
 Americas (Fryar, Hudson, Redden [internal HLC appointment], Sandy), Asia (Penati, Rocha,
 Wu) and Europe (Clark, Hazley, Penati). These appointments represent investment in areas of
 strategic importance, including environmental history (Endfield, Penati), gender and sexuality
 (Caslin, Chalus, Clark, French), religious history (Clark, French, Jeater) and the histories of
 slavery and enforced labour (Fryar, Sandy). Whelan and Effros extend our long-standing
 commitment to Medieval History back to late Antiquity (the Vandal kingdom in North Africa and
 Merovingian Gaul). Chalus, Effros, Endfield, French, Sandy, Stobo, and Wu further reinforce
 investment in Research Centres, while Caslin, Clark, Hudson, and Jeater consolidate our
 strengths in modern and contemporary history.


 We have taken action to promote diversity and equality in recruitment. This includes participating
 in the University’s Two Ticks Disability Guaranteed Interview Scheme; unconscious bias and
 other forms of training; appointing to areas of historical scholarship where female and BAME
 scholars are particularly active; and paying scrupulous attention when shortlisting to ensure that
 individuals with protected characteristics, or those who have taken career breaks, are properly
 considered. This strategy has allowed us to increase the proportion of female historians across
 the unit from 30% in 2014 to 45% today. This success has been reinforced by the institution’s


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 proactive approach to opening up promotion pathways to women. Of the six historians promoted
 to personal chairs in this cycle, four are women, of whom one (Donert) was promoted directly
 from Senior Lecturer to Professor. In addition, all new professorial hires since 2014 have been
 women (Chalus, Effros, and Endfield).


 Recruitment and promotion mean that the unit now draws on an expanded pool of research
 leadership provided by six Professors and seven Readers spread evenly across our
 geographical and chronological range of study. Of the remaining category A staff in permanent
 posts, ten are Senior Lecturers and nine are Lecturers, one of whom (Hudson) is on a
 permanent fractional post. This shift has had a transformative effect on the quality, depth, and
 range of support for staff development, allowing us to accommodate the impact of a 60% growth
 in undergraduate students from an intake of 158 in 2015-16, to 263 in 2016-17, 245 in 2017-18
 and 254 in 2018-19 (Source: UCAS).


 2.b. Staff Development
 Staff development aims to ensure that researchers reach their full research potential. To
 encourage colleagues to engage in genuinely supportive discussion of work-in-progress, pre-
 publication reading is promoted. This has helped the Unit improve the completion rate of singled
 authored monographs from 8 submitted in REF2014 to 22 in the current submission. All category
 A staff, including part-time staff, are entitled to one semester of internal leave out of every six or
 seven semesters which can be devoted either to Research or (from 2015) Impact. Flexibility in
 leave arrangements allows staff to complete significant outputs, either by attaching one
 semester of internal leave to a longer period of externally-funded leave (e.g. Towsey’s Reading
 History in Britain and America, c.1750-c.1840 [ 2019]), or by banking additional service to accrue
 two consecutive semesters of internal leave (e.g. Hopkins’s Dean Acheson and the Obligations
 of Power [2017]). Professional Development Review (PDR) and promotion processes support
 staff development and research activity through the Academy (see Institutional Statement). As a
 direct result of PDR, Pearson was put forward for the University’s Research Team Leaders
 Programme, while Sandy completed the Aurora programme, a women-only leadership initiative.


 The Unit has hosted a total of 19 postdoctoral researchers during the current cycle, whether
 through working on large projects (e.g. Atkinson, Begley, Gwinn, Harris, Lambert, Jones,
 Mackillop, Skjönsberg, Veale, Webb, Williams) or pursuing their own research (e.g. Farböl,
 Foley, Hazley, Hession, Molloy, Roberts, Robinson, Wu). Postdoctoral researchers have
 access to training and mentoring in line with the UK Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, the implementation of which is overseen by a new School Lead


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 for the Development of ECRs (Towsey). Harris, Jones, and Skjönsberg have collaborated with
 English ECRs to found a new ECW reading group, while Farbol, Gibbs, Hogg, and Roberts
 established a regional nuclear culture reading group.


 Support for ECR development at Unit level is complemented and enhanced by wider initiatives,
 such as the HSS ECR Network. Jones, Robinson and Skjönsberg sit on the committee of the
 University-wide Research Staff Association (Robinson as co-chair), while historians have also
 served as ECR representatives on the Faculty Research and Impact Committee and as ECR
 peer-reviewers on institutional pump-priming schemes. Historians also participate in Liverpool’s
 £4.4m RED-funded Prosper project (see Institutional Statement) to improve postdoctoral
 career development, with Jones and Chalus participating in focus groups for PDRAs and PIs
 respectively.


 As a result of these structures, our postdocs have achieved success. The platform provided by
 LCMRS and expert mentoring from Costambeys helped Leverhulme ECF Roberts secure a
 permanent Lectureship at Kent. As Donert’s PDRA, Gwinn was given time outside of the
 project for training and career development, including on his own publications, helping him
 secure a permanent position as Lecturer in Politics at Bournemouth. Mackillop progressed to a
 four-year post at the Wales Centre for Public Policy (Cardiff University) and Lambert secured a
 two-year fellowship at Lancaster University.


 2.c. Research Students
 We have refined our approach to PGR recruitment, training, and career development since 2014
 to integrate them more fully within our research culture. Since 2014 we have secured 13 fully-
 funded studentships from the AHRC-funded North West Consortium Doctoral Training
 Partnership (NWCDTP) and 10 from the ESRC-funded North West Social Science Doctoral
 Training Partnership (NWSSDTP), in addition to studentships funded by the Wellcome Trust, the
 AHRC’s Collaborative Doctoral Partnerships, and internal funds (see section 3).


 In keeping with our engaged approach to historical research and our commitment to embedding
 impact throughout the life cycle of research, we have been particularly successful in securing
 AHRC-funded CDAs/CDPs and ESRC-funded CASE Studentships. These often emerge from
 long-term collaborative relationships developed by our Research Centres (e.g. ECW’s CDAs
 with the National Trust and the Bluecoat Arts Centre; LUCAS’s CDAs with Barclays Bank and
 the Staffordshire Record Office), and have allowed our historians to work alongside a diverse
 range of supervisors from outside the academy, including organisations such as North West


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Cancer Research, the International Slavery Museum, the National Gallery, and the British
 Library, partners from business and industry (e.g. Unilever) and local heritage organisations (e.g.
 Port Sunlight Village Trust).


 All PGR students participate in the Department’s Postgraduate Development Programme, a
 series of monthly workshops delivered by senior colleagues and recent ECRs highlighting
 transferable skills and career development. Opportunities for skills development are available
 through the Department’s Postgraduate Development Programme, Research Centres, and
 specialised methods training modules offered by engage@liverpool and through our new
 institutional partnership with the ESRC-funded National Centre for Research Methods. Since
 2017, Redden has led an annual one-day engage@liverpool methods workshop, sharing best
 practice from his oral history work in El Salvador. Milne is a member of the Central University
 Research Ethics Committee, and along with Balderstone, Caslin, and Redden, supports PGRs
 with developing oral history projects.


 In addition, PGR students give a research presentation at a themed annual methodological
 conference, organised by PGR students and open to PhDs students across the North West, as
 well as visiting fellows from the University’s international partners. PGRs gain valuable career
 development experience from sitting on interdisciplinary Centre steering groups, where they
 contribute to social media campaigns, public engagement, and research programming.
 CHMEH’s dedicated PGR and ECR representative is History PGR Roberts, while four PGRs
 have sat on ECW’s steering committee (four from History, one from MLC and one from English).
 PGRs have accessed funding from Research Centres to organise themed conferences and
 symposia, including the M6 Medieval Reading Group Symposiums of 2018 and 2019 and ECW
 workshops on material culture, the history of reading, and fashion history.


 These training and development structures have helped us sustain excellent PhD completion
 rates, with 49 students graduating between 2013 and 2020. The support that we offer to our
 PGRs is further demonstrated by their subsequent success in securing attractive employment
 opportunities after graduation, both within academia (including appointments at Bristol, Hull,
 Keele, Lancaster, Liverpool John Moores, and Kings College London, and internationally in
 China and Italy) and externally (career routes have included the civil service, NGOs, policy work,
 research administration, heritage organisations and publishing). Williams’s appointment as
 PDRA on the £1.5m AHRC-funded Digital Panopticon project cemented close collaborative ties
 with SSPC, and she has subsequently co-authored books and articles with Godfrey.




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.d. Equality and Diversity
 As a group of historians committed to social justice and engaged research, we embed Equality &
 Diversity throughout the research life cycle. Guided by our research strategy, the Unit has made
 considerable strides towards developing a more inclusive research environment. Braun, Caslin,
 and Davies helped HLC achieve the Bronze Athena SWAN Award in December 2018, while
 Downham chairs the School-wide Equality and Diversity Committee – the first such body
 established at School level across the University.


 Work accepted for publication and submitted to the internal REF Reading Programme is
 reviewed by at least two members of the unit’s Reading Panel, whose membership maintains an
 even gender balance, at least one representative from the School’s Equality & Diversity
 Committee and at least one ECR. A special committee finalised the ranking and selection of
 outputs whose membership is governed by the same key principles and is required to take
 unconscious bias training delivered by AdvanceHE. Outputs are selected and ranked by the
 committee in accordance with the UoL’s REF Code of Practice (see Institutional Statement), with
 external calibration provided by a reciprocal REF Reading Exchange carried out with historians
 at Queen’s University Belfast (56 outputs read ‘blind’ to results of internal research assessment).
 The committee scrutinised the submission to ensure that the work of colleagues (including
 ECRs) has been treated as equitably and as inclusively as possible. Similar principles guide our
 submission of Impact Case Studies.


 The Unit takes the needs of new parents seriously. The newly-refurbished 11 Abercromby
 Square building provides a bookable, lockable room for breastfeeding women to express milk,
 while funding is provided to buy-in cover for colleagues on parental leave. Arrington and
 Towsey have served on the Equality and Diversity Committee as the School’s Family-Friendly
 Advisors on Maternity and Paternity respectively.


 In line with our engaged approach to historical research, our historians enthusiastically
 participate in Black History Month, LGBTQ+ History Month, and Women’s History Month. We are
 committed to pursuing a research and impact agenda which highlights and uncovers historical
 inequalities, including issues relating to gender, race, and intolerance. Downham and Heath
 have both written articles for The Conversation challenging contemporary white nationalist
 mythmaking about the medieval and colonial pasts, while Caslin has published widely on
 gender and created the ‘Sisters of Mersey’ app (section 4). Jeater’s research foregrounds
 overlooked African ontologies, while Kenny’s ‘Before Tuskegee’ project uses the histories of
 medical experimentation during nineteenth-century slavery and segregation in the United States


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 to expose contemporary forms of medical racism. PGRs have been particularly prominent in our
 efforts to engage the public in the histories of slavery and racism through talks, walking tours,
 and other activities. Jones’s LiNK internship at the Bluecoat Arts Centre documented its
 eighteenth-century origins in the profits of slavery for an HLF-funded exhibition, public talks and
 open access pamphlet.


 While we acknowledge that more needs to be done to ensure equality and diversity (as
 highlighted in section 1.d), we have taken important steps towards diversifying our research
 support structures. In this vein, the Unit launched a fully-funded PhD Studentship in the Histories
 of Race, Ethnicity, and/or Gender, specifically in response to the 2018 Royal Historical Society’s
 (RHS) Race, Ethnicity and Equality report (awarded to Warrilow).



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.a. Research Income
 The total value of awards has quadrupled from £1,569,400 in the last REF cycle to £6,441,821
 since August 2013, comprising £4,103,401 funder contribution and a share of £3,670,460
 coming directly to the unit. Some 24 colleagues have secured grants (73% of our total FTE), 8 of
 whom were ECRs at the point of award, and 50% of our grant holders are women (up from 33%
 in REF2014). Grant capture has increased dramatically towards the end of the cycle, suggesting
 the success of our strategy since 2014.



                            Research Awards Total Value per annum
    2,500,000
                                                                                      2,355,956

    2,000,000


    1,500,000
                            1,331,787
                                                                          1,162,720
    1,000,000

                                                    692,588
                                                                611,635
      500,000

                  109,312                177,823
             0
                  2013-14    2014-15     2015-16    2016-17     2017-18    2018-19     2019-20



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Collaborative Grant Funding
 External grant income enables us to pursue collaborative research which engages with societal
 challenges ranging from peace and reconciliation to library provision, health care and climate
 change. Towsey’s ‘Libraries, Reading Communities and Cultural Formation in the Eighteenth-
 Century Atlantic’ (AHRC; £827,689), which involves eight CIs and nine impact partners in the
 UK, USA, and Australia, emerged from an earlier AHRC-funded network (£44,925) and
 benefited from mentoring within the Knowledge, Texts and Archives Cluster. Two multi-
 institutional collaborative grants have emerged from our Political Histories and Cultures
 Research Cluster: Bocking-Welch’s ‘Petitioning and People Power in Twentieth-Century
 Britain’ (AHRC; CI; £108,867) builds on synergies established before the PI (Huzzey) departed
 Liverpool in 2016, while Chalus’s ‘Eighteenth-Century Political Participation and Electoral
 Culture’ (AHRC; CI; £94,575) strengthens our commitment to open research by compiling and
 making available online polling data from English constituencies between 1660 and 1870.
 Internal Overseas Development Assistance (ODA) seed-corn funding of £3,970, meanwhile,
 helped Jeater secure funding for ‘Spirits of Peace: Recovering Zimbabwe’s Heritage of
 Traditional Reconciliation Systems for Today’s Peacemakers’ (BA GCRF; £272,193), which
 develops extensive collaborations with Zimbabwean partners, including the National Peace &
 Reconciliation Commission.


 Interdisciplinary Projects
 Other projects are inherently interdisciplinary, including two projects which have had sustained
 success in engaging public and policy audiences. Sheard’s seven-year ‘Governance of Health’
 project (Wellcome Trust Senior Investigator Award; £1,113,594; Enhancement Award; £188,819;
 Costed Extension; £592,891) resulted in a major twenty-part series on the history of the NHS
 chosen as BBC Radio 4’s Pick of the Year programme for 2018, while Endfield’s ‘Weathering
 the Storm’ project (AHRC Follow-on Funding for Impact and Public Engagement; £74,209)
 engaged the public in interdisciplinary research on weather memories. Buchanan further
 enhances our contribution to digital humanities as CI on ‘Tracing the Past’ (AHRC; £99,323),
 working alongside colleagues from Liverpool’s Architecture School to develop new digital
 techniques for analysing the design and construction of English medieval vaults. As CIs on
 ‘Chronic Kidney Disease of Unknown Origin (CKDu): Interdisciplinary Approaches to
 Understanding a Complex Medical Phenomenon’ (AHRC/MRC GCRF; £149,054), Redden and
 Endfield work alongside epidemiologists, nephrologists, and social anthropologists from
 Guadalajara and medical anthropologists from Liverpool to design a protocol for investigating
 CKDu in Central America.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Interdisciplinary Networks
 We use network grants to lay the groundwork for future collaborative initiatives. Buchanan and
 Towsey’s interdisciplinary network on ‘Architecture and Society in an Age of Reform’ (AHRC;
 £35,895) stimulated further funding applications within ECW on urban politics and culture,
 including two CDA studentships. Network grants generated by our Political Histories and
 Cultures Cluster help to challenge racism and discrimination, including Clark’s ‘European
 Fascist Movements, 1918-1941’ (AHRC; £34,482) in collaboration with the Wiener Library, and
 Donert’s ‘Legacies of Roma Genocide in Europe since 1945’ (AHRC; £45,224) in partnership
 with the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Charles University, and Roma Voices of
 Manchester. Meanwhile, Endfield is CI on two interdisciplinary networks that reinforce the
 university’s strategic priority Climate Futures Research Challenge. The first, ‘Narratives of
 Environmental Risk’ (AHRC, £16,385), explores the role of concepts of fate, luck, and fortune in
 discussions of climate change; the second, 'Building UK Climate Resilience’ (NERC; £51,637),
 aims to bridge the gap between qualitative and quantitative data in the climate and hydrological
 sciences.


 Individual Fellowships
 While much of our success since 2014 has been founded on interdisciplinary collaboration,
 awards aimed at individual researchers remain important to the completion of major research
 outputs. These include Mid-Career Fellowships from the Independent Social Research
 Foundation (Heath, £93,698) and the British Academy (Towsey, £102,304), and a Leverhulme
 Trust Research Fellowship (Kenny, £90,110). We have been particularly successful in using the
 AHRC’s Leadership Fellowship programme to help historians develop vital research leadership
 experience. Donert’s award (£205,088) helped advance work on women’s rights and global
 socialism, while Whelan’s ECR Fellowship (£185,790) seeks a new understanding of the
 relationship between Christianity and the state in Late Antiquity. Mentored by Effros, this project
 will develop a new collaborative partnership between LCMRS and Liverpool’s World Museum.
 The Unit continues to build on long-standing success in the Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowships (ECF). Mentored by Sheard, Robinson secured an ECF (£174,946) for ‘Disability,
 Welfare and Rehabilitation: Disabled Great War Veterans of the British Empire, 1918-39,’ which
 built on a Wellcome Trust-funded pilot (£100,572). Wu brought the final year of her ECF when
 she was appointed to a permanent position in the History of China (£57,685), while Roberts’s
 ECF (£141,006) was central to the completion of his monograph Flodoard of Rheims (2019).
 Mentored by Downham, Hewer’s ECF ‘Minorities under English Rule: Gaels in Ireland and



                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Flemish in England, 1150–1300’ (£164,284) will begin in May 2021, extending our engagement
 with this scheme into the next REF cycle.


 Small Grants and Visiting Fellowships
 Small grants and visiting fellowships offer an alternative route to the completion of major outputs,
 while also acting as pathways towards further external funding. Pearson’s Wellcome Trust
 Small Grant (£4,958) resulted in a monograph Dogopolis: How Dogs and Humans Made Modern
 New York, London, and Paris (2021), while Hopkins’s Dean Acheson and the Obligations of
 Power (2017) was supported by grants from the Eisenhower Foundation ($600), the Harry S.
 Truman Library Institute ($1,300) and the William R. Castle, Jr. Memorial Fellowship at the
 Hoover Presidential Foundation ($800). A Carnevalli research grant from the Economic History
 Society (£930) has supported his forthcoming book, British Financial Diplomacy with North
 America. Small grants have proved particularly effective in helping ECRs to broach new areas of
 investigation. Hudson secured £2,000 from the British Association for American Studies to
 support archival research in the United States towards a monograph project on citizenship and
 race in twentieth-century Chicago. A Rockefeller Archive Centre Grant-in-Aid (£2,227) and a
 Bodleian Library Research Fellowship (£1,800) helped Bocking-Welch develop a new project
 on youth and global citizenship, while a Wellcome Trust Small Grant (£11,833) allowed her to
 scope out a second new project on ‘Body Knowledge in Post-War Humanitarian Campaigns’.
 Historians have also held fellowships at the Robert H. Smith International Center for Jefferson
 Studies (Sandy) and the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (Kempf). Furthermore, Sheard
 was a Visiting Scholar at Harvard University as part of her Wellcome Trust Senior Investigator
 Award, Braun was Visiting Professorship at the École Normale Supérieure de Lyon, and Clark
 was Research Fellow at the Vienna Wiesenthal Institute for Holocaust Studies. Effros was a
 Visiting Scholar at the Université de Poitiers and has held fellowships from the American
 Philosophical Society and the Society of Antiquaries of London. Hudson was awarded an
 Erasmus+ mobility award, allowing her to develop research collaborations with colleagues at
 Paris VII.


 Doctoral Studentships
 Historians have supervised 27 externally funded PhD students, amounting to a total income in
 fees and maintenance grants of well over £1.5m in the current cycle. Internal funding has also
 supported PGRs, including cross-Faculty John Lennon Memorial Scholarships (Cowan,
 £30,000) and Duncan Norman Research Scholarships (Atkins, £62,000). We have mentored
 our PGRs to success in securing fellowships and small grants nationally and internationally,
 including awards from the Agricultural History Society, Library of Congress, the New York State

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Archives, the American Antiquarian Society, Oregon Historical Society, the Royal Historical
 Society, the Economic History Society, and the United Empire Loyalists’ Association of Canada,
 while Fuqua, Jones, Kelly, Smith, and Wilson have benefited from the UGA Franklin College-
 University of Liverpool Doctoral Short-Term International Research Fellowship.


 3.b. Organisational Infrastructure Investment
 Our success in growing external grant income reflects the increased institutional support since
 2014 and enhanced peer review processes. The HSS Faculty oversees scoping workshops and
 rigorous internal peer review for postdoctoral schemes (including the Leverhume ECF scheme,
 which supported Robinson and Hewer’s successful applications) and for particularly complex
 themed calls (including GCRF). As Faculty APVC for Research and Impact, Endfield has
 overseen an ambitious programme of scoping events and workshops at Faculty level designed
 to support all colleagues at all career stages seeking external research funding. An annual
 Researcher Induction provides new staff with an overview of research support across the
 Faculty and the University, and Research Funders Workshops allow staff to hear from
 colleagues who have been successful in securing funding (including historians Donert, Endfield
 and Towsey), and workshops have focused on specific funders (e.g. September 2016 visit from
 the BA Chief Executive) and schemes.


 Support for impact is provided at four levels. The University’s annual ‘Making an Impact’ festival
 showcases best practice, hosts major national and international speakers, and provides a forum
 for discussion among academic staff and professional services colleagues. The Faculty Impact
 Officer provides support, guidance and feedback to individual researchers at all levels, helping to
 ensure we embed public engagement and pathways to impact in all research work. This includes
 the development of impact in projects, funding bids, partnership building, networking, and linking
 with other Professional Services resources centrally, as well as working with current and
 potential future REF case study authors. He provides training opportunities and resources
 related to impact for groups, and meets with individuals to help plan, develop and evidence
 impact. From 2018, eight dedicated impact evidence PDRAs have been employed by the HSS
 Faculty, working with shortlisted case study authors to develop and expand potential case
 studies, and developing a best practice network for collecting testimony, planning impact
 projects, and helping develop all the UoA’s Impact Case Studies (ICS).


 Further one-to-one support within the UoA is provided by the History Impact Lead (Davies). He
 advises new colleagues, liaises with current and potential future case study authors, and




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 convenes History impact workshops, where colleagues share their experiences of working with
 audiences and partner organisations beyond the academy.


 3.c. Internal Funding
 Historians at Liverpool have access to a wide range of internal funding schemes and pump-
 priming initiatives to support research and impact. HLC provides an allowance to all staff and
 PGRs to fund research, impact, and conference participation, while also running a competitive
 Discretionary Fund to support more ambitious plans for collaborative research. This is
 supplemented by additional annual investment in visiting fellowships, PGR studentships,
 internationalisation, and impact across HLC worth over £163,000, as well as an annual award of
 £3,000 to each of the Research Centres which has been instrumental in laying the groundwork
 for funding bids submitted by ECW (Buchanan, Chalus, and Towsey) and LCMRS
 (Costambeys and Whelan).


 As reflected in the external funding secured by Bocking-Welch, Kenny, Pearson, Redden,
 Robinson, and Sheard (detailed above), medical humanities are a key area of growth within the
 Unit. Scholars working within the medical humanities can access internal funding through the
 University’s Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund via CHMEH. Sheard obtained
 £15,000 in 2019 to fund a pilot study for a new international research network on Transatlantic
 health systems learning, and a £1,940.22 grant from this fund helped Pearson to secure a
 Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award (CI; £1.4m) for 'Remaking One Health: Decolonial
 Approaches to Street Dogs and Rabies Prevention in India' with colleagues from four institutions
 across behavioural ecology, geography, and psychology. CHMEH also provides seed-corn
 funding for research on the history of technology, including Hogg’s workshop on ‘Nuclear
 Scholarship in the Humanities’ (funded by CHMEH and an HLC Discretionary award [£1,750]).
 This helped to generate externally-funded research on nuclear culture, including two AHRC-
 funded PGR students and a postdoctoral fellow funded by the Danish Research Council (Farböl,
 £161,000).


 Beyond the support available from School and interdisciplinary Research Centres, staff can also
 apply to schemes operating at Faculty or University level. These include a range of funded
 exchange programmes, the highlight of which is the Franklin-Liverpool Fellowship with the
 University of Georgia (recipients include Bocking-Welch, Fryar and Kenny). A Liverpool-
 Georgia workshop on ‘New Digital Practices, Projects and Audiences’ took place in November
 2017 to promote our growing portfolio of innovative digital projects. Interdisciplinary funding
 supported an incubation grant of £4,695 to Buchanan’s ‘Tracing the Past’ project, while


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Bocking-Welch, Caslin, and Whelan have between them secured a total of £6,584 from the
 University’s Early Career Researchers and Returners Fund. The same scheme awarded £1,996
 to Robinson for proof-of-concept work in South Africa, laying the groundwork for the successful
 Wellcome and Leverhulme ECF bids outlined above; he subsequently gained crucial career
 development experience serving as an ECR reviewer for the scheme. A generous donation
 allowed the Institute of Irish Studies to offer six Busteed Postdoctoral Fellowship Prizes worth
 £12,000 each, supporting new research on women and violence in late medieval Ireland (Foley),
 the role of technology in the Great Famine (Hession) and race, violence and Irish nationalism in
 the mid-nineteenth century (Molloy). A Busteed Fellowship helped Hazley to complete work on
 Life History and the Irish Migrant Experience in Post-War England (2020), secure one of HSS’s
 5-year Derby Tenure-Track Fellowships, and develop the project ‘Conflict, Memory & Migration:
 Northern Irish Migrants and the Troubles in Great Britain’, on which he is a research fellow
 (AHRC; £99,152). Specific funding is also available to support colleagues looking to develop
 new pathways to impact, or to accelerate existing ICS; £20,713 has been allocated to Davies,
 Donert, Downham, Godfrey, Kenny, and Sheard.


 With extensive research interests in Africa, Asia and South America, historians have secured
 awards totalling £26,409 from the UoL’s ODA Research Support Fund, which pump primes
 research in Low-to-Middle Income Countries (see Institutional Statement). This investment
 Jeater to secure the GCRF grants noted above, while allowing Heath and Penati to build
 exploratory collaborative networks with academics and NGOs in India, Kyrgyzstan, and
 Kazakhstan. Heath’s emerging research on policing and violence in colonial and post-colonial
 India (expected to be a major feature of our next REF submission) was further enriched by the
 award of a Liverpool-India Fellowship (£3,000) to bring Santana Khanikar (Jawaharlal Nehru
 University, New Delhi) to Liverpool for three months in 2016.


 3.d. Facilities
 The UoA has benefited from a 1.2 million redevelopment of 1-14 Abercromby Square, including
 the construction of new PGR office suites and the creation of a new School Common Room,
 which provides a flexible and informal meeting space for grant-writing workshops and research
 cluster events. Research is supported by three Professional Services Teams dedicated to
 Research, Finance and Marketing, Recruitment & Events. The latter facilitates research and
 public engagement activities, including the hosting of major conferences such as the European
 Reformation Research Group (French, 2017) and the Society for the Social History of Medicine
 conference (Kenny, Pearson, and Sheard, 2018; awarded a Wellcome Trust Small Grant of
 £8,976).


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 The University supports public engagement by providing exhibition space in its Victoria Gallery &
 Museum, which hosted Towsey’s exhibition ‘Knowledge is Power’ on the role of libraries in the
 growth of Georgian Liverpool (sponsored by Investec Assets Management); a new Media Suite,
 which has recorded podcasts by historians for ECW (Jones, Towsey) and the Heritage Theme
 (Caslin); and through its Tate Exchange partnership with Tate Liverpool (exploited by Caslin
 and Hogg for events noted in section 4). As also detailed in section 4, the University’s User
 Interface & Mobile Development Team has disseminated historical research through smart
 phone apps.


 At the University’s Sydney Jones Library staff and students have access to a book stock of over
 1,952,800 items, over 800,000 electronic books and one of the UK’s most extensive collections
 of electronic primary source databases, benefitting from sustained investment in library
 resources (see Institutional Statement). Working closely with staff and PGRs, a subject librarian
 has facilitated substantial investment in 25 new digital primary source collections since REF2014
 focused on areas of strategic interest (e.g. outright purchase of Area Studies: India, India, Raj
 and Empire and East India Company for our Transnational Histories Research Cluster), while
 the Library approved £2,000 specifically to diversify research collections as part of the Unit’s
 immediate response to the RHS Race, Ethnicity and Equality report.


 The Library’s Special Collections and Archives, accredited by the Archive Service Accreditation,
 holds over 2,000 linear metres of material related to the University and a host of other research
 areas of interest to historians. This includes the Charles Booth papers, the Josephine Butler
 Collection, Cold War texts (used extensively by Hogg), the Cunard Archive, the Gypsy Lore
 Collection, Medieval and Renaissance Manuscripts, Spanish Civil War Collections, and its
 renowned Science Fiction Hub – one of the largest science fiction collections in Europe.
 Liverpool historians also make extensive use of material, visual, and textual resources held by
 local galleries and repositories; the Liverpool Central Library and Liverpool Athenaeum have
 both partnered successful grant applications led by Towsey, while the University’s formal
 partnership with National Museums Liverpool underpins several projects (e.g. Whelan, detailed
 above). Sheard served on the Senior Management Council for the Liverpool Medical Institution
 for 10 years, advising on its historical library and archives.




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.a. Contributions to the discipline and research collaborations
 Our engaged approach to historical research means that we take seriously our
 responsibility to support, sustain, and enhance History and related disciplines. We
 regularly serve as peer reviewers and panellists for academic journals, publishers, and funding
 councils, including the AHRC, American Council of Learned Societies, British Academy, ESRC,
 Leverhulme Trust, and Wellcome Trust, as well as research councils in Belgium, Canada,
 Croatia, Denmark, Germany, Kazakhstan and Spain. With climate change a major societal
 concern, Endfield sits on the Steering Committee for the UKRI Climate Resilience Strategic
 Priority Fund, and is an interview panellist and mentor for the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships
 scheme. Many Liverpool historians also sit on journal editorial boards or edit journals, including
 The Anthropocene Review (Endfield) and Journal of Southern African Studies (Jeater). They
 edit book series, including the Brill Series on the Early Middle Ages (Effros), Routledge Studies
 in Eighteenth-Century Cultures and Societies (Chalus), Routledge Studies in Renaissance and
 Early Modern Worlds of Knowledge (Braun) and Brill’s Library of the Written Word (Towsey). In
 addition, three of our Research Centres (CSIS, ECW, and LCMRS) have well established book
 series published by Liverpool University Press, while ECW’s support was instrumental in the
 press acquiring the influential bilingual Oxford University Studies in the Enlightenment.


 All Liverpool historians are members of learned societies, and often play a leading role in
 running them, including the Association of Commonwealth Archivists and Records Managers
 (Lowry), Archives and Records Association UK and Ireland (Buchanan), British Association of
 South Asian Studies (Heath), European Reformation Research Group (French), European
 Society of Environmental History (Pearson), Record Society of Lancashire and Cheshire
 (Heale), Eighteenth-Century Scottish Studies Society (Towsey), and Society for Renaissance
 Studies (Braun). Endfield was President of the International Commission for the History of
 Meteorology between 2013- 2017, and two of other new appointees since 2014 have
 subsequently been elected President of learned societies; Clark (Society for Romanian Studies)
 and Penati (European Society for Central Asian Studies). Many Liverpool historians are elected
 fellows of the RHS, while Chalus sat on its Council from 2014 to 2019.


 We collaborate intensively with colleagues from other institutions on joint research projects and
 research networks (see Section 3). Many of these collaborations are international. Notable
 examples include Effros’s role as ex-officio member of Mellon-funded project Intersections:
 Animating Conversations in the Humanities at the University of Florida; Towsey’s membership
 of advisory boards of projects in Australia, the Netherlands, the UK, and the USA; and Braun’s
                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 membership of international and interdisciplinary research projects based in Spain. These
 networks reinforce the UoA’s international, interdisciplinary, and collaborative research culture.
 Sandy, meanwhile, leads the University’s participation in the international initiative Universities
 Studying Slavery.


 Our contribution to the research base has been recognised through a series of prestigious
 prizes. Clark received The Society of Romanian Studies Book Prize for Holy Legionary Youth:
 Fascist Activism in Interwar Romania (Cornell, 2015), while Effros’s Incidental Archaeologists:
 French Officers and the Rediscovery of Roman North Africa (Cornell, 2018) won the 2019 Alf
 Andrew Heggoy Book Prize of the French Colonial Historical Society. PGRs and PDRAs have
 also secured prizes: Wilson won the Journal of Medieval Iberian Studies 2017 article prize and
 Skjönsberg won the 2020 Parliamentary History Essay Prize.


 Historians at Liverpool further contribute to the sustainability of the discipline through extensive
 article and book peer-reviewing, examining PhDs, organizing workshops, and delivering
 keynotes. Through these activities and the others detailed above, we strive to secure the vitality,
 diversity, and impact of historical research nationally and internationally.


 4.b. Wider Contributions to Society
 In keeping with our core commitment to engaged research, we work with a plethora of partners
 beyond the academy. These range from the Department of Health and NIHR, to grassroots
 community organisations from Everton to El Salvador. We reach diverse audiences through
 collaborations with broadcasters, cultural organisations, and creative artists. We place particular
 emphasis on addressing historical injustices (the Holocaust; medical racism; slavery, colonial
 and postcolonial violence) and engaging marginalised and disadvantaged communities and
 groups (the black community in Philadelphia and learners in Scottish prisons). Since REF2014,
 we have increasingly capitalised on digital communication methods to reach wider audiences for
 our research.


    (1) Partnerships with central and local government
 Our commitment to informing and critiquing policy has seen us work extensively with
 policymakers, underpinned by our official partnership with History and Policy where Sheard has
 been a Senior Associate since 2010 and for which Robinson has recently published on COVID-
 19 and welfare policy. Sheard has herself worked with a very wide range of policymakers,
 including those at the Department of Health; NIHR; Royal College of Physicians; and Liverpool
 University Hospital Foundation NHS Trust. Sheard’s research has been regularly cited in

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 government enquiries, most recently by Lord David Owen in the Infected Blood Inquiry (2020),
 and she participated in a Cabinet Office meeting in 2019 on the uses of history in policy.
 Sheard’s expertise in health policy enabled her to respond quickly to the COVID -19 crisis with a
 £294,488 MRC/NIHR-funded collaborative project with the University of Oxford to monitor media
 trends and expert interventions during the COVID-19 pandemic, to help inform policy and
 examine how decisions affect healthcare workers. This policy audience includes members of the
 Strategic Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) that advises the Government, and Public
 Health England leaders.


 In 2014, and following earlier health consultancy work in Liverpool, Sheard was commissioned
 by Wigan Council’s Director of Public Health to assess the risk of historic anthrax contamination
 of a proposed new housing site at Appley Bridge. Sheard’s 15-page report, based on research
 in local and national archives, informed the council’s decision to award planning permission and
 was subsequently cited when the planning decision was upheld at the High Court in December
 2014. The development, including a quota of social housing, was constructed in 2015. This
 contributed both to the fulfilment of the Wigan Unitary Development Plan (through the
 reclamation of a former industrial site) and to Wigan Council’s strategy for improving housing
 quantity and quality.


 Our ICS authors all share research findings with central and/or local government agencies.
 Davies (September 2015, under the aegis of History and Policy) and Godfrey (November
 2015), have both given presentations to the Home Office. Godfrey has worked closely with
 Cheshire Police since 2014, while Downham was commissioned by Wirral Borough Council to
 deliver a heritage feasibility study (February-June 2020). PGR Jones, meanwhile, worked on a
 project with Liverpool City Council documenting the city’s ‘Blue Plaques’ (2018).


    (2) Partnerships with museums, galleries, and libraries
 Museums, galleries and libraries remain key partners, building on our long-standing
 collaborations with National Museums Liverpool (NML), including the International Slavery
 Museum (see REF2014). Walker Art Gallery curators are active participants within ECW and
 LCMRS, while Ashworth, Effros, Milne, Sheard, and Whelan have advised on and helped to
 curate exhibitions for NML, and Bocking-Welch and Heath have hosted talks and events at the
 Museum of Liverpool and the World Museum. As part of the British Academy’s 2019 Being
 Human festival, Heath organised ‘Untold Histories of Empire: The Truths About Empire that
 Museums Don’t Want to Tell You – and Why’. The highlight of this project was a trail that World
 Museum visitors were invited to explore on the imperial and colonial histories of objects in the


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 museum’s collection. This collaboration in turn informed the redevelopment of the World
 Cultures gallery around the guiding principle of decolonisation.


 Historians have also helped to develop the University’s award-winning new partnership with Tate
 Liverpool (partnership of the year, RCUK-supported PraxisUnico Impact Awards 2017). Hogg
 held a Tate Exchange event (2018) on representations of renewable energy (along with PGRs
 Gibbs and Roberts), a collaboration fostered by CHMEH. Historical and archival workshops and
 reports have reinforced the UoA’s close partnership with Unilever (Sheard, PGRs Strickland
 and Thorpe, van den Bersselaar) and English Heritage (Buchanan). Van den Bersselaar’s
 input was vital to the cataloguing of the United Africa Company records held at Unilever
 archives. Building on collaborative doctorate awards with the Post Sunlight Village Trust,
 Hudson was part of a successful funding bid to the European Regional Development Fund to
 create a new permanent exhibition gallery at Port Sunlight, directed at the engagement and
 education of young people.


 In the United States, Kenny’s research has informed the work of key curatorial practitioners,
 most notably Nancy Bercaw and Mary Elliott, co-curators of the ‘Slavery and Freedom’ galleries
 at the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington DC. His
 research was also used to develop part of the ‘Purchased Lives: New Orleans and the Domestic
 Slave, 1808-1865’ exhibition, which opened at the Historic New Orleans Collection in 2015. This
 was the first exhibition in New Orleans to focus on the city’s central role in the domestic slave
 trade. It welcomed over 15,000 visitors before touring the United States. In 2015, Kenny also
 co-led Life and Limb: The Toll of the American Civil War. This involved numerous collaborations
 and modes of engagement with a variety of audiences in North America and the UK. These
 included: a U.S. National Library of Medicine touring exhibition; new photographic and digital
 print-based representations of disabled soldiers and veterans created by two UK-based artists;
 support and collaboration from the U.S. Embassy, the Liverpool Medical Institution (LMI), and
 Blesma, the British Limbless Ex-Service Men’s Association; and community access and
 engagement as a destination during the Liverpool ‘Light Night’ annual arts festival.


 PGRs also work extensively with museums and heritage organizations, supported through the
 University’s PGR placement scheme (e.g. Strickland with Port Sunlight). Following the Life and
 Limb exhibition, two PGRs (Kelly and Powell) co-authored a permanent online exhibition based
 in Charleston, South Carolina.




                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    (3) Resources for teachers
 To support the teaching of History in schools – and to help foster the next generation of
 historians – we have partnered with broadcasters, learned societies, and cultural institutions to
 provide a series of resources for teachers. Caslin researched and presented a series of twelve
 ‘Hunting for History’ videos aimed at 11–16 year olds for BBC Teach online, utilising documents
 held at The National Archives. She also ran a Teach the Teachers event (through Tate
 Exchange) for local secondary school teachers exploring the potential for using Tate Liverpool’s
 collections as a teaching resource. Sandy secured funding from the BAAS/US Embassy Small
 Grants Programme (£8,500) to deliver workshops at the International Slavery Museum for
 school teachers and children on civil rights and American Studies & Digital Humanities. Our
 initiatives also benefit Geography teachers and school pupils. Endfield, supported by funding
 from AHRC, worked with the Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute of British
 Geographers) to develop lesson plans and learning resources from the TEMPEST database for
 use in schools in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland at Key Stages 3, 4 and 5 (topics:
 ‘Hazards and Risk’; ‘The Carbon and Water Cycles, Climate and Change’). As part of the
 University’s COVID-19 response, Downham and Caslin produced resources for teachers and
 parents.


    (4) Partnerships with community organisations and campaigning groups
 Our community engagement involves researchers at all career stages and reflects our broader
 commitment to social justice. Redden’s research in El Salvador documenting the history of the
 anti-gang initiative, Music for Hope, was vital to securing municipal funding in 2016 for the
 continuation of the project, which uses participatory music as a tool for community development
 among young people in the Bajo Lempa region of Jiquilisco. Locally, Caslin delivered a
 programme of local history sessions for the Liverpool branch of the Alzheimer’s Society (2016),
 while PGR McGiveron has run history-themed events at Kitty’s Laundrette, a social business
 and worker-community cooperative in Everton (also featuring PGRs Copestake and Warner),
 following the award of a £16,900 Heritage Lottery Fund grant. Davies delivered history sessions
 as part of a men’s health project in Langworthy, a deprived ward in Salford, in addition to running
 a history project for the Scottish Prison Service (see Davies’ ICS; REF 3).


 Reinforcing the UoA’s commitment to social justice, Redden provided crucial, research-based
 testimony in support of a successful appeal for refugee status on behalf of an asylum seeker
 from El Salvador (2016–17). Jeater provides expert evidence on refugee and immigration cases
 to British courts on specific aspects of the situation in Zimbabwe to assist the courts in
 understanding the plausibility of the claims made by asylum seekers or human rights claimants.

                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    (5) Media partnerships
 We seek to shape public attitudes and enhance cultural understanding through our extensive
 contributions to broadcast, print and digital/social media. We have drawn on the University’s
 partnership with The Conversation to engage global audiences in topical research on colonial
 legacies (Heath), monuments (Hudson), US-North Korea relations (Hopkins), women and
 dieting (Wilks-Heeg), and medical racism (Kenny). Kenny’s article has received over 103,000
 Facebook shares and 690,150 views. Digital communication methods are complemented by
 more traditional tools, with many of our historians engaging with public audiences through print
 media, including BBC History Magazine (Davies, Hogg, Hudson, Pearson, and Towsey).


 Members of the UoA work extensively with television and radio production companies in the UK
 and overseas to help them to develop historical documentaries and current affairs programmes,
 frequently appearing as expert contributors (Ashworth, Balderstone, Bocking-Welch, Caslin,
 Chalus, Clark, Davies, Downham, Godfrey, Heath, Hogg, Hopkins, Hudson, Kempf,
 Pearson, Towsey). Sheard wrote and presented the major, twenty-part series ‘National Health
 Stories’ for BBC Radio 4 (see above). Kenny’s research and regular radio broadcasts on New
 Orleans public radio and WURD 900, a black-owned radio station in Philadelphia, between 2017
 and 2019 have been credited with helping “to establish the historical timeline…of the
 institutionalization of medical racism that continues to this day” (programme producer Glenn
 Ellis) and have inspired follow-on programming on historical human experimentation.


 Media coverage of our research significantly amplifies our own posts on social media. In addition
 to the popular illustrated book Medieval Monsters (British Library, 2015), Kempf shares findings
 from his research on Twitter (79,0 00 followers) and Instagram (107,000 followers). His research
 has been extensively profiled by broadcast media (BBC Radio 3, The Verb; BBC Radio 4, Start
 the Week, Making History) and in print media both in the UK (Daily Mail, Daily Telegraph, Times)
 and overseas (for example, Süddeutsche Zeitung, 29 September 2017). Meanwhile, through
 blogging and article-writing as Senior Fellow at the Centre for the Analysis of the Radical Right,
 Clark has increased critical understanding of the radical right and anti-Semitism.


    (6) Informing and inspiring artistic works
 Our research has inspired and informed new artistic works, which in turn have enhanced public
 knowledge of the past and increased cultural understanding. Theatrical performances drawing
 on research by Davies and Godfrey are detailed in our ICS. With the help of AHRC follow-on
 funding (see section 3), Endfield’s TEMPEST database inspired award-winning poet Matt

                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Black to write his first play, The Storm Officer, which focuses on the highly sensitive and
 emotional issue of contemporary flooding. The play toured the UK in 2018/19 (Nottingham,
 Matlock, Aberystwyth, Hereford and Porthcurno, Cornwall) and the East Midlands in 2020. In
 addition, artist Jonathon Beaver was the inaugural Artist in Residence at LUCAS in March 2018,
 working over three months with PGTs, PGRs, and staff to produce artwork based on material
 from Merseyside archives. The residency culminated in the exhibition ‘Dream of the Dead, Hear
 from the Living’ at Domino Gallery, Liverpool. Sheard is on the steering committee for the
 Liverpool Literary Festival and presented two events in 2019. She also has developed the
 Liverpool Health Stories partnership, through which she is building a collaboration with the actor
 Stephen McGann and local artists.


    (7) Promotion of tourism
 Our series of interactive smart phone apps co-produced with the University’s User Interface &
 Mobile Development Team serve to enhance public understanding of the past and to promote
 tourism, and are freely available on Apple and Android systems through the University appstore.
 Caslin’s ‘The Sisters of Mersey’ involves the community in the research itself, charting the
 history of women’s experiences of, and contributions to, the city of Liverpool, and driving users
 towards relevant collections at National Museums Liverpool and Liverpool Record Office.
 Pearson’s ‘Sniffing the Past’ provides interactive maps of London, New York and Paris to
 enable users to discover how dogs have shaped the cities’ histories. Downham’s ‘The Viking
 Age in the North West’ guides users to sites of Viking settlement and integration across the
 region. This investment in digital technologies underscores our commitment to cutting edge
 engaged and engaging research.




                                                                                               Page 25
