       Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Exeter
Unit of Assessment: UoA3 Allied Health Professions and Nursing
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
This return is the first under UoA3 for the University of Exeter, as a consequence of Exeter researchers in
Allied Health Professions (AHPs) and Nursing making world-leading contributions to health research. It is
underpinned by our strategic increase in STEMM research at Exeter including a policy of further growth in
nursing and AHP research; see 1.4 Institutional-Level Environment Statement (ILES). Key achievements
include:
       Establishment of a groundbreaking Academy of Nursing (2018); Exeter is the only research-intensive
        university to do so since the introduction of nursing funding reforms.
       A rapidly growing community of UoA3 post-graduate research students (PGRs) (32 currently registered
        compared with 11 completions over REF2021 period).
       National and international honours for Goodwin (MBE), Ellard (OBE), Shepherd (one of 100+
        Outstanding Women Nurses and Midwife Leaders).
       Research leadership recognition for Richards (NIHR Senior Investigator)
The staff returned here are a multidisciplinary, dynamic group of thirteen (12.5FTE) AHPs, nurses and health
services researchers working in the University of Exeter’s College of Medicine and Health (CMH).
Incorporating Medicine, Nursing and AHPs, to reflect the University’s commitment to delivering world-leading
interdisciplinary healthcare research and education, CMH was established in 2018 and grew out of the
University of Exeter Medical School (2010). We organise our research in two Institutes: Biomedical and Clinical
Science (IBCS) and Health Research (IHR). The two Institutes’ staff (354FTE) are based on the St Luke’s and
Penryn campuses and at the Royal Devon and Exeter (RD&E) Hospital and Royal Cornwall Hospital (RCH)
sites. Across Institutes, research is focused in four interdisciplinary research themes; see 2.3-2.4 ILES. Each
of these spans the spectrum of research activity from experimental science to clinical trials, health policy and
implementation with our regional, national and international collaborators (Figure 1). Research that is
internationally recognised for its excellence and informs AHP and nursing practice sits across three of these
themes: Diabetes, Cardiovascular and Ageing; Neuroscience and Mental Health; Health Services Research.




Figure 1: Structure of the University of Exeter CMH; links illustrative only
                                                                                                     Page 1
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.1 Structure of the Unit
CMH does not have a traditional departmental structure. UoA3 staff are members of IBCS and IHR, working
in cross-cutting groups on interdisciplinary programmes of research relevant to nursing and AHP clinical
practice within the overall CMH strategy, incorporating medical statistics, economic modelling, qualitative
research, intervention and diagnostic test development, and, patient and public involvement.
Our particular strengths are, therefore, in interdisciplinary methodological work and applied health and
social care research: research that reflects the needs of the public, service users, health and social care
staff, commissioners and service providers. Scientists returned in this unit of assessment lead the following
specifically focussed programmes, drawing on the broad collaborative interdisciplinary expertise of our
Institutes.
Diabetes, Cardiovascular Risk & Ageing
Diabetes
Shepherd (Nurse, Category C), Ellard (Clinical Scientist) and Shields (statistician) together with Hattersley
(UoA1) have established an international interdisciplinary research programme to investigate monogenic
forms of diabetes combining research, clinical practice and education. Their research focusses on the impact
of a correct genetic diagnosis and the consequence of treatment change as a result. Ellard has led the
laboratory research that identified new genetic subtypes of monogenic diabetes and developed a new NHS
diagnostic test for all subtypes in a single assay. This genomic approach has enabled an accurate diagnosis
for 1000s of patients throughout the world, many of whom have changed treatment (often stopping
unnecessary insulin injections). Ellard led the NHS Genomic Medicine Centre set up to deliver the 100,000
Genomes Project in the South West and is the Scientific Director for the new South West NHS Genomic
Laboratory Hub.
Shepherd provides clinical advice regarding management of monogenic diabetes nationally/internationally
and has developed major clinical guidelines (www.diabetesgenes.org). She leads the national, award winning
Genetic Diabetes Nurse (GDN) translational initiative educating experienced Diabetes Specialist Nurses to
increase awareness of monogenic diabetes amongst healthcare professionals nationally, resulting in
increased referrals for genetic testing and identification of people with monogenic diabetes. Once a genetic
diagnosis is confirmed GDNs support patients with treatment change and assist with family follow up.
Shepherd also organises research-based international training courses in monogenic diabetes and together
with Ellard co-developed a Massive Online Open Course (MOOC) in Genomic Medicine. Shepherd, Ellard
and Shields work is detailed further in an Impact Case Study.
Tavakoli’s (Optometrist) is internationally recognised in developing novel ophthalmic biomarkers and a range
of biomarkers for early detection of diabetic neuropathy. Her translational research represents a huge leap
forward in terms of our ability to diagnose, follow the progression of, and assess therapeutic response in
patients with diabetic neuropathy and other peripheral neuropathies. It will have both an immediate diagnostic
impact on patients and also longer-term implications with the development of a novel surrogate marker ‘In
Vivo Corneal Confocal Microscopy (IVCCM)” for assessing new therapies. Research on implementing IVCCM
screening into primary care optometry practices has shown it to be acceptable to patients with further research
underway on refining the technology and its cost-effectiveness.
Cardiovascular and Ageing Rehabilitation
Our rehabilitation research, funded by NIHR and the Stroke Association in collaboration with partners from
other UK and international institutions, is a broad programme on the development and evaluation of complex
interventions for older people and for those living with long term conditions. Staff have methodological
expertise in intervention development, clinical trials, process evaluation, qualitative and mixed methods
research, underpinned by a strong PPI and clinical engagement foundation.
Dean (Physiotherapist) leads a programme of mixed methods research applying psychology to rehabilitation
and health, increasing concordance with therapeutic exercise and physical activity. She investigates behaviour
change techniques like goal setting and education in health promotion and long-term condition management
for obesity prevention in schoolchildren (HELP trial, 2018), stroke (ReTrain pilot trial, 2018) and urinary
incontinence (OPAL trial, 2020).


                                                                                                    Page 2
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Goodwin (Physiotherapist) leads on research relating to falls and frailty, focussing particularly on home-based
rehabilitation. She was Co-I on an international group investigating falls prevention in Parkinson’s (PDSAFE)
and is currently South West Co-I lead for seven sites on the NIHR-funded HERO trial of rehabilitation for older
people living with frailty. She leads the health and wellbeing work stream on the EPSRC-funded VSimulator
facility (See Section 1.3). Ongoing work includes a recent interdisciplinary grant from the Wellcome Trust Seed
Corn in collaboration with colleagues from Sport Sciences and Maths on the ‘Maintenance of Symmetry and
Stability in Human Walking’.
Neuroscience & Mental Health:
Dementia
Testad (Nurse) has longstanding experience leading non-pharmacological interventions for people with
dementia at home and in care homes. She was part of developing a large NIHR-funded UK research project
to increase quality of life and reduce neuropsychiatric symptoms in dementia (WHELD). Testad is chief
investigator on an ongoing EU funded multicentre Joint Programme - Neurodegenerative Disease, SHAPE, a
novel project supporting people with dementia to live well with the condition, evaluating the effectiveness of a
10-week Health Promotion and Self-management intervention combined with e-learning for carers in
improving self-efficacy in people with dementia. Other dementia work includes RCTs of non-pharmacological
therapies for people with dementia living in residential care, including studies of massage and telepresence
communication, and the largest RCT to-date of robotic pets (2017).
Mental health and psychological therapies
Richards (Nurse) led a major, NIHR-funded, multi-centre, multi-disciplinary, randomised controlled clinical trial
in depression (COBRA), demonstrating non-inferiority for Behavioural Activation compared with Cognitive
Behavioural Therapy with 20% direct cost savings (2016). He has been Co-I on four other major NIHR funded
clinical trials for depression (REEACT and REEACT-2; CASPER and CASPER plus). Sugg led the first
feasibility and pilot study of Morita Therapy, a Japanese psychological therapy offering a radically different
approach to depression treatment, establishing the grounds for a fully powered effectiveness trial (2019).
Using precision medicine approaches, we will extend this work to test psychosocial predictive markers
identified in our trials, helping therapists and patients distinguish between likely effective and non-effective
therapies for depression.
Health Services Research
Child Health
Morris (Health Services Researcher) leads the Peninsula Childhood disability Research Unit (PenCRU) which
includes developing and evaluating outcome measures and classification systems (2014), working with
professionals, patients and carers to establish research priorities for health in specific conditions, condition-
specific core outcome sets (2019), and reporting guidelines to improve publication quality (2017). This work
included several NIHR-funded programmes: development and evaluation of complex interventions including a
peer-led group-based public health intervention to improve health and wellbeing of parents of disabled children
(CI); evidence synthesis on continence management for children with neuro-disability (PI).
Research Methods
Richards, with Frost and Sugg, are members of an international mixed methods collaboration developing and
testing individual participant data integration techniques in clinical trials of complex interventions –initial summit
and expert panel funded by the MRC Hubs for Trials Methodology Research Network leading to a 2019 position
paper. Future work includes testing individual level participant data integration techniques for quantitative and
qualitative datasets, investigating the potential for such methods to add value to clinical trials. Richards is also
editor of the strongly selling and highly regarded interdisciplinary research methods textbook ‘Complex
Interventions in Health’, including contributions from sixteen Exeter colleagues returned in this and other UoAs.
Medical Imaging
Knapp (Radiographer) leads Medical Imaging group research focussing on diagnostic techniques to identify
and monitor musculoskeletal pathologies, specifically osteoporosis and osteoarthritis. Research explores the
use of artificial intelligence for diagnosis of fractures and diseases and developing clinical support systems to
optimise treatment choices. Knapp collaborates with the orthopaedic knee team at the RD&E Foundation NHS
Trust on large industry-funded studies exploring new types of non-cemented knee prosthesis for primary and
revision knee replacements. Working collaboratively with mathematicians, physicists and computer scientists
                                                                                                          Page 3
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
enables novel interdisciplinary research to be undertaken within medical imaging. Research will continue in
both of these areas and will see a large expansion into PET/CT to better understand bone activity related to
different prostheses and pharmacological interventions.
Nursing
Richards leads a programme of research addressing the fundamental care needs of people in acute care
environments and care homes. With Frost, Russell and Sugg he collaborates internationally with groups in
Australia, Denmark and Canada through the International Learning Collaborative, which has established a
research and implementation programme to ‘value, talk, do, own and research’ fundamental care, recently
advanced in a published co-authored position statement on Fundamental Nursing Care (2019). This work,
funded by NIHR (Richards – PI, Goodwin and Frost – Co-Is) is building an evidence base for fundamental
nursing care, progressing from development to evaluation within NHS implementation units for clinical
research (see 1.5), supporting at least one education only colleague to undertake a PhD in the area.
COVID
Our ability to be nimble in response to urgent health research needs is evidenced by several UoA3 staff leading
COVID-related research, contributing to Exeter being 4th in UKRI awards; see 1.5 ILES. Richards is chief-
investigator for the £430k NIHR/UKRI multi-site ‘COVID-NURSE RCT of fundamental nursing care for patients
in hospital with COVID-19. O’Dwyer has led the “Caring through Coronavirus” qualitative study to better
understand how family carers are coping through the pandemic and how changes in policy and health and
social care provision have impacted on their wellbeing and caring responsibilities. A systematic review, led by
Goodwin, is establishing whether rehabilitation interventions for those with severe respiratory illness requiring
critical care could benefit those with COVID-19 (accepted for publication in Physiotherapy).


1.2 Research Strategy and objectives
Core to our activity is a focus on addressing questions important to members of the public, patients and
clinicians, delivering maximum societal impact and minimising ‘research waste’. We are driven by important
health and care questions to be answered using our methodological and clinical strengths. This UoA’s strategy
is aligned to the overall strategic aims and goals of CMH, detailed in our 2014 UoA1 and UoA2 REF
submissions. These have been developed further since 2014, leading to significant interdisciplinary research
informing nursing and AHP clinical practice. We continue to expand our health research activity to be highly
competitive in terms of volume and world-leading quality.
Collaboration, interdisciplinary methodological work, research integrity, and applied health research are core
principles of the CMH research strategy. Our strong record of patient and public involvement (PPI) in research
is based on a collaborative, partnership model – co-creation, rather than ‘consultation’. Patients, clinicians,
educators, parents, carers, businesses and citizens contribute widely to all stages of research processes –
evidenced in Section 4. All our research is undertaken to the highest standards of scientific, scholarly and
professional integrity, conforming to university and health research ethical policy and frameworks; see 2.9
ILES.
As UoA3 research spans basic through to applied research, our integrated approach ensures that the two
research institutes work together and with members of the public and our partners in an interdisciplinary
manner. Our research addresses the most important questions, precisely so as to translate our findings into
health and social care practice. This interdisciplinarity is supplemented by close links with other cross-college
departments within the university including Sport and Health Sciences, Psychology, Maths and Engineering.
This strategy is operationalised by cross cutting activities that develop, test, evaluate and implement
complex healthcare interventions with direct relevance to nursing and AHPs in ageing, diabetes and mental
health.
1.3 Supporting a Culture of Research Integrity and Open Access
Researchers are supported via the online Research Toolkit, CMH ethics committee and the university Integrity,
Ethics and Research Governance Team; see 2.9 ILES. Indeed, UoA3 staff have contributed to research
reporting guidelines e.g., Morris: updated Guidance for Reporting Involvement of Patients and the Public in
research (GRIPP2). To ensure the widest possible dissemination of research findings and data to members
of the public and clinicians, we actively promote an open research culture, embedding open access principles
in scholarly communication, supported by The University Open Access team; see 2.8 ILES. This team manage
                                                                                                      Page 4
       Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the institutional repository ‘Open Research Exeter’ (ORE) and research data services enabling open access
to research datasets, for example our NIHR-funded ‘COBRA’ trial for depression. Institutional membership
with health research publishers, such as BioMed Central and Springer has resulted in discounted or no cost
open access publishing thus accelerating the accessibility of our research worldwide.
1.4 Research Strategy key achievements since 2014
The UoA3 strategy described here is embedded within the broader CMH research strategy and investment by
the University of Exeter to foster vitality and sustainability in health research, particularly STEMM; see 1.4
ILES. Significant investment has been made in research capacity, including methodological expertise and
infrastructure (new accommodation and facilities) to facilitate interdisciplinary interactions and a clear focus
on areas of existing and potential strengths. These investments in outstanding facilities have enabled UoA3
staff and their research to develop and flourish.
Building research capacity in world leading research.
       UoA3 Research income since 2014 is £7.96M.
       UoA3 returned staff have produced 953 publications since 2014.
       Establishment of the Exeter Clinical Trials Unit which gained UKCRC accreditation in 2017. Dean was
        Deputy Director then Co-Director (2016 to 2020).
       In 2014 we maintained funding for the NIHR Peninsula Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health
        Research and Care (PenCLAHRC). In 2019, with our partners, we obtained a further investment of
        £9M (2019-2024) as an NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (PenARC).
       We established the Academy of Nursing (led by Richards) to drive research expertise in nursing,
        incorporating research in dementia care and fundamental nursing care (including leading the
        NIHR/UKRI rapid response funded multi-site cluster RCT of nursing care for patients with COVID-19).
        Our Academy nurse education programmes are entirely Masters level, to drive education/research
        integration, promote clinical academic careers in nursing and develop nurses as scientist practitioners:
        finding, appraising, using and producing research in nursing care.
       We had major impact from our research through the implementation of diabetes management into
        practice within the NHS England Diabetes prevention programme, the Genetic Diabetes Nurse
        programme and international training programme in monogenic diabetes (Shepherd and Ellard).
New research facilities.
We have established outstanding new research facilities to support researchers in this UoA and strengthen
their cross-college and external collaborations:
       CMH refurbished 3710m2 (£12.48M) of office space on the St Luke’s campus in Exeter (opened in
        2015) to accommodate IHR health researchers, the Academy of Nursing, and Medical Imaging
       We developed and built a new MRI & PET imaging facility in collaboration with the RD&E NHS
        Foundation Trust to support our basic scientists and Medical Imagers; supported by a £10M donation
        from the Gilling’s Foundation.
       We opened the Wellcome Wolfson Medical Research Centre (total floor area 7535m2) in July 2014 in
        collaboration with the RD&E Hospital NHS Foundation Trust. (Total cost £27.5M, including a £4.75M
        Wellcome Wolfson Biomedical Capital Award).
       We opened the interdisciplinary VSimulator facility in 2020 as part of a new 1200m2 research facility
        on the Exeter Science Park (Total cost £11.7M including a £4.5M EPSRC Equipment grant). The
        facility supports interdisciplinary study of human comfort, health and well-being.

1.5 Future strategic aims and objectives:
Our overarching CMH research strategy continues a focus on our four interdisciplinary themes, pursuing
research that drives improvements in outcomes and care. We are building our strengths further through a
strong research culture, collaborations and partnerships, and our operational structures; see 2.1-2.7 ILES.
Working within the overall CMH research strategy, our UoA3 strategic aims for the next five years are to:
Build enhanced research capacity and programmes in world leading research:


                                                                                                     Page 5
       Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       We will develop the Academy of Nursing – established in 2018 with four NHS Trusts and our PPI group
        – over the next REF period. The Academy took its first 34 Master’s students in 2019, 54 in 2020, and
        its first PGR in 2020. In order to advance our integrated educational and research philosophy further,
        we will appoint an additional 15 staff, increase our research portfolio, appoint PGRs, support
        education-only colleagues to undertake PhD studies and bring research in nursing into the heart of our
        NHS partner organisations. Further PGRs and clinical academics will contribute to our research from
        2020 onwards. Evidence of our commitment to research capacity development is the appointment of
        two research active staff in 2019-20, Russell, Sugg, and, in addition to Richards, another professorial
        level leadership post (Gallagher- started November 2020).
       We have created research and practice development units in partner NHS trusts, to provide spaces
        for research into interdisciplinary care practice, including those used by nursing and AHPs. These
        ‘Embedding Research in Care’ (ERIC) units have been established through our NIHR ‘70@70’
        research leadership (Shepherd- Category C) at the RD&E NHS Foundation Trust, where five AHPs
        and nurses as Chief Nurse Research Fellows were appointed to spend one day per week for six
        months, taking the first steps on a clinical-academic career pathway.
       We will develop our implementation work on diagnosis and nursing management of monogenic
        diabetes (Ellard, Shepherd and Shields) to further increase the international reach of this programme.
       In the Peninsula Childhood Disability Research Unit (PenCRU) (Morris) we will build additional capacity
        in childhood disability research, to produce evidence that users of research consider relevant, useful
        and accessible, and that impact and inform important real-life decisions being made by families,
        clinicians and commissioners.
       We will establish an interdisciplinary Centre for Ageing Research which builds on our research capacity
        development activities in Ageing and Rehabilitation (Goodwin; Lamb UoA2).
       Signposted in our recent publications (Goodwin et al, 2019; Richards et al, 2019; Sugg et al, 2020;
        Frost et al, 2020), we will develop novel methodological approaches pioneered at Exeter to add value
        to clinical evaluations. These include mixed-methods integration of individual level data undertaken by
        PGR Knight (2020-23), supervised by Richards, Frost and Sugg to test methods for deriving novel
        insights from clinical trials.
Provide a supportive environment where researchers can reach their full potential.
       Provide specialist support and advice through our Research Development and Management and
        Research Finance teams, (see 4.6 ILES) and Innovation, Impact and Business team.
       Strengthen our current promotion procedures so that all staff are reviewed at least bi-annually and are
        encouraged to seek promotion when reluctant to self-nominate.
       Continue providing Researcher Development Essentials training and access to methodological
        support, including methods clinics and training, to ensure rigour and reproducibility.
       Promote networks for Early Career Researchers and Mid-Career Researchers enabling peer support
        and acting as change agents for CMH including UoA3 researchers; (see 3.8 ILES)
       Maintain an actively “family-friendly” culture in line with our Athena Swan Silver award to ensure that
        all staff have an appropriate work-life balance.

1.6 Enabling and Facilitating Impact
CMH promotes external exposure to facilitate impact opportunities. We have a dedicated Senior Press and
Media Manager, managing a team that oversees our social media outlets and optimise opportunities for
research-related media coverage. In 2019, CMH generated 320 press releases or web stories, totalling more
than 5,000 items of media coverage.
We have rigorous support procedures in place for all current and future programmes of research, including
impact data collection and implementation science methodology support, to ensure that research leads to
meaningful impact, not merely dissemination. We provide dedicated time in our workload allocation model for
staff involved in the development of impact cases and have the support of a fully funded ‘Impact Fellow’ to
assist with impact case development.

2. People

                                                                                                    Page 6
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The University of Exeter has been committed to Researcher Development and Integrity Concordats,
demonstrated through our accreditation under the European HR Excellence in Research Award, our
successful eight-year review and 2018–20 Action Plan; see 3.8 ILES. UoE (and CMH) are 2020 signatories
to DORA (San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment), providing a framework guiding research
strategy and delivery including recruitment, promotion and probation practices; best practice, governance and
reporting processes; audit implications; communications and research metrics; see 2.8, 2.9 ILES. DORA
participation provides and underpins future major research bids within this UOA. From 2020, we will align our
procedures to the revised three 2019 Research Development Concordat principles and obligations:
environment and culture, employment, and professional and career development.
2.1 Environment and Culture; Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity
We provide a supportive and inclusive research culture. Through the Athena Swan programme, the College
developed a pilot mentoring programme for both mentors and mentees, further developed recently into the
UoE One Step Beyond programme; see 3.6 ILES. Staff wellbeing is a vitally important aspect of college life
and opportunities including on-site exercise facilities (open before, during and after the normal working day)
as well as access to wellbeing officers and 24/7 online wellbeing advisors through our Employee Assistance
Programme. All staff are fully briefed on findings from annual employee engagement surveys, with clear
responsive action planning undertaken and delivered at Institute, College and University level.
2.2 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
EDI is a College and University priority driven by leadership at the highest institutional level and includes
partnerships with national and local equality organisations and networks; see 3.14-3.16 ILES. This UOA is
committed to equality of opportunity across all protected characteristics. We achieved an Athena SWAN Silver
departmental award (initially in 2014, and again in 2019), and our ambition is to achieve Gold status within the
next REF cycle. We take a careful, planned approach to EDI considerations which extends to staff appointment
and support and career progression. All staff involved in key decisions and those with line-management
responsibilities have undergone training in unconscious bias, highlighting all protected characteristics. This
includes all those involved in REF-output and impact case-study selection (100% compliance). EDI training is
a key mandatory part of induction for all staff, refreshed two-yearly. Such training forms a core element of
routine performance development review and probation. Appointment panels are actively managed to ensure
gender balance and clear guidance is provided to panellists in the use of language and panel documentation.
Our long-established College EDI Group has representation from all grades including early career researchers
(ECRs) and PGRs. The number of women at senior level within the College has significantly improved since
the last REF; women Professors increased from 22% to 37% since 2014/15. We have introduced enhanced,
tailored support and development for individuals, improving our future pipeline, with women accounting for
63% of all promotions to Associate Professor in the same period. The college have recently adopted the BMA
Race Equality Charter as a core element of UOA and College activity. To ensure achievement of our ambitions
in respect of race/ethnicity, we have recently appointed a Race Equality Resources Officer alongside our
existing Senior Academic Lead for BAME Students, and a member of our faculty has been appointed as the
University’s inaugural Associate Academic Dean for Racial Equality and Inclusion.
2.3 Employment
The thirteen colleagues returned here have a professional research focus on nursing and AHP practice but
collaborate closely with colleagues across other units of assessment, particularly UoA1 and 2. Three of our
staff (23%) are non-UK nationals.
The staffing profile is as follows:
                                Grade         Male                Female                Total
                            Professor     2 (1.5 FTE)                3                    5
                    Assoc. Professor           0                     3                    3
   Senior Lecturer/Research Fellow             0                     4                    4
                             Lecturer          0                     1                    1
We recruit, employ and manage researchers to recognise and value all of their contributions. The University’s
HR group work according to the Concordat in setting policy and practice for staff recruitment and development,
so that our recruitment, progression and promotions procedures are open, transparent and merit based. The

                                                                                                     Page 7
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University does not utilise zero-hours contracts. Managers undertake mandatory people management courses
through the University’s people development programme, to ensure excellent people management (including
annual appraisals and duty of care). We are conscious of the difficulties faced by researchers on fixed-term
contracts and have launched ‘FEFA’ (Fair Employment for All), promoting open-ended over fixed-term
contracts; see 3.1 ILES. However, for those currently coming to the end of their contracts, we have a policy
that ensures an interview offer for any upcoming research vacancies, and recruitment policies that ensure
income preservation through early career research appointments.
2.4 Professional and Career Development
Staff development is at the centre of our activities and fully aligned with Exeter’s institutional policies, including
the ‘Exeter Academic’ Framework and the Academic Professional Programme; see full details in 3.3-3.13
ILES. We allocate staff a senior line manager to support career development and have a robust annual
Personal Development Review process. This involves jointly setting targets and outlining further development
opportunities to support career progression and promotion. We also offer externally supported 360-degree
reviews for senior staff. During the period, Testad has been promoted to Chair, Dean and Morris have been
promoted first to Associate Professor and then Chair, and Knapp, Goodwin and Tavakoli to Associate
Professor. Two of our staff (Richards; Dean) have received internally prestigious ‘Above and Beyond’ awards
for their exemplary contributions to College activities.
Those at early stages of their careers participate in the researcher development programme (a series of
university-wide courses focussed on translational skills and careers for ECRs), including exposure to non-
academic career options and a realistic self-appraisal; see 3.8 ILES. IHR benefits from a vibrant, ECR group
which provides regular input to senior team meetings, raises awareness of opportunities and training, and
facilitates collaborative problem solving. ECRs and PGRs can apply for funds for Researcher-led Initiatives to
develop and deliver transferable skills training. One successful initiative is ‘The Bees Knees’ – where PGRs
facilitate Data and Discourse ‘Bees’ to share and problem solve qualitative analysis issues. A community
journal club has also been funded though this initiative (Taylor; UoA3 PGR). ECRs and PGRs are encouraged
and supported to develop their academic skill set through involvement in college ethics committee (e.g., Hall,
a physiotherapist PGR), PGR committee (Taylor, student representative) Masters supervision (Sugg, Hall),
undergraduate teaching and small group facilitation.
A mid-career group for Senior Lecturers/Senior Research Fellows, Associate Professors and Professional
Services staff was established in 2018 with funding from the CMH Equality and Diversity group. This allowed
an external facilitator to run two Action Learning Sets which enabled the group to become self-sustaining
through self-facilitation.
The Principal Investigators and Research Leaders Survey (PIRLS) revealed that 80-90% of PI’s felt that the
University recognised their contributions to advancing their field with 70-80% reporting good levels of job
satisfaction, feeling integrated and understanding how their research was aligned to University strategy.
Recent initiatives in CMH include an action plan based on the 2018 Employee Engagement Survey and open
staff meetings to discuss the results and task and finish groups to implement ideas. The action plan included
improving clarity of line management responsibilities and additional support for promotion applications that
has resulted in a pro rata increase in promotions in CMH over the first 5 months of 2020.
To develop grant writing skills, we provide learning and development courses, mentorship and peer review
from the Institute Directors and senior staff. Each year we allocate places at a 3-day residential research
school with the NIHR Research Design Service to receive intensive feedback on grant applications.
Opportunities to attend a 2-day annual off campus writing retreat enable staff to work on grant proposals and
papers. Staff are supported to attend leadership programmes and training, both in house and on the Aurora
programme.
Each Institute has an annual away-day for all staff and PGRs, and regular seminars which are open to all.
There are several journal clubs, study groups and training days run for those with a particular interest in a
specific methodological approach; for example, the Qualitative Research Forum meets every two months to
discuss research methods and projects, and provide a supportive environment for staff and PGRs to discuss
challenges and develop solutions.
We run regular methodological clinics (search and review, statistics, qualitative research, health economics
and PPI) to provide staff and PGRs with additional methodological assistance and advice. Members of the


                                                                                                          Page 8
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
CMH ethics committee and NHS R&D staff provide ethics training and advice, supported by academic staff
providing methodological reviews of ethics proposals before submission to ensure high methodological quality.
2.5 Research students.
One of our specific goals within CMH is to increase the numbers of PGRs within UoA3, given how critical they
are to the vibrancy and success of a strong research community. As such, we prioritise the support and
development of our PGRs; see 3.8-3.13 ILES. For example, we run an annual 2-day CMH residential research
event for PGRs free of charge, to present and discuss their projects with their peers and a large group of
senior staff. We have also established communities of practice for students with a common area of research;
for example our PenCLAHRC PGRs working with people with dementia were supported to establish a
community of practice which resulted in co-authorship on each other’s publications.
We encourage ECRs and PGRs to attend training courses and seminars within CMH and elsewhere in the
region. Generic skills training is facilitated by the University of Exeter Doctoral College and supplemented by
courses to address the specific needs of the student as identified at initial skills and annual update reviews
(http://as.exeter.ac.uk/rdp/). We ensure effective PGR supervision through regular reporting mechanisms, the
use of a structured e-log to monitor supervision, and a formal upgrade presentation and viva within the first 12
months in order to maintain high completion rates. We actively encourage interdisciplinary supervision
including both methodological and topic specific expertise, as well as cross-college and cross-institution
supervision. Examples include Alenezi (co-supervised by Young from Sport and Health Science), and Taylor
(co-supervised by Clegg from the University of Leeds).
In the REF period, there were 11.2 doctoral completions, and 32 PGRs currently registered and supervised
by UoA3 academics. We have strengthened international AHP PGR recruitment via strong links with Saudi
Arabia from physiotherapy, medical imaging and optometry backgrounds. The addition of the new 3T MRI and
PET/CT scanners at the university has increased the interest in those wishing to study a PhD in Medical
Imaging in Exeter.
The wellbeing of PGRs is further enhanced by a new service at the university which provides support and
advice     to    all   and      has     experts    to   advise    on     lifestyle, managing     stress   etc.
http://www.exeter.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/support/pgrsupport/wellbeing/. Each PGR also has an independent
pastoral tutor external to their supervisory team. Peer-to-peer support is encouraged by networking, seminars,
the residential research events and the open plan coffee areas to encourage informal discussions and mixing
of students and staff.
3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Research Income and support
Our total UoA3 research income during the census period was £7.96M, averaging £637k per FTE. Sources
of income include major project grants, fellowship and infrastructure support from NIHR, Research Councils
(EPSRC, MRC, Wellcome) and major charities (Stroke Association; Diabetes UK; Alzheimer’s Society; Dunhill
Medical Trust). Funding has resulted in research capacity building for PGRs and ECRs to promote vitality.
This provides an excellent foundation from which to build sustainable high-quality research activity and
endeavour.
Income Generation Strategies
We operate ‘Funder Advisory Networks (FAN)’ of senior staff with extensive experience sitting on funding and
fellowship panels which forms part of a university-wide Major Funder Strategy Group. Goodwin is Chair of the
NIHR FAN which provides (a) rigorous internal peer review of grant and fellowship applications prior to
submission, and (b) mentoring of early and mid-career staff to develop a pipeline for future applications. Staff
present their ideas orally at “pitch and putt” events as grant proposals are developed, providing an opportunity
for colleagues and peers from multiple disciplines to provide early feedback. Our substantial investment in
methodological expertise in statistics, health economics, evidence synthesis, qualitative research and PPI
ensuring all staff have access to methodological support early in project development. All applications are
reviewed by the Institute Director before submission. Mock interviews (for fellowship candidates) and
comprehensive mentoring and review (for all staff) ensure that final submissions are of the highest quality.



                                                                                                     Page 9
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3.2 Infrastructure and facilities:
UoA3 researchers have access to outstanding facilities as a result of strategic investment by the College and
University. We provide state-of-the-art facilities to promote and sustain interdisciplinary partnerships, leverage
world leading research programmes and exemplary research impact.
Infrastructure projects and leveraged funding
   NIHR funding for the Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care South West
    Peninsula (PenCLAHRC) and now the Applied Research Collaboration South West Peninsula (PenARC)
    of £20.5M since 2014 has helped to underpin applied health research within IHR and this UoA. The
    funding has been used provide core methodological staff including exemplar and world-leading PPI
    groups who support the development of grant applications and are Co-Is on projects such as COVID-
    NURSE (Richards) and ReTrain (Dean). Within the ARC Goodwin is Academic Career Development
    lead and Dean is the lead for the Making Sense of Evidence programme.

   The establishment of the UKCRC (provisionally) registered Exeter Clinical Trials Unit (CTU) and a Joint
    Research Office bring together local NHS-research and academic interest (see 1.7 ILES) and have
    substantially increased our ability to deliver large scale clinical trials including SHAPE evaluating self-
    management interventions for people with early-stage dementia (Testad).

   We opened South Cloisters and College House buildings on the St Luke’s campus (3710m2) to provide
    new purpose-built accommodation for 135 applied health researchers from the Medical School, the
    Academy of Nursing and Medical Imaging (£12.48M university investment) and to co-locate them together
    on one site with methodologists, thus facilitating interdisciplinary collaboration.


The expanded NIHR Exeter Clinical Research Facility (CRF) – 5-year renewal of NIHR infrastructure funding
in 2017, £5.74 M) comprising three four-bedded wards, exercise suite, research outpatients and individual
intensive study rooms, as well as staff offices, seminar rooms and a new Postgraduate Education Centre. This
facility supports the work of Ellard, Shields and Tavakoli.

   We opened the Wellcome Wolfson Medical Research Centre (total floor area 7535m 2) in July 2014 in
    collaboration with the RD&E Hospital NHS Foundation Trust. (Total cost £27.5M, including a £4.75M
    Wellcome Wolfson Biomedical Capital Award). The Centre provides the laboratories and facilities to further
    develop the causes of diabetes and enable translation of biomedical research into treatments and
    therapies for patients (Ellard, Shields, Tavakoli).


    A new imaging suite housing MRI and PET-CT scanners for clinical research (opening 2020) to provide
    state-of-the-art imaging facilities for clinical research and will be operated in conjunction with our partners
    in the RD&E NHS Trust (£9.3 M), providing increased research capacity for Medical Imaging in the future.

   A state-of-the-art multidisciplinary VSimulator (https://vsimulators.co.uk/) funded by EPSRC (£4.5 M) and
    the University (£7.2 M) will be part of a 1200m2 new research facility at the Exeter Science Park (see 1.10,
    4.19 ILES). The interdisciplinary facility, comprising a 4x4m motion platform, virtual reality technology and
    motion capture, opened in 2020 and is used by academics from CMH, Engineering, Maths and Sport and
    Health Science alongside industry and healthcare partners to support interdisciplinary human movement
    research and innovation. This work has resulted in the establishment of the cross-college VSimulator
    Human Movement Science Group in 2020 that will contribute to the development of future health
    technologies through a future programme of research and research capacity development (Goodwin).
3.3 Future Plans
We will leverage the resources listed above to aim to double our return in the next REF. In the Academy of
Nursing we have already doubled the number of PhD qualified staff during 2020 and will increase this further
year on year, including through training our own PGRs. We will use externally funded projects such as NIHR
COVID-NURSE and HERO to provide experience for early- and mid-career researchers in building their own

                                                                                                      Page 10
       Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
CVs. Expertise and facilities within the CTU, CRF, Wellcome Wolfson Centre, our imaging suite and the
VSimulator facility will facilitate our teams to increase their grant capture, their outputs and their impact on
health and society. This REF return is the beginning of a planned strong upward trajectory and increased
impact contribution to the research and clinical communities.
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Our impact has built on our strengths of interdisciplinary research spanning basic clinical science to applied
health research that has enabled the development of a new UoA3 submission. We have established explicit
processes to engage with members of the public, service users and those who provide services to ensure we
ask the questions that really matter, evidenced by two UoA3 Impact Case Studies (ICS): the NHS diabetes
prevention programme involving nurses and AHPs (Smith); the monogenic diabetes nurse education initiative
(Shepherd) and a further two ICSs returned under UoA1 that include UoA3 staff: Shields developed the model
now translated into an online calculator to help identify Maturity Onset Diabetes of the Young, now
recommended by the World Health Organisation; Ellard’s research on genetic testing for neonatal diabetes
contributed to reduced diagnostic and treatment costs, with improved patient outcomes. Plans are already
underway to develop impact and future impact case studies: the rehabilitation of people with Parkinson’s,
based on two randomised controlled trials and economic evaluations, as well as qualitative research underpins
a training course (PDSAFE) under development with FutureLearn, an international platform for free Massive
Open Online Courses (Goodwin); COVID-NURSE study has also developed clinical education materials which
will be made available free throughout the NHS and internationally once the trial has been completed
(Richards), incorporating automated data collection to assess programme reach and utilisation.
4.2 Patient and Public Involvement (PPI)
We have an international reputation in researching optimal approaches to engaging with the public and service
users on research strategy, design, delivery, and dissemination. The College has been at the forefront of PPI
worldwide through investment in PenCLARHC, now PenARC. We have made a substantial investment in staff
to support PPI members who can help researchers ensure that their work is engages relevant service users
or members of the public. Members of the public and service users are involved in all our activities, including
selecting research questions, designing and conducting studies and analysing and disseminating results. We
have well-established PPI groups associated with particular areas of research such as PenPEG
(https://www.arc-swp.nihr.ac.uk/penpeg), the interdisciplinary Lived Experience Group at the University’s
Mood Disorders Centre (https://www.exeter.ac.uk/mooddisorders/groups/leg/), and the Family Faculty
childhood disability research unit (http://www.pencru.org/getinvolved/ourfamilyfaculty/). In addition, we
routinely involve service users as grant co-applicants in our studies, for example NIHR funded fundamental
nursing care studies ESSENCE (Richards, Goodwin, Frost) and COVID-NURSE (Richards, Russell). Goodwin
leads PPI nationally on the NIHR National Priorities Ageing, Dementia and Frailty programme. PPI is
fundamental to our Academy of Nursing with PPI people as full Academy Board members with PPI being one
of our six Academy thematic ‘pillars’.
4.3 Providers of health and social care services
The NHS and social care providers, are major users of the research we generate. We have close working
relationships at organisational, research group and frontline staff levels. In addition to relationships between
CMH and NHS organisations, PenARC, which is a key component of IHR, is a partnership between Exeter
and Plymouth Universities and all NHS organisations within the South West Peninsula. Our relationship with
the South West Academic Health Science Network (AHSN) is particularly strong with joint projects producing
research and service improvements in the NHS. These organisations are represented within PenARC’s
management structure, with an explicit system through which they and practitioners feed into research,
facilitated by extensive capacity building including programmes like “Making Sense of Evidence” led by Dean.
These activities help individuals in the local health economy develop skills to work with us on research, help
to ensure that we address impactful questions, and develop a cadre of practitioners and policy makers better
equipped to foster impact through use of evidence.
We work closely with our NHS partners in the region and nationally to actively support clinical academic
careers for AHPs and nurses through supervision, mentoring, running seminars and other training events.
       Richards is lead NIHR Advocate for Nursing and leads masterclass programmes for the NIHR
        Incubator for Nursing and Midwifery which has already led to an increase in successful NIHR


                                                                                                   Page 11
       Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Fellowship bids from nurses and midwives. He also led the successful NIHR Research Capacity for
        Dementia Care Programme (RCDCP) bid for nurses and AHPs in 2015.
       Goodwin supervises NIHR funded clinical academic physiotherapists (Paviour – ICA Internship and
        Pre-Doctoral Fellow; Rogers – PenCLAHRC pre-doctoral fellowship; Hall – RCDCP Doctoral
        fellowship; ICA Post-doctoral (bridging) Fellowship; Hulbert - ICA Post-doctoral (bridging) Fellowship).
        She provides mentorship and research support for NIHR Fellowship holders, in particular
        physiotherapists specialising in older people and rehabilitation in Nottingham and Kings College
        London. She has chaired (2019 & 2020) the regional HEE/NIHR ICA Internship and pre/post-doctoral
        bridging Fellowship panel and is working with HEE to develop and support clinical academic pathways
        and individuals across the region.
       Goodwin and Knapp are facilitators for the Council for AHP Research (CAHPR) providing PPI and pre-
        doctoral fellowship workshops and support for research and fellowship applications.
       Knapp is a steering group member of the Formal Radiography Research Mentorship (FoRRM)
        programme to increase research capacity amongst radiographers (funded by the College of
        Radiographers). In the first round (12 mentees), the national programme resulted in papers,
        conference abstracts and two successful PhD applications.
       Shepherd, lead nurse for research and development at the RD&E NHS Foundation Trust and an
        inaugural ‘70@70’ nurse research leader, established the ‘Bridging the Gap’ initiative for increasing
        research capacity amongst Nurses and Midwives. This comprises training, mentoring, developing and
        undertaking projects towards external funding (grants or fellowships), is closely linked with research
        infrastructure in PenARC, Clinical Research Facility, Clinical Research Network, Research Design
        Service and CAHPR, and aims to improve patient care, outcomes and staff satisfaction through
        increased research activity.
       Four local NHS Trusts, the University and our PPI group established the Academy of Nursing in 2018
        with an integrated educational and research mission to drive intervention development and research
        expertise in nursing.
Other private and public sector organisations important for health and wellbeing include Local Authorities and
private sector providers such as care homes, a vital location for improving older people’s health. We have
established close relationships with independent care homes as part of the Exeter Care Homes aAnd
Knowledge (ExCHANGE) Collaboration, supported by funding from the Alzheimer’s Society (Goodwin – Co-
I), a collaboration between the University of Exeter, PenARC, SW AHSN, and the Devon Care Home Kite
Mark Collaborative. The latter is an established group of >50 independent care home providers committed to
improving the lives of those living in their care through a programme of continual review and improvement
including peer inspections, learning events, and training. Recent research with these partners includes two
PenCLAHRC funded PGRs investigating mealtimes and fundamental nursing care.
4.4 International Collaborations
Academics in this UoA are involved in collaborations with universities internationally resulting in jointly
authored outputs, grant applications, implementation of research outcomes and representation on
international boards and panels. Examples include: Richards was President (2012-2018) of the European
Academy of Nursing Science, including coordinator of a European Science Foundation funded Research
Networking award in complex interventions research methods (2011-2016); Dean has been an international
collaborator on several funded studies on the management of low back pain with colleagues from the
University of Otago; Testad is a member of the World Health Organisation’s steering committee ‘Global
Network in Health Ageing’; Goodwin received a QUEX (UoE and University of Queensland partnership)
initiator grant to develop a research around solutions to health, wellbeing and community participation of older
people. This has resulted in a publication on co-design though PPI (2020) and has fostered further
collaborations and grant applications currently under review.
4.5 External engagement
Contributions to UK government and health organisations
Ellard was a member of the NHS Commissioning Board Clinical Reference Group for Genetics (2012-2016),
NHS England Genomics Programme Board (Policy) 2016-2018 and is an NHS Assembly Member (2019-
current). Morris led the James Lind Alliance Childhood Disability Research Priority Setting Partnership with
                                                                                                   Page 12
       Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
considerable impact on NIHR commissioned research, an exemplar for the first pillar of the NIHR Adding
Value in Health Research strategy. Richards is leading focussed activities in the NIHR nursing incubator to
improve nursing and midwifery performance in NIHR fellowship applications. He is the lead NIHR training
advocate for nursing. Goodwin has been a specialist advisor on the NICE Quality Standards for the
assessment and management of falls (2015), an advisor to the Royal Osteoporosis Society on Clinical
Standards for Fragility Fractures (2015) and a steering committee member for Public Health England on the
Cost-effectiveness and Return on Investment for falls prevention programmes.
Research funding panels
Our academics have been members of national funding panels during the assessment period including NIHR
Academy Fellowship panels (Ellard – Healthcare Science Fellowships; Goodwin - Development and Skills
Enhancement Fellowships and ICA Internships & Bridging Fellowships; Richards – Clinical and Senior Clinical
Research Fellowships; Senior Investigators), Stroke Association (Dean); Physiotherapy Research Foundation
(Goodwin); Diabetes UK (Shields).
Journal editing
Our academics peer review manuscripts for national and international journals. Additionally, some serve as
editors or associate editors for national and international journals including Physiotherapy (Goodwin); Trials
(Dean); Physical and Occupational Therapy in Paediatrics (Morris), Developmental Medicine & Child
Neurology (Morris), Radiography (Knapp), Journal of Clinical Nursing (Richards); Diabetic Medicine (Shields);
Frontiers in Neuroscience (Tavakoli); Frontiers in Endocrinology (Tavakoli); BMC Endocrine Disorders
(Tavakoli).
Awards, prizes and fellowships
The influence and contribution of our staff within this UoA to the research base of the discipline has been
recognised nationally and internationally. Examples include:
       Goodwin was made a Fellow of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy in 2015 and a Member of the
        Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the Queen’s New Year Honours in 2017 for services to
        physiotherapy.
       In 2015, Ellard awarded the Donald Steiner Award for Outstanding Achievement in diabetes research
        and was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2018 Queen’s Birthday
        Honours for services to patient care.
       In 2020, Shepherd was identified as one of the Women in Global Health’s 100+ Outstanding Women
        Nurses and Midwife Leaders.
       Sugg: Early Career Researcher Award 2020 from the NIHR Clinical Research Network (South West
        Peninsula)
       Richards was a NIHR Senior Investigator and appointed Emeritus.


Summary
The University of Exeter has invested deeply in staff, infrastructure, and resource to develop our activity and
profile in AHP and Nursing research. UoE remains committed to further strategic expansion in these key areas
of importance to health care planners and health system providers, with a view to growing depth, extending
scope, and increasing reach in this exciting core set of activities. We remain ambitious for further success and
growth amongst this burgeoning group of highly talented individuals and the research groups contributing to
this unit of assessment.




                                                                                                   Page 13
