Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hertfordshire

 Unit of Assessment: 23: Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Unit comprises 14.7 FTE (16 staff), primarily members of the School of Education, but also
 staff from three other Schools (Business, Life and Medical Sciences, Humanities). It is resourced
 and supported by the School of Education and includes the School Associate Dean for
 Research, 2 Professors, 3 Readers, 1 Associate Professor, 8 Lecturers and 1 Research Fellow.
 There are 2 early career researchers (ECRs) in the Unit. Research is supported by, and
 represented through, the University’s Research Centre for Professional and Work-Related
 Learning (Director, Levy) and the Centre for Educational Leadership (CEL) (Director, Woods);
 these are based in the School of Education.

 The Unit was not submitted to REF 2014. It was subsequently reorganised to operate through
 this REF period and it has achieved some notable successes:

    •   Ranked 1st for research culture and research skills and 2nd for supervision from the 34
        Education units entered in the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES)
        with 97% satisfaction for supervision and research skills;
    •   82% increase in average annual research income in comparison with the REF 2014
        period;
    •   75% staff in the Unit are women including the 3 Readers and a Professor, and the
        School of Education achieved the Athena Swan Bronze award in 2017;
    •   Unit member (Gilbert) received the Times Higher Education, Most Innovative Teacher of
        the Year Award in 2018 for a research-led pedagogy concerning compassion.

 Strategy
 The Unit has built on a long history of user-related research with direct implications for policy
 and practice, focused on its areas of research strength in: educational (especially distributed)
 leadership, higher (including transnational) education, teacher education and pedagogy; and
 science education through the University-based Primary Science Quality Mark (PSQM) which
 supports science leaders’ development of science teaching and learning in primary schools
 across the UK and internationally.

 The Unit’s strategy has been to deepen research in these areas of strength, contributing to the
 development of theory and practice, and further develop research collaboration across the
 University and internationally. Synergies across areas of research have been developed. In
 educational leadership, a sustained, distinguished, body of work focuses on the development of
 leadership as a shared process underpinned by democratic and collaborative principles in
 service of holistic learning and human flourishing. Building on this, the Unit is strengthening
 complementary areas of HE and pedagogic research, as well as establishing foundations for
 research focused on science education and PSQM. The Unit’s pedagogic research has deep
 roots and influence nationally though research-based pedagogic tools (Jarvis) and strategies
 (Gilbert). Innovative exploration of collaborative, democratic leadership, and distinguishing it
 from distributed leadership (Woods, Jarvis), has been complemented by the examination and
 development of concepts such as agency, autonomy, authority and compassion (Gilbert,
 Connors, White). In 2020 the appointment of Huet as a second Reader in Higher Education
 strengthened the Unit’s international profile with her strong, active, collaborations in Europe and
 South America; she also added to the Unit’s research strengths in theory and practice.

 Key successes during this REF cycle include three EU projects: European Arts-Based
 Development of Distributed Leadership and Innovation in Schools (ENABLES, 2019-21);
 collaborative teacher learning and distributed leadership (EFFeCT, 2015-2018); European Policy
 Network on School Leadership (EPNoSL, 2011-15). The Unit pro-actively participates in a range

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of international networks concerning school leadership, involving the UK, US and other
 countries. Woods led an organising group of UK academics and practitioners which edited and
 contributed to a special issue in Educational Management Administration and Leadership that
 followed a British Educational Leadership, Management and Administration Society (BELMAS)
 funded series of workshop-style conferences comparing educational leadership and
 administration in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The distinction of this research
 and breadth of these international networks and engagement has enabled the Unit to lead on
 developing and supporting a key objective of the 2015-2020 University Strategic Plan: Fostering
 and Strengthening Research with Global Partners. HE research networks and collaborative
 research in the Unit extends into Europe and South America.

 The Unit’s research degree programmes reflect its commitment to practice-based research. In
 addition to full and part-time PhDs and Masters’ degrees by research, the Doctorate in
 Education (EdD) has over 50 students across all stages. Nearly a third of the current students on
 the EdD are University academic staff, which has created a pipeline of education research
 expertise and capacity across the University. As part of the Unit’s strategy to develop
 international activity, a cohort of the EdD was launched in 2018 in Shanghai, China delivering
 the programme to selected university teachers in the Shanghai local government region. The
 programme involves supervisors from the School of Education visiting Shanghai for one week
 every term for each cohort and the cohort spending two periods of six months at the University
 at the start and end of their doctoral programme, joining the UK-based cohort. This development
 has introduced a new international dimension to the research in the Unit.

 Interdisciplinary Research
 In line with one of the key aims of the University’s Strategic Plan of promoting a research rich
 environment, the Unit adopted a strategy of leading deep-rooted, interdisciplinary research,
 working collaboratively across a range of fields and disciplines, with colleagues in other Schools.
 The emphasis on collaborative research and consultancy pre-dates, but has been supported by,
 the development of six University interdisciplinary Research Themes (Food; Health and
 Wellbeing; Global Economy; Heritage, Cultures and Community; Information and Security,
 Space) and the cross-University collaboration this has facilitated. Unit staff are active in leading
 bids and gaining funding across the Research Themes and with a range of Schools, e.g.
 Hertfordshire Business School (Leading service improvement and innovation in education;
 Distributed leadership and co-production; Negotiating power and leadership in service co-
 production; Teacher wellbeing).

 The Unit’s research in leadership associates with the University interdisciplinary research theme
 Global Economy. Concepts including agency, autonomy, authority, and identity, and the use of
 collage as a research method, have also been developed with great creativity and relate to the
 research theme of Heritage, Cultures and Communities, as does a strong strand of externally-
 funded research focusing on language and linguistics in terms of methodology (McDowell;
 Schelletter), or content focus and methodology (e.g. Smith, with Kersten; McDowell and Levy;
 Woods).

 The Health and Wellbeing interdisciplinary theme and the University policy of addressing social
 challenges is also supported through a wide range of applied research projects in collaboration
 with health researchers in areas such as resilience, wellbeing and families experiencing multiple
 problems creating a breadth unusual in the field of education. Examples of research include the
 Thriving Families Never Too Late: Evaluating the Impact of Attainment, Self-Regulation and
 Competency for Hertfordshire County Council, 2014-15 (£10k) and the Five Ways to Wellbeing
 Evaluation for Buckinghamshire County Council, 2015-16 (£15k). Also developing an Evaluation
 Plan and its Implementation for North Hampshire Clinical Commissioning in 2017-18 (£10k).
 Pro-active engagement across the University also fosters collaborations which bring an
 interdisciplinary dimension to the Unit’s research. An Education Research Network, initiated and
 supported by the Pro-Vice Chancellors for Research and Enterprise and Student Experience, in
 which Jarvis and Smith have important leadership roles, meets at least twice a term to facilitate

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 networking between colleagues from a range of disciplines across the University. This forum has
 assisted the Unit to develop interdisciplinary research with several other academic Schools.

 Impact Strategy
 The Unit’s impact strategy encompasses four key dimensions:

    •   a sustained focus: on specific areas of research over time, building on previous research
        and impact;
    •   research-practice links: with education practitioners and other stakeholders to provide a
        strong framework for practice-based and -oriented research;
    •   a value-based collaborative approach to building capacity: working collaboratively with
        stakeholders and users in research design/reviews, developing an iterative research
        process, engaging users, and establishing practitioner-researcher dialogue and co-
        production;
    •   strategic networking, partnerships and collaborations: with established partners of the
        School of Education such as schools and Local Authorities; engagement with
        international professional bodies and associations; and, established national and
        international research partners and networks.

 The submitted case studies are illustrative of the Unit’s approach. The development of
 democratic and collaborative leadership cultures within schools and education systems
 (DCDL), is based on Wood’s research dating back to 2010 and supported by 6 funded projects,
 including 3 successive EU-funded ones. School-based teacher education: informing policy and
 developing professional practice for educating new teachers in schools (SBTE) (White)
 demonstrates the impact of ground-breaking research on policy and practice in England through
 the contribution to the National Standards for school-based initial teacher training mentors report
 (DfE, 2016) and the development of a national professional framework for school-based teacher
 educators. Research-practice links were central from the start for both case studies, with high
 practitioner involvement in the UK, US and Europe and engagement at international conferences
 which include practitioners e.g. BELMAS and the International Professional Development
 Association (IPDA). The DCDL case study used established partners in three successful bids for
 EU funding which created new collaborative partners (see section 4). White’s SBTE case study
 has also used established relationships to develop a sustained, collaborative research project
 with Timmermans and Avans University, Netherlands, and a close working relationship with the
 National Association of School Based Teacher Trainers (NASBTT) to have a significant
 influence on framing national practice. This is reinforced by on-going relationships with key
 stakeholders in the UK and Europe.

 A significant proportion of the Unit’s research involves working collaboratively with schools,
 community organisations and other education stakeholders. This method facilitates long-
 standing partnerships, improved research design and impact.

 The impact strategy has also been operationalised through engagement of all Unit staff in at
 least one of the following: a series of Impact Case Study/project development meetings;
 successful bids for internal and external (including EU) funding; UH Research Office workshops
 and services. Unit meetings have shared good practice and development plans across the case
 studies and other projects with impact potential. Members of the Unit work with the assigned
 Research Office Impact Facilitator, and have been allocated, and bid successfully for, additional
 central university funding of £17K to support the development of their impact case studies. The
 Unit’s Research Fellow has also had a role in supporting impact development, including
 generating and analysing impact evidence data. Leaders of REF impact case studies – and
 other projects with impact – have specific workload allocations for this purpose. Staff have
 attended social media and research impact training events and the workload allocation system
 enables small funded projects to be used as a basis for bids for larger more impactful ones.




                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Open Research Environment and Integrity
 The Unit is committed to making its research openly available in line with the Concordat on
 Open Research Data. The Unit’s Open Access (OA) strategy aligns with the University
 approach. The University has a long-standing requirement that all new research outputs by staff
 are deposited in its Research Archive (UHRA).This is in fulfilment of its commitment which can
 be summarised as the mandatory ‘green’ OA deposit of all research outputs in the UHRA by the
 author via upload to the University’s Research Information System (RIS) at the time the research
 output is accepted for publication. Unit staff also use central University funds to facilitate gold
 open access when necessary.

 Project outcomes, including resources for practitioner use, are on websites which continue to be
 accessible after the end of projects, e.g. PSQM evaluations, as are tools, resources, and other
 strategies to support HE pedagogy. Stakeholders contribute to the design and implementation of
 collaborative research projects. In addition, the Unit’s value-based strategy to increase
 stakeholder participation in, and capacity to undertake, research is represented in many of the
 examples described in section 4. The Unit’s research is also open in that examples of the arts-
 based research methods, and the analysis of these, is available on websites e.g. Academia.edu,
 YouTube, with the arts-based and embodied methods literature review on the ENABLES
 webpage.

 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and there is
 centrally provided mandatory training on research integrity for all researchers including
 workshops, an annual seminar and sessions included in the Doctoral College’s Researcher
 Development Programme. At Unit level Research Integrity principles and practice are built into
 the programme for continuity and progression for research students. The success of this
 approach is reflected in the high awareness of research integrity shown in PRES 2019, with 94%
 of Education research students agreeing that their understanding of research integrity had
 developed during their programme.

 Future Strategy
 The Unit’s future strategy is to:
    1. build on the income success of this REF period (82% average annual growth) and
        specifically on the Unit’s large collaborative international research projects in leadership
        and doctoral practice to make six collaborative international bids a year to targeted
        funders with partner universities;
    2. develop HE transnational research partnerships by identifying and developing synergies
        between three large project foci and complementary research areas:
        a) distributed and democratic collaborative leadership: specifically,
           o arts-informed leadership development with established partners e.g. universities
                of Innsbruck, Austria; Alexandru Ioan Cuza, Romania; Jyväskylä, Finland;
                Institute of Lifelong Learning and Culture «VITAE», Latvia;
           o developing ways of teachers' learning about democratic leadership, e.g. Ball
                State University, Indiana; and,
           o a focus on innovation for human flourishing in the digital age, e.g. University of
                Lapland, drawing on complexity, distributed leadership and leadership-as-practice
                theories through current work with network partners e.g. universities of Bath;
                Northeastern, US.
        b) doctoral practice pedagogy with collaborative research partners (including
           Shanghai universities, the University of Aviero, Portugal, the Federal University of
           Amazonas) examining changing student motivations, expectations, and
           ‘doctoralness’, and interrelating this with academic staff development as teachers on
           doctoral, including transnational education, programmes.
        c) Transnational Education (TNE): extending the TNE research on designing and
           engaging in blended teaching, professional learning, and collaborative approaches as
           a focus, as well as a means of supporting, practitioner research:


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. develop broader teacher education and pedagogical research as a basis for: developing
       tools and strategies (including those based on innovative and impactful research on
       compassion) for use in HE; school-based teacher education; and, building on specific
       new expertise and experience in forest schools and outdoor education;
    4. develop research identifying factors in successful leadership and professional learning of
       primary science teachers, using and extending data from the evaluation of the Unit’s
       PSQM;
    5. continue to build the sustainability and vitality of the Unit by increasing the number of
       staff with significant responsibility for research by a further 20% over the next 5 year
       period and also the volume of research through the appointment of at least one ECR and
       two Research Fellows to areas of research strengths in distributed and democratic
       collaborative leadership, doctoral practice pedagogy and Transnational Education;
    6. increase doctoral student enrolment by 40% over the next 5-year period.

 2. People

 The Unit comprises 16 staff (14.7 FTE):1 Academic Manager (Associate Dean for Research) 2
 Professors, 3 Readers, 1 Associate Professor, 8 Lecturers, 1 Research Fellow including 2 ECRs
 thus providing an appropriate balance of expertise and sustainability. All staff are on permanent
 contracts.

 Staff Development
 In this REF period the Unit’s strategy has been to create a strong pipeline of staff both working
 towards and having significant responsibility for research, support their development, and
 strengthen the research environment. A Unit Research Engagement Group co-chaired by Smith
 and White was established in 2014 and has been very successful in strengthening colleagues’
 research identity, sense of community, and a culture of collegiality and collaboration through:

    •   ‘research conversations’ to promote research engagement and individuals’ research
        plans;
    •   personalised needs-led mentoring informed by the University research mentoring system
        piloted in the School;
    •   open ‘drop-in’ sessions for staff to discuss research issues and seek advice;
    •   weekly email bulletins;
    •   online meetings, open to all, to discuss colleagues’ research interests, opportunities and
        how they may be supported, as well as other more specific Unit research areas and
        funding.

 These strategies have complemented the support given to those who are not yet independent
 researchers. Strategies regularly used to stimulate and organise sustained connections of the
 more- and less-experienced colleagues include:

    •   enabling less-experienced staff to work with experienced researcher colleagues in bids
        and to support the development of research projects;
    •   coaching and mentoring both at School and University level. For example, Research
        Office support for developing bids; access to the Vitae website; Unit events, and
        resources; dialogues with staff with significant responsibility for research to increase
        understanding of the nature of higher quality research (e.g. larger data sets, longitudinal
        studies, building on own previous research, greater theorisation of the research,
        researching with those based overseas);
    •   engaging in activities and processes organized by the University Researcher
        Development Group (Chaired by White since 2019);
    •   an online practice-focused refereed journal, LINK (established 2014, 9 issues published),
        which supports colleagues new to research in publishing research-based articles (process



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        includes feedback and mentoring), as well as more experienced researchers to share
        research;
    •   writing afternoons, days and a weekend, plus guidance on how to develop as a writer
        used in appraisal and shared across the Unit;
    •   established a large, fully equipped room for Doctoral researchers with desk space for
        eleven.

 The Unit’s workload allocation system has been revised, enabling more staff to gain research
 time, while at the same time ensuring that academic staff who are independent researchers
 contribute significantly to teaching as well as research. This strategy has supported the
 development of a culture of research-informed teaching in the Unit. In addition, all Unit staff have
 an annual appraisal, with 6-month review meetings which include discussion of research targets.

 An impact development strategy and group to support colleagues’ impact development plans
 within and beyond the Unit, including extensive support (at University and School levels) which
 complements bid- and project-focused work aligned to user-related research.

 Internal research funding has also proved a valuable stimulus for external bids. For example,
 funding is made available within the Unit, with no pre-set limit, to engage in external conferences
 as well as events provided by the University-wide Researcher Development Programme run by
 the Doctoral College. There is also a central ‘Skill-up’ funding scheme which gives small grants
 to support personal, professional and career development and a scheme for small research
 grants for staff who are not yet independent researchers.

 Other developments which support the research vitality of the Unit include:
    • weekly research seminars with separate ‘strands’ aligned to areas of Unit strengths in
        research such as leadership, higher education, pedagogy, teacher training and
        professional learning. These seminars are led by researchers of international standing
        from across the UK and internationally (Europe, USA, China, South Africa, Israel) as well
        as by doctoral programme graduates, and colleagues across the University;
    • from 2018, a significant growth in opportunities to engage with international academics
        visiting the Unit, particularly from China (from partnerships) and Eastern Europe (related
        to the Unit’s EU-funded activity). This engagement activity has complemented a
        successful policy of seeking funding from bodies such as the British Academy,
        Leverhulme, and Erasmus+, for collaborative research and knowledge exchange with
        international co-applicants.

 Research Students
 The Unit was ranked 1st for Research Culture, and for Research Skills, 2nd for Supervision, 3rd for
 Responsibilities, and 4th for Professional Development from the 34 Education units participating
 in the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey. Students expressed 97% satisfaction
 with their supervision, 97% with their acquisition of research skills, and 84% overall satisfaction
 with their experience. The whole University was ranked 4th for research culture, 15th for
 supervision and 21st for overall student satisfaction from 103 HEIs entered (with a 62% local
 response rate).

 The Unit currently has 65 doctoral students, both for PhD and students and those on the
 education doctorate (EdD). This programme, which is part-time, has been very successful,
 recruiting cohorts each year since its inception in 2005. Students are supported by day sessions
 across the year based around EdD programme themes which reflect the Unit’s expertise in
 professional learning, reflexivity, and research methodology and methods. PhD research
 students attend relevant sessions and benefit from mixing with the often more mature and
 experienced EdD students. An annual writing retreat weekend is also financially supported by the
 School of Education which, together with the large recently refurbished research student base
 room, enhances collegiality among the research student body. Unit research expertise around
 doctoral learning and teaching is central to the programme. The research students’ programme

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of study includes relevant elements of the Doctoral College Researcher Development
 Programme, which aligns with the domains and descriptors of the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. The extensive range of sessions (also open to academic staff)
 support the development of independent researchers able to lead on and develop the impact of
 research.

 All research student supervisors have completed supervisory training delivered by the Doctoral
 College. They are also supported by Doctoral College procedures and processes for quality
 assurance and enhancement from admissions through to award, with Unit Research Tutor
 oversight to monitor student progress and development needs, ensure access to appropriate
 pastoral and other support for students and ensure good student-supervisor relationships. The
 University has introduced a Research Student Monitoring System (RSMS), an online platform
 that facilitates the record keeping and interaction between students, supervisors and the
 University’s Doctoral College. Detailed records of all supervision meetings and progression
 assessments are entered on a regular basis by students and their supervisors into the RSMS
 and are accessible throughout the course of the doctoral study, enabling feedback between
 students, supervisors and the Doctoral College, providing a robust mechanism to record
 students’ meetings with supervisors, their progress and assessments..

 The number of doctoral awards over this REF period represented in Table 1 has increased since
 2015 -16 (excepting 2020 because EdD completions were constrained by the impact of Covid-
 19) reflecting the strength of the Unit’s research environment and culture for the largely part-time
 research students, as indicated by the Unit’s extremely positive 2019 PRES results. It should be
 noted that the part-time EdD programme is a minimum of 5 years duration; however, students
 more typically take 7 years to complete to the award.

 Table1: Doctoral awards 2013 -2020

   2013-14       2014-15       2015-16       2016-17       2017-18     2018-19        2019-20
       2             3             1             4             6            6             3

 Equality and Diversity
 The Unit fully supports the University’s commitment to all equality and diversity principles. The
 School of Education successfully obtained the Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2017 and is
 currently well advanced in its preparation for the Silver award which will be submitted in
 November 2021.

 75% of the Unit staff are women including a Professor and all 3 Readers. Of published
 contributions to LINK (one female, one male co-editor), 33 are by women, 11 by men (3 joint).
 From 2015-16 most speakers in the Unit’s flagship research seminar series were women. One
 staff member (7%) identifies as BAME.

 More women than men apply for, and are accepted on to, doctoral degrees. The percentage of
 women undertaking doctoral degrees is currently 78% and 37% of research students identify as
 BAME. This latter percentage is encouraging as it indicates there should be a pipeline of BAME
 candidates for future academic posts both in the School and the Unit which is a current
 recruitment focus. An aspect of the doctoral student recruitment strategy is targeting secondary
 school teachers seeking to increase both male and BAME research student numbers.

 Furthermore, all Unit staff have an appraisal target to enhance the recruitment, experience and
 attainment of BAME research students. Images on websites, where research is highlighted, have
 been selected to represent a diverse population. Both staff and research student recruitment
 advertisements specify that applications are welcome from groups under-represented in the
 sector, and ‘blind’ applications have been introduced in which ethnicity and gender are not
 visible. There is a requirement that interview panels comprise a mix of genders and, wherever
 possible, ethnicities. All staff who perform interviews have already undertaken Unconscious Bias

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training and a whole-School curriculum review (including attention given to ‘decolonising the
 curriculum’) has taken place.

 Research staff meetings are held at times that enable part-time staff to participate. Even before
 COVID-19, all staff were able to work at home and attend the University only when they had
 School-based commitments. The School of Education has a flexible working time policy used
 consistently by several staff. Unit members are active in the School Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion Group as well as University staff networks including the Women+ and Professors
 Network (which provides career advice, encouragement and mentoring for women researchers)
 and the Academic Women’s Action Group, the BAME staff network, Carers, Parents, Disability
 and Wellbeing, LGBTQ+, and Menopause networks.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The Unit has achieved a substantial 82% growth in average annual research income in this REF
 period with a strong upward trajectory set to continue due to a similarly substantial growth in
 research awards from £269k to £1.24M. The Unit’s well-established position in distributed and
 democratic collaborative leadership has facilitated large-scale collaborative international and
 other funded research, including successive EU-funded projects: European Arts-Based
 Development of Distributed Leadership and Innovation in Schools (ENABLES) (2019-21,total
 £224k; £64k for the Unit as lead partner), European Methodological Framework for Facilitating
 Professional Collaboration among Teachers (2015-2018, total £501k; £89k for the Unit ) and the
 European Policy Network on School Leadership (EPNoSL), (2011-2015, total project: £2.35M,
 £226.4k for the Unit). Substantial income has been obtained through these strongly aligned
 collaborative grants focused on distributed leadership to enhance equity, participatory
 professionalism and democratic citizenship. An important facet to secure this funding has been
 the use of distinctive arts-based and embodied learning approaches which have evolved from
 empowering school leaders by developing tool kits and broadening the leadership base to
 impacting on different policy levels.

 An award from the Shanghai Teacher Professional Development Centre for Private Universities,
 contracted through Shanghai Normal University (£499k) to develop doctoral research and
 professional learning in China, and a follow-on award (£533k) to extend this research
 programme have facilitated collaborative research with academics in Shanghai universities. The
 research focus is on TNE together with the development of doctoral practice and professional
 learning in China. Specific interrelated strands include student engagement (Connors, Jarvis,
 Levy, James), pedagogic development (Huet, Smith, Jarvis, McDowell, White), teacher
 professional development and learning (Levy, Kersten), curriculum development (Levy, James)
 and leadership of teaching (Woods, Jarvis).

 Research in both HE and TNE are areas of increasing strength. Funded research includes the
 impact of HE research and researchers on national HE policy development (£10k, Smith);
 partnership in HE publicity, policy & practice (£8.4k, Smith, Kersten); educational developers and
 quality assurance policy (£4k, Smith); a 3D model for professional conversations (£6k, Jarvis);
 developing a Transnational Toolkit (£5k, Smith). This work focuses on pedagogy: exploring the
 future of blended learning, through a focused literature review, analysis of strategic plans, and
 interviews to inform the development of another university’s blended learning vision (4k, Smith);
 learning and teaching in the areas of student voice and student-staff collaboration (£10k, Jarvis,
 Dickerson); English Language Teachers (ELT) teachers’ stories of resilience (£4k, James); a
 philosophical investigation of partnership in HE, (£3k, Smith, Woods), and developing doctoral
 practice in Shanghai universities as noted above.

 In science education, the Unit has carried out two empirical research evaluations of the PSQM
 and its impact on teacher development (£4k, £10k, White, Dickerson, Levy); gained seed-corn
 funding to examine the role of computational physics in students’ conceptual understanding of

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 physics across six UK universities (Connors, Levy), and used its expertise and innovatory work
 in science education and CPD to attract international partners for collaborative research (e.g.
 Education Endowment Foundation efficacy evaluation).

 Additionally, the Unit has built up a range of collaborative research evaluations of services
 centred around children, young and vulnerable people. Examples include: Exploring why families
 home educate in Hertfordshire (£16.3k, Smith, Dickerson); Herts Thriving Families’ nurse project
 (£5k, Smith, Levy); Herts Thriving Families Attachment (£5k, Levy, Smith); Troubled Families
 (£10k; Levy); Five Ways Group Engagement & Brief Intervention Products and Training (£15k,
 Smith); Developing an Evaluation Plan and its Implementation for North Hampshire Clinical
 Commissioning (£10k; Dickerson, Levy); Young People's Puppet Theatre (£9.8k, Smith,
 Dickerson); Identifying the uniqueness of TRACKS, (£12k, Smith, Levy); Evaluation of Harrow
 First ITE, Canons High Teaching School Alliance (Smith, £2.5k); Classroom management
 strategies and gender in primary schools (£5k; McDowell).

 The successive EU projects mentioned above have contributed to a trajectory moving from
 contribution into leadership of research, generating increased funding, broadening the range of
 Unit staff participating in this area of research, and enhancing its distinctiveness by extending
 the forms of arts-informed research used. The Unit’s experience of innovative arts-informed
 research methods, and those appropriate for researching with vulnerable participants, has been
 a valuable basis for developing novel funding bids which secured, for example, the EU funding
 of £224k within the ENABLES project .Therefore leading large international research projects
 with partnerships in Europe and China using expertise across the Unit focused on democratic
 leadership, professional learning and doctoral practice has provided important award successes.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Unit members extensively use the University’s Learning Resource Centres (LRCs) which give
 access to 417,000 print stock, 543,000 e-books, 50,575 journal titles and 220 information
 databases. They benefit from the support of a dedicated LRC Information Manager, facilitating
 access to, and advice on, using referencing management tools, SPSS, NVivo and a range of
 specialist software, including that which supports public engagement and impact development.
 Support from web-technologists and technical staff who have produced micro-websites together
 with a range of research-informed practice development tools for stakeholders and to support
 research impact development is also in place, with a specialist role providing specific expertise
 for generating and analysing impact data. University Marketing and Communications support the
 continuing development of websites that represent work within the Research Centre for
 Professional and Work-related Learning and the Centre for Educational Leadership. These
 websites have also provided a means to engage staff in research and income generation
 activities locally and internationally.

 Following the growth of the Unit’s collaborative research particularly in Europe and China over
 the period 10 international Visiting Research Fellows and Professors (Czejkowska, Austria;
 Vanassche, Belgium; Fu Wen, Liu Xinrong China; Urbanovic, Lithuania; Abbiss, Young, New
 Zealand; Kristiansen, Norway; Howard, Spain; Zara, Turkey), identified through existing
 collaborative research networks, have been accommodated to support and extend research, to
 strengthen the research environment and to further develop the Unit’s positive research
 trajectory.

 There is a dedicated Unit resource of eleven IT desks fully equipped with computers and
 peripherals for the part-time research students and access to another Unit common room with
 refreshment and cooking facilities and a seating area for over 20 people. Also, research students
 and staff can access a range of social and informal meeting spaces co-located with the Unit
 together with bookable meeting rooms. Moreover, there is extensive provision of individual and
 collaborative learning spaces both in the LRCs and across the University.

 Research students and staff also benefit from the University Doctoral College’s Researcher
 Development Programme (including online sessions, and Spring and Summer Schools) and a

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 range of events including an annual postgraduate research conference, regular drop-ins, and a
 student representatives forum. The Research Student Management System, overseen by the
 Doctoral College, is also valuable support for both students and individual supervisors. For
 example, indicating when procedural milestones are due, and for recording student progress
 together with actions and for providing the overall level of student progression across the Unit.
 Unit staff utilise Research Office training and support for grant bids and impact development,
 with a dedicated Impact Facilitator supporting work across specific projects and they also use
 the central scholarly communications team to facilitate green OA publication while recent
 transformative agreements with Sage and Wiley facilitate gold OA without individual payment.

 Staff in the Unit have successfully bid for over £15k of central Research Office funding for
 research skills development and seed corn funding as a basis for making larger bids in addition
 to £17k to support the development of research impact. Proof of Concept awards from the
 University Innovation Team concerned with Developing Overseas PSQM (£15k; 2018-19) and
 Growing PSQM in Scotland (£5.25k ; 2019-20) have also extended the impact of science
 education research across the UK, Europe and Asia.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations and User Partnerships
 The Unit has extensive international research collaborations built on the long-established value it
 has placed on collaborative user-focused research.

 Educational leadership: the EU-funded European Policy Network on School Leadership
 (EPNoSL) built on a key area of strength in researching distributed leadership. The UK-
 contribution led by Woods, involved 17 other universities, 9 research/capacity building
 organisations, 5 professional associations, 14 Government Ministries across Europe, together
 with 25 Associate Members across Europe, India and Africa, and stakeholders from 42
 European-based institutions. This network provided a basis to engage in the EU-funded EFFeCT
 and ENABLES projects to extend collaborations and research in related areas such as teacher
 learning as well as leadership through using innovatory arts-informed research approaches.

 EFFeCT was led by Woods in partnership with: Tempus Public Foundation (Hungary); University
 of Jyväskylä (Finland); National Centre for Education (Latvia); National Institute for Continuous
 Professional Development (Czech Republic); and Mary Immaculate College (Ireland). Networks
 which subsequently developed include Complexity Group meetings in Bath and Leadership for
 Professional Learning Symposia in Cambridge. The networks facilitated the collaborative
 development of a wide range of accessible resources of different types which supported varied
 modes of professional development relating to autonomy, accountability, and authority in the
 practice of distributed leadership. These were used by senior leaders of schools and other
 organisations such as Teaching School Alliances in the UK together with both senior leaders of
 schools and districts and school students in the USA.

 The ENABLES project, led by Woods with the University of Jyväskylä (Finland), Institute of
 Lifelong Learning and Culture (Latvia), Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iaşi (Romania) and
 the University of Innsbruck (Austria), further extended this work. The outputs of the projects are
 a unique online resource and knowledge hub for arts-informed and embodied learning methods
 of distributed and democratic collaborative school leadership development.

 Higher education: a wide range of partnership projects have informed institutional policy
 (Smith: Blended Learning, Derby); impact of HE research and researchers on national HE policy,
 (Napier and Loughborough), staff-student partnership (Jarvis: HEA); and change through
 projects (Dickerson, Levy: HEA). International collaborations include computer-mediated
 communication (Kersten: WWU Muenster, Germany); ELT (Kersten: PH Karlsruhe, Germany)
 and successive large doctoral practice collaborative research and developments projects:
 Shanghai Normal University 2018-21). A research partnership with the Federal University of

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Amazon in Brazil focused on the design of learning spaces in universities and on the
 professional development of postgraduate supervisors (Huet).

 Teacher Education and pedagogy: The innovatory focus of White’s research in School-Based
 Teacher Education has attracted collaborative work with key user stakeholders such as the
 Teacher Education Advancement Network (White is invited annually to run national workshops
 for teacher educators); the University Committee for Teacher Education; and the Chartered
 College for Teachers. This latter collaboration has informed policies and practice developed by
 the National Association of School Based Teacher Trainers (NASBTT) in the UK and the
 Netherlands, through a sustained relationship with VELON (the key Dutch stakeholder for school
 and university practitioners in this area). Other projects have centred on a range of user-focused
 research, including the development of young learners (Kersten; Harris); children’s reading and
 learning (Scheletter, with Steinlen, Piske: University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Hopp: University of
 Braunschweig); cross-cultural research on gender and classroom management strategies in
 primary schools, with Lenz and Klattenberg: University of Hildesheim, Germany (McDowell).

 The efficacy of Teaching Assistants – and how to address that through training - has become a
 high-profile issue, and research examining the nature of teaching assistants’ work using
 methods based in linguistics (McDowell and Levy) has potential to have significant impact. A
 distinctive, well-established, form of research consultancy provided by Unit staff supports
 teachers to develop research-informed practice in a range of schools. This service has
 complemented a series of collaborative evaluations across schools, a specialist early years
 autism centre (TRACKS) (Smith, Levy), and the use of puppets in schools (Smith, Dickerson)
 which have been explicitly formative and included practice development tools for users.

 A sustained series of evaluations by Unit staff with County Councils in Hertfordshire,
 Buckinghamshire and Hampshire has supported their work with Troubled Families including
 Hertfordshire’s Healthy Schools initiative; Buckinghamshire County Council’s pilot roll-out of Five
 Ways to Wellbeing; and, Developing an Integrated Care Programme Evaluation Plan for the
 North Hampshire Clinical Commissioning Group.

 Contributions to Economy and Society
 The Unit’s strategy is to work collaboratively and engage users in the processes of research and
 development (for example, of practitioner development tools) in ways that maximise their benefit
 from the research. This distinctive collaborative research-consultancy approach is received
 positively by the Unit’s partners and is used both in marketing and tendering contexts. Unit staff
 work with a wide range of organisations, nationally and internationally, using their expertise in
 arts-informed research, innovative methods appropriate for research with vulnerable
 participants, and modes of learning (which informs pathways to impact).

 Through the Unit’s research, leadership practice has been enhanced. For example, enabling
 practitioners’ and others' (e.g. school students') participation and increased proactivity in
 participating with others, and designing leadership development utilising the concepts of
 intentionality and emergence. More broadly, the Centre for Educational Leadership (CEL) has,
 through a range of collaborations, enhanced teaching, for example by promoting reflective
 pedagogy: reflection and critical thinking, uncovering and using tacit and experiential knowledge,
 collaborative learning and alternative teaching and research approaches such as art-informed
 methods. CEL has led extensive research activity, gaining funding to conduct, support and
 coordinate leadership research. Engagement with users has been extended by the development of
 resources such as the ‘degrees of democracy framework’, toolsets, video-scribes and materials
 for fostering collaborative teacher leadership and learning. These have been employed in an
 extensive range of practitioner workshops and other events providing economic benefit in the
 USA, Europe and UK. For example, a Developmental Democratic Planning model was endorsed
 by the US National Council of Professors of Educational Administration as ‘a significant contribution
 to the scholarship and practice of school administration and K-12 education’ for use in practitioner
 research and development.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributions to HE policy are strongly evident. For example, Smith’s TNE Toolkit, to support
 teaching staff who deliver degree-level education transnationally, published by the HEA focuses
 specifically on quality assurance and enhancement; the logistics of TNE; learning teaching and
 assessment; and relationship building and was described by Advance HE as, providing
 ‘guidance, checklists, questions and authentic experience to both inform and stimulate reflection
 about TNE’. The extensive contribution to pedagogy is represented in the development of
 pedagogical research and enquiry through collaborative partnership projects (Jarvis), research-
 informed resources for: pedagogy development - used in a widening range of universities in
 England and Scotland (Jarvis), the development of partnership learning communities (Smith,
 Woods), a self-study blog for the International Forum for Teacher Educator Development (White,
 Jarvis) and technology-enhanced learning (Cubric, Huet).

 Teacher Education and pedagogy benefiting society: many projects completed over a
 sustained period have developed pedagogy in universities (Jarvis, Dickerson, Gilbert, Bage).
 Jarvis’s research-based tools on pedagogy are increasingly widely used in universities, currently
 UEA, UAL, UCL, Cambridge, Goldsmiths, Imperial College, Aberdeen, Belfast. Gilbert’s work on
 compassion in group work, boosted by his Times Higher Education 2018 award as the ‘Most
 Innovative Teacher of the Year’, for research-based development of pedagogy, has been used
 and iteratively developed through work in universities across the UK, including Imperial College,
 SOAS, UEL, Sheffield Hallam, Swansea, Liverpool John Moores, and Exeter. Engagement with
 national organisations across HE, and into mental health, as well through Twitter, blogs and nine
 films on YouTube has enabled this research to reach across the sector, supported by a network
 of staff from 42 universities (June 2019). The impact on practice extends from pedagogy, into
 assessment, addressing the BAME attainment gap, and, through collaborations since 2016 with
 a national theatre company, Upswing, to circus performance. Research in technology-enhanced
 pedagogy (Cubric), complemented by previous Jisc-funded projects (Evaluating Electronic
 Voting Systems for Enhancing Student Experience; iTeam), has benefited that community.

 A range of research projects enhance the quality and impact of professional practice in schools,
 across Teaching School Alliances (Levy, Smith, Dickerson), and beyond traditional education
 settings, typically using the Unit’s expertise and innovative methods in researching vulnerable
 groups (led by Smith and/or Levy, with Dickerson). Foci include early years autism, home
 education, school nurses, local authority provision and development of resilience, wellbeing and
 family support services, interventions to support potentially vulnerable children within families
 with attachment issues; and, Troubled Families. A series of school evaluations and teacher
 research projects have been explicitly formative and include practice development tools.

 Science education: the Unit has led the sector on the development and evaluation of the
 Primary Science Quality Mark (PSQM) creating a powerful impact on the quality of science
 education across the UK and internationally which has addressed a national priority. The Unit
 was successful in its bid to the Education Endowment Foundation for a £364k national
 evaluation of the PSQM with full access to the evaluation data which will feed back into the
 programme. The Unit has completed funded evaluations of the impact of Royal Society of
 Chemistry (RSC) bursary-funded PSQM, on the teaching of science (especially chemistry) in
 primary schools (RSC-funded) and of the PSQM (Primary Science Teaching Trust (PSTT) -
 funded). The Unit also has a PSTT-funded PhD studentship focusing on teachers’ experience of
 PSQM.

 Contributions to Sustainability of Discipline
 Unit staff contribute as follows.

 Key contributions to learned societies:

    •   Harris: Member, Natural England’s Strategic Research Group for Learning in the Natural
        Environment, 2012-.



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Levy: Elected Member IPDA International Committee, 2004-; Past Chair, Vice Chair
        (twice); Co-Chair Conference organisation 2006-2019.
    •   Smith: Society of Research into Higher Education Trustee and member of the Governing
        Council; Publications committee (2013-18); co-convenor, Policy Network; Lead assessor
        for submissions for HE Policy strand, SRHE annual conference; contributor to the newer
        researcher professional development programme, running workshops on getting
        published, and discourse analysis in higher education research (2012-); Steering group
        member, reviewer of the Pedagogies of Partnership research projects Advance HE.
    •   White: Member IPDA International Committee 2014-2018, Secretary 2016-2018,
        Secretary IPDA England, 2019-; Co-chair Association for Teacher Education in Europe;
        Research and Development Community for the Professional Development of Teacher
        Educators.
    •   Woods: Immediate Past Chair (2016-2018), Chair (2013-2016), Vice Chair (2011-2013),
        Council Member and Director (2009-2020), BELMAS.

 Awards:

    •   Gilbert: Times Higher Education 2018 award: ‘Most Innovative Teacher of the Year’, for
        research-based development of pedagogy.
    •   James: British Council ELT Research Award, 2017, ELT Teachers’ Stories of Resilience.
    •   Levy: Fellowship of IPDA, 2017 in recognition of his contribution to, and standing in, the
        field of professional development and learning in education.
    •   Woods: Distinguished Service Award, BELMAS, 2019 in recognition of the quality and
        sustained nature of his research, and contribution to the development of the research
        community and practice across the UK and internationally; Fellow of the Academy of
        Social Sciences.

 Journal editorship & reviewing:

    •   Cubric: Co-Editor: Electronic Journal on E-learning.
    •   Harris: Editorial Board: Geographical Journal, 2010-2017; Reviews Editor: 2011- 2015.
    •   Jarvis: Editorial board: Deafness and Education International.
    •   Smith: Executive Editor: Teaching in Higher Education.
    •   Woods: Guest editorships of special issues: 1) Responses to structural change in
        schooling in England, Management in Education, 2015 (with Prof. Simkins); 2) Structural
        Reform in England: Emerging configurations of governance, leadership and management
        in the new ‘local’, Educational Management Administration & Leadership, 2014 (with Prof
        Simkins); 3) Diverging Systems? Educational Leadership and Administration in the Four
        Nations of the UK, School Leadership & Management, online/print 2020/2021. Invited to
        edit Handbook on Leadership in Education, Elgar Publishing. Invited by editors of
        Democracy and Education to respond to application of his concept of holistic democracy
        in research with US schools. Member, editorial boards: Italian Journal of Sociology of
        Education, Research in Educational Administration and Leadership, Other Education:
        The Journal of Educational Alternatives.
    •   Huet, Jarvis, Levy, Smith, White, Woods regularly review for a range (over 20) of peer-
        reviewed journals with international reach including: American Educational Research
        Journal, British Journal of Sociology, British Journal of Educational Studies, Higher
        Education, International Journal for Academic Development, International Journal of
        Educational Research, Journal of Education for Teaching, Journal of Education Policy,
        Professional Development in Education.

 Invited: keynotes, lectures and other invited activities:

    •   James: Cul-de-sacs and narrative data analysis, Nova Southeastern University, Florida.
    •   Kersten: Co-convener of strand: The Challenge of Language Play and Language
        Creativity Westfälische Wilhelms Universität Münster, Germany, 2016. Organised

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        symposium: Linguistisches Wissen in Schule und Universität (with Professors Grundler,
        Intemann; Ludwigsburg and RWTH Aachen) GAL congress Angewandte Linguistik in der
        Lehre, Angewandte Linguistik lehren, Marburg, Germany, 2014. Exploring
        understandings of partnership in HE in using corpus-based methods, focus group and
        interview data, workshop, with Smith, RAISE Partnership event, Birmingham, 2017.
    •   Levy: Co-edited IPDA Conference Proceedings, 2011-17.
    •   McDowell: Doing Being a Primary School Teacher: Does Gender Matter? University of
        Linnaeus, 2016. Doing Being a Primary School Teacher: Is Teaching a Community of
        Practice? University of Hildesheim, 2015.
    •   Smith: Keynote Developing and Implementing the AdvanceHE Transnational Toolkit,
        Transnational Education in HE: recognising opportunities and growing educational
        exports, Westminster Briefing, 2019. Keynote Supporting the effective delivery of
        Transnational Education in UK Universities, Raising Standards of Transnational Higher
        Education, Inside Government, 2018. Using multi-dimensional methods in higher
        education research: the case for critical discourse analysis, seminar, Centre for the Study
        of Higher Education, University of Kent, 2018.
    •   White: Enriching our practice as teacher educators: working in partnerships, University of
        Reading, 2019. Professional Development of Teacher Educators, Roehampton Teaching
        and Learning in Schools, 2019. School-led research development, IPDA/TEAN event
        2016.
    •   Woods: Plenary presentation Educational Leadership and Administration in the UK: A
        Comparative Review, with Donnelly, Jones, Potter, Simkins, and Torrance, BELMAS
        Annual Conference, Hinckley Island, 2019. Keynotes: Frailty, Strength and Autonomy:
        Leadership in England’s School System, with Roberts, J. Jarvis and Culshaw, BELMAS
        UK Review Conference, Birmingham, 2018; Limitations of Distributed Leadership: Critical
        reflections and ways forward, Inspiring School Leaders Conference, St John’s College,
        Cambridge, Perceptum Education, 2017; BELMAS conference on Leadership for
        Democracy, Co-operative Head Office, Manchester, 2015; Holistic Education and
        Democratic Values, Alternative Education in England: All together now? Holistic
        Education Organisation Conference, Leeds Beckett University, 2015; School autonomy:
        An opportunity to distribute leadership across a self-organising school system?,
        Autonomia e Liderança das Escolas, Lisbon, Portuguese Ministry of Education and
        Science, 2015; Distributed Leadership for Equity and Learning, University of Žilina,
        supported by EPNoSL, Žilina Administrative Region, Slovakia, 2015. Lecture Critical
        Reflections on Distributed Leadership: Implications for understanding and improving
        school leadership, Institute of Educational Leadership, University of Jyvaskyla, Finland,
        2016. Invited participant, World Summit of Educators, Soka University of America,
        California US, 2016. Open lecture, Distributed leadership for equity and learning,
        Mykolas Romeris University & Ministry of Education and Science, Vilnius, Lithuania,
        2015.

 Other indicators of expertise and esteem:

    •   Harris: Trustee, Farms for City Children.
    •   Jarvis and White: Invited chapter: the International Handbook of Self-study on Teaching
        Teacher Education Practices, 2020.
    •   Smith: University of Surrey Annual Output Review - Expert assistance in preparation for
        the REF, reviewing HE outputs, 2018, 2019; Member UK Research and Innovation
        Future Leaders Fellowship Peer Review Panel.
    •   Woods : Invited co-editor, with Barnett (University of Texas, San Antonio), of a book
        marking 10th anniversary of the International School Leadership Development Network,
        which is supported by BELMAS and the University Council for Educational Administration
        (US), 2020; Author two invited chapters: Encyclopaedia of Educational Administration,
        Oxford University Press, 2020; Commissioned ‘country paper’ on England, for
        Educational Authorities Inquiry, Sweden, 2018; led to invited chapter in international
        volume on educational authorities in schools, 2020; Chair, BELMAS Educational

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Leadership and Administration in the United Kingdom: A Comparative Review (2017-
        2020); Fellow, Royal Society for the Arts.
    •   Levy: Fellow, Royal Society for the Arts.
    •   McDowell: Sole founder, The Gender and Workplace Discourse Research Network,
        2017.
    •   Huet: Invited member of the Research Centre “Didactics and Technology in Education of
        Trainers”, University of Aveiro, Portugal, member of the Laboratory for Supervision and
        Evaluation; Member of International Scientific Committees: 2020 ICED Conference
        (Consortium for Educational Development), Zurich; 4th World Conference on Qualitative
        Research 2021, Barcelona, Spain; Author of invited chapter: ‘The Cambridge Handbook
        on Undergraduate Research’, CUP, 2020

 Doctoral examinations in this REF period:

 Staff in the Unit have acted as examiner in 51 external doctoral examinations over the REF
 period.




                                                                                         Page 15
