Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: 4 (Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience)

 2B   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The University of Aberdeen has a long tradition of scholarship in psychology. It offered
 Scotland’s first lectureship in psychology in 1896, the Anderson lectureship, held by George
 Stout. The legacy of this lectureship remains today in the Anderson Chair in Psychology,
 established in 1946 and first held by Rex Knight. Today, Psychology at Aberdeen reflects the
 principles of its founding members – Stout’s scientific approach to psychology and Knight’s
 championing of psychology’s application to everyday problems. This aligns closely with the
 University’s 2040 strategy to deliver high-quality research that is capable of making a real
 difference to lives (see REF5a).

 Research in the School of Psychology falls broadly into three themes: (1) Perception and
 Attention, (2) Cognition and (3) Social Cognition. Although each staff member is assigned to
 a single theme, there is extensive collaboration and overlap of interests within the School. Two
 key strands connect the three themes: (1) theoretical advancement of our understanding of
 human experience and behaviour and (2) the application of psychological theory to everyday
 problems. We are an international group of researchers with strong collaborative links around
 the world and a growing culture of interdisciplinary research. We make substantial contributions
 to advancing theory and attract diverse funding to support our research. We engage with non-
 academic stakeholders through our impact activities and public engagement. Our primary aim is
 to provide an inclusive, nurturing and vibrant environment to support researchers in
 producing world-leading psychological research and translating it into real-world impact.

 Strategic priorities since REF2014

 In order to build on our success in REF2014 and achieve our strategic vision for the School we
 have focussed on five key priorities.

 1. To recruit and retain ambitious and talented researchers. Our strategy was to recruit a
 balance of established leaders in their fields and talented young researchers. We initially
 prioritised expansion of our Cognition theme and recruited three chairs. Overseen by the
 School’s Equality and Diversity Team, our recruitment is proactive and inclusive, with search
 committees seeking out strong international candidates for positions.

 2. To enhance the support structures available to staff. We aim to provide an inclusive and
 nurturing environment to support researchers, allowing them to fulfil their potential. We
 developed a suite of new staff support processes, including a new staff induction programme,
 structures and mechanisms to support grant-writing, re-introduction of a research sabbatical
 scheme and family-friendly work policies and practices (see §2). We have a strong commitment
 to research integrity and have established a School Research Integrity Team to provide advice
 and support for open and reproducible science.

 3. To provide state of the art research facilities. In order to support world-leading
 psychological research there is a need for continual investment in research facilities. We
 invested over GBP2.6million in research facilities, including refurbishing all office and laboratory
 spaces, acquiring new eye tracking systems, upgrading all existing research facilities (§3).

 4. To develop new non-academic impacts with our research. A major strategic decision was
 to formalise an outward-facing identity for our impact activities – in the formation of the Applied
 Psychology and Human Factors group. With support from the University’s Impact and
 Knowledge Exchange Team (see REF5a), internal funds have been allocated to develop the
 non-academic impact of our research through pump priming, supporting industrial secondment


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and investment in PhD funding (§3). We have developed online training and professional
 development courses focused on applying our research to industrial settings.

 5. To foster interdisciplinary links. The School has established new mechanisms to support
 and promote interdisciplinary research, including funding to support the development of
 interdisciplinary research links and to hold regular events bringing researchers from around the
 University together (§2). Interdisciplinary projects have been supported by University initiatives
 (e.g., Grants Academy workshops) and facilitated by involvement in Scotland-wide research
 networks (e.g., the BBSRC EastBio Doctoral Training Partnership).


 Key achievements since REF2014

 1. People. We made three strategic chair appointments and appointed seven exceptional
 researchers as lecturers and senior lecturers. These appointments were made across all our
 research themes, enhancing our existing research strengths. Our new support mechanisms for
 staff development have helped to maintain a vibrant and active research environment, with a
 strong spirit of collegiality and collaboration and to support the promotion of six staff. The
 success of our new support processes is evident from our staff survey (§2) and our Athena
 SWAN Bronze (2015) and Silver Awards (2020).

 2. Research. All research themes contribute to REF2 outputs that advance psychological
 theory. We have contributed major theoretical advances in our understanding of the self
 (Macrae, Sui), how people form first impressions from faces (Sutherland), the role of gesture in
 communication (Chu), the nature of self-regulation (Macrae), predictive processes in actions and
 intentions (Bach), visual crowding (Chakravarthi, Manassi) and eye movements during scene
 viewing (Tatler). Our network of collaborations has expanded to include new international links
 with China, Japan, Malaysia and Australia (§4). An emerging focus has been interdisciplinary
 collaboration with linguists (e.g., University of Edinburgh), engineering (e.g., Tohoku University,
 Japan) and computing scientists (e.g., Cambridge University; University of Alberta, Canada),
 linked to our strengths in language research, colour perception and social cognition (§4).

 3. Impact. Through our recently established Applied Psychology and Human Factors group we
 established close relationships with industrial (aviation: Bristow, CHC Helicopters), farming (the
 Farm Safety Foundation), oil and gas (TRAC International) and clinical (TauRx, Novavision,
 NHS Grampian) stakeholders. Our research-led online training and professional
 development courses have been launched successfully and are gaining support from external
 bodies, such as the agriculture training provider Lantra. Enrolment in our online applied
 psychology courses is recognised as strategically important and supported by the Scottish
 Funding Council’s Upskilling Fund. We have built on our long-standing contributions to impact on
 industry and healthcare, developing three new lines of impact : 1. the role of non-technical skills
 in farming safety, 2. new techniques for visual rehabilitation after stroke, and 3. training for
 healthcare practitioners undertaking behavioural change interventions. These case studies have
 benefitted from our School’s impact support strategies and from University support for impact
 (§4). We supported staff secondment to the pharmaceutical industry (TauRx) to develop novel
 diagnostics for Alzheimer’s disease, linked to PhD and postdoctoral funding (§3,§4).

 4. A culture of open science and research integrity. Our Research Integrity Team has
 provided a focus for supporting and developing Open Science practices. In accordance with the
 University of Aberdeen’s Open Access policy (see REF5a), researchers publish outputs using
 Green Open Access wherever possible, and datasets are usually openly available, routinely so
 for ESRC-funded research. Staff are involved in local and international initiatives in Open
 Science (e.g., the UK Reproducibility Network, the Peer Reviewers’ Openness Initiative and the
 University Forum on Open Science), and we run 6-monthly informal workshops involving staff
 and research students to discuss and disseminate best practice (e.g., pre-registration, sharing
 research data and contributing to reproducibility initiatives). For example, Hesse played a key
 role in a pre-registered, multi-centre international reproducibility project designed to test the “two

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 visual systems” hypothesis. University procedures and training ensure best practice and
 awareness of the latest Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Our Psychology Research
 Ethics Committee has been expanded and strengthened to deal with on-going changes in the
 research landscape. To ensure research integrity, we follow University and funder guidelines on
 data management and research governance (§4).


 Strategic priorities for the future

 To continue to enable our staff to produce world-leading psychological research and translate
 this to real world impact, we have five strategic priorities for the next five years.

    1. To enhance our staff research profile, through internal staff development and
       through recruitment. Although we are a diverse, young and vibrant group with wide
       international reach, we are still a small School with a relatively junior profile: ten
       Lecturers, nine Senior Lecturers and six Professors. We aim to increase staffing to 30
       (20% growth), with a more senior profile, including increasing the number of Professors
       from six to nine (24% to 30%). We will achieve this through:
           a. our strong commitment to retaining and developing our world-class researchers,
               through staff support mechanisms (§2) and by providing a state-of-the-art
               research environment (§3). Many of our recently recruited staff are at early career
               stages and we will support their ambitious research programmes and progress
               through internal promotion (§2).
           b. recruiting a combination of established leaders in their research fields and
               exceptionally promising and ambitious researchers.

    2. To underpin School growth with increased external research funding. The level of
       funding throughout the submission period is relatively consistent. Recent appointments
       have added further strength and vibrancy resulting in a recent upturn in funding
       applications. We will grow external funding by:
          a. continuing to strengthen the internal grant-writing support mechanisms
              established by the School since 2014 (§2,§3) and the rollout of more proactive
              pursuit of independent fellowship funding for outstanding researchers, working
              closely with the Grants Academy (see REF5a).
          b. developing research on social perception (§3). We are building core strength in
              this topic, which includes our three chair appointments (Bach, Sui, Tatler), one in
              each of our research themes. We will invest in this area of research and pursue
              opportunities to build a research centre on social perception with a mission to
              model mechanisms of human interaction through the application of behavioural
              science, AI and neuroscience techniques. This will provide a focus for - mostly
              interdisciplinary - external research funding.
          c. enhancing responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives.
              We will build on recent GCRF Newton funding for research on adult ageing and
              social cognition in the UK and Malaysia to engage with UN Sustainable
              Development Goals (SDGs) such as “SDG 3 Good Health and Well-being” and
              SDG10 “Reduced Inequality”. We will develop ongoing research that aligns with
              the UN goal of “decent work for all”, with current projects on improving safety,
              equity and respect in the workplace, including a focus on SDG 5 “Gender
              Equality”. These strands will be supported to develop international collaboration
              and build links with researchers in Official Development Assistance countries. We
              are building on links with industry and the third sector to address problems of
              relevance to the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund “Healthy Aging” and “Robots
              for a Safer World” challenges, in collaboration with medical colleagues and
              computer scientists. We will capitalise on our strong collaborative connections
              across Europe to apply for the €85bn flagship Horizon Europe funds, focusing on
              key challenges such as (i) health and (ii) culture, creativity and inclusivity.


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. To expand the non-academic impact of our research. The establishment of the
       Applied Psychology and Human Factors group provides a springboard for new
       opportunities for engaging with stakeholders (§4). We will continue to expand
       engagement by:
          a. supporting, through strategic allocation of resources, new impacts of our research
              including collaborations with the aviation industry on helicopter safety, with Police
              Scotland on CCTV surveillance and on cognitive biases in the workplace.
          b. working with the Public Affairs, Stakeholder Engagement and Events Team
              (PASE)(see REF5a) to plan a series of workshops to enhance liaison with
              industry. This will open up new funding opportunities with industrial partners,
              building on current links with aviation, pharmaceuticals and healthcare providers.
          c. increasing our portfolio of research-led online training modules aligned with the
              needs of local Small and Medium-sized Enterprises to further enhance our
              regional involvement. Our courses will build on our existing strengths by
              encompassing non-technical skills, mental health and cognitive biases in the
              workplace, providing a platform to educate and upskill the workforce at local and
              national levels. This will further enhance our links with industry and increase the
              impact of our research on business practice. We will also pursue the
              internationalisation of these modules.

    4. To enhance our global profile through international collaboration. Psychology in
       Aberdeen has an international outlook, and our submission of 25 researchers includes 11
       nationalities. We have collaborative links with countries throughout Europe, Asia,
       Australasia and North America, including many interdisciplinary projects (§4). We will
       expand our global engagement by:
           a. building on our international collaborative networks through joint research grants,
              staff mobility and student exchanges. We will expand our research visitor scheme
              (§2) to increase international collaborations and opportunities to develop joint
              research bids. We will extend our staff and student exchange programme with the
              Aurora network of universities (Netherlands, France, Germany, Spain, Iceland,
              Italy and Norway) and organise joint research seminars.
           b. developing our international research student training in Qatar and China. In line
              with Qatar government's 2030 development plan, we are investing in joint PGR
              initiatives at the University of Aberdeen Qatar campus. Our links to China Normal
              University will be strengthened by PGR exchanges focussing on Behavioural
              Economics.
           c. establishing and hosting an annual Psychology conference in Aberdeen. We will
              support an open annual meeting, including invited international speakers,
              focusing on the key research strengths within the School. This conference will
              raise the School’s profile globally and provide networking opportunities for staff
              and students to foster collaborative partnerships.

    5. To enhance our interdisciplinary research portfolio. The University is committed to
       interdisciplinarity, for which psychology is well primed to contribute extensively and
       impactfully. We will:
           a. forge new links locally to address the University 2040 strategic interdisciplinary
               challenges: particularly in health and wellbeing, data and AI and social inclusion.
           b. capitalise on advances in computing science by expanding our collaborations in
               the fields of big data, AI and machine learning to address fundamental theoretical
               issues on key topics including social biases, scene perception and neuroimaging
               data in ageing.
           c. capitalise on our planned investment in a research centre on social perception
               (see above) as a vehicle for themed interdisciplinary collaborations and funding
               bids.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3B   2. People

 i) Staffing strategy and staff development
 Over the submission period our staffing policy was (i) initially to strengthen our Cognition theme
 (3xECR appointments in 2014), (ii) to support existing staff development through promotion (6
 promotions, 2014-2020), (iii) to consolidate the three research themes through further
 appointments with a focus on both theoretical strength and impact potential (4xECR
 appointments in 2019) and (iv) to make outstanding Chair appointments (3 appointments, 2015-
 2020) that further strengthen collaboration across our themes, impact strategy and succession
 planning.

 We have a diverse, young and vibrant group of 25 Category A staff, ten of whom have been
 hired since 2014. All staff are on open-ended, full-time contracts. We are international in profile
 (comprising 11 nationalities) and outlook, and many of our staff were recruited from top tier
 international research centres, bringing large networks of collaborators. The majority (14) of our
 staff are parents, many with young children. This profile means that our staff support and
 development priorities centre around career development for young researchers, maximising
 research time and resources, supporting interaction with local stakeholders and the UK funding
 landscape and creating an environment that offers flexible working and family-friendly policies
 and practices.

 To identify areas for improvement, shape strategy and monitor the effectiveness of our initiatives
 after REF2014, we launched an annual staff survey in 2015. Further monitoring and shaping of
 our strategy utilises focus groups with our ECRF and ad hoc open lunchtime meetings on
 specific topics (e.g., career development, open science).

 Recruitment and support of new staff
 Our recruitment strategy is proactive and inclusive, with hiring committees seeking an
 internationally diverse range of applicants, and looking for strong female candidates, overseen
 by the School’s Equality and Diversity Team. In 2016, we introduced new staff induction
 processes, which include a handbook covering training, development, networking opportunities,
 flexible working and family-friendly policies. On appointment, staff prepare a three-year
 probationary plan, which is reviewed annually with the Head of School. New staff are allocated
 senior mentors who provide impartial advice during probation. This combination of induction,
 training, mentoring, annual objective-setting and review supports staff as they become
 established members of the University. This is complemented by University-level induction
 information and events, providing opportunities to meet new staff from across the institution.
 New appointments are given reduced teaching and administration loads in their first years to
 allow them time to establish their research programme. They are also allocated a discretionary
 research budget, have access to dedicated (single occupancy) laboratory space and are given
 access to communal specialist laboratories. The success of induction is evident from the strong
 research contributions made by our recent appointments to this submission.

 Staff support and development
 Every member of staff participates in (i) Annual Reviews with their Academic Line Manager
 (ALM) covering workload, development and training and (ii) annual Research Interviews with two
 research leaders from the School focused on appraising their research activities. Staff use these
 meetings to set ambitious but realistic targets on grants, papers, knowledge exchange and
 impact and discuss support and training needed to achieve them. The School has an internal
 mentoring scheme for staff and participates in the inter-disciplinary University mentoring
 scheme. The School appointed a Bullying and Harassment Adviser in 2017, supported by a
 “civility at work” guide, which is provided to all staff and students. We appointed a Mental Health
 and Wellbeing champion in 2017. Our School support is supplemented by the University’s
 commitment to improving staff mental wellbeing through the provision of courses, counselling
 and online support. This support has been particularly important to staff during the COVID-19
 pandemic.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We launched a suite of staff development programmes complementing the programmes offered
 centrally to all researchers, delivered primarily through the Grants Academy (see REF5a). We
 provide regular staff development workshops on grant writing, impact development, research
 integrity, open science and publication strategy (open to staff, postdoctoral researchers and PhD
 students). To meet our aim of encouraging new interdisciplinary connections, we organise a
 combination of “sandpit” events and offer regular targeted seminar invitations to researchers
 from around the University as well as encouraging participation in University initiatives (e.g.,
 Grants Academy workshops) and Scotland-wide networks (e.g., the BBSRC EastBio DTP). In
 2015, we introduced a research sabbatical scheme, which is competitively awarded each year
 by the School Management Group to support School research strategy and staff development
 priorities. The sabbatical scheme complies with the institutional framework for research leave, is
 monitored for equality on protected characteristics and includes periods of leave for impact-
 related activities. We provide research-related training, including support for MATLAB and R
 users, training in advanced statistics and running online experiments. Staff participate in
 leadership training, both internal to the University and externally (e.g., three senior staff have
 completed the Aurora women’s leadership training programme). All academic staff must
 complete a PhD supervisor training course organised by the Postgraduate Research School.
 Engagement with staff development is strongly encouraged in the School and discussed in
 Annual Reviews, with 79% of the team taking part in training from 2017-2019.

 In order to support our family-oriented staff profile, in 2015, we introduced a policy that School
 meetings should usually occur between 10am and 4pm and avoid school holidays; 94% of staff
 (2019 staff survey) felt that this policy helped improve our equality culture. The School supports
 flexible working (e.g., staff can request not to have timetabled duties on certain days/times) and
 this support has been essential during the COVID-19 pandemic. Staff returning from periods of
 parental (or other) leave meet with their ALM to agree a phased return to duties, prioritising
 research activity in the initial stages. We established a Family Support Award scheme to
 support staff members with caring responsibilities to cover childcare and travel expenses so that
 they can attend conferences or research workshops, which provide opportunities for developing
 new international and interdisciplinary links (§3).

 Early career researchers
 The School has an active Early Career Research Forum (ECRF), established in 2015, which
 meets monthly and empowers postgraduate students and postdoctoral researchers to progress
 their careers. The ECRF also invites senior staff and alumni to meetings to speak on specific
 career development topics. To prepare postdoctoral researchers for future careers, the
 University offers a wide range of training and development courses. The School sponsors
 pedagogical training for research-only staff, including formal teaching qualifications (e.g., HEA
 Associate Fellowships) and provides opportunities for teaching experience, including
 undergraduate research project supervision. Postdoctoral researchers regularly present their
 research at our internal seminars, and we provide funding to support conference attendance.
 Close mentoring is provided for postdoctoral staff to apply for research funding, and this has
 resulted in successful applications, research grants (e.g., EPS) and postdoctoral fellowships
 (e.g., a recent award of a Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship). Our postdoctoral staff
 contribute to the University Postdoctoral Research Committee, established in 2019 to implement
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. As a School, we are working
 to implement all the principles in the Concordat and have piloted a mentoring scheme pairing
 postdoctoral staff with early career lecturers (see REF5a).

 Providing a supportive and inclusive research environment
 All staff support mechanisms are overseen by the School’s Equality and Diversity Team to
 ensure that provision is appropriate and accessible for all and to monitor our progress in
 implementing them. From 2015 to 2019, staff survey results indicate substantial improvements in
 the endorsement of the environment as supportive (up from 77% to 94%) and inclusive (up from
 50% to 78%). According to the staff, 90% felt that the actions taken since 2015 have improved
 the School’s equality and diversity culture. In response to concerns about the terminology used
 by some researchers for gender and sexual orientation, we developed a guide to undertaking

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inclusive research that sets out terminology and recommendations for collecting demographic
 information. This is now disseminated to all staff and students. In 2019, the School launched its
 own unconscious bias training, which has been completed by School staff, delivered around
 the University and will become a formal part of the School induction process.

 The number of female senior lecturers has increased from three to six and female professors
 from one to two since 2014. These changes have come about through new appointments and
 internal promotions. Since 2014, six of our staff (5 females) have gained promotion within the
 School. We monitor female representation in all aspects of School culture. Since 2015, 57% of
 seminar speakers, 66% of those awarded School-funded sabbaticals, and 50% of School
 executive committee chairs have been female. In 2015, our School became the first at our
 University to achieve an Athena SWAN Bronze Award, and, in 2020, the first to achieve a
 Silver Award. At census, our gender balance is similar to HESA sector averages for
 Psychology. Recent recruitment has increased ethnic diversity within the unit of assessment
 which, at 14%, is higher than the sector average (10% HESA data, cost centre 104 Psychology,
 2018/19). The University has recently established a Race Equality Working Group and has
 joined Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter. We will be drawing on our experience of working on
 Athena SWAN to identify and challenge barriers to recruitment, progression and retention of
 Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic staff and students and those with other characteristics
 protected by the Equalities 2010 Act.

 Equality and Diversity and REF2021 submission
 In preparing the submission to REF2021, the unit complied fully with the institutional Code of
 Practice and with the commitments of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA). Outputs were reviewed by at least two internal and/or external reviewers and selected
 strictly on the basis of quality. Choices between papers of equal grade were informed by the
 detailed reviewers’ comments and by further independent ratings. Where appropriate, specialist
 external review was sought. The overall attribution profile is broadly balanced between
 male/female researchers.


 ii) Research Students

 Postgraduate students are at the heart of our research culture and productivity; ensuring their
 support is a priority for the School. We currently have 30 PhD students, with 39.17 FTE
 completing in the submission period.

 External studentship funding
 The School is a member of the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science, an ESRC-funded
 Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP). We have received studentships each year since this
 scheme’s predecessor launched in 2011, including 12 since 2014. Many of these focus on
 interdisciplinary research with high-impact potential and involve collaboration and co-funding
 from non-academic stakeholders. We also receive PhD funding from the BBSRC EastBio DTP
 (five in the assessment period), a consortium of universities and research institutes across
 eastern Scotland that funds PhD studentships focusing on interdisciplinary and cross-institution
 programmes of research. Over the assessment period, our PhD students have also been funded
 by charities (e.g., the Leverhulme Trust, Carnegie Trust, Multiple Sclerosis Society, James S.
 McDonnell Foundation) and industry (e.g., BAE Systems, Maersk Drilling, TauRx
 Pharmaceuticals).

 Recruitment
 All PhD opportunities are widely advertised locally, nationally and internationally for an extended
 period of time to ensure a large pool of high-calibre applications. Shortlisting and interview
 panels all receive training to promote equality and diversity. Panels are constructed in
 consideration of achieving diversity and balancing School research priorities.

 Training and support

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School trains researchers with broad transferable skills across a range of psychology topics,
 as well as specialist knowledge in techniques appropriate to their research area, to prepare them
 for the next step in their career. To achieve this, all research students have access to dedicated
 research space and facilities linked to their primary supervisor's research and to any shared
 resources they require. In accordance with the requirements of the University’s Postgraduate
 Research School (PGRS), we conduct a skills audit for students within 3 months of them starting
 their PhD so that training needs can be identified early and appropriate training sourced. PhD
 students are active contributors to regular internal research-related training on topics such as
 statistics, online testing, meta-analysis and open science; as well as workshops on diversity and
 career progression. Most PhD students attend the ECRF monthly meetings, which provide
 research, career and social support. Additional training is provided by the University PGRS and
 by funders such as the UKRI DTPs (see REF5a).

 Students are allocated second supervisors, and, where appropriate, interdisciplinary, industrial
 or clinical supervisors. Progress is monitored closely by the School and University. The PGRS
 requires 6-monthly progress reports, and the School conducts formal assessments at the end of
 month 9 (report and viva), and month 21 by the second supervisor and an independent
 assessor. All students present their work orally each year at well-attended “psycholoquia”
 sessions within the School. They also present and participate in seminars and attendance at
 School external seminars is compulsory. PhD students have a dedicated budget which provides
 support in presenting at national and international conferences. They have full access to
 computing and technical support, and, as part of their career development, are encouraged to
 perform a small amount of paid tutorial teaching or project supervision, for which they are fully
 trained. PhD students benefit from full access to and support from our inclusive and family-
 friendly policies (e.g., Family Support Awards), our Bullying and Harassment Adviser and our
 Mental Health and Wellbeing champion.


 4B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The School is committed to providing a sustainable world-class research environment for our
 staff through continued procurement of external research funding, School investment in
 acquiring cutting edge research facilities, continued maintenance, updating and replacement of
 research facilities, investment in PhD studentships and continued investment in the physical
 work environment.

 i) Income

 Strategy and support: All members of staff are involved in applying for research grants. At
 School and University level there is robust support for preparation of research proposals. All new
 staff take part in intensive bootcamps on applying for research funding and impact organised by
 the University’s Grants Academy (see REF5a). All staff participate in other Grants Academy and
 School-run events, such as University-wide “sandpits” to foster interdisciplinary research and
 events providing access to decision-makers from key funding bodies. We have a robust,
 supportive internal peer review process, encourage presentation of grant proposal ideas at
 internal seminars and discuss grant-writing plans and progress at annual Research Interviews.
 There are University and School-level funding streams to support pilot work for grant
 enhancement. All researchers have access to recent successful applications to relevant funding
 bodies to assist in preparing proposals. Our strategy has been to submit well-prepared
 applications that have undergone a rigorous internal review process, resulting in high quality
 applications matched to the funder priorities.

 Research funding portfolio: Our research since 2014 has been supported by a wide portfolio
 of funders, with substantial project grants from UKRI (ESRC: Jackson, Ray, Tatler, Phillips,
 Martin, Hunt, Swainson; BBSRC: Andersen, Chakravarthi, Martinovic and EPSRC: Martinovic),
 the European Commission (Timmermans) and the Leverhulme Trust (Bach, Chu, Tatler, Sui,
 Hesse). We also attracted funding from charities (the Wellcome Trust, Carnegie Trust, Multiple

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sclerosis Society), learned societies and foundations (e.g., British Academy, McDonnell
 Foundation, Royal Society of Edinburgh), the NHS (NIHR, local endowments, NHS Education),
 and industry (TauRx Pharmaceuticals, Bristow, BAE Systems, Unilever, Shell, NovaVision).
 These awards have led directly to important publications, interdisciplinary collaborations and
 industrial impact. For example, the 6-year funding grant from the James S. McDonnell
 Foundation to Hunt (USD600K) resulted in influential publications in the fields of visual search
 and decision-making. Two ESRC grants to Martin (combined income: GBP457K) have facilitated
 interdisciplinary collaboration with evolutionary linguistics researchers at the University of
 Edinburgh. Funding from the Australian Research Council, ESRC and Newton Fund (combined
 income: GBP778K) have facilitated international collaborations between Phillips/Tatler and
 researchers in Australia and Malaysia to understand age effects on social cognition. The
 secondment of Allan to TauRx (income: GBP1.3million) has provided close links to industry and
 involvement in developing novel diagnostics for detecting early Alzheimer’s disease.


 ii) infrastructure and facilities

 We have made significant investments in expanding and updating research facilities
 (GBP252,000), providing funding to support research activities (GBP230,000) and supporting
 PhD students with full studentships, matched funding for UKRI studentships and fee waivers
 (GBP1.27million). The University has contributed by providing a full refurbishment of the School
 (GBP800,000). In addition to these financial investments, we have invested in the operational
 and scholarly infrastructure through launching new policies, committees and processes for
 supporting research staff and students.

 Research facilities
 The School houses numerous specialist laboratories and multi-purpose experimental testing
 rooms, all equipped with high performance computers. We have a particularly strong eye-
 tracking suite, utilised by researchers in all research themes. This includes: five laboratory-
 based eye trackers (EyeLink 1000+), two of which can be connected for social communication
 research, and five mobile eye-tracking systems (SMI, Positive Science, Pupil Labs) to study
 behaviour in real-world environments with healthy and clinical populations. We have two multi-
 channel electroencephalography/event-related potential laboratories (1x128 channel, 1x64
 channel) equipped for vision and attention research. There are two motion tracking systems: a
 Polhemus Liberty 6df magnetic system for high-precision reaching and grasping measurement
 and an Optotrak 3020 for full-body motion tracking. Instrumentation for physiological
 measurements includes two Portable Biometrics capture devices (for multi-participant
 electromyographic and kinematic recordings) and a Biopac telemetric system for assessing
 heart rate, blood pressure and galvanic skin response. The School houses psychophysics
 facilities in laboratories with highly controllable ambient lighting, including high-resolution CRT
 and Display++ screens, 14-bit graphics systems and high-resolution stereovision goggles.
 Multiple Audiofile Stimulus Processors integrated with high-precision displays are available for
 synchronous multi-sensory presentation.

 Investment in facilities: Five of our ten eye-tracking systems were purchased during the
 submission period. We have expanded our research facilities to include: (1) a virtual reality
 laboratory with the latest immersive and interactive technologies to research social interaction
 and bridge laboratory and real-world research; (2) a high-precision tactile stimulation laboratory
 allowing concurrent presentation of up to eight tactile stimuli through electromagnetic
 stimulators; (3) a mock CCTV control room (with wall-mounted displays driven by a PC with
 state-of-the-art graphics), with application to real-world surveillance; and (4) high-performance
 computing for analysing brain imaging and face-processing data. In addition, we have upgraded
 displays in research seminar rooms to 74ʺ smart touchscreens with webcasting facilities for
 internal and external research seminars, PGR teaching and annual PGR assessed research
 talks. With University IT services, we have upgraded all PCs supporting research in School
 laboratories, with over 180 PCs replaced.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School refurbishment: The University made a major strategic investment in the physical
 environment of the School, refurbishing the entire building in 2017, which has transformed the
 physical research environment. During this refurbishment, we introduced baby-changing and
 feeding facilities and replaced most gendered toilets with gender-neutral equivalents, all of which
 have enhanced the inclusivity of our physical environment. These new facilities include
 enhanced access for people with disabilities.

 Access to University facilities: Research staff and students benefit from well-established
 collaborations involving use of the University imaging facilities, which include a Philips Achieva
 X-series 3T MRI scanner. The University is one of the six Scottish universities that participate in
 SINAPSE (Scottish Imaging Network), which provides a dynamic network and shared
 environment for strategic research developments in brain imaging. An important University
 resource is the Aberdeen Birth Cohorts (ABC) consisting of a unique, large cognitive and
 biomedical database of information on cohorts born in 1921 and 1936. Phillips sits on the
 Steering Group for ABC and was co-applicant on an ESRC/BBSRC interdisciplinary
 collaboration, utilising facilities at the Aberdeen Biomedical Imaging Centre and the Aberdeen
 Centre for Genome Enabled Biology and Medicine, to model epigenetic components of
 neurocognitive ageing. Researchers in Psychology also have access to high-performance
 computing to support mathematical modelling, brain imaging and artificial intelligence.

 Supporting impact with our facilities: We are committed to supporting research impact
 through the use of our facilities. For example, our strategic investment in establishing a mock
 CCTV control room supports collaboration with Police Scotland on surveillance research. The
 School’s recent investment in increasing the number and range of mobile eye-tracking systems
 facilitates application to real-world problems and will enhance collaboration within and outside of
 academia. Hunt/Irwin are using eye-tracking facilities to work with industry (Bristow) and
 regulators (CAA) to understand visual search in an aviation context. Our AVOT colour vision
 system is used to perform specialized occupational assessment by the Coastguard and Maritime
 Agency, Police Scotland, Civil Aviation Authorities and Scottish Fire Service.


 Operational and scholarly infrastructure

 Research governance: Since 2014, the School has invested in new organisational structures,
 policies and procedures for supporting staff research activities (§2). We regularly review our
 research procedures to ensure compliance with the latest Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity. Our Psychology Research Ethics Committee has been expanded and strengthened to
 deal with on-going changes in the research landscape (e.g., compliance with GDPR, expansion
 of online research, devising Standard Operating Procedures for COVID-19). We have developed
 an inclusive research guide and established an Early Career Research Forum. To ensure
 research quality we (i) established a Research Integrity Team, (ii) contribute (and adhere) to
 University guidelines on data management and research governance and (iii) established staff
 support and training for Open Science. We follow American Psychological Association and
 International Committee of Medical Journal Editor guidelines for determining article authorship.
 The University provides mandatory Research Governance and Ethics training to all staff and
 PhD students involved in research. To ensure equitable use of all facilities and to support our
 highly collaborative research we have a designated member of staff who oversees each
 particular facility, and we have developed guidelines for fair usage of resources, which are
 circulated to all staff and student users and included in induction material. To ensure equitable
 access to facilities and amenities in the School, our Equality and Diversity Team ensures that all
 research facilities are housed in locations that are accessible for the researchers and participant
 groups that will use them and monitors the suitability of amenities in the School for researchers
 and participants. We monitor equal access to research training activities and support for
 research funding applications through our staff survey. In each staff member’s annual Research
 Interview, we discuss any barriers that have arisen to research activity and responses influenced
 the development of our Family Support Award (§2).


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University support for research: As well as the excellent programme of events from the
 University Grants Academy, we receive continual expert support from the University Research
 and Innovation team. Our Business Development Officer assists with all aspects of the research
 funding process: alerting researchers to funding opportunities, providing feedback on proposals
 and ensuring good communication with funders. The Research Finance Services team support
 grant costings and budget monitoring. The University Research IT team proactively advise and
 train staff and students on issues such as data management and security, as well as procuring
 computer software and hardware for research. Our impact is continually supported and
 enhanced through collaboration with the Impact and Knowledge Exchange Team and the Public
 Engagement with Research Unit.

 School-funded research and impact support since 2014: All staff can apply to a general
 research fund managed by the Research Committee. This fund has a budget of GBP30,000 per
 annum and provides support for presenting at conferences, pump-priming for grant applications,
 the purchase of equipment/consumables and impact development. Current grant-holders are
 further awarded a discretionary research budget to support their activities. Since their launch in
 2014, staff have benefitted from our investments in new research-support schemes. We have
 supported research leave for six staff, investing in their research activities by covering their
 administrative and teaching loads; and this directly led to submitted REF outputs (e.g., Cleland,
 Martinovic), impact development (e.g., unconscious bias training, Martin) and successful grant
 applications (e.g., Hunt, ESRC). We supported the secondment of Allan to industry (TauRx) by
 reallocating his teaching and administrative duties; this has led to close connections to industry,
 ongoing involvement in developing novel diagnostics for early detection of Alzheimer’s disease
 and patent applications. We established a visiting researcher fund of GBP2000 per annum to
 bring talented ECRs from around the world for extended stays to conduct research within the
 School and encourage international and interdisciplinary collaboration (four successful
 applicants from Europe, USA and Australia). We established a Family Support Award to allow
 researchers with caring responsibilities to attend conferences, which provide networking
 opportunities to foster international and interdisciplinary links (eight awards totalling GBP2500).
 Our new (2019) impact support fund supported a project on mental health interventions for
 students (GBP2000). We have fully funded 14 undergraduate students through research
 vacation scholarships (total: GBP14,000). All ten new members of staff have been awarded
 start-up funds to support them in establishing their research activities and preparing for
 external funding bids and have benefited from reduced teaching and administration in their first
 years of employment. We are strongly committed to investing in our postgraduate community.
 The School supports applications to the BBSRC and ESRC DTP PhD competitions by
 guaranteeing the additional matched funding required for these awards. To maintain a strong
 PhD community, the School supports a minimum of two fully funded new PhD studentships
 each year. Recently these included a strategic decision to fully fund a PhD that contributes to the
 development of our impact case study on farming safety (REF3a) and to fully fund a PhD on
 equality and diversity in HE, which will inform our own equality and diversity practices in the
 future. In addition, we make the strategic decision to cover fee waivers for exceptional home
 and overseas students when this meets our research goals. We support PhD applications to
 industry and charitable funders (recent funders include BAE systems, Bristow Helicopters,
 TauRX, MS Society, Carnegie Trust).

 School support staff: We have five dedicated support staff and one highly experienced
 Technical Resource Manager (TRM) who play an integral part in research activities. Our TRM
 identifies and procures research equipment for all staff and students as well as organising
 research laboratory bookings, providing expertise in programming (including the recent
 expansion of online testing) and managing our student research participation scheme. He also
 provides support and training to staff and students on these topics.

 5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contributions to the research base


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contribution to learned societies, dissemination and conference organisation: Martinovic
 is secretary of the Applied Vision Association, which supports and disseminates vision research
 within the UK, organises scientific meetings biannually and awards the prestigious Marr Medal.
 Phillips was on the organising committee of the Experimental Psychology Society (2015-18),
 which involves: being a trustee of the society, making funding decisions and involvement in
 organising the meetings of the society. She is currently on the board of the European Cognitive
 Aging Society, organising biennial meetings of this group. Our School has a long history of
 playing a prominent role in organising the annual Scottish Vision Group conference (Martinovic,
 Sahraie). Tatler has served on Scientific Committees for international conferences, including the
 European Conference on Eye Movements and Eye-Tracking Research and Applications. Bach
 organised the 2017 British Association of Cognitive Neuroscience conference. Our researchers
 have been invited to give keynote addresses at major international conferences: for example, at
 the European Conference on Eye Movements in Germany (Tatler); Eye-Tracking Research and
 Applications in the US (Tatler); Self in Action in the Netherlands (Macrae); The Future of Social
 Cognition in the UK (Bach, Macrae); and Cognitive Neuroscience in Germany (Andersen).

 Editorship and funding review. During the submission period we have played a major role as
 Associate Editors for the Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition
 (Konopka), the Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance
 (Hunt), the British Journal of Psychology (Hesse, Macrae, Tatler), Cognitive Neuroscience (Sui),
 Memory (Jackson), Applied Psycholinguistics (Konopka), Psychologica Belgica (Timmermans),
 and the Journal of Cognition (Schnitzpahn). Our staff are members of the editorial boards of the
 Journal of Experimental Social Psychology (Macrae), Psychology and Aging (Phillips), the
 Journal of Personality and Social Psychology (Macrae), Personality and Social Psychology
 Bulletin (Macrae), Social Cognition (Macrae), Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience
 (Macrae), Visual Cognition (Sutherland), the Journal of Gerontology: Psychological Sciences
 (Phillips), Gesture (Chu) and Frontiers in Perception Science (Hunt, Tatler). In addition, all REF-
 eligible staff contribute to peer review by acting as reviewers for journals and grant bodies
 internationally. Our staff have sat on funding award committees for the European Association of
 Social Psychology (Macrae), the Carnegie Trust (Chu, Hesse, Konopka), the BBSRC Eastbio
 (Martinovic, Phillips, Sahraie) and the ESRC SGSSS DTP (Hunt, Jackson, Phillips, Sahraie) for
 awarding PhD studentships and British Academy Visiting Fellowships (Chu). Seven staff are
 members of the ESRC peer review college (Bach, Jackson, Martin, Martinovic, Phillips, Ray,
 Tatler).

 Fellowships, awards and prizes. Members of the School have been recognised for their
 contributions to the discipline, for example Macrae is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
 and a Fellow of the British Academy, and Tatler was a member of the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh Young Academy. In 2015, Macrae was awarded the prestigious Daniel M. Wegner
 Theoretical Innovation Prize for contributions to social/personality psychology. In 2017, Macrae
 was awarded the Clifford T. Morgan Best Article Award in Memory & Cognition by The
 Psychonomic Society. Sutherland has also won two awards for her research contributions,
 winning The Psychonomic Society’s Best Article Award in Cognitive Research: Principles and
 Implications in 2017 and the Rank Prize Award for the best research paper at a face perception
 conference. These awards recognise the world-leading calibre of research being conducted in
 the School of Psychology and its prominent position within the discipline.

 Supporting collaborative research
 The School of Psychology is an outward-looking research unit, with strong international and
 interdisciplinary links. 16 of our 25 category A staff are non-British – representing 11 nationalities
 – many of whom were recruited from outside the UK, bringing with them international networks
 of collaborators. Our researchers engage strongly with a wide range of non-academic
 stakeholders through public engagement activities, established connections with industry and
 the public sector and providing evidence-based training for industry and the NHS. These
 activities are supported by the School through the annual Research Interviews (§2), strategic
 workload management and the School’s targeted financial resource allocation (§3).


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International collaborations: The School collaborates widely with institutions around the world,
 including most European countries and many countries in Asia, Australasia and North and South
 America. Of our 100 most-collaborated-with institutions since 2014, 74 are outside the UK.
 Notable international collaborators include Harvard University (42 publications), the University of
 Munich (35), the University of California (34), the University of Toronto (32), Radboud University
 Nijmegen (30) and the University of Queensland (28). Some examples of the rich international
 collaboration in our School are listed below:
     • Andersen collaborates with European, US and Japanese partners in psychology,
         neuroscience and engineering to advance research in visual attention; funded by mobility
         and project grants.
     • Sui works with international collaborators in psychiatry, neuroscience and computing
         science across Asia, the US and Europe to model self-processing, with a focus on the
         influence of depression and dementia and has developed a Knowledge Exchange
         partnership with the Hangzhou Jeremiah IT Company in China to develop testing and
         rehabilitation in dementia.
     • Schnitzspahn and Phillips collaborate with partners in Europe, North America,
         Australasia and Asia to understand the effects of adult ageing on cognition and emotion.
         This includes regular international visitors to Aberdeen and has been supported by UKRI
         and international funders. 24 of their 31 papers on ageing in the REF period include
         international co-authors.

 Interdisciplinary collaborations: Staff in Psychology have active local collaborations with
 researchers in the departments of Visual Arts, Linguistics, Computer Science, Engineering,
 Biomedical Imaging and the Rowett Institute of Nutrition, along with international collaborations
 in the fields of linguistics, physiology, neuroscience and computer science. These
 interdisciplinary projects have been facilitated by University-sponsored cross-discipline research
 themes and workshops and cross-UKRI funding schemes (e.g., ESRC/BBSRC epigenetics
 programme). We collaborate widely with NHS departments, in particular: Neurology,
 Neuropsychology, Geriatric Medicine and Psychiatry. Researchers from our School have led
 interdisciplinary Grants Academy workshops at Aberdeen University in the “Conversations
 on….” series, and we run “sandpit” events and research seminars with other Schools to foster
 collaboration. Some specific examples of our interdisciplinary work are listed below:
      • There is a long history in Aberdeen of interdisciplinary research into theoretical and
          applied face perception (e.g., Jackson), and this continues with the recent appointment of
          Sutherland, who brings international collaborations with biological science, genetics and
          forensic science, as well as industrial partners, to develop new models of face
          processing.
      • We have numerous local, national and international collaborations with computing
          science, engineering, physics and mathematics for modelling key psychological
          phenomena, such as social learning (Sui), perception of high-dynamic displays
          (Martinovic), system analysis of dyadic interaction in autism (Timmermans), human-robot
          interaction (Bach) and EEG/MRI data in ageing (Allan, Phillips).
      • We have a vibrant language research group which is inherently interdisciplinary,
          including on-going collaborations with linguistics departments in the UK and Europe to
          explore phenomena such as bilingualism and stereotype evolution in children (Bach,
          Cleland, Konopka, Martin, Ray, Rommers).

 Strategic support for stakeholder engagement
 The School delivers research that is capable of making a real difference to lives, aligning with
 the University’s 2040 strategy. Internal Knowledge Exchange workshops have increased
 stakeholder engagement and promoted evidence-based research impact assessment. Research
 impact is part of our staff induction programme, and impact plans are an integral part of the
 annual Research Interviews with all staff (§2). The School has two primary vehicles for
 developing and maintaining links with local stakeholders: the Applied Psychology and Human
 Factors group (which holds regular meetings to develop and disseminate impact and publishes a
 widely circulated quarterly newsletter featuring researchers and stakeholders) and the External
 Liaison Committee, a more formal group of stakeholders. Stakeholder engagement is supported

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by (i) our School Communications Team, established in 2015 to disseminate our activities to
 stakeholders and the public and (ii) the School’s involvement in the University’s Regional
 Engagement Group. We have long-standing relationships with key local stakeholders who
 provide research placements for our students. These stakeholders include Scottish Government,
 companies such as Sight Science and Dekra safety consultants and third sector bodies such as
 the Academy of Medical Sciences. We work with the education services of local authorities to
 conduct research in schools, providing important support for our research activities and
 development of potential impact. This work is coordinated by our Research In Schools
 Coordinator. The School and University have strategically invested in financial support for
 research impact. For example, we created a new impact-support scheme in 2019 (§3) and we
 have made strategic allocations of PhD studentship resources to support impact projects.

 Industrial impact: Through our Applied Psychology and Human Factors group we have well-
 established relationships with stakeholders within the aviation (Bristow Group, CHC Helicopters),
 farming (the Farm Safety Foundation), oil and gas (TRAC International) and medical device
 (NovaVision) industries. Using strategic workload management, we have supported staff
 secondment to industry (e.g., TauRx). The School receives strong support from the University’s
 Impact and Knowledge Exchange Team, as well as financial support from the University for
 Impact-Support Awards on non-technical skills and visual rehabilitation. Specific examples of our
 industrial impact include:
     • Allan has received PhD and postdoctoral funding from TauRx companies to develop
         novel diagnostics for detecting early Alzheimer’s disease. He was seconded to the
         company from 2014 to 2018 and is involved in an international trial with TauRx to
         evaluate new EEG connectivity and cognitive data analytics, working with physicists,
         psychiatrists and computational modellers. This work led to patent applications, and
         collaborative work is ongoing to commercialise the products.
     • Sahraie developed the spin-out company Sight Science in the previous REF period and
         this has been acquired by an international company, NovaVision. Sahraie is Chief
         Scientific Officer for NovaVision, involved in developing and evaluating new technologies
         to improve visual function for neurological patients. NovaVision was an industrial partner
         on a recent BBSRC studentship, including student placements in Germany and the US.
     • Irwin has worked with aviation partners CHC Helicopters to develop new behavioural
         markers to improve safety for helicopter crews. The tools developed during this research
         have already been implemented as part of their training regime. An ESRC-Collaborative
         PhD student on this project was awarded a prize in the ESRC SGSSS research impact
         competition in 2020.
     • Tatler has established links with the comics industry (including artists, writers and
         publishers), consolidated by an ESRC grant on how design principles in comics influence
         the way that they are read. Involvement in Comic Cons in the UK and US, together with
         workshops for artists and publishers, has led to ongoing partnerships with comics artists
         and publishers.


 Societal impact: Our research involves close collaboration with governmental (e.g., Police
 Scotland, Australian Passport Office), healthcare (e.g., NHS Education; Change Exchange) and
 third sector partners (e.g., Age UK, Malaysia Healthy Aging), both in the UK and internationally.
 We host a popular annual public research event to disseminate and discuss our research with
 stakeholders and members of our local Participant Panel. Some examples of our societal impact
 include:
     • Work on statistical tools for clinical assessment of mood and cognitive function by
         Crawford has continued since REF2014. A survey of UK and international
         neuropsychology professionals in 2019 showed that 83% of respondents used methods
         developed within our School. Respondents used Crawford’s statistical methods in
         medico-legal assessments for civil and criminal cases. These techniques are taught to all
         trainee clinical neuropsychologists in the UK.
     • The School works with Police Scotland on the attentional demands of CCTV surveillance
         (funded by the Leverhulme Trust). This resulted in Tatler advising Dundee City Council

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        on the design of their new CCTV control room. Future work with Police Scotland will
        include developing protocols for training new CCTV operators, utilising our mock CCTV
        surveillance operating room.
    •   Our involvement with stakeholders is international in orientation; for example, a recent
        Newton grant with Malaysia led by Phillips included Aberdeen research staff presenting
        to a range of Malaysian third sector groups concerned with gender equality, ageing and
        poverty.

 Engaging the public: The School organises an annual public lecture, the Anderson Lecture,
 given by prominent researchers from around the world on topics of public interest. Our staff
 regularly engage with the public through talks, exhibitions, science writing and media interviews.
 Researchers contribute talks and demonstrations to annual scientific and cultural events,
 including TechFest, Explorathon, Pint of Science and May Festival, as well as year-round
 programmes including Café Scientifique and Pechakucha Aberdeen. We have contributed to the
 ESRC Festival of Social Sciences, the British Science Festival “Bring Your Own Brain” event
 and the Look Again visual arts festival. Researchers reach younger audiences through Café
 Junior, contributing talks and organised discussion events for local high school students, with a
 focus on inclusion for schools in more deprived and remote areas. Some specific examples of
 our contributions are listed below:
     • The School has strong associations with the Aberdeen Science Centre, with staff
         organising three interactive exhibitions; contributing to the Sound Festival event, a “Brain
         Bee” event to engage high-school children in neuroscience; and speaking in their adult
         evening lecture series.
     • Martin is co-organiser of Aberdeenshire Philosophy café, a popular bimonthly
         multidisciplinary discussion forum on research topics for the public, usually held in local
         libraries, but continuing in online form during the COVID-19 pandemic.
     • Based on a 2017 paper on visual search decisions, Hunt wrote a piece for The
         Conversation which resulted in extensive international media coverage (e.g., New York
         Magazine, International Business Times, The Independent).
     • Ray’s work on the negative social consequences of being forgotten led to international
         media interest (e.g., The Atlantic), public presentations to the May Festival and
         PechaKucha series, as well as invited presentations to local energy companies.




                                                                                              Page 15
