Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Brunel University London

 Unit of Assessment: 33 – Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Practice-based and more traditional academic work are combined in this submission, across the
 subject areas of theatre, film and television studies, music and digital games. Practice, with its
 greater ability to reach outside audiences, is at the heart of our impact strategy and a key source
 of wider public engagement, knowledge exchange and collaboration with external bodies. Much
 of the research is highly contemporary in focus, combining analysis and practice in new fields or
 modes of expression with the rearticulation of debate in the context of direct engagement in a
 range of pressing socio-cultural issues. These include fields such as gender, cultural identities
 and class. The work is often interdisciplinary at its core, employing methodologies that combine
 a variety of approaches rooted in the arts and social sciences. The four subject areas – within
 the Department of Arts and Humanities in the College of Business, Arts and Social Sciences
 (CBASS) – have specific areas of research focus and strength, along with shared methodologies
 and forms of engagement.

 Outputs include academic monographs, edited collections, journal articles and book chapters
 alongside practice-based work including theatrical and related types of performance, music
 compositions and recordings, film productions and digital games. A total of at least 382 outputs
 were produced by staff in this submission period, including 33 books, 108 articles in refereed
 journals, 76 book chapters, 73 compositions, 23 performances, 6 music CDs, 9 films and 4
 digital games. The primary collective centres of gravity are located at subject level, although
 some staff are members of university or college research institutes, centres and clusters,
 sources of collaboration and financial support for the development of a number of projects.

 Strategic planning is within the context of the university’s Research Strategy, the latest version
 of which, until 2030, outlines a challenge-led interdisciplinary approach into which the work of
 this unit fits. The strategy of the Department of Arts and Humanities is led by its Research
 Director, who contributes also to the development of strategies at college level, led by a Vice-
 Dean (Research). Each subject area has its own research lead, working within these contexts,
 and has developed its own areas of strategic focus. Each subject also conducts its own series of
 research seminars or related events.

 Much of the work detailed below is part of a range of ongoing larger projects or trajectories of
 enquiry and/or creative practice. Central goals and strategies are pursued beyond the time
 frame of this submission, ensuring continued viability and relevance. The core research is in the
 form of individual production, driven primarily by research and creative agendas that fit broadly
 within the key strategies set at university, college and departmental level. A key part of the
 strategy, past and future, is to maintain a supporting context for individual research, to maximise
 its quality and to sustain the academic freedom of staff to pursue their own research and
 creative goals. At the same time, each of the research groups has developed areas of
 coherence among the work of members, in addition to participation in and benefits from
 engagement with the broader university or college structures cited above.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This submission brings together subject areas split across two units of assessment in REF 2014:
 UoA 35, which included music and theatre, and UoA 36, in which film and television studies and
 games were combined with colleagues in journalism. The core focus and strategy has remained
 broadly the same in each of these areas, realising plans outlined in 2014 both in terms of
 general approaches to research, grant successes and broader public engagement. Examples
 include the use of documentary film and other digital technologies as a central means of
 engaging wider publics in film and television, theatre and games, and increased collaboration
 among colleagues in music.

 Research objectives for the next five years remain consistent with those of the present and past.
 Key elements include maintaining strategies designed to create increased levels of non-
 academic impact and funding through engagement with external beneficiaries, particularly via
 practice-based work. We will also maintain space for more traditional forms of academic enquiry
 across the subject areas, with a strong accent on interdisciplinarity and response to pressing
 challenges.

 The rest of this section details examples within the four subject areas.

 Theatre

 In theatre, performance is viewed as a mode of critical inquiry and research, a means of creative
 expression and a vehicle for public engagement. Focus is primarily on the contemporary,
 involving performance-writing, theoretical and practical investigations of the performing body in
 complex digital environments and technologized design, and the role of gender, ethnicity, and
 diasporic identity. This has driven advances in critical performance studies, within a global and
 intercultural context, aiming at reconfiguring the traditional performance paradigm and achieving
 greater diversity, also recognizing the multicultural British frame.

 Research is coordinated by Birringer and clusters around five areas that offer both development
 of and continuity with the focus of the previous REF: (1) digital performance, scenography and
 wearable design; (2) practice as research/cross-disciplinary performance and performance
 writing; (3) cross-culturalism, postcolonial theatre and hybrids; (4) masculinities, physical culture
 and sport; (5) immersive heritage performance. The development of these research areas in
 theatre will continue over the next five years.

 Maples’ work on immersive and performance-based heritage is one example of a strategic
 choice to reach out to develop public engagement, in this case in the heritage industry. This
 started with an approach to a colleague working in this area at the University of East Anglia,
 which led to an introduction to her first community partner, the Paston Heritage Society, as part
 of a Heritage Lottery Fund bid for a large scale heritage engagement and preservation project on
 the 300th anniversary of the Paston Family letters, the largest collection of domestic letters from
 the Medieval and Early Modern period.

 Building on its well-established reputation in key areas of practice-as-research (especially the
 digital performance field), the creative industries, the postcolonial study of theatre and critical
 theory of cultural heritage, the theatre team has benefitted from new appointments to develop
 distinctive groupings of individual and joint research as well as the cross-fertilization between
 them. Along with Birringer, whose DAP-Lab, an artist-driven research laboratory unique in the

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UK for its conjoining of choreography and digital fashion, Broadhurst is an internationally
 recognized leading authority on emergent fields in performance, experimental theatre and their
 developments into digital technology.

 Mitra’s research on British South Asian dance is a one of numerous examples of engagement in
 socio-cultural issues, pioneering the decolonization of dance and theatre studies, examining
 artists at the intersections of race, gender, postcoloniality and interculturalism and questioning
 the predominant whiteness of these fields through the lens of South Asian bodies and
 dramaturgies. Her collaboration with the leading dance artist and choreographer Akram Khan
 has had significant impact on his own practice and self-awareness.

 Film and Television Studies

 Research in film and television studies (FTV) also combines traditional forms of academic output
 with practice-based film production. The latter is, again, a key source of impact and knowledge-
 transfer, including campaigning on social issues and educational forms of non-academic
 outreach, as in the Rugo and Wayne impact case studies. A variety of theoretical/conceptual
 frameworks are employed in non-practice-based research, ranging from broad aspects of social-
 political theory to cultural-studies-related approaches to issues such as the production of cultural
 value, cross-media analysis, ecocriticism, and film-philosophical theory. Close textual analysis,
 drawing on approaches rooted in the arts, is combined with examination of socio-cultural-political
 and institutional-industrial frameworks, perspectives drawn from a range of theoretical/analytical
 traditions characteristic of the discipline more broadly. Three themes that represent continuity
 with but also development of those outlined in REF 2014 provide strands across which much of
 the work can be categorized: independent, art and cult cinemas; moving image and
 critical/cultural theory; documentary practice and theory.

 Research is led by King, whose work includes pioneering studies of issues relating to the
 production of certain forms of cultural value in film, from the neglected arena of ‘quality’
 Hollywood cinema to the art and American independent sectors.

 The production of issues-oriented documentary films, and engagement activities built around
 this, is a major part of the impact strategy, as seen in Wayne’s The Acting Class (2017) and
 Rugo’s About A War (2018). Each has roots in commitment to pressing social issues and
 resulted in sustained campaigning or other outreach activities, further detailed in 3 and 4. About
 a War was the product of a strategy that involved creation of relationships with a number of non-
 governmental organisations in Lebanon. Out of this process also grew Rugo’s subsequent and
 larger ‘Memories from the Margins’ project, a strong example of strategic engagement with
 external beneficiaries continuing beyond the period of this REF cycle. Insights from About A War
 led to Rugo’s invitation to participate in a UN roundtable relating to its Sustainable Development
 Goal 16, the latter a central reference point of ‘Memories from the Margins’, as detailed in 3
 below. Contacts made at the UN event led to a further successful funding bid for £149,991 from
 the Global Challenges Research Fund.

 The work of Rugo and Wayne also exemplifies the multi-dimensional nature of much of the work
 in this submission, combining documentary production with more traditional academic
 contributions in fields such as film philosophy and Marxist cultural theory.



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Music

 Research in Music focuses on contemporary music practice, in composition, improvisation,
 musicology and performance and software development. This reflects a belief that, while
 research in music is most effectively conducted through the primary discourse of music itself, it
 must be underpinned by theoretical rigour. Since 2014 the research strategy has been to
 consolidate the key areas in which Music at Brunel gained national and international repute, in
 particular in practice-as-research, a process underpinned by changes in staffing.

 Research is coordinated by Fox and clusters around five interrelated areas that both continue
 and develop some of the areas of focus highlighted in 2014, exploring (1) relationships between
 composition, improvisation and notation, (2) new instrumental resources, especially those
 involving acoustic instruments and live electronics, (3) the creative potential of different tuning
 systems, (4) the possibilities of new spaces, both physical and virtual, for performance, and (5)
 relationships between text, voice and culture.

 Impact is a key factor in guiding the team. All researchers have extensive individual networks
 within the music profession which are shared in the development of research projects. A priority
 for all projects is to be developed in partnership with leading agencies, funders, organisations
 and promoters. For example, the sonic garden created by Faia and Riley for the 2016 Chelsea
 Flower Show was a collaboration with the Papworth Trust, a leading charity serving the needs of
 people with disabilities; the Trust’s involvement enabled the work to become accessible to a
 national audience through extensive media coverage, promoting both the project and the needs
 of people with hearing loss.

 Digital games

 Research in games covers a spectrum of theoretical and practical areas that include overlaps
 with other subject areas in the submission. These include: the relation between video games
 and other media, particularly cinema; video game aesthetics and politics; inclusive games
 design, agency in games, ludo-musicology, nostalgia and socio-cultural studies, immersive
 technologies and game design for situated learning, game-based learning and serious games.
 Strategic investment has enabled games to grow to a point at which it operates more
 independently than in REF 2014, when it was organised as part of the same research unit as
 film and television, having now matured as a group and having its own regular research
 meetings.

 Methods include close textual analysis as well as primary archive research (physical and digital).
 Researchers also work on a material approach to game analysis based on the creation of
 artefacts such as virtual photography and machinima, in collaboration with artists and other
 scholars. Inter- and trans-disciplinary collaborations guide many projects, including games and
 poetry, game-based learning and children rights, games and augmented reality for situated
 learning experiences in cultural heritage.

 Research is led by Dima and balances non-practice-based research with practice-based
 research projects, involving non-academic parties (industry, third sector) and the public. The
 majority of the practice-based projects have been funded by Brunel University’s Global Lives
 Research Centre, of which Dima, Ivanescu, Girina are members. Dima’s AHRC-funded

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 augmented reality smart glasses learning experience project (see 3 below) came from her
 initiative to bring together academics, industry developers and museum professions, with
 significant input from the public.

 Public outreach also features prominently in Dima’s co-design and development (with the Brunel
 Law School) of The Rights Hero, a game to help displaced children understand their rights.
 Funding of £3,400 was provided by the Global Lives Research Centre, which enabled the
 development of a prototype in collaboration with the Network for Children's Rights in Athens, and
 the engagement with this organisation and Faros, another NGO, to test the prototype with
 refugee children in Athens, Greece. The success of the project led the team to liaise with
 Hillingdon council in London, a major destination for refugees in the UK, and Lawyers against
 Poverty.

 Much of the research across the four subjects is interdisciplinary at its core. It draws on various
 combinations of different disciplinary and methodological approaches that have shaped the
 subject areas generally and in specific cases included in the submission. Approaches rooted in
 arts, aesthetics and artistic practices are closely integrated in many cases with those from the
 social or political sciences, characteristically attending closely to both specific aesthetics and
 aesthetic practices and the broader implications of these in socio-cultural terms (the latter a key
 source of impact). Methods associated with arts subjects and practices are also combined in
 many cases with those from technologically-focused disciplinary backgrounds (in theatre and
 digital games, for example). All of these are true, for example, of the projects by Dima cited
 above. A wide range of conceptual approaches are drawn upon, often in combination, ranging
 from the strongly political and pragmatically/impact-oriented to that which is more theoretically
 grounded.

 The unit has embraced the open access agenda, with a high proportion of open access
 publications since 2014, and a journal, Body, Space and Technology, participating in the Open
 Library of Humanities initiative. We are well prepared for open monographs; Brunel is developing
 its own open press for launch in 2022 and some members of the unit are developing work with
 external presses such as UCL and Ubiquity.

 The unit supports a culture of research integrity through the requirement for ethics approval for
 any research that could impact the wellbeing of others, with criteria set by the University
 Research Ethics Committee. The department ethics officer reviews all such applications. The
 department is sensitive both to the needs of researchers as artists and the needs of the wider
 community for privacy and considerate and informed engagement. Approval requires clarity that
 the planned activities are well-organised and safe, with concise and clear information and
 consent forms provided to participants, as well as clear research objectives and suitable venues.
 Examples of projects that underwent this process are Dima’s The Rights Hero game, designed
 to be used by refugee children in Greece, and Rugo’s About a War.

 2. People

 Staff included in the submission range from professors who are leading figures in their fields to
 new researchers and many situated in between. Current staffing demonstrates a healthy mix
 across the spectrum, with five professors, five readers, six senior lecturers and 10 lecturers.
 Continuity is provided across Theatre, Music and Film and TV Studies by leadership from

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professors (Birringer, Fox, King) who have remained at Brunel through successive REF cycles,
 along with a core of other researchers/practitioners. Appointments within this cycle such as
 Chow and Maples embody a strategy designed to increase success in grant capture and
 external engagement.

 Research in games is distinctive in being conducted by a younger and earlier-career team, in a
 field in which the recruitment of senior researchers is difficult because of the relative youth of the
 subject area and the need to combine academic with industry experience. Our future priority in
 this area is to appoint a more senior researcher and to develop and promote within a closely-knit
 team. The number of research-active staff in Music has fallen since 2014, from 8.5 FTE to 5
 FTE, a reduction necessitated by a strategic reorganisation within the university. This has,
 however, generated a significant increase in collaborative working and the sharing of research
 expertise.

 The strategy across the unit for the next five years is to maintain a balance of continuity, in areas
 of focus and work that combines traditional academic publication and social-issues and impact
 oriented practice, while being responsive to both changing contexts and ensuring sustainability
 in the event of staff movements.

 A research mentoring scheme is in place at departmental level. Each researcher has a
 nominated mentor. The mentor plays a particularly strong role in the case of those at the start of
 their research career, along with peer support. The latter is particularly the case, for example, in
 the Digital Games team, most of whom are earlier-career researchers, and who meet regularly
 as a team developing together. Mentoring and research support more generally includes a
 specific focus on understanding and developing potential for impact, for both new and
 established researchers. The university’s Research Support and Development Office (RSDO)
 provides a range of support services in areas such as taking advantage of external funding
 opportunities. A variety of workshops and individual help are available to staff in areas including
 the writing of funding bids, developing pathways to impact and making connections with external
 bodies. Support in raising the quality of external funding bids if provided by the use of extensive
 internal peer review and feedback. Research and research career development are also key
 factors in annual appraisals for all staff and in the requirements to be fulfilled by probationary
 staff.

 The strategy of encouraging work that lends itself to external funding bids and/or the
 development of impact-related external engagement is built into the criteria for promotions,
 demonstrated, for example, in the promotion of Rugo to Reader.

 Researcher development and planning for external funding bids are encouraged and supported
 through competitive internal university funding schemes. These have benefited eight members
 of staff included in this submission, some 30 per cent of the total.

 BRIEF awards are available to academic staff below the level of senior lecturer within their first
 three years of their appointment, offering pump-priming funds to start new research projects and
 to seek external funding. A total of £44,989 was provided for the following projects: Mitra (2015-
 16), ‘Historicising British Physical Theatre: Industry, Scholarship and Education, £14,997;
 Maples (2016-17), ‘The Sensorial Spectator: Theatre Audiences and the Experience Economy’,



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £14,995; Paramana (2019-20), ‘Performances of Thought, Resistance and Support: Socially
 Engaged Performance in the 21st century, £14,997.

 Mitra’s project provided time, resources and space for the development of two ongoing and
 interconnected research projects. The first is a monograph in process, Unmaking Contact:
 Towards A New Intercultural Politics of Choreographic Touch. The second involved several
 interlinked projects on anti-racism and decolonialities for dance studies; this led to a £7,905
 British Academy funded small-grant project, ‘Contemporary Dance and Whiteness’, with
 colleagues from Coventry University and the University of Sussex, completed in December
 2019, and a series of curated plenaries at the Dance Studies Association’s 2018 and 2019
 annual conferences by Mitra and Prof. Anurima Banerji from UCLA. These led to invitations from
 Oxford University Press to co-edit a volume on decolonialities and dance studies, currently in
 process. Work begun with the BRIEF award included three book chapters and two journal
 articles.

 The BRIEF award for Paramana supported the final stages of data collection for an ongoing
 project, Performances of Thought, the aim of which is to develop new interdisciplinary
 understandings and assessments of how contemporary experimental performance makers
 attempt to be socially engaged through their work – a key issue for artists seeking funding that
 requires a demonstration of impact. Partnerships were developed with artists and curators in the
 United States (including the chief curator of the Department of Media and Performance at the
 Museum of Modern Art in New York), Cuba and Spain. Future outputs resulting from this will
 include a monograph and journal article.

 Seeding of £3,500 for Riley’s externally-funded ‘In Place’ project was provided by the university’s
 Research Development Fund. This enabled the creation of a team of musicians and the testing
 and explanation of ideas in the form of a short video and a dedicated website used as evidence
 for the potential of the work in successful funding bids to the Arts Council (£29,620) and the PRS
 Foundation (£15,000). Their funding led to the creation of outputs including radio programmes,
 new text commissions, the creation of a song-cycle/concept album, ‘In Place’, a 16-date UK tour
 and a pilot education programme in primary schools. Further development of the project is being
 funded by £3,000 from the university’s Global Lives centre.

 Sabbatical Leave periods are designed to allow staff to concentrate on specific programmes of
 work that lead to identifiable and measurable outcomes of benefit to the university’s research
 standing. A total of £29,000 in funding was provided for Riley (2016-17), ‘Made to Resonate’;
 Birringer (2018-19), ‘Kinetic Atmospheres: Performance and Immersion’; Mitra (2019-20),
 ‘Decolonising Contact: Towards a New Intercultural Politics of Choreographic Touch; Hunt
 (2019-20), research for monography on filmmaker Mario Bava.

 Athena SWAN research awards support staff who have had a period of maternity leave,
 statutory adoption leave or significant additional paternity/adoption leave. Awards included
 Nicholls (2013-14), ‘Inside-Out Piano – Prototype’, £14,985 and Ruddell (2016-17), ‘Animator as
 Crafts-Woman: An examination of Lotte Reiniger’s Aesthetic, £14,197. The latter led to the
 significant development of Ruddell’s research career as an authority on animation, supporting
 several publications on Reiniger. These led to further approaches from publishers and editors,
 one of which resulted in her co-editorship of the book series Palgrave Animation. Work
 supported by the grant also resulted in invitations to speak several events, including a keynote at

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a conference at Goldsmiths on women and animation and a question-and-answer session a
 public event in Bristol focused on animation and craft. The Athena SWAN award also led to the
 acquisition of £1,246 from Brunel’s Global Lives research centre, for networking meetings in
 preparation for a future AHRC bid on craft in more mainstream animation.

 A total of £6,600 was also provided to fund three seminar series organized by Birringer:
 ‘Precarity and the Problem of Art: Performative and Critical Empowerment after Democracy
 (2015-16), ‘Shadows of the Dawn: Migration and the Indeterminacy of Community and Immunity
 (2017-18) and “Re-embodiment and Dis/ability” (2020-21). All three link with the university’s
 strategic challenge areas, focusing on human health/planetary health and connecting embodied
 communities, as well as contributing to digital futures for health, social care and human services.

 PGR students are supported by a three-person team comprised by first and second supervisor
 and a researcher development adviser. They undergo periodic progression reviews and are
 required to have a minimum of eight formally recorded meetings each year. A total of 27 awards
 were made in the REF period. From 2019 the college has been a member of the AHRC
 TECHNE PhD funding consortium, a move that will be expected to increase future applications
 and recruitment, the majority of current and past research students being self-funded. Brunel is
 hosting the TECHNE annual congress in 2021.

 To coordinate and strengthen support for PGR students, a new study block, Research and Study
 Methods in Arts and Humanities, was created during this cycle. It pulls together a wide range of
 training, ranging from sessions run by the university’s Graduate School to more subject-specific
 workshops run by the department, including issues relating to practice-based research.

 PGR students are required to undertake training in Research Integrity, Health and Safety and
 how to write a literature review, a formalisation of previously less regulated requirements. They
 are invited to attend subject research seminars. A number of spaces are provided for the use of
 PGR students, both in the main building occupied by the subjects and across the university
 campus. The department also stages a PGR conference, usually annually or biannually, and
 partly organized by students, designed to provide a supportive environment in which they can
 share their work and engage with one another. Two of Birringer’s PhD students staged large-
 scale dance concerts in the Artaud Theatre in 2017-18, featuring collaboration with Korean and
 Chinese performers and musicians.

 Many music PhD students in particular have achieved significant recognition of their work,
 particularly in composition. The Irish composer Paul McGuire, for example, graduated in 2015.
 His studies at Brunel were supported by an Elizabeth Maconchy Fellowship award. In November
 2014 a recording of one of the works that made up his PhD composition portfolio, Panels, was
 released on NMC Recordings, NMC DL209. He works as a sound designer, most recently on the
 high-profile HBO/Sky Atlantic series, Chernobyl (2019). The Iranian composer Amir Mahyar
 Tafreshipour graduated in 2016. The composition portfolio he submitted for his PhD included the
 opera, The Doll behind the Curtain, which premiered in the Tête à Tête Opera Festival at King's
 Place, London in 2015. A portrait CD, Persian Echoes, also including works from his PhD
 portfolio, was released on Naxos in January 2018.

 A book has been published by Routledge based on the thesis of Rafael Reina, who received his
 doctorate in 2014 after researching pedagogical and creative applications of Karnatic rhythmical

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 structures in Western music. Reina now teaches at the Amsterdam Conservatorium in the
 Netherlands. A book was also published in 2019 based on the film and TV studies thesis of
 Stephen Curran.

 Issues of equality and diversity are central to much of the research in this submission and
 strongly embedded in the culture of the department. Examples include Mitra’s work on racism
 and decoloniality in dance studies, Wayne’s practice-based and theoretical outputs focused on
 class, and work by Chow and Ruddell on gender.

 A new Equality Working Group was created during this cycle, to strengthen commitment to
 progression in this area, including the appointment of a Director of Equality and Diversity at
 department level – a more senior role for this responsibility than in the past – to give more
 weight to the treatment of such issues, which constitute a standing item in departmental
 management board meetings. The director is also a member of the departmental research
 committee and the college strategic sub-committee for equality and diversity and is the college’s
 Associate Dean for Equality and Diversity. Her role included the surveying of the impact of the
 COVID 19 lockdown on research, particularly for women or others with increased caring
 responsibilities at the time. Support has been provided for colleagues from underrepresented
 groups seeking leadership roles, the success of which includes a BAME woman being promoted
 to an associate dean role. A woman’s networking group and peer mentoring scheme operates
 alongside the annual promotion cycle. Benefits resulting from this include the fact that half of the
 study leave awarded in this cycle (sabbaticals and BRIEF) went to women (plus the two SWAN
 awards), two of these being to a member of staff of origin other than white.

 Flexible and remote working is available to staff with specific needs. None of those included in
 this submission applied for this formally but all staff are entitled to work two days a week off
 campus. One person with mobility issues was ensured an office on the ground floor and
 provided with an electric wheelchair. Staff returning from periods of leave for reasons such as ill
 health or caring responsibilities had meetings with their line manager to discuss support and
 plan a staged return.

 A new policy was agreed in 2020 to give priority in funding staff attending conferences to early
 career researchers and staff returning from periods of leave such as maternity or long-term sick
 leave. The aim was to increase support for staff who might be disadvantaged by periods of
 absence – or the additional pressures of the early stages of an academic career – in meeting
 probation/promotion targets. A series of workshops was held to offer additional support to
 women colleagues applying for promotions.

 Brunel, as a research-intensive university, is submitting 100% of all eligible academic staff. We
 followed the processes set out in our Code of Practice for the fair and transparent identification
 of independent researchers and to ensure that the submitted outputs provided a balanced and
 unbiased representation of the work of our diverse academic community, their characteristics
 and contractual positions (age, disability, race, sex, part-time workers and fixed-term
 employees). Output selection was monitored through regular Equality Impact Assessments.

 Our Equality Impact Assessment indicates that the outputs submitted for Music, Drama and
 Media are a well-balanced representation of the protected characteristics and contractual
 positions of staff. The gender balance of staff is 63% male, 37% female. A slightly lower

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 percentage of outputs are used from current female staff (34.7%), although the percentage is
 exactly proportionate when leavers are included, suggesting an overall equivalence in the
 submission. Staffing is 85% white, with broad equivalence in output use. No staff have a
 declared disability. The only notable departure from proportional selection of outputs by age
 group is in the overrepresentation of the 60-69 category, a reflection of the strength of work by
 our most senior researchers. The great majority of staff are permanent, with only 3.7% fixed
 term (2% of outputs) and 7.4% part time (6.1% of outputs).

 PGR demographic data is as follows. A marked gender imbalance exists, with two thirds male
 and one third female. Data on ethnicity is somewhat incomplete, given the sizeable proportion
 recorded as unknown/not applicable in all categories. Greater than usual diversity is suggested,
 however, by the numbers recorded outside the two dominant categories of ‘white’ and
 ‘unknown/not applicable’. The figure for this unit at Brunel is 20%, compared with a general UK
 average of 9% and a national average of 6% for the unit. Nine per cent are known to have a
 disability, lower than the national and UoA averages of 11% and 12%. Significantly more than
 average numbers of students have origins in the UK, although the remainder has a higher level
 of non-EU than other EU origins, where the figure is close to the average for the unit at 20%.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Strategic recruitment and the impact strategy outlined above led to a significant increase in
 external funding secured in this cycle, compared with that for the two units within which the
 subjects were included in REF 2014. This was a key goal set at the start of the cycle and an
 outcome of an increased strategic focus on projects with strong potential for external
 engagement and impact, examples of which include the grants won by Maples, Rugo and Dima,
 detailed below. A number of workshops and lunchtime events were held to share the experience
 and advice of staff who had been successful in achieving external funding and/or impact.

 A priority was to increase support for research council funding bids, in this case primarily the
 AHRC, through the employment of a dedicated officer in the RSDO and a strengthening of the
 internal peer review process. Increased RSDO support during this cycle has also benefitted
 other major awards from funders including the Heritage Lottery Fund, the British Academy and
 the Global Challenges Research Fund, as detailed below. Resulting successes from the AHRC
 include the following:

 Chow, AHRC, Leadership Fellows grant: ‘Dynamic Tensions: New Masculinities in the
 Performance of Fitness’, £159,045. Funded a number of outputs, enabling Chow to create a new
 sub-field examining the intersection of performance and sport, consolidated through attendance
 at international conferences in both performance and sports studies (American Society for
 Theatre Research, North American Society for Sociology of Sport, Qualitative Research in Sport
 and Exercise).

 Dima, AHRC, Early Career Leadership Fellowship: ‘A framework for Designing Mixed Reality
 Situated Learning Experiences in Cultural Heritage Sites’, £97,120. Funding to develop design
 frameworks for augmented reality smart glass learning experiences in cultural heritage, in
 partnership with the National Trust, working with a small museum, Sutton House, with a close
 connection to its local community. The technology was used to bring archive material to life, in
 close collaboration with staff at Sutton House. The design framework fills a substantial

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 knowledge gap in the area and the augmented reality application will be freely available for
 smart glass holders.

 Peterson, AHRC-FAPESP, ‘Popular, Musical, and Political: New Approaches to Understanding
 and Historicizing Theatre in Brazil and United Kingdom’, £11,758. Part of a two-year AHRC-
 FAPESP funded partnership with the São Paulo Research Foundation in Brazil and Brunel. The
 project, ‘Popular, Musical, and Political: New Approaches to Understanding and Historicizing
 Theatre in Brazil and United Kingdom,’ investigates common gaps, historiographical methods,
 and previously academically marginalized theatre genres such as street theatre, fringe theatre,
 indigenous practices, and brulettas.

 Wayne, co-I, AHRC Research Networking Grant, the Radical Film Network, £4,860

 Funding from the AHRC Interdisciplinary Innovation Award was the first in a series of interrelated
 grants won by Rugo: ‘Following the Wires’, £56,386. This led to the creation of the film About a
 War, a documentary that brings together ex-fighters from different sides of the Lebanese Civil
 War, to trigger conversations about the heritage of the war and engage young people at risk or
 already involved in armed conflict through the experiences of the ex-fighters, as further detailed
 in 4 below. The AHRC funding paid for prior research fieldwork and production and post-
 production costs.

 The work permitted by this grant led directly to the award of £294,259 from the British Academy
 Heritage, Dignity and Violence programme, ‘Memories from the Margins: Bottom-up Practices
 for Dealing with Conflict-Produced Heritage in Lebanon and Syria.’ This ongoing project, started
 in 2020, explores bottom-up practices that challenge amnesia and hegemonic discourses of
 conflict in Lebanon and Syria. It was given a 12-month extension to allow for COVID19
 disruption. The project's future outputs, including another documentary film, will deliver impact in
 relation to UN’s Strategic Development Goal 16, particularly by building capacity among Syrian
 women displaced in Lebanon and by fostering gender and social inclusion in the memorialization
 of heritage of conflict. Lebanese and Syrian NGOs will be involved in the delivery of activities
 and will benefit directly from the project, which will enable them to identify and devise solutions
 to deal with heritage of conflict in order to mitigate the medium and long-term effects of conflicts
 on everyday lives and prevent new conflicts.

 Developed in association with this BA grant was a successful bid for £149,991 from the
 Global Challenges Research Fund’s Challenge Cluster, ‘Performing Violence, Engendering
 Change: Developing Arts-Based Approaches to Peacebuilding. This project, the start of which
 was delayed from April to June 2020 because of the COVID19 outbreak, connects artists and
 researchers from Official Development Assistance recipient countries across Africa, the Middle
 East and South Asia working with peacebuilding practices rooted in the arts. Workshops will
 focus on network- and capacity building through intensive research production, knowledge
 exchange and training sessions on the use of filmmaking, theatre, performance and visual arts
 as tools to confront violence and promote positive peace.

 A number of public-engagement activities detailed above and in 4 below resulted from Maples’
 Touching Past Lives’, funded by £374,100 by the Heritage Lottery Fund. Such activities were




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 underpinned by research articles on immersive heritage performance and performance-based
 research projects as well as the co-editorship of Touching Past Lives: Immersive Heritage
 Performance.

 Dedicated RSDO support for European funding bids helped to secure £50,000 from the
 European Commission for Birringer’s ‘Metabody: Media Embodiment of Tékhne and Bridges of
 Diversity’, £50,000. Birringer’s DAP-Lab participated in METABODY, a four-year EU Culture
 project (€3.5m) encompassing 11 partner organizations, hosting the international METABODY
 platform in 2016 at Brunel’s Artaud Theatre.

 Lebow received £44,773 for a Leverhulme Trust Fellowship, ‘Filming Revolution’, an online
 interactive meta-documentary surveying independent/documentary filmmaking in Egypt in the
 aftermath of the 2011 revolution.

 Riley won awards from the Arts Council (£29,620) and the Performing Rights Association
 (£15,000) for ‘In Place’, funding the creation of a song cycle that sets a collection of texts
 brought together in collaboration with the writer Robert Macfarlane, exploring the
 interrelationship of landscape, language and music.

 Strategic internal funding in addition to that mentioned in earlier sections includes the following:

 The university’s Global Lives research centre funded three projects led by games researchers,
 as detailed above: Play your Research, The Rights Hero, and Poetry at Play. All three involved
 students in the research process, as part of the subject’s commitment to linking teaching with
 experience of real-world game development. The centre also provided £1,245 in funding
 workshops relating to an external funding bid by Ruddell.

 University funding of £600 was provided towards the costs of the production of The Acting Class.
 Another £2,000 was raised from the public through crowdfunding, while £600 was provided by
 the union Equity to fund distribution.

 In addition to detailed support relating to grant applications offered by the RSDO, as cited in 2
 above, workshops are offered on generating and documenting the impact of research, for which
 CBASS employs a specialist advisor. The college also provided funding of £1,300 towards the
 cost of impact activities on the ground in Lebanon relating to Rugo’s film, About a War.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The research and teaching spaces of the Antonin Artaud Building provide excellent facilities for
 performance, rehearsal and recording for both theatre and music. They offer spaces in which to
 develop and rehearse work, a dedicated recording studio and control room, and a large flexible
 performance space. The building has a full-time manager and three full-time technical staff. In
 addition, the Gaskell Building offers a black-box rehearsal and performance space. The two
 provide a thriving environment where performance and sound artists, musicians and digital
 artists can perform and collaborate in creative practices, particularly those involving new
 technologies. Over the last four years closer ties between music and the university-wide arts
 provision of Brunel Arts have led to further resources becoming available, including further
 rehearsal spaces, instrumental coaching staff, and a concert space.

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Among notable equipment and software acquired during this REF period for theatre and music
 are two mobile octophonic sound spatialisation systems and a standard quadraphonic system
 capable of covering a larger performance space. These have been used in contexts including
 multimedia installations and concerts (i.e. HiMF, artist in residence Phil Coy). The hardware is
 complimented by the use of experimental software from IRCAM (Paris) as well as custom made
 software made with Max (from cycling74). Other acquisitions include a number of industry-
 standard microphones (Neumanns and DPAs), as well as conventional and non-
 conventional controllers (standard MIDI master keyboards and the ROLI Seaboard series of
 MPE controller keyboards). Current research in physical computing and gestural capture and
 digital instrument making is also made possible with a number of Arduino kits used in workshops
 and concerts/installations.

 Film/video production outputs draw on facilities including 17 edit suites offering 4k workflow, dual
 screen, with new Macs and LG 5k monitors, all equipped with Adobe suite and Final Cut Pro.
 We have a range of 4k cameras from entry-level to high production (Canon M50, Sony A6400,
 Sony A7R III, Lumix g9, Canon XA40, Sony FS5 II), all with full shooting kits and a large
 selection of lenses. Additional equipment includes three head lighting kits (Dedo and Arri)
 ranging in power from 150w to 800w and a large selection of LED light kits. Professional audio
 equipment includes Zoom F4 recorder kits and Sennheiser shotgun mics. Grip equipment
 includes track dolly, Ronin M, Easyrig, Ifootage sliders and jibs.

 Research projects in games use several university spaces for workshops including the dedicated
 Games Design lab that includes 45 high-end computers. For the research outputs proprietary
 software for which the university provides licenses have been used such as Clickteam Fusion,
 Adobe suite, MS Office.

 Research staff and students also draw on the substantial resource of the university library, which
 includes a number of databases and journal archives specific to the subject areas included in
 this submission. Library staff contribute to induction and training events and provide updates on
 its resources and training opportunities at departmental student PGR experience committees.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research in this unit includes numerous sources of collaboration and other contributions beyond
 the individual outputs of its members. These range from broader academic contributions – in
 areas such as organizing conferences, bringing together the work of others in edited collections
 and editing or serving on the boards of journals – to the development of externally focused
 collaborations.

 Many of the research projects outlined above include partnerships with a wide range of non-
 academic beneficiaries. Key users range from the heritage partners in Norfolk benefitting from
 Maples’ work in immersive performance and the Lebanese organizations using Rugo’s About a
 War as a peace-building and conflict prevention tool to the disability charity with which Faia and
 Riley collaborated in their sonic garden at the Chelsea Flower Show and the various partners
 involved in Dima’s projects to help displaced children and to foster future connections between
 grassroots political movements.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Much of the work detailed below involves ongoing work, projects or relationships, demonstrating
 the sustainability of the unit’s contributions to both the field and wider society.

 In addition to their own individual writing, staff included in the submission have brought wider
 ranges of work together in the form of significant edited collections and through the editing of
 book series. Broadhurst, for example, has co-edited four collections. Similar forms of
 collaborative work include Maples co-edited volume on immersive heritage performance, edited
 collections by Chow, the book series edited by Paramana, Broadhurst as joint series editor of
 Palgrave’s Studies in Performance and Technology, Wayne as co-editor of the Pluto Press
 series Marxism and Culture, Ruddell as co-editor of the Palgrave Animation book series, Mitra
 as editorial board member of the Dance Studies Association’s ‘Studies in Dance History’ book
 series, a volume co-edited by Birringer on dance and the new materialism, King’s collection of
 new work on American indie film and Wayne’s Considering Class. Paramana co-founded and is
 one of the editors of Dance in Dialogue, a series published by Bloomsbury Academic.

 Staff also contribute widely as editors or board members of journals, among other roles,
 including: Hunt as editor of the journal Intensities: The Journal of Cult Media; Broadhurst as lead
 editor of the journal Body, Space and Technology; Carbone as co-founder and editor of GAME:
 Games as Art, Media, Entertainment; Fox as editor of the Cambridge University Press new
 music journal, TEMPO; Ivanescu as co-editor of Book 2.0; Ruddell as associate editor of
 Animation: An Interdisciplinary Journal and a member of the executive committee of the Media,
 Communications and Cultural Studies Association.

 Members of the submission also review extensively for key journals and book publishers in the
 subject areas included in this submission. Broader collaboration and contribution to the research
 base is also found in the organisation of numerous conferences and symposia, some cited
 above, including events run by Broadhurst, Birringer, Chow, Ruddell and Mitra. Broadhurst
 played a wider leading role as Chair of Digital Research in the Humanities and Arts (DRHA). As
 a convenor and Vice-President of DiGRA Italy and correspondent with DiGRA International,
 Carbone has fostered an inclusive agenda by enacting policies whereby funds have been
 allocated to encourage under-represented individuals and groups to join the research
 community.

 The DAP-lab in theatre has hosted visiting PGRs from the University of California and the
 University of Bucharest and hosted post-doctoral researchers from around the world. Other
 visiting PGR students come from locations ranging from Brazil to Italy.

 Staff research expertise has been drawn on as external PhD examiners at more than 30
 institutions including Durham, East Anglia, Edinburgh, Exeter, Goldsmiths, King’s College,
 Sussex, York and the Royal Academy of Music.

 Maples immersive heritage performance work is a one example of the creation of a number of
 forms of ongoing external engagement. She led three workshops with the Paston Heritage
 Society (PHS), demonstrating how drama and storytelling techniques could assist in their
 engagement with the public on the Paston family heritage. The PHS, which uses medieval crafts
 and costume making to engage the public with the Paston legacy in Norfolk, was seeking to
 expand its approaches to find more dynamic ways to incorporate storytelling and first-person
 narrative to increase their impact and enhance public engagement at their events. At the request

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the PHS, Maples led a workshop with primary school students in Bacton, Norfolk, on the
 importance of the local ruins of the Bromholme Abbey and life in the Medieval Monastery as well
 as the pilgrim trail in the school’s grounds.

 Maples subsequently attended planning events for the lottery-funded Paston Footprints project
 and assisted in developing the bid as the drama lead. This included making contact with
 other community partners and beneficiaries: Lord and Lady Aspinall from Oxnead Hall, and Lord
 and Lady Walpole from Mannington Hall. Meetings and tours of sites were used to decide what
 types of performance events and workshops to employ. Further collaboration arose from contact
 by Maples with Norwich Castle Museum, the result of which was a performance at the museum
 animating the themes of its exhibition of Paston Treasures with material from the Paston Letters.

 Maples then researched, wrote and directed three productions with the project’s partners. She
 received an Arts Council England grant of £14,111 to pay the artists and hired professional
 actors, early modern musicians and a group of students to assist. Her partnership with Norwich
 Castle Museum led to a request for Maples to create another series of performances and events
 for its Viking Exhibit in the summer of 2019, to help the museum reach new audiences and
 challenge existing narratives of the Vikings.

 Mitra’s scholarship on new interculturalism, race and the politics of power and representation
 has influenced UK’s contemporary dance sector, by bringing into the public domain discussions
 of the field’s predominant whiteness and structural racisms. Her research has impacted the
 artistic practices of the British-Bangladeshi dancer-choreographer Akram Khan, and made
 Akram Khan Company’s policies of funding address sectoral inequalities by committing to the
 mentoring and showcasing of works by emerging artists of colour. Together with researchers
 from the universities of Coventry and Sussex, Mitra has also contributed to a fundamental
 change in organizational structures and policies at Independent Dance, a London based artist-
 led organization, which has used their research to develop an anti-racist vision. The research
 has also equipped artistic and pedagogic practices of white dance artists to dismantle whiteness,
 and empowered dance artists of colour to centre conversations of race and racism in their own
 practices.

 Rugo’s About a War developed relationships with a range of partners and beneficiaries through
 existing networks. The project’s advisor – Ziad Abdel Samad, Chief Executive of the Arab NGO
 Network for Development – provided initial contacts and helped to identify further partners and
 potential beneficiaries. He put the research team in touch with Fighters for Peace, the only NGO
 in Lebanon that brings together former fighters from the Lebanese Civil war for various conflict
 prevention and peace-building activities. Fighters for Peace became both partners in and
 beneficiaries of the research, using the film in their own activities. Fighters for Peace introduced
 the research team to the MARCH Lebanon, an NGO also involved in peacebuilding (mainly in
 Beirut and Tripoli).

 Activities and screenings were organized with MARCH Lebanon in Tripoli in February 2019.
 Following the release of the film, the research team reached out to other organisations and
 developed a partnership with the Centre for Lebanese Studies (CLS) at the Lebanese American
 University (LAU). Together with CLS, the team organised dissemination activities and linked with
 other beneficiaries including the NGOs Lebanese Association for History (LAH), Laban Theatre,
 Forum ZDF, ALEF. These groups benefited primarily by using the film to expand their portfolios

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of non-conventional peace-building practices. The film, which won the best documentary feature
 award at the Lebanese Independent Film Festival, is used by the NGOs as a peace-building and
 conflict prevention tool, with screenings offering communities ways to express their traumas and
 share common experiences of suffering. Young people involved in armed violence find in the ex-
 fighters – recruited as teenagers through ideology or poverty – stories that echo their own.

 CLS also supported the team in taking the film to schools, in particular in Sidon. Since the
 Lebanese Civil War is not part of the curriculum, high school teachers found it a valuable
 resource. The Houssam Eddine Hariri High School in Sidon, in particular, screens the film as
 part of Lebanese History teaching. The research team had stakeholder meetings to enable
 beneficiaries such as Fighters for Peace and MARCH Lebanon to explain how they could benefit
 most from the research. Film screenings followed by dialogue sessions which were co-organised
 by the research team and Fighters for Peace. In addition to such sustained on-the-ground
 activities, insights from the project also led to Rugo being invited to contribute at a global level,
 to the UN roundtable cited in 1 above. The subsequent British Academy and Global Challenges
 funding achieved by Rugo demonstrates responsiveness to international funding initiatives.

 The starting point for Wayne’s The Acting Class was an online conversation with the figure who
 became the lead character in the film, the aspiring actor Tom Stocks, whose story became the
 starting point for the film and who helped in the development of contacts with others. Stocks’
 personal understanding of the deeper structures underpinning class-based discrimination was
 enhanced through his involvement in the making and subsequent promotion of the film. Its chief
 wider beneficiaries were the actors’ union, Equity, its members and its policy making. A
 partnership was created with Equity’s head office, to screen the film to local branches as to put
 the issues raised by the film on the agenda of its national conference in 2018. The filmmakers
 spoke at the conference, where the film was cited in a motion that was passed urging the union
 to campaign for the abolition of tuition for professional training courses. The film played a key
 role in pushing the question of class up Equity’s agenda and in the creation in 2019 of a new
 ‘class network’ within the union. The film was also used as part of a campaign with the groups
 The Equality Trust and Just Fair, which contacted the filmmakers after the publication of an
 article in Open Democracy, in a campaign to bring to life the dormant Socio-Economic Duty, part
 of the 2010 Equality Act. This raised public awareness on the issue, the majority of the 83 MPs
 who signed an Early Day Motion (591) on the subject doing so during the campaign.




                                                                                              Page 16
