Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Work & Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview: structure and context
 The University of Southampton’s UoA20 submission brings together colleagues from the three
 Departments of Sociology, Social Policy & Criminology, Gerontology and Demography & Social
 Statistics, along with researchers within our two ESRC Research Centres - the Centre for
 Population Change (CPC) and National Centre for Research Methods (NCRM). The submission
 comprises 43.09 FTE (headcount 31F,15M) staff, representing a significant critical mass of
 researchers investigating key public policy issues and informing contemporary debates around
 health and social care, social protection, migration, crime, employment and family policy.
 Research within the UoA is structured around seven interdisciplinary research clusters:
   a) Methodological Innovation,
   b) Population Change, Ageing and the Life-course,
   c) Families and Communities,
   d) Migration,
   e) Global Health and Wellbeing,
   f)   Policing and Criminal Justice,
   g) Work and Organisations.
 The UoA hosts two ESRC funded Research Centres alongside three internationally recognised
 centres of excellence (Centre for Research on Ageing, Centre for Global Health and Policy, and
 the Work Futures Research Centre), with its vibrant group of postgraduate researchers
 benefitting from the funding and training available through the ESRC South Coast Doctoral
 Training Partnership (SCDTP).
 Building on its substantial ‘core’ disciplinary strengths, the UoA has an outstanding track record
 of inter-disciplinary and collaborative research, working with colleagues from across the
 University of Southampton (UoS) and other HEIs around the world, engaging with a wide variety
 of public, voluntary and private sector partners and user groups.
 Colleagues regularly provide advice to a range of international and national governmental bodies
 including: Asian Development Bank, UN (including UNECE, UNFPA, UNICEF), WHO, World
 Bank, EBRD, the EU and other European governments; the UK government including BEIS,
 Cabinet Office, Defence, DfID, DWP, ONS, Home Office, Treasury; the Welsh Government; the
 Police and Crime Commissioner’s Office, Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabularies and Fire
 Services, the College of Policing and the Charities Commission. We also work closely with our
 local authorities including Southampton City Council, Dorset and Hampshire County Councils, as
 well as NGOs such as What Works Centres, AgeUK and HelpAge International.
 UoA members make a significant contribution to the wider research community through their
 involvement with UK and international funding bodies, advisory membership of government
 committees (e.g. ONS, DWP); executives of key learned societies (e.g. BSA, BSC, BSG, BSPS),
 editorships of international journals within the field and external peer review. Such wider
 citizenship and collegiality are explicitly valued within the University career pathways.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research strategy
 We are immensely proud that Southampton has continued to be ranked in the top tier of Social
 Work & Social Policy UoAs in RAE2008 (3rd) and REF2014 (joint 5th). Our central goal
 throughout this current assessment period has been to build on that success in ‘the pursuit of
 excellence in research which makes a difference’, supporting the wider institutional vision of
 ‘changing the world for the better’.
 Underpinning this is the principle of undertaking methodologically innovative and
 intellectually rigorous research that contributes to resolving the key challenges facing
 contemporary society, both in the UK and globally. Ensuring our research makes an impact -
 informing policy and practice - is integral to our mission and, whenever possible, our research is
 co-designed with users. All research is subject to ethical review (see Section 3), with training
 and support provided to ensure that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical and
 professional standards.
 Our REF2014 submission set out our aims and plans for the assessment period. At it’s heart
 was the ambition to continue to increase the scale, quality and impact of our research. Specific
 goals to support this included:
   •   Strengthening the core disciplines in the UoA by making excellent additional appointments
       at all levels, including attracting and retaining high quality PGRs;
   •   Extending our European and global research grant portfolio;
   •   Enhancing the collaborative and inter-disciplinary research ethos in the UoA.
 We have realised all these strategic aims; key achievements during the assessment period
 include:
   •   Investing in people: Since REF2014 we have significantly enhanced our capability in the
       core disciplines, particularly in Criminology where there have been six new appointments
       (3F,3M). We have also been proactive in the development of research leaders, securing
       two (1M,1F) ESRC Future Leaders/New Investigator grants (Clifford, Lavorgna) and five
       (3F,2M) ESRC Postdoctoral fellowships, and our submission includes four independent
       researchers (Ayrton, Nilsen, Qin, Troccoli) (3F,1M). We have invested in and retained
       talent, with ten promotions (7F,3M) from Lecturer A (Level 4) to Lecturer B (Level 5),
       eleven promotions (7F,4M) to Associate Professor (Level 6) and seven promotions
       (5F,2M) to Professor (Level 7) in the period. 96 PGRs (61F,35M) have been supervised to
       completion. We are especially proud that members of the UoA led the successful
       application for an Athena Swan Bronze award, the first awarded to a non-STEM School
       within the University.
   •   Ensuring sustainability: Over the period 2014-2019 we secured renewed funding for our
       two ESRC Centres (NCRM, CPC); our research income totalled £14.5 million; and we
       published over 950 peer-reviewed outputs.
   •   Growing our international research portfolio: We have had great success in
       international research calls, securing funding from EU Horizon2020, EU JPI ‘More Years
       Better Lives’, ERC Consolidator, GCRF (with UoA members PI of a network and a hub),
       Wellcome Trust, ESRC-DFID, MRC-CONFAP, as well as several internationally focussed
       UKRI responsive mode grants. Reflecting this, nearly one-third (31%) of outputs published
       in this REF period have been co-authored with international collaborators.
   •   Translating research into making a difference: Since REF2014, we have strengthened
       our support to UoA researchers through proactive engagement with two institutional units
       (PublicPolicy│Southampton and the Public Engagement with Research unit; see REF5a).
       We have also been successful in securing ESRC IAA funding, including additional SCDTP

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Business Boost funding in 2018 and 2019. UoA members have enthusiastically embraced
       these opportunities, engaging with the public via the annual Southampton Roadshow and
       ESRC Festival of Social Sciences, partnering with the Open Innovation Unit of the Cabinet
       Office and co-organising events at the House of Commons with the Parliamentary Office
       of Science and Technology. Our commitment to ensuring our research translates into
       impact was recognised by the award of the 2020 ESRC Outstanding Public Policy
       Impact prize to CPC, led by Falkingham. Further details on our strategy for making and
       enabling impact are provided in Section 1.3 below.
 Further evidence of our success is illustrated by the achievements within our research clusters
 outlined below, and in our impact case studies:
 (a) Methodological innovation (Ayrton, Berrington, Bijak, Edwards, Hilton, Hosegood,
 Lavorgna, Maslovskaya, Perelli-Harris, Sindall, Reed, Roth, Taylor, Ugwudike,
 Vlachantoni, Webber): Southampton has a longstanding and warranted reputation for
 excellence in the development and application of cutting-edge social science research methods,
 with the ESRC National Centre for Research Methods providing a strategic focal point for
 research, training and capacity building in quantitative, qualitative and mixed methods. In the
 assessment period we were successful in securing renewed funding for the NCRM hub for the
 period 2014-2019, with the NCRM Director (Sturgis) and Co-Director (Edwards) both members
 of the UoA.
 Methodological innovation provides a connecting thread running through all our research
 clusters. Our strengths in quantitative methods are reflected in UoA colleagues securing seven
 ESRC SDAI grants in the assessment period (Berrington, Edwards, Lavorgna, Maslovskaya,
 Perelli-Harris, Vlachantoni (x2).The CPC modelling strand has contributed to changing the way
 ONS estimates mortality at the oldest ages, revising the English Life Tables which underpin
 actuarial calculations of pensions and life insurance (Bijak, Hilton); by developing innovative
 methods for estimating and forecasting mortality for all ages, our research has facilitated better
 and more prudent policy and business decisions, forming the basis of one of our impact case
 studies). Bijak has been awarded a prestigious ERC consolidator grant on ‘Bayesian Agent-
 Based Population Studies: Transforming simulation models of human migration’. He has also
 collaborated with colleagues in Exeter to secure EPSRC network funding for “Models to
 Decisions” (M2D). Research by Sturgis and colleagues on methodologies for improving survey
 accuracy has led to changes in the rules of the British Polling Council (BPC) and the Market
 Research Society, leading to changes in the methodological procedures used by UK polling
 firms. the BPC-commissioned independent inquiry into polling, known as the Sturgis Inquiry,
 forms the basis for another of our impact case studies.
 UoA colleagues have also been working with Southampton’s Academic Centre of Excellence in
 Cyber Security Research, the Web Science Institute (WSI) and Turing@Southampton to better
 understand how ‘new’ forms of data can support policy design and practice. Ugwudike received
 funding from the Alan Turing Institute (ATI) to study ‘predictive artificial intelligence technologies
 in the Criminal Justice System’, and ATI-Covid19 funding to understand ‘public resistance in
 using Covid-19 digital contact tracing’. Taylor secured two WSI stimulus fund projects to
 investigate ‘free labour and the sustainability of open-source software in digital infrastructure’,
 and ‘technology facilitated remote practice in multi-agency service delivery for domestic abuse
 support in a post pandemic world’. Other colleagues have been exploring cybercrime (Webber),
 the propagation of fake/fraudulent information online and health frauds (Lavorgna),
 understanding communities, communication and safe spaces in smart-rural areas of South
 Africa (Hosegood, Roth). Maslovskaya is examining data quality issues in mixed-device online
 surveys in the UK.
 We have also developed and extended new methods for longitudinal qualitative data (Edwards
 and Weller), queer methodologies (Reed), visual methods (Ayrton, Reed), stakeholder ethics in

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 qualitative policy research (Taylor), ethics concerning social media and other internet based
 research (Roth) and participation in protest movements in a comparative perspective (Roth).
 Members of the UoA have innovatively combined qualitative and quantitative data to understand
 the experience and impact of informal caring (Vlachantoni) and carried out cross-national
 comparative focus groups in 9 countries to better understand partnership behaviours (Perelli-
 Harris).
 (b) Population change, ageing and the life course (Bridgen, Evandrou, Falkingham, Langat,
 Meyer, Qin, Schröder-Butterfill, Vlachantoni, Willis): This large interdisciplinary research
 cluster focuses on investigating the drivers for, and consequences of, population change with a
 focus on economic welfare and social support across the life course. The group combines the
 development of theoretical perspectives on ageing and the life course with rigorous empirical
 testing of hypotheses concerning demographic and social change on a national, regional and
 global scale. The cluster includes the ESRC Centre for Population Change and Centre for
 Research on Ageing and brings together researchers from disciplines across the UoA
 (demography, gerontology, social policy, sociology). There are considerable synergies with other
 UoA clusters, especially ‘families and communities’, ‘migration’, and ‘global health policy’.
 Since REF2014, the cluster has continued to strengthen its international focus. A new ESRC -
 GCRF Network brought together academics from China, India and sub-Saharan Africa to
 explore alternative models of long-term care (Evandrou, Falkingham, Qin, Vlachantoni,).
 Research has examined support for those living with dementia in Pakistan (Willis, HelpAge
 International), social, health and economic vulnerabilities across the life course in Indonesia
 (Schröder-Butterfill, ARC, ESRC) and the impact of cash transfers on intergenerational well-
 being in Kenya (Langat, Evandrou, ESRC-DFID). Working in partnership with the Ministry of
 Social Protection in Kenya to ensure that the study addressed questions of central concern to
 the Ministry, this research forms the basis for another of our ICS.
 We have also continued our research on understanding population change in the UK in the
 context of a changing Europe, with projects funded under the ESRC UKICE initiative informing
 social policy debates around the rights of citizens post Brexit (Bridgen, Meyer, Evandrou,
 Falkingham, Vlachantoni) and on long-term care (Evandrou, Falkingham, Vlachantoni
 ESRC SDAI). Work within CPC has continued on the changing life course and intergenerational
 exchange (Evandrou, Falkingham, Qin, Vlachantoni). Bridgen and Meyer’s research on
 pensions has informed the ongoing public debate on German pension reform.
  (c) Families and communities (Berrington, Edwards, Hosegood, Perelli-Harris, Reed, Shah,
 Walker): This new research cluster (since REF2014) reflects the growing strength of research
 across the UoA on families, communities and neighbourhoods, how these are shaped by
 gender, social class, race/ethnicity and generation and implications for policy. It brings together
 colleagues from social policy, sociology and demography. Examples of research in the
 assessment period include work on troubled families and inter-agency collaboration, conducted
 in partnership with Family Action (Edwards, ESRC SDAI); relationship quality and family
 transitions: (Perelli-Harris, ESRC SDAI); making queer families and understand how ‘bi-
 invisibility’ and ‘biphobia’ shape the experiences of bisexual people in forming and sustaining
 romantic relationships (Reed); transition to adulthood (Berrington) that includes issues around
 postgraduate funding (funded by HEFCE), driving (RAC) and the impact of the great recession,
 disadvantage and precarity (ESRC SDAI). Beyond the UK, research has examined transitions to
 adulthood amongst young people leaving care in Russia (Walker, British Academy), the
 consequences of changing family environments for children in South Africa (Hosegood,
 Berrington, ESRC) the consequences of changing partnerships in the UK, US, Norway, and
 Australia (Perelli-Harris, ERC), and the role of the Jain diaspora in preserving tangible and
 intangible heritage in rapidly globalizing India (Shah).



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (d) Migration (Bijak, Bridgen, Evandrou, Falkingham, Leonard, Matthews, Meyer, Qin, Roth,
 Troccoli, Villares-Varela, Vlachantoni, Zhang). This cluster reflects the growing strength of
 research on migration and migrants across the UoA. Within CPC, projects have investigated
 what Brexit means for EU migrants living in the UK, including their pension, citizenship and
 welfare rights and the impact these rights have on the economy (Bridgen, Meyer, Troccoli and
 Vlachantoni), and international students’ return migration intentions (Falkingham). In Spring
 2020, Bijak was awarded a prestigious H2020 grant, QuantMig, which aims to produce
 comprehensive, multi-perspective quantitative migration scenarios across the EU.
 Looking beyond Europe, UoA members have conducted research on aspects of rural-urban
 migration in China and India, including gender, children and older people (Evandrou,
 Falkingham, Padmadas, Qin, Vlachantoni, Zhang). Leonard explored the expansion of
 international migration into China as well as the experiences of British migrants in a global
 context. Matthews investigated the role of remittances from international migrants in the
 environmentally vulnerable Bangladeshi Ganges Brahmaputra and the Vietnamese Mekong
 deltas, whilst Villares-Varela examined the drivers of high-skilled migration and migrant
 entrepreneurship globally. Roth published pioneering work on the biographies and careers of
 aid-workers.
 (e) Global health and wellbeing (Channon, Falkingham, Hinde, Hill, Hosegood, Matthews,
 Qin, Neal, Nilsen, Padmadas, Väisänen) This cluster promotes high quality scientific research
 aimed at improving the health outcomes and wellbeing of individuals globally, irrespective of
 where they live. The cluster is centred on the Centre for Global Health, with thematic foci
 including maternal, new-born and child health, family planning, sexual and reproductive health
 (including abortion), nutrition and evaluation of interventions. These key areas of research
 strength are embedded within international development frameworks including the UN Strategic
 Development Goals (SDGs), and a hallmark of our work is the analysis of large and complex
 datasets to inform policy design. The group collaborates closely with a number of high-profile
 policy organisations such as the WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF and DFID, and has an extensive
 network of international and national research partners from countries throughout the world.
 Members have carried out research on fertility decline in sub-Saharan Africa (Hinde), HIV
 prevention and interventions (Hosegood, Wellcome Trust, MRC, NIH), abortion in Finland
 (Väisänen), family planning and reproductive health in China (Falkingham, Qin, Padmadas,
 UNFPA), catastrophic health care expenditure and impoverishment in the Mekong Delta region
 (Nilsen, ESPA), links between clean water and health (Hill, MRC/Wellcome, DFID),
 interventions to inform policy and improve health, strengthening social accountability amongst
 women and children in Brazil (Channon, EU QUERO), understanding universal health coverage
 and health outcomes in low income settings (Channon, Neal), as well as interdisciplinary
 research on climate change, environmental effects on wellbeing, and links with renewable
 energy (Matthews, Falkingham, EPSRC, ESPA/NERC). Channon and Neal are Co-Is for the
 GCRF funded ‘REGHID consortium’: a three-year programme of work designed to improve the
 sexual and reproductive health and rights of girls and young women experiencing protracted
 displacement in Central America.
 In the assessment period UoA members have also worked closely with researchers from human
 geography (UoA 14) and engaged with WorldPop to produce novel geo-spatial estimates of key
 SDG indicators, available as open access data. UoA colleagues have contributed to global
 advisory boards and committees including the Adolescent Working Group on the UN Director’s
 Every Woman, Every Child, Every Adolescent strategy (Neal and Matthews). Neal’s research
 on early adolescent motherhood in low income countries (funded by British Academy and
 ESRC) underpinned the decision by the UN to introduce a new indicator on early motherhood
 into the health SDGs, as detailed in our final ICS. Reflecting her world leading expertise, Neal is
 currently a member of the UN Population Division Expert Group on Early Adolescent Fertility.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (f) Policing and Criminal Justice (Fleming, Hamerton, Lavorgna, Moss, Newberry, Rizov,
 Sindall, Ugwudike, Webber). From 2014-2016, Fleming was part of the What Works Centre
 for Crime Reduction, contributing research on the organizational environments of senior Police
 Officers. She is currently Co-I of the £1.4 million Gateway project, a randomised control trial
 funded by NIHR examining the effectiveness of an out of court community-based intervention
 programme aimed at improving health and well-being for youth offenders and reducing
 recidivism. Research within the cluster has also continued on understanding the changing nature
 of criminal activity in the digital economy (Webber) and policing gangs (Webber). The cluster
 has benefitted from significant investment in new staff over the assessment period, expanding
 the research portfolio into new areas including organised crime and internet-facilitated wildlife
 trafficking (ESRC New Investigator Grant, Lavorgna), the link between animal cruelty and
 human violence (Newberry), the status and legal rights of children (Hamerton), electronic
 monitoring and probation (Moss) and improving interventions and outcomes for young people
 through digitising a cyber-evaluation framework (Ugwudike). In common with other parts of the
 UoA, there is a focus on intersections of gender, class and race, with research using social
 media analytics to challenge online epistemic domination and amplify marginal voices
 (Ugwudike), understand urban crime control through cinema (Rizov) and attitudes of young
 people towards the police (Sindall).
 (g) Work and Organisations (Clifford, Leonard, Roth, Taylor, Villares-Varela, Walker).
 The cross-disciplinary Work Future Research Centre (WFRC) led within the UoA provides a hub
 to bring together the University's expertise on the changing nature of work and organization in
 the 21st century, informing work futures in the digital economy. Our research focuses on working
 lives and organisational change, and includes studies of the public, private and third sectors in
 the UK and internationally. During the assessment period, research has examined work and
 employment relations in different migratory contexts (Leonard), the rise of migrant
 entrepreneurs (Villares-Varela, BA/Leverhulme), the delivery of employment services and
 organisational cultures within by the Third Sector (Taylor, Leonard ESRC), voluntary
 organisations (Clifford, ESRC and Leverhulme), how different welfare states impact on women's
 access to the very top board and executive positions (ESRC PDF Kowalewska), the experiences
 of older apprentices in England (Leonard, Nuffield), young people’s entry routes into different
 regional labour markets in times of austerity (Leonard, ESRC ) and apprenticeships in care
 homes for older adults (Luff and Walker). Research on the impact of ICT on aid relationships
 (Roth) and the engineering profession (Leonard and Tyers, ESRC), precarious work and
 ‘overwork’ amongst working-class men in Russia and Ukraine (Walker, EBRD), and the
 operation of UK-registered charities working overseas (Clifford, ESRC Future Leaders) add a
 further international dimension to the cluster’s work.
 1.3 Making and enabling Impact
 Our research, detailed above, leads to diverse types of impact at a range of scales, with
 beneficiaries ranging from local, national and international governmental organisations, policy
 makers and practitioners, business and third sector organisations, and the general public. Our
 impact studies exemplify how our research has had impact on and across all these stakeholders.
 Our approach to impact involves building long-term relationships with key users and
 beneficiaries, co-production of knowledge, provision of expert advice and consultancies and
 proactive public engagement. Examples of these strategies include:
   •   Building partnerships: The Centre for Population Change has a long-established
       collaboration with ONS, with methodological research commissioned under a framework
       contract. Berrington, Bijak and Falkingham sit on the ONS National Population
       Projections Expert Advisory groups, informing directly the fertility, migration and mortality
       assumptions for the national population projections. The impact of the “better data - better


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       decision making’ facilitated by the partnership with ONS was recognised in the 2020
       ESRC Outstanding Public Policy Impact award to CPC.
   •   The direct funding of research by government and involving stakeholders in the
       design of the research ensures that the research is relevant to their needs; recent
       examples being Bijak and Hilton’s commissioned research on the Greater London
       Authorities population modelling, Berrington’s work on postgraduate funding undertaken
       for HEFCE, and Langat and Evandrou’s research on social pensions in Kenya conducted
       in collaboration with the Ministry for Labour & Social Protection in Nairobi.
   •   Members of the UoA are encouraged to sit on expert advisory groups for government
       departments and NGOs, providing the opportunity for their research expertise to shape the
       policy agenda. For example, Fleming sits on Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary
       and Fire Services Academic Advisory Group (since 2016) and the Quality Assurance
       Evaluation Steering Group for the Direct Entry/Fast Track programmes for the College of
       Policing. Berrington was expert advisor on families to the DWP Life Chances/Workless
       Families Strategy, directly informing their life course inequalities framework. Roth
       presented her research to Ministry of Defence and was subsequently invited to join the
       advisory panel for the MoD Veterans Strategy launched in November 2018. Vlachantoni
       provided evidence on informal care provision to the Parliamentary Office of Science and
       Technology and Willis worked with Cabinet Office on research on ethnicity and
       satisfaction with social care, both then informing the Green Paper on ageing and social
       care. Ugwudike was invited onto the Youth Justice Network, providing advice to the Youth
       Justice Board and Ministry of Justice on evidence for developing policy and practice,
       ensuring robust evidence is used to support decision making in the youth justice sector.
       Clifford is a member of the research advisory group of a three-year research project led
       by the Church Urban Fund and Theos on social engagement in Church of England
       churches. Leonard is a member of the APPG on Women and Work.
   •   Members also regularly submit evidence to Select Committees and other reviews; for
       example, CPC and CRA were invited to submit evidence to Hampshire County Council for
       their 2050 strategic plan; Bijak provided evidence on ‘Uncertainty in the UK migration
       statistics’ to the Expert panel on migration statistics, Houses of Parliament, London;
       Edwards provided invited evidence to the Evidence-based early-years intervention’
       hearing, House of Commons Science and Technology Committee; Falkingham was
       Special Advisor to the House of Lords Select Committee on Intergeneration Provision and
       Fairness (2018-19) and Vlachantoni provided invited oral and written evidence; Sturgis
       was Special Advisor to the House of Lords Select Committee on Polling. Leonard was
       invited to join a Treasury Policy Think Tank on Young People and provide advice for the
       Young Foundation, a Cabinet Office workshop on women and work and the All Party
       Parliamentary Group on Wellbeing.
   •   Bijak was an Expert witness, UN Mechanism for International Criminal Tribunals, The
       Prosecutor vs. Jovica Stanišić and Franko Simatović (MICT-15-96), oral testimony in
       October 2017.
   •   Walker presented his research on youth and social exclusion in Russia to the World Bank
       Russia office, Moscow, in 2017.
   •   In Spring 2020, Ugwudike joined the Advisory Group to the Independent Review on the
       governance of biometrics, convened by the Ada Lovelace Institute; she is one of only 11
       experts on the Group, reflecting her expertise in the field of algorithmic systems in policing
       and the justice system.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All of these activities support and enable impact, ensuring our research contributes to the wider
 society.
 Advice on building and maintaining relationships with stakeholders is available through
 PublicPolicy│Southampton (PPS), a unit established in 2013 and housed within the Faculty of
 Social Sciences until 2019 when it moved to central Research and Innovation Services (RIS).
 PPS worked with the research team investigating social pensions in Kenya to produce a policy
 briefing paper; this was then used to support a talk in London aimed at the general public, as
 well as circulated in meetings with the Ministry and international NGOs such as UNICEF and the
 World Bank in Nairobi. CPC has recently worked with PPS to secure EU funding under the
 Science meets Parliament initiative, holding an event on ‘migration post Brexit’ with POST in
 Westminster. Taylor and PPS ran a knowledge exchange event for healthcare policy makers,
 academics and practitioners and produced a policy briefing paper – ‘Supporting Employee
 Driven Innovation in Healthcare’.
 The University’s Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu) provides expert advice and
 seed funding. UoA members have participated in the annual UoS ‘Bringing Research to Life
 Roadshow’ organised by PERu, taking an exhibition of our research on population change to
 venues across the country including Countryfile Live and Glastonbury, reaching an estimated
 20,000 people. The CPC exhibition ‘How to live to 100’ was selected by Sir Mark Walport to form
 part of the UKRI exhibit at the AAAS in Washington 2019.
 Funding for impact activities is available through ESRC IAA and strategic Faculty funds. The
 SCDTP has twice collaborated with the IAA to apply successfully for ‘Business Boost’ funding,
 facilitating the provision of bespoke training for staff and students on engaging with businesses.
 As a result, Leonard participated in an industrial placement at Mott MacDonald advising on
 Digital Work Futures.
 Impact is also supported by the UoAs commitment to an open research environment. In line
 with the institution’s policy, all outputs are deposited in the ePrints repository and made available
 as green open access. In addition, several research centres linked to the UoA have an open
 access discussion paper series facilitating research findings to be made available to a wide
 audience at an early stage. UoA members are regular contributors to NCRM methods working
 papers, videos, and podcasts, etc. CPC briefing papers are specifically designed to make our
 research finding accessible to a non-academic audience; the average monthly downloads of
 CPC Policy Briefings during 2020 was 1,760. Members of the UoA regularly contribute to The
 Conversation and a range of blogs. In January 2019, Dr Lambros Fatsis (UoA member at this
 time) was the winner of the first-ever ‘British Society of Criminology Blogger of the Year Award’.
 1.4 Future plans
 Research: Over the next 5 years we aim to consolidate our position as a leading centre of
 excellence in understanding the drivers and consequences of population change in the UK and
 globally; maintain our world-wide recognition in ageing, the life course and intergenerational
 relations, and strengthen our research clusters on families & communities and migration. We will
 also continue to strengthen our research on global health, work & organisation and policing &
 criminal justice, building upon collaborations across the University, especially with the Web
 Science Institute and the Alan Turing Institute (ATI), ensuring our research remains at the
 cutting-edge methodologically. Given our commitment to conducting research that makes a
 difference, we will continue to strengthen our support for impact activities.
 Staffing: Our 5 year plan is to grow academic staff numbers modestly (from 43.1 FTE currently
 to ~45 FTE by 2025), to exploit the research opportunities identified above, through a
 combination of: (i) strategic hires, as permitted by healthy Faculty finances, alongside; (ii) the




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 continued transitioning of outstanding post-doctoral staff to permanent academic roles, and; (iii)
 efforts to attract externally funded fellowships.
 Funding Streams: We aim to further strengthen research income, rising to >£2M/yr (by 2025)
 by: (i) targeting larger bids, including a new ESRC centre; (ii) seeking greater success with UKRI
 Fellowships (see Staffing, above), and; (iii) consolidating our EU and other income.
 Postgraduate Research: We will continue to grow PGRs in proportion with growth in staffing,
 supported by leadership of the renewal of the ESRC SCDTP. We will continue to focus on the
 quality of outcomes, with strong careers destinations.
 Facilities: Our growth since REF2014, particularly in PGRs, has led to some pressure on our
 use of space; we will seek to expand and upgrade our built environment and to invest in a
 Secure Data Lab, facilitating our work with ONS and ATI.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The staffing strategy within the UoA has been to strengthen and enhance our research clusters
 by ensuring a careful balance between maintaining our core disciplinary strengths and
 enhancing inter-disciplinary capacity. We apply rigorous criteria in our appointment and
 promotion panels at all levels and wherever possible, look to appoint permanent staff. Our
 commitment to developing and retaining high potential staff has been key to our progress since
 the last REF and to our stability. The success of this strategy is evidenced in the growth of the
 UoA from 34 FTE in RAE2008 to 41 FTE in REF 2014 (when we returned 100% of eligible staff),
 to 43 FTE for REF2021. We are committed to ensuring equality of opportunity for all and
 fostering inclusion and diversity (see section 2.3).
 Recruitment strategy: In our last REF submission we highlighted the appointment of several
 professors. In this assessment period, we have concentrated our efforts on securing the future
 pipeline of talent through our internal promotion process and recruiting ECRs. We are
 particularly pleased that we have been able to appoint two recipients of ESRC Future Leaders/
 New Investigator grants (Clifford and Lavorgna) and host six ESRC post-doctoral fellowships
 (Kowalewska (2018), Ayrton and Tyers (2019); Garwood, Mukherjee and Yang (2020).
 We have continued the strategic investment in Criminology through the appointment of one new
 Associate Professor (Ugwudike) and five new lecturers (Hamerton, Lavorgna, Moss,
 Newberry, Rizov) replacing three colleagues who moved to other HEIs. We have also invested
 in three posts in Social Policy and Sociology (Reed, Taylor, Villares-Varela) maintaining staff
 numbers, and in Demography we appointed five new lecturers (Clifford, Hilton, Maslovskaya,
 Neal, Vaisanen).
 Developing our people: We are proactive in the career development of our staff through a
 system of annual appraisals conducted by a network of line managers (see REF5a). An on-
 going programme of CPD offered by the Centre for Higher Education Practice (CHEP) hosted
 within the Faculty of Social Sciences, provides training for all academic staff in their roles as
 both educators and researchers. Additionally, all staff are offered the opportunity of working with
 a mentor outside their direct line management.
 The Faculty of Social Sciences, within which the UoA is wholly located, operates a sabbatical
 application and reporting system in which the research objectives and outcomes/achievements
 during the sabbatical are monitored by the Deputy Heads of Department (Research), with the
 final report considered by the Faculty Board. During the period of assessment, a total of 33
 periods of sabbatical leave have been taken by UoA staff.
 During the assessment period, Bijak, Hosegood, Meyer, Padmadas, Perelli-Harris, Roth and
 Vlachantoni were promoted to Professor, maintaining and strengthening senior leadership

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within the UoA following the departures of Halford (Sociology) to Bristol, Madise (SS&D) to
 Director of Development Policy and Head of Malawi Office, African Institute for Development
 Policy, McGhee (Sociology) to Vice Dean, Social Sciences at Keele, Sturgis (SS&D) to LSE and
 Zaidi (Gerontology) to the role of Vice Chancellor, Government College University Lahore,
 Pakistan. Channon, Clifford, Langat, Lavorgna, Neal, Pathak, Villares-Varela, Walker, Willis
 were all promoted to Associate Professor, reflecting our strategy of investing in and nurturing
 talent.
 Valuing impact: We recognize that there are costs of time and money to engaging in activities
 that support impact-generation. Impact activity is treated as a significant element within the
 annual appraisal process, as well as in supporting promotion. UoA members benefit from being
 able to work with the CPC Knowledge Exchange team who support staff in successfully winning
 ESRC IAA Funding. Researchers are also supported to identify potential impact pathways by
 PERu and PPS.
 Support for ECRs: The UoA has a thriving community of Early Career Researchers. Heads of
 Departments manage workloads to ensure that ECRs have sufficient time for research. New
 lecturers are given reductions in teaching load (up to 40% in year one if taking the Postgraduate
 Certificate in Academic Practice, 20% year two, and 10% year three), and undertake joint
 supervision of research students until they have gained sufficient experience to be the main
 supervisor. All are assigned a senior colleague who guides them through probation and advises
 them on their research plans. Our fixed-term contract research fellows/ assistants are further
 supported through the Faculty induction programme which includes awareness-raising with
 regard to the Concordat, Vitae and the professional services available to them. They also benefit
 from a formal mentoring system where a mentor (who is not their line manager) advises on
 career aspirations and general matters relating to research careers. The University and Faculty
 organise a diverse range of research workshops targeted at all ECRs (e.g. applying for your
 first UKRI grant etc); and fosters inter-disciplinary innovation amongst ECRs through the annual
 interdisciplinary ECR research conference. ECRs are prioritised in the School's competitive
 seed funding schemes and the Faculty’s Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Development
 Fund.
 2.2 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 EDI is embedded throughout the University’s Strategy (see REF5a) and there is a strong
 commitment to the promotion of EDI across a range of domains and protected characteristics,
 not limited to but including gender, sexual orientation, disability, religion and ethnicity. The three
 Departments that make up the UoA were part of the successful Bronze Athena Swan application
 by the School of Economic, Social & Political Science, with the AS committee chaired by UoA
 member Shah. A positive culture that values gender equality, including support for flexible
 working, for maternity, paternity and adoption leave transitions, and core hours email etiquette
 policy are among the practices that helped us achieve this status.
 The Action Plan represents a comprehensive effort to further develop and implement good
 practice that promotes gender equity and gender balance. Key features include:
   •   Ensure that gender equality and inclusivity is at heart of every School committee;
   •   Implement communication and training mechanisms for staff and students to engage with
       School’s Athena SWAN goals;
   •   Promote gender balance on all Undergraduate, Postgraduate taught, and Postgraduate
       research programmes;
   •   Implement strategies to improve gender balance with regard to recruitment, promotion and
       retention of staff in all job families and levels;


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   Continue support for flexible working, and for maternity, paternity and adoption leave
       transitions.
 The current composition of the UoA reflects the sector norms of the disciplines within it, with
 66% of staff female and 34% male. Women outnumber men at all levels, including PhD
 students. The gender imbalance is however particularly marked at Professorial level, with just
 three of the 13 Professors being male, the reverse of the trend for the University as a whole,
 reflecting the proactive mentoring of talented female researchers to seek promotion over the
 past decade. Going forward, this needs to be replicated with respect to other protected
 characteristics, including ethnicity. 69% of UoA staff report their ethnicity as white, with 16%
 BAME and 14% unrecorded; 65% report that they hold UK nationality, 22% EU/EEA and 12%
 from the ‘rest of the world’. The University has signed the Race Equality Charter (REC) reflecting
 our commitment to address racial inequalities within the higher education sector and it is
 planned to apply for a REC Bronze Award in the next 3 years. members of the UoA are at the
 forefront of this, with Pathak currently chairing the Black Asian and Minority Ethnic Staff
 Network. From 2021-22, the SCDTP has agreed that a minimum of 3 out of 38 scholarships
 annually will be awarded to persons from a BAME background.
 The University REF2021 EDI Committee was chaired by Falkingham. Full regard to EDI issues
 has been paid while constructing our submission. All staff have had the opportunity to input to
 this REF5b. We have closely followed Southampton’s REF Code of Practice (see REF5a,
 Section 3.9). Of our final selection of outputs 69% are attributed to female colleagues, matching
 our gender profile.
 2.3 Research students
 The three Departments that comprise the UoA operate high-quality PGR programmes, and it is a
 matter of great pride that 96 PhDs (61F,35M) have been awarded in this assessment period
 (Table 1) at a substantially enhanced rate (13.7 per year) compared to REF2014 (8.3 per year).
 We are proud of our capacity to attract excellent candidates, provide a supportive and engaging
 research environment, and enable them to leverage a range of training opportunities. We outline
 our approach and track record in recruitment, mentoring and skills development in detail below.
                           Table 1: PhD degrees awarded since 2013/14

       2013-14    2014-15    2015-16    2016-17    2017-18    2018-19    2019-20     Total

        13.15       13.1       13.1       10.1       15.6       12.4       18.7      96.15


 a) Recruitment and financial support
 All prospective students are interviewed by at least two interviewers who have been fully trained
 in interviewing, including issues of unconscious bias and EDI. Funding for the 40 registered
 PGRs (July 2020) is derived from four main sources:
   (i) UKRI Studentships: The majority of funded PGR students are on UKRI studentships.
       Recent graduates and a handful of candidates currently near completion received funding
       via the (old) ESRC DTC or the EPSRC Web Science DTC, and current 1st, 2nd and +1
       year candidates receive funding via the ‘new’ ESRC SCDTP (19 in July 2020). Both the
       Director of the previous ESRC DTC (Leonard) and the Director of the current ESRC
       SCDTP (Vlachantoni) are drawn from this UoA.
   (ii) External partnerships Members of the UoA are also active in other partnerships outside
        the UoA such as the Alzheimer’s Society Doctoral Training Centre, supervising students
        based in Health Sciences.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   (iii) Overseas students. In addition to the four overseas PGRs funded by the SCDTP, the UoA
         hosts international students in receipt of scholarships from national governments (e.g.
         Malaysia, Oman) as well as Commonwealth Scholarships, Chevening and Fulbright.
   (iv) Institutional schemes - the Faculty and University offer several competitive postgraduate
        studentship schemes, and we have had significant success in supporting students to
        secure funding from these sources, including the Vice-Chancellor’s scholarships and the
        University of Southampton China Scholarship Council studentships.
 b) Supervision and progression
 The Departments strive to foster an enriching and supportive research environment for PGRs. In
 line with University policies (see REF5a), each student has a primary supervisor and secondary
 supervisor, as well as additional supervisory experts as required. This ensures that students
 have the option of varied sources of input to develop their projects which can evolve as their
 research journey progresses, and that they have continuity of support in the event of staff
 departures. Students on interdisciplinary projects can draw on supervisors from across other
 departments and faculties to ensure appropriate expertise is covered. Our multi-person
 supervisory teams allow more junior staff to develop their supervisory experience and skills with
 under the guidance of more senior staff.
 PGRs complete an Academic Needs Analysis (ANA) to identify training and equipment needs
 within three months of commencing and the ANA is reviewed each year. At the outset PGRs
 register for a PhD and progress is reviewed by a single assessor to decide progression to the
 second year (FTE). At the end of Year 2 (FTE) students undertake a ‘Confirmation’ examination
 to progress to Year 3. This exam takes the form of a rigorous viva voce conducted by two
 internal assessors and based on the assessment of (at least) two draft chapters, a detailed work
 plan and a data management plan. The web-based ‘PGR Tracker’ database provides an online
 record of training courses attended, supervisory meetings, reports, progress reviews and study
 outcomes.
 Mentoring is not limited to formal supervisory arrangements. It is also carried out collectively
 through dedicated slots in our seminar series for PGR presentations, writing workshops where
 students work alongside ECR staff in providing careful and constructive feedback on draft
 papers, and PGR forums focused on book reviewing, conference presentations, journal
 publishing, progression milestones and future career planning.
 In terms of infrastructure to support the PGR student environment, the Departments are part of
 the Faculty Graduate School that oversees doctoral research activity and is responsible for
 policy and quality assurance associated with doctoral education. PGRs have representatives on
 a number of Faculty committees, including the Graduate School Committee, the Research and
 Enterprise Advisory Committee and the Health and Safety Committee. PGR committee
 members then act as conduits for consultations on policies with the wider PGR body within the
 UoA.
 The effectiveness of our supervisory arrangements is evidenced by (i) excellent completion rates
 and (ii) strong destinations data (see section (d) below). Specifically, PGR completion rates
 (UKRI definition; i.e., mean time to submit thesis) averaged 3.88 years for full time and 5.38
 years for part time students during the review period.

 c) Skills development
 Skills development is at the heart of the PGR experience. All PGRs take general skills/research
 training courses which are mapped to the UKRI sponsored Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework. The University Doctoral College (see REF5a) coordinates generic skills training via
 the GradBook online booking system and runs an annual Festival of Research event, facilitating


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inter-disciplinary engagement. Throughout the REF period, our students have also had access
 to specialised training on a wide variety of research skills and data collection and analysis
 techniques via ESRC DTC / SCDTP research methods training courses, as well as advanced
 statistical, qualitative and other methods via the ESRC NCRM hosted at Southampton.
 The shift to the SCDTP during the REF period has further enhanced the vibrancy and variety of
 what is on offer. The SCDTP runs workshops, discussion groups and other innovative events
 e.g. writing boot camps, annual final year conference focused on celebrating student research,
 preparing students for employment opportunities inside and outside of academia. UoA students
 have been at the forefront in taking advantage of these opportunities and more: travelling on
 overseas research trips to universities and public institutions in China, South Africa and Iceland
 (20+); attending research retreats at Cumberland Lodge (30+); and taking up internships at
 NGOs and public bodies (20+). Many of the SCDTP-funded training events (e.g. masterclasses
 in blogging, publishing in demography) are open to and benefit non-UKRI-funded students.
 In addition to formal training, PGRs have access to a range of experiential learning opportunities
 such as demonstrating/teaching; internships; peer-coaching; outreach and public engagement;
 including courses offered by PublicPolicy│Southampton and PERu; for example, students from
 the UoA supported the CPC exhibition on the roadshow at Glastonbury, communicating
 research findings to the general public. The Faculty provides all PGRs - regardless of funding
 sources - with a Research Training Support Grant (RTSG) of £750 each year to support
 advanced training and conference attendance.
 PGRs have access to a dedicated section of the University of Southampton’s Careers Service
 which runs dedicated ‘employability’ events for doctoral researchers, including academic and
 non-academic career-path sessions and doctoral-level placement programmes. Our REF2014
 submission identified the priority of strengthening opportunities for internships; we have
 achieved this, with PGRs encouraged to take advantage of SCDTP internships and institutional
 visits as well as other schemes available across the University. In the assessment period, PhD
 students within the UoA have spent time at Southampton City Council, Hampshire County
 Council, ONS, DWP, the Home Office, Equality and Human Rights Commission, AgeUK,
 HelpAge International and the BBC.
 d) Destinations
 Collectively, our approach to PGR student recruitment, mentoring and skills development has
 made the programme very successful in helping students to finish on time and produce high-
 quality PhDs. We have an excellent record in supporting our students’ transition into work.
 During the assessment period our PhD students have taken up exciting positions within the
 policy world and business, including: United Nations Population Fund, UNDP, House of
 Commons Library, ONS, AgeUK, Ernst & Young, Willis Towers Watson insurance and risk
 management, Thames Water and Facebook. Our PhD students have also taken up academic
 positions in other HEIs including Bath, City, Edinburgh, Oxford, Surrey, St Andrews as well as
 Southampton.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Infrastructure
 The University’s research governance consists of three layers of Research and Enterprise
 committees, at University, Faculty and School level (see REF5a). Established and Early Career
 researchers can access funds for building research networks, seed-funding for pilot research
 projects, and small projects. This system of internal funding comes with the expectation that
 successful applicants will proceed to apply for external funding (contingent on the outcome of
 the pilot). These internal support structures provide opportunities for capacity building for our


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECRs, through providing them with application writing, peer-review, and research project
 management experiences.
 The UoA constituent departments are embedded in an environment that supports and stimulates
 robust research of the highest quality in the following ways:
   •   The Research and Enterprise Advisory Committee develops the School's research
       strategy and administers seed-corn funds through the Strategic Research Development
       Fund for pilot research projects and research network formation and consolidation.
   •   The Deputy Head of School (Research & Enterprise (DHoSRE) spearheads research
       policy and strategy and liaises with the Associate Dean (Research & Enterprise) and the
       University Research and Innovation Services to exploit interdisciplinary opportunities.
   •   The School DHoSRE is supported by the three Departmental Directors of Research from
       our UoA, which means that interdisciplinary opportunities are underpinned by strong
       disciplines.
   •   UoA staff are line-managed by Heads of Department and Directors of Research Centres,
       who have responsibility for research as well as ensuring that staff have sufficient time to
       develop and realise individual research plans through the annual appraisal system.
   •   Funding is made available within Departments to support research activities, conference
       attendance by staff and research students, visiting academics and guest speakers. Funds
       are boosted by sharing overheads on grants between the School and grant holders,
       providing funding for international conferences and for bridging funding for fixed term
       researchers to extend their contracts to undertake specific pieces of work in between one
       grant ending and another commencing.
   •   The Departments underwrite applications to external bodies for post-doctoral fellowships,
       such as Leverhulme, British Academy and ESRC UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships.
   •   RIS provides bid support, including advice on proposal guidelines, impact activities and
       justification of resources for UKRI and EU applications. They also provide specialist advice
       on ethical aspects of research and supporting colleagues through the Ethics and
       Research Governance Online (ERGO) system; contract management, including drafting
       University template contracts, liaising with 3rd parties; training and workshop sessions for
       ECRs.
   •   The Faculty’s Ethics Committee (currently chaired by Roth from our UoA) maintains
       standards of research quality and integrity; all research requires FEC approval prior to the
       substantive research commencing. The University, through the seven person Research
       Integrity and Governance team within RIS, ensures that all reviewers and members of
       Ethics Committees are fully trained and kept up to date with all relevant legislation, Codes
       of Practice, Professional Guidelines, etc., that affect all aspects the research process.
   •   The Doctoral College (see REF5a) and the Postgraduate Research Office in the Faculty
       Graduate School provide dedicated support for PGR matters, including the administration
       of student training awards, bursaries, and the annual post-graduate conference.
 3.2 Facilities
 Academic staff and researchers have access to world-class research facilities including the
 University’s High Performance Computing facility and University library. Our policy is that every
 full-time PGR student has access to a desk with lockable storage facilities, a password protected
 internet-linked desktop computer and appropriate relevant software (as agreed with their
 supervisor) for the duration of their registration. Part-time PGR students will have access to a
 computer and bookable/shared desks. PGR student facilities are located in the same building as

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their academic supervisors and the Departments and/or research centres they are affiliated with
 and there is regular refurbishment of postgraduate facilities.
 3.3 Research Income and Awards
 UoA staff at all levels of seniority have been active in securing research awards from a wide
 range of funders, with applications totalling nearly £70 million submitted during the assessment
 period, resulting in 67 successful awards valued at over £15 million.
 Research grant income within the period to members of the UoA totalled more than £14.5
 million, including successful bids for renewed funding for the ESRC Centre for Population
 Change and the ESRC National Centre for Research Methods. We have also been successful in
 securing ESRC Future Leaders/ New Investigators (2 awards), ESRC-DfID (3 awards); ESRC
 Secondary Data Analysis Initiative (6 awards) and at least one open response mode bid a year.


                              Sources of research grant income
                                                £257,962
                                     £870,740
                            £1,208,459
                          £220,387




                                                       £11,932,524




                  UKRI and Academies      Charities        EU   UK Government   Other

 Our multi-disciplinary research is evidenced through our participation and leadership in the
 successful ESRC GCRF Network on Global Ageing and Long Term Care (Evandrou, PI), the
 GCRF TRADE Hub (Mathews PI) and the MRC/ CONFAP/ Newton bid on Strengthening the
 Health System in Brazil (Channon, PI). This has meant that UKRI funding within the UoA has
 averaged over £1.5M per year over the past seven years, with funding from UKRI and the British
 Academy accounting for 82% of the UoA’s research income over the assessment period.
 Our portfolio of European funding has grown, as our aims from REF2014 intended, with funding
 secured under the H2020 programme for our participation in ATHLOS and MoPACT and most
 recently our leadership as PI (Bijak) of the H2020 project on ‘Understanding migration mobility
 patterns’. Over the assessment period, income from the EU amounted to £1.2M (8% of total
 income). We have also been awarded grants from a range of other funders including NIHR,
 DEFRA, Australia Research Council, Oman Social Observatory Research Program, and AgeUK,
 Our success in maintaining a high level of research income is a direct result of:
   •   Rigorous internal procedures to improve bid quality
       In addition to University-wide demand management and bid-enhancement protocols on
       ESRC / ERC standard grants, our UoA undertakes rigorous internal peer review of all
       applications resulting in more high-quality grants, translating into increased income.


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   Diversifying our grant income streams
       We have actively targeted overseas schemes, both in Europe and beyond. We have also
       sought to develop interdisciplinary research collaborations across the University, which
       has in turn led to us securing grants from non-traditional sources, as well as the GCRF
       TRADE hub and EPSRC.
 Going forward, we will continue to grow and consolidate our international networks in China,
 India and sub-Saharan Africa and across Europe.
 Grant success has also translated into impact. In addition to our Impact Case Studies, highlights
 include:
   •   The ERSC funded ‘CPC-ONS-UUK Survey of International students in 2017’ and follow-up
       in 2019 (Falkingham) has directly informed revisions to the way international student
       migration is measured and reported by ONS.
   •   Research by Willis, Evandrou, Pathak and Khambhaita funded by NIHR SSCR, has
       been cited in NICE guideline 86 on ‘Improving the Experience of Care and Support for
       People Using Adult Social Care Services’ (February 2018)
       https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng86
   •   Research by Walker into Masculinities and Transition, funded by European Bank for
       Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) & TaiwanBusiness EBRD TC Fund, is informing
       recommendations for engaging men in training and advocacy.
   •   Findings from the ESRC funded ‘FloraGuard: tackling the illegal trade in endangered
       plants’ by Lavorgna is informing discussions on the Convention on International Trade in
       Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Forna.
   •   Recommendations from Meyer’s pension research funded by Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung has
       directly influenced the manifesto of Germany’s Green Party regarding strengthening
       mandatory employer pension contributions.
   •   ESRC IAA funded research by Leonard has informed the written evidence base for the
       UK Parliament’s report on Living Online.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Sustaining collaboration and contribution through our vibrant research culture
 Since RAE2014, we have sustained our participation in national and international research
 collaborations and consortia. Our thriving research culture benefits from a large and diverse set
 of external speakers presenting in our numerous seminar series and public lectures. Each
 discipline and all research centres in the UoA host weekly or fortnightly seminars (including many
 joint events across disciplines and research centres) where guest speakers present to an
 audience of colleagues and PGR students. In the assessment period, we have hosted over 200
 seminars. These are complemented by public lectures delivered by esteemed speakers,
 including the NCRM annual lectures Gary King (2014), Mandy Chessell (2015), Jane Elliott
 (2016), Lesley McAra (2017), Danny Dorling (2018),the annual Marshall lectures as well as a
 special CPC lecture in autumn 2018 by Rt Hon David Willetts, presenting research on
 intergenerational relations. As we moved online during the pandemic, the WFRC hosted several
 esteemed speakers in their 2020 online lecture series, including Daniel Susskind and Michael
 Arthur.
 Our Keynote Lectures: Members of the UoA have delivered 75+ keynote lectures at
 international conferences and other distinguished gatherings which have included both academic
 and policy-makers in the audience. Examples include: Berrington plenary Understanding

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society Research conference, July 2014; Bijak keynote on Statistical Modelling for Official
 Migration Statistics: State of the Art. DIME/ITDG Plenary, Eurostat, Luxembourg; Edwards
 plenary British Sociological Association 2015 conference and keynote 3rd World Conference on
 Qualitative Research, Lisbon 2019; Evandrou keynote Chinese Gerontological Association 2018
 conference, Beijing; Falkingham delivered 2nd Jan Hoem Distinguished Lecture in Demography,
 Stockholm University, 2017, Keynote at ‘Science meets parliament’ hosted by POST, October
 2020; Fleming plenary CEPOL, European Police Research and Science Conference, Lisbon,
 2015 and Australasian Institute of Police Management, Sydney, 2016; Leonard invited keynote
 ‘Gender and Ethnicity at Work’ to senior MPs, Civil Servants and business leaders Cumberland
 Lodge 2016; Meyer invited keynote Association of Occupational Pension Actors (aba in Berlin)
 annual meeting 2015; invited expert at Expert Group Meeting on Family-Sensitive Social
 Protection in Doha, Qatar organised in collaboration with United Nations Economic and Social
 Commission for Western Asia, June 2018, and invited speaker 2018 Tübingen Seminar on Social
 Europe attended by EU policy-makers and senior academics from across Europe; Perelli-Harris
 keynote 18th International Conference of the European Network for the Sociological and
 Demographic Study of Divorce, October 2020; Vaisanen keynote ‘A life course perspective to
 fertility and women’s health’ at the University of Exeter Q-estival, September 2019.
 Organising conferences: We have also been involved in organising major conferences and
 workshops that have helped shape the research agenda. For example:
   •   UoA colleagues in the Centre for Research on Ageing organised the British Society of
       Gerontology conference September 2014, bringing together 500 academics and policy
       makers and practitioners.
   •   UoA colleagues in the NCRM hub led the organisation of the ESRC Research Methods
       Festival at St Catherine’s College Oxford, 2014 and University of Bath 2016 and 2018.
   •   Leonard organised two Conferences at the House of Commons on Gender Equality at
       Work (2014 and 2016) attended by MPs, members of the House of Lords, senior trade
       unionists and charities / third sector representatives such as the Fawcett Society.
   •   Maslovskaya organised an international research conference jointly with ONS ‘The Future
       of Online Data Collection in Social Surveys: Shared learning on the challenges,
       opportunities and best practice’ (June 2019, University of Southampton). The event
       brought together academics, people working in national statistical organisations, data
       collection agencies and government departments.
   •   Perelli-Harris organised a conference on behalf of the International Union for the Scientific
       Study of Population’s scientific panel on New and emerging family forms around the world.
       (Barcelona, 2018).
   •   Roth was one of 3 academics who organised BSA 'Work, Employment and Society' (WES)
       Conference, Belfast 2018 on the theme of ‘Putting Sociology to Work – Interdisciplinarity,
       Intersectionality & Imagination’. During the three-day conference, 250 papers were
       presented by 313 delegates. Delegates came from over 30 countries and represented 143
       different universities.
   •   Walker co-organised the BEARR Trust Annual Conference in London, November 2019 on
       ‘Violence against Women and Girls in Eastern Europe and Central Asia’. The conference
       brought together over 60 representatives of civil society, academia, international
       organisations, lawyers, consultants and students from Moldova, Ukraine, Russia,
       Tajikistan, Georgia, Uzbekistan and the UK.




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   Zhang organised an international conference on Urbanization and Development in China
       (October 2014) and a follow-up meeting with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in
       Southampton in 2019.
 In addition, members of the UoA have presented more than 300 papers at the annual
 conferences of UK learned associations, including the Social Policy Association (SPA), British
 Sociological Association (BSA), WES, MedSoc, British Society of Population Studies (BSPS) and
 the British Society of Gerontology (BSG), as well as their European and International
 counterparts. For example, members of the UoA and PGRs contributed over 20 papers at the
 2017 International Union for the Scientific Study of Population (IUSSP) in Cape Town, South
 Africa.
 4.2 Research Networks and Collaborations
 Within the UK, members of the UoA collaborate with other researchers through the formal
 collaborations, e.g. through the ESRC Centre for Population Change (joint with St Andrews,
 Edinburgh, Stirling and Strathclyde) and the nodes of the ESRC NCRM, and more informally
 through individual research networks and through organising ESRC and World Universities
 Network (WUN) Seminar series with colleagues from other universities. Within Europe, CPC is a
 founding member of Population Europe – a network of Europe’s leading demographic research
 centres - where Falkingham is Chair of the Board of Governors. Fleming is a founding Member
 of the Policing Network Group for the European Criminology Association and Meyer was a board
 member of the Network for European Social Policy Analysis (ESPAnet) from 2008 to 2015.
 Reflecting our strengths in demography, global health and international social policy, in addition
 to working with many European universities active in these areas, we have rich collaborations
 with HEIs across the world, including: the Universities of Ghana, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi,
 Namibia, Zambia; Ibadan (Nigeria); Cape Coast (Ghana); Witwatersrand and Cape Town (South
 Africa); Xiamen, Peking and Nanjing (China); the Institute for Social and Economic Change,
 Bangalore; the Centre for Development Studies, Trivandrum; Jawaharlal Nehru University, New
 Delhi; the International Institute of Population Sciences, Mumbai (India); the Higher School of
 Economics, Moscow (Russia); Federal University of Maranhao, Federal University of Jatai and
 Minas Gerais (Brazil). The UoA has strong links with non-governmental organisations and
 academic institutions such as Wellcome Trust Africa Centre for Health and Population Studies
 (South Africa), African Population Health Research Centre (Kenya), China Population
 Development Research Centre and the Institute for Population and Labour Economics (Chinese
 Academy of Social Sciences). We also work closely with research users, and members of the
 UoA have strong research partnerships with ONS and international agencies such as EBRD,
 WHO, UNECE, UNFPA, and World Bank.
 External Examining of PhDs: In the assessment period, UoA colleagues have examined 80+
 PhDs as external examiner in the UK and abroad (e.g. at ANU Canberra, Barcelona, Bremen,
 Ghent, Groningen, Warsaw).
 4.3 Contributions to the wider research base, economy and society
 Members of the UoA contribute to the UK research base through peer review for funders such as
 ESRC, NIHR, Rowntree, Nuffield, Leverhulme, the Alzheimer’s Society, and the Wellcome Trust,
 and participation in review panels and advisory boards which benefit the wider economy and
 society (as discussed above in our impact strategy).
 Over a quarter of the UoA (12 colleagues) are members of the ESRC Peer Review College.
 Berrington (to 2015), Hill (to 2019) and Vlachantoni (from 2019) have been members of the
 ESRC Grant Assessment Panel; Berrington served on ESRC Secondary Data Analysis
 Commissioning Group (2014-15) and Population Research Resource Steering Group (2019-);
 Edwards ESRC Methods and Infrastructure Committee (to 2015) and ESRC Training and Skills


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Committee (2015-16); invited member of Nuffield Foundation Family Justice Observatory Task
 and Finish Group on quality standards for qualitative research in family justice. Evandrou
 member of NIHR Ageing panel (2018). Falkingham ESRC Council (2015-2020), Chair ESRC
 Grants Delivery Group (2018-), Chair ESRC COVID-19 funding panel (2020-), member ADRUK
 Board (2020-); Meyer member ESRC Governance after Brexit" panel (2018); Perelli-Harris
 Family Topic Champion for the UKHLS Scientific Board; Clifford member Research Advisory
 Group, National Council for Voluntary Organisations; Ugwudike member Research Advisory
 Group Howard League for Penal Reform; Walker member GCRF Youth Futures panel (January
 2020); Leonard was Judge for the Philip Leverhulme Prize in Social Policy 2020.
 Members of the UoA also contribute to the research base internationally through their peer
 reviewing activities for research funders in Austria, Belgium, Canada, Germany, Hong Kong
 Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, South Africa, Spain and the European Research
 Council, and their participation in review panels and advisory boards. For example, Bijak was
 member, ERC Advanced Grants Panel AdG-SH3 (2017-18), and external expert, European
 Asylum Support Office (EASO), Malta, 2017; Evandrou invited by NWO to review postgraduate
 programmes in Gerontology in the Netherlands; Falkingham Chair Open Research Area (ESRC-
 NWO-DFG-ARN) funding panel 2018, 2020; Leonard panel for Volkswagen Foundation Freigeist
 Fellowships 2018, 2019, evaluator for prestigious SARCHI Fellowship, South African Research
 Council; Meyer member, Advisory Board EU Commission FP7 initiative on Strategic Transitions
 for Youth Labour in Europe involving research partners from 25 countries, also member DFG
 panel for major research centre on Global Social Policy; Vlachantoni member (2019) and then
 Chair (2020) review panel for Forte, the Swedish Research Council for Health, Working Life and
 Welfare; Walker panel member (Social Policy, Sociology of Education, Social Problems) Polish
 National Science Centre open grant competition 2020.
 Journal Editorships
 A total of 18 (39%) colleagues (15F,3M) serve(d) as Editors, Associate Editors, or on the Editorial
 Boards of 24 major journals:
   •       Editors-in-Chief: Ageing and Society (Vlachantoni, deputy editor); Criminology and
           Criminal Justice (Lavorgna and Ugwudike, with Gelsthorpe); Demographic Research
           (Bijak); European Review of Organised Crime (Lavorgna); International Journal of Social
           Research Methodology (Edwards); Journal of European Social Policy (Meyer); Policing
           and Society (Fleming); Social Movement Studies (Roth).
   •       Associate Editors/ Editorial Board appointments: Ageing and Society (Schroder-
           Butterfill); British Journal of Criminology (Ugwudike); China Population and Development
           Studies (Falkingham); Critical Policing Studies (Ugwudike); European Journal of
           Population (Perelli-Harris); European Journal of Probation (Ugwudike); Forensic Science
           International: Animals and Environments (Lavorgna); Genealogy (Edwards); International
           Journal of Forecasting (Bijak); Journal of Marriage and the Family (Berrington); Journal of
           Official Statistics (Bijak); Journal of Survey Statistics and Methodology (Maslovskaya);
           PLOS ONE (Channon); Policing and Society (Ugwudike); Springer Nature Humanities &
           Social Sciences (Lavorgna); Social Enterprise Journal (Clifford); Sociology (Leonard,
           Roth, Villares-Varela); Sociological Research Online (Shah); The Sociological Review
           (Roth); Work, Employment and Society (Taylor, Villares-Varela).
 Academic Association Memberships: Colleagues are active members of 40 different national,
 European and international Academic Associations and networks, including BSC, BSG, BSPS,
 SPA and BSA, with many serving on the executive boards. Selected exemplars:
       •    Falkingham President, British Society for Population Studies (2015-2017), President,
            European Association for Population Studies (2018-2020);


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Lavorgna member ECPR Standing Group on Organised Crime executive;
    •   Schroeder-Butterfill co-coordinator and founder of Special Interest Group ‘Ageing in
        Africa, Asia and Latin America’, British Society of Gerontology;
    •   Willis Treasurer British Society of Gerontology (2014-17);
    •   Ugwudike founding member of Race Matters Network (BSC), member British Society of
        Criminology executive (2016-2018);
    •   Vlachantoni member BSPS Council (2017-2022).
 In recognition of their contributions to their disciplines Edwards, Evandrou, Falkingham and
 Leonard are Academicians, Academy of the Social Sciences. Falkingham, Leonard and
 Pathak are Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts.
 Honours: Bijiak was awarded Allianz European Demographer, 2015; Clifford was awarded the
 Philip Leverhulme Prize for Social Policy, 2018; Perelli-Harris was awarded the Dirk J. Van de
 Kaa Award for Social Demography, 2016. Falkingham was awarded the OBE for services to
 Social Sciences in 2015.




                                                                                         Page 20
