Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Manchester
 Unit of assessment: 16 (Economics and Econometrics)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The Unit comprises 38 staff members (35.95 FTE), all within the Department of Economics
 in the School of Social Sciences. It is built around and led by a core group of eminent
 researchers producing world class research, creating impact inside and outside academia,
 who also take leadership roles in the profession which contribute to the public good
 (Banks, Becker, Griffith, Hall, Nicolò, Valentinyi, Wallace). This group has worked with
 others in the Unit to foster a collegiate environment in which less experienced researchers
 can develop, interact, and similarly contribute to the wider profession. We have early and
 mid-career researchers producing world class research on, for example, long run
 macroeconomic growth and development (Palma), the macroeconomics of tax policy
 (Rossi) the microeconomics of tax policy in developing countries (Waseem) and political
 economy and gender issues in development (Chakravarty). More broadly, we also
 collaborate with researchers from many other disciplines at Manchester, within the UK, and
 internationally.

 Over the REF period our focus has been on building the Unit by growing organically; we
 have hired high quality Early Career Researchers (ECRs) and helped them to develop by
 providing a supportive environment with resources, mentoring by senior colleagues and
 visitors at the top of the profession. Our ambition is to continue building a cohesive Unit
 covering the breadth of economics, that is well-integrated and collegiate across sub-
 disciplines, produces internationally recognised high quality research, and is outward
 looking in its interactions with other disciplines and in the way it communicates its research
 findings with all audiences.

 Our strategy has been to prioritise sustainable and ongoing improvements in research
 quality rather than increases in scale or capacity in specific areas. We have focused on
 three fundamental strategic aims:
     1) raise the average quality of research outputs from the Unit and the proportion of
          research outputs published in the best economics journals,
     2) raise the quality of the PhD training programme, and
     3) build on our historically strong track record of impact and policy collaboration.

 To achieve these aims we have made a number of important changes, including:
      reforming structures and incentives in order to promote and reward high quality
        research and collaboration;
      enhancing our mentoring and staff development procedures, including tightening
        up and enforcing probationary requirements; and
      providing additional resources to enable increased hosting of, and participation in,
        international conferences, thereby increasing the profile of our research and
        building partnerships with international and world-leading researchers.

 These changes have created a vibrant, cohesive and dynamic Unit that is more research
 active and producing higher quality research outputs. Two consequences of this increasing
 quality trajectory are the high proportion of our most notable research outputs that were
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 published in the last couple of years of the assessment period, and the number of these
 outputs that come from ECRs who have benefitted from the new enhanced research
 environment. While the total set of returned outputs presents an accurate picture of
 average quality over the assessment period, the increasing quality trajectory within the
 period and the mechanisms and staff in place at its end signal continued improvements to
 come.

 In addition to raising research quality, during the REF period we have:
      established a high bar to recruit new staff and built an increased focus on
         developing the careers of ECRs;
      graduated 65 PhDs, many of whom have secured positions in leading international
         universities or global economic institutions;
      delivered a step-change in national and international advisory roles and in evidence
         and advice provision for policy decisions in key areas including health, ageing,
         productivity, fiscal policy, food safety, macroeconomic policymaking in low and
         middle income countries, and the UK’s COVID-19 response;
      played a formative role in the discipline with regard to the communication of
         economic research to diverse audiences, including policymakers, the
         general public and secondary school students;
      achieved a 65% increase in research income compared to the previous REF
         period, geared by our key role in over £31m worth of interdisciplinary collaborative
         grants; and
      built on our connections with the Institute of Fiscal Studies (IFS), as well as with
         other professional networks such as the Centre for Economic Policy Research
         (CEPR), in order to strengthen our research and impact links and collaborations,
         particularly with respect to our ECRs.

 We have deliberately introduced incremental and structured changes such that the effects
 will be sustainable beyond the REF period. We are committed to a process of building on
 these foundations and continuing to improve the research environment. We aim to
 generate further increases in the quality and quantity of research outputs, increase
 external research funding levels and continue to enhance Manchester’s national and
 international reputation while continuing to generate impact and support interdisciplinary
 research within the wider intellectual context of a Department fully embedded in a School
 of Social Sciences.

 1.1. Research strategy and raising research quality
 A key innovation within this REF period was a change of organisational structure. We
 abolished the previous structure of five semi-autonomous Research Area Groups, each
 with their own Head, and introduced a more inclusive structure with a Research Director
 and a Recruitment Director assisting the Head of Department in an integrated way across
 all research areas. Changing to a role-based leadership team facilitated a more strategic
 approach to managing the Unit’s research agenda and underpins the drive to raise
 research quality and reputation. The Research and Recruitment Directors work with the
 Head of Department to develop a coherent strategy on managing and incentivising good
 research. They also oversee mentoring and staff development. This ensures all our


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activities are informed by a unified and up-to-date view of disciplinary practice and
 standards.

 The new organisational structure provides an environment within which the Research
 Director and Head of Department work together, along with senior professors through
 mentoring and other interactions, to promote a coherent and collective understanding
 across the whole Unit of (i) what makes world-leading research and (ii) what it takes to
 produce and publish research in the best economics journals. Likewise, the Recruitment
 Director works with both the Head of Department and Research Director to develop and
 implement a coherent hiring strategy that prioritises research excellence at every stage
 and which is fully informed by the changing norms and standards of the profession.

 Seminars and other research interactions have been reorganised to reflect this more
 unified and more collegiate structure and research environment. There are three broadly
 distinct, although deliberately overlapping, seminar series: Macroeconomics, Economic
 Theory, and Applied Economics and Econometrics. Fewer seminars, of higher average
 quality, and with more overlap between series gives staff broader perspectives on the
 research questions, methods, and findings that are considered cutting-edge by the
 discipline at large. We have introduced a weekly brown-bag seminar series for researchers
 at all levels to present work in progress, enabling timely feedback from a diverse set of
 colleagues, and reading-group type seminars where groups of researchers can discuss
 recent important contributions in their fields. Together, these reforms have created a more
 vibrant and ambitious research environment.

 In keeping with these changes, and reflecting our view of ongoing developments in the
 discipline, as signalled at REF2014 we have emphasised the development of applied
 research, whether in theory, micro, or macro. We have hired researchers who can
 contribute to two or even three of these core areas thereby generating positive externalities
 in the Unit and creating a more interactive and cooperative research environment. For
 example, in recent years we have built a group spanning macroeconomic development,
 growth, and economic history (Valentinyi, Neanidis, Rossi, Palma). These changes have
 been achieved while maintaining our recognised strengths in mathematical economics and
 econometric theory: specialist areas in which Manchester has a long and distinctive
 tradition of research.

 We improved our mentoring and staff-support provision (details in Section 2.1). These
 processes were revised extensively, bringing greater focus on research agendas and
 publication quality, and engaging more proactively with ECRs and other staff.

 Recognising the value of external engagement in improving research at the work-in-
 progress stage, we actively encourage researchers, and particularly ECRs, to engage with
 national and international research communities (via seminars, high-level conferences,
 research visits, and sabbaticals) and expect all researchers to evidence such activities in
 their annual reviews. We have deliberately helped to connect ECRs to relevant external
 research groups and networks, for instance the ESRC Centre for the Microecononomic
 Analysis of Public Policy at the IFS (where Waseem, Kovacs, and Brown have become
 Research Associates).

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Across the REF period we have doubled individual Research Support Allowances, which
 can be used to help meet the cost of external interactions. Discretionary payments have
 also been made available directly from Departmental funds, prioritised to help resource
 these activities where necessary, particularly for ECRs. Taken together, the Department
 now directly supports over £100,000 of research related expenses each year in addition to
 the other resources available from the University (details in Section 3).

 We have made a number of other strategic changes to improve the research environment.
 We systematically improved our PhD programme, and in 2019 were able to formally switch
 to a 2+3 model, as described in Section 2.3. We have become more deliberate in the way
 that the considerable surpluses from the Manchester School journal (approximately
 £100,000 p.a.) are used to further the Unit’s research objectives (see Sections 2.3 and 3).
 We have hosted several major international conferences to attract world-class researchers
 to Manchester and provide invaluable networking opportunities for our own researchers
 (see Section 4).

 1.2. Interdisciplinary collaboration
 One distinguishing characteristic of the Unit is that it is truly embedded in the School of
 Social Sciences (located in the Faculty of Humanities) and more broadly within the
 University of Manchester (UoM). Our researchers share a building and collaborate with
 colleagues from Anthropology, Sociology, Social Statistics, Politics, and Philosophy in all
 areas of academic life. We continue to have an excellent track record on interdisciplinary
 research interactions and collaborations, across the School, Faculty and University. Since
 2014 Banks, Rigby, and Sinko have all independently co-authored and/or co-supervised
 PhD students with Health Economics and Banks has done the same with Sociology and
 Social Statistics. The Unit’s environmental economists (Ulph, Rigby, Wossink,
 Manderson, Chan) work with many other disciplinary colleagues both inside and outside
 Manchester and two of our development economists Imai and Wang work closely with
 Manchester’s Global Development Institute. Our economic theorists also engage in diverse
 interdisciplinary interactions: Nicolò co-authors with political scientists, health economists,
 and medical scientists, Evstigneev and Schenke-Hoppé with mathematicians, Krol with
 cognitive neuroscientists and visual imagers, and Edhan with biologists. The integration of
 Law and Criminology into the School in 2019 offers potential for further interdisciplinary
 collaborations and interactions.

 These interactions include long-standing infrastructural collaborations. Clark and Peters
 work closely with sociologists and social statisticians in the University’s ESRC and Joseph
 Rowntree funded Centre on the Dynamics of Ethnicity (CoDE), which aims to understand
 ethnic inequality and its drivers in key social arenas and to improve capacity for ethnicity-
 related research in the UK social sciences. Banks is a Co-Director and longstanding
 member of the management board of the University’s Manchester Institute for
 Collaborative Research on Ageing (MICRA) and works with colleagues from across the
 three Faculties to bring together research on ageing from all parts of the University, in
 order to stimulate co-production and collaboration. He also collaborates closely with
 Nazroo and his team in Sociology through their ongoing roles as founding Co-PIs of the
 English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (ELSA). Building on the work conducted under her

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 two ERC advanced grants, Griffith is now Co-PI of the NIHR Obesity Policy Research Unit
 in collaboration with UCL paediatricians, psychologists and epidemiologists.

 These collaborations often result in publications in leading journals of other disciplines not
 returned as outputs for this Unit. We attach high value to such prestigious research outputs
 both in their own right, and also in their ability to deliver future insights to economics and/or
 economic policymaking. High-quality applied interdisciplinary research is often a rich
 source of impact, and many such collaborations are closely linked to our impact agenda,
 described next.

 1.3. Impact
 Impact is a strength of the Unit, and it continues to be an important component of our
 environment. A key condition for successful impact is that the research agenda is informed
 by the priorities of research users in different tiers of policymaking institutions. Hence we
 prioritise supporting and promoting links to such institutions where possible. The range of
 our impact is illustrated in our four submitted impact cases, which demonstrate
 engagement with a range of policy stakeholders in the UK and internationally, across the
 fields of health (Griffith on obesity, Nicolò on donor organ transplants), social (Banks on
 ageing and pensions) and macroeconomic policy (Agénor and Neanidis on banking and
 finance). In addition, our strong interactions with policymakers connect our research
 agenda to questions uppermost in the minds of local, national, and international
 policymakers. Some of these arise from our ongoing interdisciplinary infrastructural
 commitments described above. Through CoDE, for example, Clark and Peters are
 involved in delivering a robust and useful evidence-base for policymakers and the wider
 public and working with institutions seeking to improve their practices in relation to ethnic
 diversity.

 We strategically invested in an additional professorial post specifically to help deliver policy
 influence and impact regionally and nationally, to which Coyle was appointed in 2014.
 During her time here (2014-2018) Coyle co-directed Policy@Manchester, the University’s
 leading policy engagement institute, and generated impact directly in her subsequent roles
 as a member of the Expert Panel of the National Infrastructure Commission and the
 Natural Capital Committee.

 Other interactions with policymakers and practitioners are widely distributed across the
 Unit, spanning many areas including: gender, macrodevelopment policy, and growth
 (Agénor), productivity (Coyle, Griffith), tax policy in low and middle income countries
 (Waseem), food standards and safety (Rigby), EU regulation of the digital economy
 (Reggiani), central banking and macroprudential policy (Agénor, Rossi, Bratsiosis,
 Neanidis), regional industrial policy and the Northern Powerhouse (Coyle), the digital
 economy (Coyle), and hedge fund management and asset allocation strategies (Schenke-
 Hoppé, Evstigneev). These links enhance impact from pre-existing research while
 directing research agendas towards ones that will deliver impact beyond this REF period,
 building a platform of connections through which such impact can be transmitted on a
 sustainable basis.

 We are proactive in providing resources that support activities to enhance the impact
 accruing from research. Over the assessment period Coyle and Banks have advised

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers on impact strategies and encouraged them to take advantage of resources
 available to support activities that might lead to impact. They liaise closely with the
 School’s full-time Knowledge Exchange, Impact, and Business Engagement Officers who
 facilitate and support such activities. As a result we have received four ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Account awards (total: £ 34,000) over the period which help finance specific
 impact activities. Rigby received £19k for a project on improving children’s understanding
 of food pathogen risks, Backus for work on the fundraising effectiveness of charities (£5k),
 Banerjee to work with local political stakeholders in India on issues of politicians’
 motivations (£5k), and Griffith received £5k (with £5k matched funding from the IFS) for
 activities relating to communicating economics to students and the public.

 1.4. Open access and research integrity
 We are committed to open access and the highest standards of research ethics and
 integrity. As is the convention in economics, researchers are encouraged to disseminate
 open access pre-publication versions of manuscripts as widely as possible through freely
 downloadable working paper series. All accepted manuscripts are immediately transmitted
 to the library’s open access team who ensure they are put through full open access
 procedures, including arranging payment for gold access where appropriate. While issues
 of research ethics are less relevant for economic theory or applied research using publicly
 available aggregate or anonymised data, we are nevertheless fully attentive to them and
 take care to adhere to the highest standards of research ethics and data security where
 relevant. Rigby, Banks, Banerjee and Nicolò are all involved in projects designing and
 carrying out data collection, often in the area of health or health behaviours, and are
 experienced in ensuring that all such activities are scrutinised by the relevant ethics
 committees, whether at Manchester or in the locality/jurisdiction where the research is
 conducted. Waseem uses large administrative tax records and Banks uses individual level
 biomarker or genetic data; each has the appropriate training and complies with the legal,
 data security, and access requirements necessary to use such data safely. Moreover, the
 University provides mandatory GDPR and ethics training for all staff renewed biennially.

 We monitor and promote research integrity through the annual review processes described
 in section 2.1. Senior members of the Unit are also leaders in the discipline with respect to
 research integrity, and act to promote the highest standards in the profession as a whole.
 Banks was a member of, and then subsequently chaired, the joint ESRC, MRC,
 Wellcome, CRUK Expert Advisory Committee on Data Access and Governance over the
 period of its existence 2012-2018, and is the economist representative on the recently
 established ESRC Expert Advisory Board for Data and Infrastructure, Skills and Methods.
 He was also a member of the European Economic Association (EEA) subcommittee
 tasked with creating an official position and guidance on research ethics and research
 integrity in economics. As President of the Royal Economic Society (RES), Griffith helped
 form a working group involving the RES, ONS, ESRC, and RSS to monitor and facilitate
 the reproducibility and replicability of economic research, particularly research using
 administrative data. As a current member of RES council, Wallace is also involved in
 ongoing strategic discussions of research integrity and training in the economics
 profession.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5. The future
 Our future strategic aims are focused on continuing the direction of travel outlined above
 and leveraging the gains in quality into the increased international reputation and impact
 that will flow from higher quality researchers and research. As the Unit’s research quality
 and international reputation grow, we will prioritise supporting applications for greater
 levels of external research income, thus increasing the Unit’s research capacity and
 ambition even further. At the same time, we will remain alert to possibilities for further
 strategic and structural action, taking into account external changes in the discipline as
 well as internal opportunities and challenges.

 We will continue to build capacity in applied research, bringing researchers to the group
 whose specific expertise in microeconomics, macroeconomics, or theory spills over into
 applied sub-disciplines and applications, thus further connecting researchers in a cohesive,
 interactive, and collaborative research environment. We will build the group researching
 long-run growth and productivity issues from macroeconomic, macroeconometric, applied
 microeconomic, and economic history perspectives. We will also further support and
 enhance the group studying various aspects of development economics and policy,
 building on our existing researchers working on tax policy, evaluation and human capital in
 developing countries, macroeconomic development policy, and more specific micro-
 development issues.

 2. People
 2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development
 There has been considerable staff turnover in recent years and we have a staff profile that
 is both earlier career, more international and higher quality as a result. Consistent with our
 strategy of a feasible and sustainable improvement in average research quality, our
 primary focus has been on the way in which we recruit and retain staff at the junior level.

 The Department moved to a hiring timetable aligned with the international job market for
 junior recruitment in economics in 2012. Since 2014 we have invested substantial
 additional resources and energy in attending and hiring from the US and UK/European job
 markets. In keeping with best practice, we longlist at least 70 candidates and interview
 them at the international job market conferences. The hiring committee compiles a detailed
 and targeted shortlist of ten or so candidates. We then use full-day campus visits to select
 from the shortlist at the second stage, allowing the candidates to experience the
 environment and meet potential future colleagues.

 Identifying good candidates is only the start; we also offer a new starter package that is
 competitive and conducive to research. In order to attract high quality candidates and
 enable them to begin their career on the right trajectory with sufficient time to write up their
 job market paper and begin new projects, we introduced a heavily reduced teaching load
 for new staff in their first two years. This involves only one course in their first year and two
 in their second, coupled with a commitment to enable them to teach in areas closely
 aligned with their research interests and expertise. The probationary period prior to
 confirmation in a permanent post is relatively short (four years maximum) but the bar is
 clearly identified and rigorously enforced.


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The market for junior researchers is very competitive; we prioritise making strong,
 supportive offers to high quality people. As a result, we have often been competing with
 other higher profile departments. We have been successful in many cases (Kazak in
 econometrics, Palma in economic history, Kovacs in applied microeconomics, and a
 a further three ECRs who took up their positions in 2020/21: Fliegner, Brown, and Mitra),
 suggesting we are pitching at the right level to improve quality at a realistic pace.

 In line with developments in the discipline, we use postdoctoral positions to provide a more
 flexible approach to junior recruitment and staff development. We have successfully
 applied to the UoM’s Hallsworth Fund to host postdoctoral positions locally, and, as is
 becoming common in economics, we delayed start dates to allow some of our new
 appointments to take advantage of prestigious postdoctoral opportunities prior to joining
 us. For instance, Fliegner (PhD Toulouse, 2019) took up a postdoc at J-PAL in MIT and
 Mitra (PhD UBC, 2020) a postdoc at EUI. This makes our offer more competitive and
 provides valuable research experience for our new recruits.

 To support our hiring, we reconfigured our staff development strategy for ECRs. We
 enhanced and reformed our mentoring programme so that only the most research active
 and well-published senior staff act as mentors. In addition to prioritising an interactive
 research environment within the Unit we help connect ECRs to relevant external research
 networks (e.g., Waseem, Kovacs, and Brown to the IFS). We also introduced more robust
 and rigorous probation processes and requirements in order to identify and retain ECRs
 who have demonstrated the potential to deliver top research outputs. The benefits of this
 strategy have been playing out over the past seven years with great success. Two
 researchers successfully came through the new system and contributed important papers
 to our REF submission as a result, but recently moved on internationally for personal
 reasons (Cortes, Cho), while some were not retained having failed to meet the research
 quality and/or productivity requirements at probation. Others were successfully retained
 and have now published work in leading journals as they transition to mid-career
 researchers; 12 Department members have been promoted since 2014, sometimes on an
 accelerated timetable (e.g., Waseem joined July 2014 as lecturer, promoted to reader in
 2019; Palma joined 2017 as lecturer, promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2020).

 At the senior level, a number of professors retired and were successfully replaced by
 research-active professors whose appointments were a key part of delivering various
 elements of the new departmental structure and strategic objectives (Coyle, Valentinyi,
 Wallace, Schenke-Hoppé). The part-time appointments of US-based Yannelis and
 Villamil came to a natural end and, rather than replace these, we constituted new Sir John
 Hicks/William Stanley Jevons Visiting Professor positions in 2019 to allow internationally
 leading and eminent research-active professors to visit for short concentrated periods of
 time to give a series of lectures and masterclasses, and interact with our researchers. The
 first two of these were Tim Besley (LSE) and Richard Rogerson (Princeton). Besley visited
 in autumn 2019; Rogerson’s visit was scheduled for 2020, but has been postponed.

 We have enhanced the process for supporting and monitoring staff development to
 facilitate improvements in research quality and productivity. All new ECRs are appointed a
 mentor, and we provide dedicated career development guidance for early career

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues as they apply for probation and promotion. During probation, new appointments
 undertake the mandatory Humanities New Academics Programme which includes five
 modules on research-related skills and have a reduced teaching load. All academics and
 research staff receive an annual Performance and Development Review with one of the
 Professors from the senior leadership team. This process now involves the preparation
 and detailed discussion of a Personal Research Expectations Plan outlining research
 agendas, status updates for work in progress alongside publication and impact strategies,
 and more tentative future ideas. This allows the senior members of the Unit to engage with
 and advise on plans and strategies to publish research outputs in the best journals whilst
 the research is still at a formative stage. As well as helping to construct objectives and
 goals for the coming year, reviewers can identify specific actions to enhance research
 quality and help staff identify relevant resources and support in the Department and
 School.

 We have an active sabbatical programme, entitling every member of the Unit to apply for
 one semester of sabbatical in every seven, with entitlements able to be rolled over and/or
 accumulated. In line with our aim to increase research quality, applications for sabbatical
 need to be underpinned by a detailed research plan. These plans are discussed with the
 applicant’s mentor and/or reviewer to ensure the best use of sabbatical entitlement in
 generating new high quality research. A sabbatical approvals group including the Research
 Director and Head of Department considers these applications in the light of the applicant’s
 medium run research goals and the longer run research goals of the Unit. 54 semesters of
 sabbatical leave were granted during this REF period.

 2.2. Diversity
 The Unit is relatively diverse ethnically and nationally; of our 38 members 6 are BAME
 (17.5% FTE), 28 were born outside of the UK, of which 16 were born outside of the EU. As
 with the discipline generally, its female/male ratio is low: 10.5% of REF eligible staff are
 women. While the rates are lowest among mid-career researchers (17% of Lecturers are
 women, 14% of Professors), we are working to redress the gender balance at all career
 stages whenever possible. In the 2019 and 2020 job markets we made a deliberate and
 specific effort to prioritise the selection of applications from women at the longlisting stage.
 Women were recruited to four of the five ECR openings in the three most recent job
 markets.

 We are also committed to improving gender diversity and pipeline in the profession more
 widely, for example by recruiting a higher fraction of female PhD students. While our PhD
 programme has been 41% female over the period as a whole (see section 2.3) this is on
 an improving trajectory; at least 50% of each of the three most recent intakes has been
 female. As President of the Royal Economic Society (RES), Griffith worked with Sarah
 Smith at Bristol to design and launch the RES Diversity in Economics campaign. Finally,
 supported by the School we continue to address gender diversity issues in all our actions.
 The School was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze status in 2017, is working towards Silver
 in 2021, and improving staff and student diversity is one of the School’s core strategic
 objectives.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3. Research Students
 Our research culture is enriched by our postgraduate community, whose members are key
 players in our collective intellectual life. Since 2014, UoA staff supervised 65 (53.5 FTE)
 PhD students to successful completion. We are currently supervising a further 31 PhD
 students.

 We are part of the ESRC North-West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership
 (NWSSDTP) which typically funds one or two ESRC studentships per year in economics,
 including one CASE award joint with the Bank of England. In addition, many students
 receive full funding from the School. We use Manchester School surpluses strategically to
 attract excellent students via scholarships, to cover job-market expenses for selected
 students, and to support students financially with RA opportunities. In order to compete for
 better students, we have increased the number of Department-funded scholarships we
 offer over and above the scholarships funded by the School and the ESRC. In total, 12
 students have received ESRC funding and 30 have been funded by the university.

 Throughout this process we have paid keen attention to ensuring we retain the diversity of
 our intake, which has always been an area of strength. Since 2014 the entrants to the PhD
 programme have been 62% BAME, 41% female, and 83% international (of which 75%
 were non-EU born).

 As part of our strategy to raise all aspects of research quality in the Unit, we have worked
 to improve the entry quality of our PhD cohorts and focused on areas more aligned with
 the Unit’s strengths, even if this means smaller intakes. As a result, the size of each cohort
 has fallen from around 12-15 to 7-10 students per year. Reducing entry numbers and
 targeting scholarship allocation has enabled us to prioritise supervision responsibilities for
 staff with a track record of research excellence and a comprehensive understanding of the
 levels of training, expertise, and contribution that are now expected in the field.
 Each student has an experienced supervisory team of at least two academic staff.
 Academic supervision is supported through a supervisor toolkit, combined with training for
 all new supervisors. The University’s bespoke online student progression system, ‘eProg’,
 provides a platform to record and track key progression milestones from registration to
 examination, to exchange documents for comment and feedback even when off-campus,
 and to view and book training activities.

 We have adapted, modernised, and improved the PhD programme. Crucially, we have
 moved from a 2+2 to a 2+3 model for the 2019 cohort onwards and received ESRC
 recognition for funding purposes. While still short relative to the best Economics PhD
 programmes, this model gives students who want (and have the potential) to aim for
 academic careers more time to complete the kind of comprehensive research paper
 required to compete on the international job market.

 For students completing their PhDs between 2014 and 2020 the programme had a 2+2
 structure. Throughout the second 2-year phase, students were expected to present at the
 Department’s weekly PhD-student seminar series, providing a supportive forum for
 discussion and feedback on work in progress. All students are encouraged to present their
 research in the brown-bag and in field seminars at our NWSSDTP partner institutions.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We run two annual conferences for PhD students. At the end of year one in the +2
 research phase students are expected to present their first preliminary paper; towards the
 end of year two, students must present a different, more polished, paper. This latter
 conference is held jointly with all the students at an equivalent stage in the Economics
 pathway of the NWSSDTP (i.e., Manchester, Lancaster and Liverpool). The conference
 includes presentations from internationally renowned keynote speakers (e.g., Peter
 Wakker (2016), Jeff Wooldridge (2017), Evi Pappa (2018)) who, along with researchers
 from all three partner universities, participate in the whole conference giving advice and
 feedback and providing valuable networking opportunities.

 In 2018 the NWSSDTP Economics pathway introduced an annual summer school for PhD
 students, hosted at Lancaster. The first was on the topic of applied microeconomics, with
 lectures given by Sascha Becker (Warwick), Ruben Durante (Sciences Po & UPF), and
 Hannes Mueller (IAE-CSIC). The 2019 summer school on applied macroeconometrics and
 time series featured lecturers James Morley (Sydney) and Luca Gambetti (Universitat
 Autonoma de Barcelona).

 We have doubled the research training support grants available to all full-time PhD
 students to £1,000 per year (pro-rata for part time students) to encourage student
 participation in academic conferences and similar events to both promote their research
 and advance their career prospects. Students and their supervisors are encouraged to bid
 for other Departmental, School, or Faculty support for specific training or development-
 related activities.

 Given the constraints a 2+2 model places on students entering the international academic
 job market in economics, we encourage many of our students to take postdoctoral
 positions while their job-market papers continue to take shape. For example, PhD students
 have taken postdoctoral positions at Sciences Po (Xu), York (Sayli), Glasgow (McGinnis),
 Oxford (Masimo, Malaeb), and the Stockholm School of Economics (Margaris). We have
 launched a competitively awarded teaching fellowship programme to enhance students’
 development. These fellowships provide funded time beyond the two-year funding
 constraint for selected students to improve their job-market paper and write up their thesis,
 allowing them to go to the job market later with a more competitive product. The first two
 beneficiaries of these fellowships went to the job market successfully in 2019, accepting
 research positions at the LSE behavioural economics group (Moran) and the Bank of
 Spain research group (Pidkuyko) respectively.

 In addition to training new academics, a key role of our PhD programme is to provide
 training for those pursuing a career as a professional economist in government or industry.
 Hence a further indicator of success is the number of PhD students who take such
 positions. As well as making important contributions to economic policymaking in their own
 right, these students play a key role connecting the Unit’s researchers to international
 policymaking institutions, providing opportunities for future collaborations, networking and
 impact. Ten students completing their PhDs since 2014 have gone on to work as
 economists at, e.g., the International Monetary Fund (Primus, Saliba), the World Bank
 (Rodriguez Takeuchi), the African Development Bank (Adama, Chuku), the Centre for

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Latin American Monetary Studies (Mosquera Tarrio), the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
 (Pathirage), and the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (Tajudeen).

 This strategy has led to a smaller, higher quality programme delivering better students to
 the job market, with better chances of securing good positions, either as academics or
 professional economists in government departments or international organisations. Again,
 consistent with our improving trajectory over the REF period, our students’ placements in
 recent years have already improved relative to the earlier part of the period (in the last
 three years, students have placed in research positions at the Stockholm School of
 Economics, London School of Economics, World Bank, and Bank of Spain, for example).
 Naturally, given the time it takes to complete a PhD, we expect most of the benefits only to
 realise fully in future years.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 External Funding
 Research income rose by 65%, to £3.71m from £2.25m in REF2014, despite the returned
 Unit being smaller (35.95 FTE vs 45.2 FTE). Controlling for differences in Unit size and the
 length of the reference period this represents a 50% increase (from £9.7k per FTE per year
 to £14.7k per FTE per year). Within this improvement Research Council income rose from
 £1m to £1.8m.

 A wide set of investigators and funders contributed to this total, including new large awards
 from diverse funders such as the Food Standards Agency (‘Estimating QALY and WTP
 values for microbiological foodborne disease’, Rigby), ESRC Future Leaders scheme
 (‘Does informality hinder self-enforcement? Evidence from VAT in Pakistan’, Waseem),
 ESRC/DFID Growth Research Programme (‘Financial Volatility, Macroprudential
 Regulation and Economic Growth in Low-Income Countries’, Agénor and Neanidis), ERC
 FP7 Framework on Cooperation Programme (‘Rethinking Finance for Stability and
 Development’, Neanidis), and Unilever (‘Driving consistency in sustainable choice
 behaviour’, Ulph).

 The total includes a share of several recent large collaborative interdisciplinary and/or
 multi-institutional grants, where our researchers are acting in key Co-I, Co-PI or PI
 capacities, totalling over £31m. Interdisciplinary grants within Manchester include ‘Green
 infrastructure to promote health and wellbeing in an ageing population’, NERC, total value
 £641k, (Wossink); ‘UK Energy Research Centre Phase 3’, EPSRC, total value £253k,
 (Manderson); ‘DAMS 2.0: Design and assessment of resilient interventions in water-
 energy-food-environment megasystems’, ESRC, total value £4.3m, (Imai). Cross-
 institutional, and in many cases interdisciplinary, collaborative grants where our
 researchers are acting in leadership (PI or Co-PI) capacities include the ESRC Centre for
 Microeconomic Analysis of Public Policy, c. £10m over 5 years (Banks, Griffith), NIA/UK
 Government funded English Longitudinal Study of Ageing, c. £10m over 5 years (Banks),
 ERC ‘Empirical evidence on the formation of habits and self-control in food choice’, £1m,
 (Griffith) and NIHR ‘Policy Research on Obesity’, c. £5m over 5 years (Griffith),
 discussed in more detail in Section 4 as part of our contribution to the research base.

 We provide direct support for raising external research income. The Research Director and
 Head of Department disseminate funding opportunities and engage in carefully targeted
                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approaches to specifically identified researchers. The purpose of the funding call, the
 career-stage and quality of the potential applicant’s research, and the other demands on
 their time (including existing grant commitments) are taken into account. As part of our
 staff development and mentoring processes, and as the pool of researchers with
 successful track records of raising external funding grows, we use these targeted
 approaches to connect individuals to others so they can share specific knowledge and best
 practice on grant writing and management.

 Targeted approaches to staff, carried out well in advance of call deadlines and
 complemented by explicit discussions about how we can provide support should the
 funding application be successful, have proven successful in encouraging more, higher
 quality applications. Given the improving trajectory of the Unit, we expect this approach to
 generate further benefits in the future. This approach enables us to take advantage of
 institutional resources available to support the development of high quality proposals and
 funding bids; it creates a long term planning horizon in which we can ensure staff have
 adequate time to spend on their funded projects, thereby increasing incentives and
 removing disincentives to apply for external funding.

 Staff are supported at all stages of the funding process through the School’s Research
 Services team. One of the School’s four Research Support Officers has primary
 responsibility for the Unit. This service provides support for staff navigating and
 coordinating research funding systems in general. School and Faculty resources assist
 researchers putting together proposals. These include enhanced support for grant writing,
 with a full time grant writer available to help draft elements requiring no disciplinary
 expertise, and small seedcorn-type awards to fund tentative collaborations leading to
 future proposals. We received £7.5k from such funds in the assessment period, with three
 grants to support new collaborations exploring funding possibilities and one explicitly
 supporting the grant process. The latter case serves as a useful example of the value
 small seedcorn funding can play: Reggiani obtained £2k to support an RA in scraping, and
 carrying out a textual analysis of, social media data as part of developing a collaborative
 funding application to ESRC/EPSRC with colleagues from Computer Science.

 Once grants are awarded we reduce researchers’ other duties (including teaching)
 proportionately reflecting the extra time commitments that substantive funded research
 brings. While support with the preparation of financial aspects of proposals has always
 been available, we recognised that there was traditionally little support once the grant was
 in place. Hence in 2018, the School established a separate Grant Management and
 Administration Team (GMAT) to help with the high administrative burden of running an
 externally-funded project. GMAT staff help with all aspects of grant management outside of
 the research itself, including budgeting, financial reporting, liaising with funders regarding
 timetabling and reporting, and hiring and management of staff if relevant. Finally, the
 School’s Impact Support Officers work with grantees from the outset, identifying potential
 activities that enhance the impact of the research and helping obtain support for such
 activities from the School or Faculty. As highlighted in Section 1.3, we received £34k of
 such additional support for impact-related activities over the period.

 Externally funded research projects are also supported by the School’s dedicated External
 Relations Office. The team of 4.4 FTE staff provide full service and assist with conference

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organisation, workshops, and public engagement. Thus the dissemination activities
 commensurate with external funding are increasingly well supported.

 3.2 Internal Funding
 In addition to our external research income, we take advantage of internal institutional
 School and Faculty resources to develop and conduct research projects. Some of these
 resources support or incentivise applications for external income as discussed above, but
 others are simply to build collaborations, provide funding to kickstart new research activity,
 or to promote existing research activity and research networks more generally. These are
 in addition to the small grant-related funding identified above, and can cover diverse
 research activities. Evstigneev won £24k from the UoM’s interdisciplinary seedcorn
 competition to collaborate with Mathematics in the area of mathematical economics and
 finance; Edhan won £7.8k from the Humanities Strategic Investment Fund (HSIF) to
 support his research on ‘Germs and Economic Behaviour’; Hall won £7.5k HSIF seedcorn
 funding to develop collaborative research with health economists modelling links between
 physical activity and health.

 Internal funding is also available to support international conferences, thereby building
 international collaborations and networks, and indirectly leading to greater future research
 productivity and enhanced international reputation. Wossink won £20k from the Hallsworth
 Conference Fund to support the annual European Association of Environmental and
 Resource Economists (EAERE) conference in 2019; Palma and Wang won £19k from the
 same source to fund a two-day international conference on State Capacity in November
 2019. Manchester School funds are used strategically to provide further targeted support,
 e.g., for the CEPR’s annual Macroeconomics meeting in 2018, the EAERE 2019
 conference, and the EEA and Econometric Society European Meetings (ESEM)
 congresses in 2019 (details in Section 4).

 Finally, School funding for small additional costs involved in converting potentially
 internationally excellent research into world-leading research has also been successfully
 obtained and targeted towards promising ECR’s projects (e.g., Palma, enabling him to
 recruit RAs for essential archival data work in Portugal).

 This internal support plays a crucial role covering small but discrete research costs, such
 as research assistance, one-off data acquisition costs, or the costs of engaging with
 collaborators. Taken together, individual research support allowances, departmental
 discretionary research funds (totalling c. £140k p.a.) and the Manchester School’s revenue
 (c. £100k p.a.), with the latter two both being used strategically to support activities raising
 research quality and enhancing its reputation and visibility, create an environment where
 researchers can access substantial financial resources to support their research or its
 development. The Research Director, Head of Department, and the Manchester School’s
 Managing Editor work together to ensure these resources are targeted effectively across
 the Unit, particularly toward ECRs who may be yet to raise external funding, enabling them
 to engage in all aspects of research and research development and ensuring their careers
 begin on as steep an upward trajectory as possible.

 3.3 Physical Infrastructure and Facilities

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In keeping with Manchester’s leading national reputation in computing science and
 technology, all the Unit’s researchers have access to three on-campus platforms for
 computationally intensive research: the Computational Shared Facility, the Condor Pool
 and the Interactive Computational Shared Facility. These provide the tools to run multi-
 core and high memory computational jobs. As an example of the value of this, Macnamara
 and Rossi use these facilities intensively in research projects building macroeconomic
 models of consumption and income dynamics and inequality with heterogeneous agents
 for the design of tax policy.

 From November 2019 we have had access to a new laboratory for experimental research.
 In 2017, Zank collaborated with behavioural science researchers at the Alliance
 Manchester Business School (AMBS) to develop the case for a Faculty-wide experimental
 laboratory as part of Manchester’s bid to the UK Research Partnership Investment Fund.
 The successful £9.6m bid resulted in the creation of a new Behavioural Research
 Laboratory located within AMBS. This state-of-the-art facility for studying human behaviour
 in a controlled setting provides a dedicated space that the Unit’s researchers can use to
 conduct lab experiments or other participant-based research activities. It includes 43
 networked computers in cubicles designed to allow participants to undertake individual
 tasks or participate in larger interactions, two individual testing rooms, a dedicated ante-
 room for focus groups, observations and subject briefings, and specialist equipment for
 eye-tracking and the measurement of other physiological reactions.

 The internationally acclaimed University Library, one of 5 HEFCE National Research
 Libraries has considerably enhanced its online facilities and digital resources for research
 staff whether they are on- or off-campus (Section 4, REF5a). Researchers now have
 access to journal articles as if they were sitting on campus, regardless of location or
 hardware, through the Lean Library browser add-on. The Library provides comprehensive
 support for Open Access and takes full responsibility for the management of all stages of
 the process once an output has been accepted for publication (Section 2.5 REF5a).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research base
 We have aimed to build an environment which encourages interaction, collaboration and
 contribution to the public good, both in academia and also with users and funders of
 research outside academia. Within the profession, we are involved in many activities that
 make strong contributions to the research base and to the organisation and management
 of the economics profession. As a prime example, we are now strongly embedded in the
 discipline’s learned societies. Griffith was President of the EEA in 2015 (the first woman to
 hold this role), and President of the RES in 2018-19 (only the second woman to hold this
 role). Nicolò is President of the Association of Southern Economic Theorists 2019-2021.
 Banks was, and Wallace is, on RES Council. Wallace chaired the review of the RES
 Easter School for ECRs and led the working group awarding the franchise to University of
 Bristol; he also serves on the Steering Committee of the Conference of Heads of University
 Departments of Economics (CHUDE). Griffith, an elected Fellow of the British Academy,
 chaired its Economics Section (2012-2014) and Coyle is a Trustee of CEPR. Palma
 was elected Trustee, Council, and Executive member of the Economic History Society in
 2019. We are also firmly connected to some of the top collaborative research institutions

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and networks in economics, specifically: the IFS (Banks, Griffith, Waseem, Kovacs), the
 US National Bureau of Economic Research (Banks, Valentinyi), and the CEPR (Griffith,
 Palma, Valentinyi, Waseem).

 Since 2014, our researchers have served as editors of the Economic Journal (Griffith),
 Manchester School (Valentinyi), Review of Development Economics (Imai), Theory and
 Decision (Nicolò), Journal of Dynamics and Games (Nicolò), Journal of Financial
 Econometrics (Hall), Journal of Econometric Methods (Hall), and the European Review of
 Agricultural Economics (Wossink) and on the editorial boards of many more, for example
 Econometrica (Griffith), Economic Journal (Wallace) and Journal of Pension Economics
 and Finance (Banks).

 We have devoted substantial effort to generating interactions with the international
 economics research community, aiming to put Manchester at the centre of academic
 gatherings in UK economics outside London and the South East, while simultaneously
 raising the profile of the Unit and its researchers. We hosted the 2015 RES Annual
 Conference (c. 800 delegates), the 2019 joint EEA/ESEM Congress (c. 1500 delegates),
 and the 2019 EAERE Annual Conference (c. 750 delegates). As well as hosting and hence
 acting as local organisers for these conferences, Banks was Program Chair of RES 2015
 and Wossink was Scientific Co-Chair at EAERE 2019, for which Wossink and Ulph also
 Co-Chaired the Organising Committee.

 We also host smaller scale, more targeted, high-quality workshops, attended by
 international leaders in the field, again increasing our contributions to, and standing in, the
 profession. For example, we hosted the prestigious annual CEPR Macroeconomics
 meeting, co-organised by Valentinyi (and co-funded by Manchester School), in 2018 and
 we are hosting the 2020/21 Review of Economics Studies May meetings (the 2020 and
 2021 meetings have been combined owing to COVID-19). We also ran two series of
 regular and well-attended international conferences in economic theory: the annual
 Manchester Economic Theory conference (organised by Zank) and a sequence of three
 conferences in Mathematical Economics and Finance (organised by Evstigneev in 2017-
 2019) that bring together senior and junior researchers to exchange ideas, collaborate, and
 build networks over a 2-3 day period.

 We contribute to major conferences held elsewhere. In addition to numerous keynote and
 invited conference lectures, our senior researchers gave 9 keynote lectures at annual
 meetings of major international or national economic associations over the REF period,
 e.g., at EEA (Griffith), the New Zealand Association of Economists (Coyle), the
 Australasian meetings of the Econometric Society (Hall). Griffith chaired and/or
 contributed to the women’s mentoring sessions of the EEA (2015-2019) and RES (2016-
 2019) annual conferences. We are active in promoting research methods for international
 ECRs in the fields of time series econometrics and ageing respectively as tutors at the 10th
 Advanced Summer School in Econometrics at the University of Crete (Hall, 2015) and the
 Venice International University Summer School on Ageing (Banks, 2016, 2019).

 Funding secured from the University’s Hallsworth Visiting Professors scheme allowed us to
 invite a series of high-profile senior economists to visit Manchester, collaborate with our

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers, give lectures to PhD students, and participate in conferences and workshops
 organised to coincide with their visits. Hallsworth Visiting Professors in this REF period
 were: Mohammed Abdellaoui (HEC-Paris), Mardi Dungey (ANU), Edi Karni (JHU),
 Massimo Morelli (Columbia, now Bocconi), Karine Nyborg (Oslo), James Foster (GWU),
 and Jarwad Noor (BU). We supplement this scheme with strategic use of Manchester
 School funding, inviting world-leading researchers for short visits to give masterclasses or
 presentations in the occasional Manchester Economic Seminar series and interact with our
 researchers. Several researchers have longstanding collaborations with other international
 institutions, e.g., Rigby is adjunct professor at the University of Western Australia, Hall is
 Distinguished Adjunct Professor and Member of the Advisory Board at the Info-Metrics
 Institute, American University, Washington DC.

 4.2. Society and the economy
 For much of the assessment period the Unit contained two of the most distinguished and
 high-profile female economists in the country and internationally, and their contributions to
 the discipline and to society more generally have been recognised with numerous awards.
 While at Manchester, Coyle was elected Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences and
 appointed Fellow of the Office for National Statistics (2016), received the inaugural Indigo
 Prize (2017), and a CBE for services to Economics and the Public Understanding of
 Economics (2018). Amongst numerous awards and honours, Griffith received the Birgit
 Grodal Award (2014), a CBE for services to Economic Policy (2015), was elected fellow of
 the Econometric Society (2016) and fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (2017), and
 made Foreign Honorary Member of the American Economic Association (2020). Her
 contributions were also formally recognised by the University with the Researcher of the
 Year Distinguished Achievement Award (2014) for research that has successfully
 challenged dogma, created a new field of research, elucidated a new paradigm, and made
 a fundamental change in thinking or impacted significantly on society.

 Banks and Griffith each contribute broadly to the national economics infrastructure and
 research base through their roles as Co-Directors of the ESRC Centre for the Analysis of
 Public Policy at the IFS. This centre has secured long-run UKRI Institute status (c. £10m
 every 5 years). They also play a key role in setting the broad research agenda of the IFS,
 which comprises some 60 FTE economists and is the highest profile economics policy
 laboratory in the UK. They run additional large grants generating extensive cross-
 institutional collaborations and engagement. Griffith has held two ERC Senior Investigator
 grants, and is Co-PI of a Public Health England Research Unit on Child Obesity (joint with
 UCL and ICH, £5m every 5 years). Banks is Co-PI on the English Longitudinal Study of
 Ageing (joint with Nazroo in Manchester Sociology, UCL, and IFS, £10m every 5 years)
 and a Co-PI for the Deaton Review on Inequality funded by the Nuffield Foundation (c.
 £4.5m over 5 years).

 We are strongly connected to research funders and contribute to the discipline, and
 research infrastructure more generally, through our activities in this capacity. Griffith is a
 member of ESRC Council, as was Coyle while at Manchester, and has twice chaired the
 ERC research-funding panel in Economics and Management. Banks is a Trustee of the
 Nuffield Foundation, a strategic advisor to the ESRC on its Longitudinal Data Strategy and
 was a member of the US National Institute on Aging Behaviour and Social Research Data

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure Review (2015-2016). Since 2019 he has been Expert Advisor to the ESRC
 on Data and Infrastructure, Skills and Methods and in 2020 was appointed to the UKRI
 Infrastructure Advisory Committee. Agénor served as an Evaluator of the ESRC World
 Economy and Finance programme and as a member of the Panel of Experts and Co-Chair
 of the Selection Committee for a GRCF funding call. Finally, and reflecting the international
 nature of our researchers, we are connected to international research councils and
 research funding bodies. Since 2014 our researchers have sat on expert review panels for
 national science funders in Switzerland, Spain, Austria, Netherlands, Norway, France,
 Flanders, and for the EU Horizon 2020 (Maria Skłodowska-Curie Actions) programme.

 We have strong links to policy makers and other users of economic research. These
 connections and collaborations allow us to present our research findings, give informal
 advice or opinion to those designing policy or exploring its implications, and to hear from
 others about the issues they face. Many such interactions, collaborations, and connections
 are not specific to single pieces of research and hence not reflected in our impact cases.
 Rigby is an Expert Member of the Food Standards Agency's Social Science Advisory
 Committee, Clark is the economist member of the School Teachers Review Body (2014-
 2020), and Banks was a Lead Expert on the Government Office for Science Foresight
 Project on Analysing the Challenges and Opportunities of an Ageing Society (2014-2016).
 Coyle was a member of the Natural Capital Committee (2016-2019) and a member of the
 Expert Panel for the National Infrastructure Commission (2016-2018). Agénor was
 seconded to be full-time Senior Advisor to the Financial Stability and Development Group,
 the research network formed by the seven largest Latin American central banks (2016-
 2018). During that time he provided advanced training in macroeconomics and
 collaborated on various research and training projects with researchers from the region
 including from the Bank for International Settlements, the IMF, the World Bank, and the
 Inter-American Development Bank.

 Our researchers have also actively provided one-off policy advice in areas of expertise.
 Coyle, an acknowledged expert on economic statistics and measurement more generally,
 gave evidence to the Treasury Select Committee (2016), the Bean Review of Economic
 Statistics (2015, 2016), and the US Council of Economic Advisors (2016). She was invited
 speaker at the OECD Economic Policy Forum (2016, 2017), the June 2017 Group of 30
 Conference at the Bank of England, the January 2018 Davos World Economic Forum, and
 the June 2018 G7 Finance Ministers symposium. Griffith’s PHE funded policy research
 unit on childhood obesity is in constant communication with PHE and the Department of
 Health, and Banks has repeatedly led discussions with officials from the Department for
 Work and Pensions. Our researchers collaborate with and provide advice for a diverse set
 of international policymakers, including the UN International Fund for Agricultural
 Development (Imai), Pakistan Federal Board of Revenue (Waseem), Italian National
 Transplant Service (Nicolò). Banks and Griffith were both invited to give private seminars
 and lead discussions with the highest level officials from HM Treasury, the Department of
 Health, and the Office for National Statistics during the COVID-19 pandemic.

 Other key connections have been with local policymakers, notably the City of Manchester
 and North West Region. Coyle and colleagues at Manchester worked closely with the
 Greater Manchester City Authority and the region more generally under the Northern

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Powerhouse umbrella and she subsequently chaired the Greater Manchester Prosperity
 Review (2018-2019). With the rising importance of regional investment agendas, Coyle’s
 work in this area has become increasingly influential in Westminster: she gave evidence to
 the National Infrastructure commission in 2016 and 2019, and was a commissioner on the
 Industrial Strategy Commission in 2017.

 We have a strong record of contribution to society through public engagement, promoting
 economic research and economic thought in general. Our senior researchers have
 delivered numerous high-profile public lectures, including the RES Annual Public Lecture
 (Griffith, 2015), The LSE Public Lecture (Coyle, 2015), The IFS Annual Public Lecture
 (Banks, 2015) and the HEFCE Annual Conference Keynote Lecture (Coyle, 2015). We
 hosted three RES public lectures given by Griffith (2015), Phillip Kircher (2016), and Steve
 Machin (2017) to audiences of between 200 and 550. Since 2017 we have built on this by
 hosting regular public lectures co-organised by the IFS to promote applied economic
 research. To date we have held five lectures on various aspects of public economics, with
 attendance ranging from 180 to 350. In the last two years we won RES Discover
 Economics grants to enhance these events, targeting Year 12 widening participation,
 BAME, and female students and their teachers by including interactive and networking
 sessions with staff alongside the keynote lecture. The March 2019 event, chaired by
 Nicholas Barr (LSE), was attended by 180 including 75 school students and teachers; the
 March 2020 event, chaired by Wallace, was attended by 186, including 134 students and
 teachers.

 Griffith has led the development of, and contributed to, specific digital resources and
 infrastructure aiming to promote economic research beyond the academic economics
 community. With funding from the Impact Accelerator award discussed in Section 1.3, she
 developed resources for economics researchers and students focusing on developing
 skills in communicating economics, https://www.communicatingeconomics.com/. This topic
 was also the subject of her 2019 invited lecture to the Society for Professional Economists.
 She is a founding editor of Microeconomic Insights https://microeconomicinsights.org and
 during the COVID-19 pandemic, she founded, raised funding for, and subsequently led the
 development of the Economics Observatory https://www.economicsobservatory.com/,
 bringing together and disseminating rapid-response economic research and thinking
 relevant to COVID-19 and its broader implications. The value of these activities was
 explicitly recognised when Griffith subsequently received a DBE for services to Economic
 Policy and Education in the 2021 New Year’s Honours list: the citation noted that ‘Dame
 Rachel has broken down institutional barriers and has brought together public, private and
 academic economists in the pursuit of a single national goal’.




                                                                                           Page 19
