Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA 18 is made up of our Law department which is one of the four departments in Huddersfield
 Business School (HBS), the remaining three of which contribute to UoA17. Each department in
 HBS, including Law, has a professorial Head of Department (HOD) providing strategic
 leadership, and a number of subject group leaders (SGL) with operational responsibility for
 research and enterprise (R&E) and teaching and learning (T&L) respectively. There are three
 professorial Associate Deans for R&E, T&L, and International operating across the entire school.
 Thus, HBS has a matrix organizational structure to ensure that strategic targets are met, and all
 academic activities are supported by professional services support (PSS). Three cross-School
 Research Centres, each with senior leadership, further support R&E and these are described in
 more detail in the next section. All activities are supported by a professional services support
 (PSS) team which is led by the School Manager.

 Vision and Strategy
 Building on our strong heritage and regional links, our vision in HBS is to be internationally
 renowned for meaningful engagement with communities and organisations and impactful
 research. Our mission is to undertake responsible research and enterprise that enriches the
 communities and organisations with which we interact.

 In the past, Law has contributed to the Business and Management Studies (UoA19 in the last
 REF) as its research was insufficiently developed to make a submission to a Law UoA. Over the
 REF period, Law’s research activity has been growing and, whilst residing in the School
 alongside the other disciplines, has become distinct from Business and Management, and plans
 to become even more so in the future including through a new Law Research Centre. Thus we
 are making our first separate Law submission to UoA18.

 We have built a UoA18 strategy that is related to HBS’s own vision and mission, which in turn
 directly links to the University’s strategy. The main R&E objectives are summarised below:

       To increase international recognition via the volume and quality of research outputs
       To increase research and knowledge exchange income
       To become a focus for research into responsible leadership and business, productivity
        improvement, impact, and enterprise

 Our strategy is one of research inclusivity whereby all members of staff are encouraged and
 expected to engage in high quality research. Our aim is to have all staff active in research. The
 School’s inclusive approach aligns with the University’s code of practice, which means 52% of
 academic staff are being submitted to UoA18 in REF2021We have sought to submit as many
 staff as possible to REF2021 and have deliberately not set barriers to being classed that are
 difficult for staff to achieve.

 Research Strategy - Linking 2014 and 2020

 In the 2014 REF we had laid the foundation for continued growth and strengthening of research
 in Law. The main objectives which have evolved from our position in 2014 include:
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Shift towards becoming research intensive by 2020
       Implement a staff recruitment and promotion policy which attracts and retains research-
        active staff in areas relating to the School’s strategic research interests and with potential
        for producing high quality research
       Continue to increase the size of the professoriate to provide good quality research
        leadership
       Aim for 45% staff publishing at an international level by 2018
       Focus on and consolidate existing areas of strength

 Below is an evaluation of the extent to which these objectives have been achieved.

 Our aim, as detailed in our 2014 REF Environment Statement, was to become research
 intensive by 2020. Although difficult to define, we believe we are moving towards this objective in
 the Law UoA. This can be demonstrated, for example, by moving from 1 FTE submitted to the
 Business and Management UoA in REF2014 to 12 FTE staff deemed to have significant
 responsibility for research and hence submitted in REF2021, an exponential rise; and moving
 from zero Law-related impact cases to two impact cases demonstrating the importance of
 impactful research to Law. During this period, we have demonstrably changed our staff
 recruitment and promotion strategies, this being an objective within our 2014 statement. All new
 and promoted staff must now demonstrate their commitment to high quality internationally
 excellent academic research. We expect to see research outputs, a research pipeline and a plan
 to be produced by new recruits and those applying for promotion at all levels. As part of their
 induction, all new members of staff are allocated a mentor and meet with the SLG (Research &
 Enterprise) and the Associate Dean (Research & Enterprise) to discuss their research and to
 ensure they are aware of the importance of research within Law.

 In 2014, we had no staff in UoA18 on the Reader or Professor grade. Since then we have
 appointed one reader and 4 professors in Law, two of whom are still with us. The purpose of this
 senior research-active staff recruitment is to have greater research leadership within Law and
 hence enhanced mentoring capability, and we have plans to expand the senior researchers
 further.

 During this REF period, Law has, in line with the University’s strategy, implemented an approach
 whereby all academic staff are expected to hold doctorates if they are not already so qualified.
 When appointing at Lecturer level, candidates must have a doctorate, or be within 6 months of
 achieving it. 16 staff now have doctorates, which represents a percentage of 81 % within UoA
 18. Five more are at an advanced stage in their doctoral studies two of whom are due to submit
 in September 2021. This mix of staff development and doctoral policy is aligned with our
 responsible approach to staff management to ensure that staff are developed, trained and
 retained in a sustainable manner.



 Law has, during this period, introduced a specific research mentoring system where more
 established researchers take on the role of mentoring Early Career Researchers (ECR) and
 more established colleagues, overseen by the REF UoA 18 Co-ordinator. This programme
 includes targeted Workshops (e.g. Building Researcher Resilience, Writing retreats, Reading
 Clubs) and formal meetings to discuss and prepare personal research plans, which are then



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 used as a basis for discussion at each staff member’s Personal Development and Personal
 Review (appraisal).



 Our PGR programme has a healthy number of students given the size of the department, with
 12 FTE in 2020. Moreover, 11 students have already obtained their PhD since 2016. We have
 expanded our programme and used bursaries and fee waivers to encourage PGRs. We have
 invested £118k in doctoral bursaries specifically for PGR students in UoA18 during this REF
 period. We see this as an investment that we will see a return on in the next REF period given
 that all of our PGR students are provided with support to publish their research. Significantly our
 strategy has been to increase the quality of our research outputs, not just the quantity. In 2014,
 very few of our Law staff had publications of an international level, but this now stands at 70%,
 and is expected rise further with the establishment of the forthcoming Law Research Centre.

 In order to properly direct the research effort of the School as a whole we have developed from
 having many unstructured research groups to having three interdisciplinary Research Centres
 with overarching themes aligned with our vision and mission and growing from our 2014 REF
 submission for UoA18:. The three Research Centres (see also -
 https://research.hud.ac.uk/institutes-centres/centres/) are divided into research clusters that
 allow more focused areas of research activity to take place. These areas are as follows:

        -   NPH: Sustainable supply chains; digital transformation; applied finance and
            economics; human capital

        -   BRC: Organizational behaviour and wellbeing; Decision making and behavioural
            economics; Consumption and markets

        -   SURGE: Sustainable and resilient communities; corporate governance and ethics;
            responsible people and professions; public policy and social justice

 Law contributes particularly to the SURGE Research Centre in terms of the research interests of
 the Law staff which include: corporate governance and business ethics; sustainability and
 gender equality; ethical challenges in medical treatment, including end of life; environmental law;
 and human rights particularly in the context of refugees, deportation and disability.

 Impact Strategy



 Our commitment to impactful research takes a prime position in our mission and vision. As such
 we are encouraging staff to make greater use of social media to publicise their research work,
 this also provides the opportunity to interact with the wider public. Twitter for example is a
 popular platform for staff to disseminate their research (for instance, by Dr Jonathan Collinson -
 https://twitter.com/j_m_collinson). LinkedIn is also favoured by staff in providing a brief summary
 of latest research (for instance, by Dr Gauthier de Beco - https://uk.linkedin.com/in/gauthier-de-
 beco). We have further publicised our research work in popular outlets such as The
 Conversation (for instance, by Dr Hui Yun Chan - https://theconversation.com/profiles/hui-yun-
 chan-715995/articles). A professional services support (PSS) restructure has taken place in HBS
 in 2018, an aim of which was to provide a marketing and external engagement team who liaise



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with businesses and organisations to gauge their support requirements and disseminate our
 research.


 Impact Case Studies

 Our UoA18 submission includes 2 impact case studies. The case studies show variation and
 breadth of geographical reach. The first one (by Dr Hui Yun Chan) builds on the longstanding
 and in-depth expertise of many staff who have engaged with the local community together with
 our students; the second one (led by Dr Melanie Flynn) represents a new area of expertise
 centred upon environmental law where two more staff have recently been recruited (led by Dr
 Angelica Rutherford and Dr Paul Abba). We have provided support for the two impact case
 studies allowing authors additional research hours and encouraged impactful research through
 our three Research Centres.

 We have recruited over the REF period an Impact Support Officer, to help embed impact more
 widely into our research thinking from an embryonic stage. The support provided includes
 exploring the impact potential of research, impact planning and monitoring, engaging with
 stakeholders and impact beneficiaries as well as supporting funding applications and reporting.
 As such, the Impact Support Officer has been tasked with assisting academics in all aspects of
 their Case Study planning, data collection and narrative.

 A table of our Impact Case Studies appears below:

          Title                Lead                           Summary

  Mutual                   Hui Yun Chan     The withdrawal of legal aid funding has
  Empowerment in                            restricted access for the most disadvantaged
  the Legal Advice                          populations in society. Researchers at the
  Process                                   University of Huddersfield sought to establish
                                            and Legal Advice Clinic in response to the
                                            negative effects of the funding cuts on the
                                            local community. Research into setting up a
                                            clinic in the town centre has empowered
                                            student advisers (who participated in the
                                            provision of advice and support to clients)
                                            and clients (who sought legal advice at the
                                            clinic) to take control and respond to their
                                            own legal problems. There has also been
                                            significant impact on local legal firms by
                                            enabling the provision of pro bono advice
                                            from the centre. Drake’s research has also
                                            influenced the way legal advice is provided
                                            and accessed by vulnerable communities in
                                            Huddersfield: benefitting clients who would
                                            otherwise have no legal support, improving
                                            students’ employability, changing students’
                                            perception about their professional and

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                             ethical identities and allowing local solicitors
                                             to give back to the community.
  Changing                 Melanie Flynn     Sentencing guidelines for wildlife crime are
  Sentencing                                 insufficient and inappropriate for the current
  Guidelines for                             climate. They fail to recognise the breadth
  Wildlife Crime                             and severity of crimes carried out against
                                             wildlife, and therefore do not serve as a
                                             deterrent, or as retribution for committing
                                             these kinds of crimes. Research by the
                                             University of Huddersfield has identified the
                                             ways in which the justice system fails to
                                             address wildlife crime through its sentencing
                                             frameworks, and offers suggestions as to
                                             how it might be helpfully improved.
                                             In Malaysian Borneo, wildlife crime of all
                                             kinds remains a persistent problem,
                                             especially in the context of the large numbers
                                             of endangered species native to the country.
                                             The national judiciary, when looking to
                                             update sentencing guidelines as part of
                                             moves to deter and punish offenders,
                                             engaged the University of Huddersfield, in
                                             partnership with the World Wildlife Fund, to
                                             provide training, support and guidance which
                                             resulted in new sentencing guidelines being
                                             rolled out across the country, which will
                                             contribute to the ongoing governmental drive
                                             to reduce and prevent wildlife crime in the
                                             unique environmental context of one of the
                                             most diverse ecosystems on earth.

 Going forward, we intend to appoint a Research Manager who will have responsibility for
 working with academic staff to identify impactful research from the outset of a project, and this
 can be developed into Impact Case Studies for the subsequent REF. All HBS research is being
 mapped against the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a means of
 identifying research with themes relating to responsibility as per our mission and vision.

 Interdisciplinary Research

 HBS holds a three-day internal research conference in January each year in which Law has
 been more and more engaged in recent years; the fifth such event took place in January 2020.
 This event functions as a full conference with parallel and plenary sessions, research
 workshops, external speakers and prizes for the best and most innovative papers. We try to
 introduce new ideas each year to stimulate creativity and interdisciplinarity in research. For
 example, the 2020 conference featured a Pecha Kucha contest for PGR students and a
 photographic competition for staff whereby colleagues entered a single photograph that
 symbolized their research project. These events led to some very interesting interdisciplinary
 discussion about the nature of research. This research conference is an event that takes place

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outside of the teaching period and all staff across HBS are expected to participate. It is a great
 opportunity for staff to receive feedback on their work and for the PGR community to be further
 integrated into the research culture of the School.

 Further opportunities for receiving feedback on either or both developmental and completed
 research has been provided by external experts including Professor Roger Brownsword of
 Bournemouth University, a former member of the REF law panel (who has also delivered a
 lecture on the REF criteria to the Law staff – see table below), Professor David Milman of
 Lancaster University, Professor Rob Heywood of the University of East Anglia as well as
 Professor Wade Mansell of the University of Kent. They have been instrumental in growing the
 research culture of the UoA, including REF awareness, both by commenting upon drafts prior to
 submission for publication and by grading pieces accepted for publication in international
 journals.

 In addition to the cross-cutting Research Centres, we support work-in-progress (WIP), feedback
 and external speaker sessions. Law has been particularly active in encouraging a programme of
 research support sessions, including research seminars presented by visiting guest speakers
 (see below for a list of sessions).

  Event
  Annual Social Justice Lecture: ‘Legal Aid Cuts Decimate Access to Justice’
  Michael Mansfield, QC
  Research seminar: ‘Assessment of Damages under the United Nations Vienna
  Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG)’
  Dr Djakhongir Saidov, Reader, University of Birmingham
  Annual Social Justice Lecture: ‘Rights, Liberties and Values – always read the label’
  Barrister Angela Patrick, Director of Human Rights Policy (JUSTICE).
  Research seminar: ‘Legal Realism: In Search of a Science of Law’
  Professor Henrik Palmer Olsen, University of Copenhagen; and
  Professor Stuart Toddington, University of Huddersfield
  Research seminar: ‘Science Barbeque - Undertaking PhD Research in Law’
  Professor Henrik Palmer Olsen, University of Copenhagen; and
  Professor Stuart Toddington, University of Huddersfield
  Research seminar: ‘The Sham of Whistleblowing Legislation and Protection’
  Dr Aubrey Blomsohn, University of Sheffield
  Research seminar: ‘Corporate Governance and Law’
  Professor Andrew Keay, University of Leeds
  Annual Social Justice Lecture: ‘Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery’
  Mark Burns-Williamson, Police and Crime Commissioner for West Yorkshire
  Seminar: The Secure Societies Institute
  Dagmar Heinrich, University of Huddersfield
  Seminar: ‘Research Funding Opportunities and Funding Application’
  Professor David Bamford and Professor Gerard McElwee, University of
  Huddersfield.
  Research seminar: ‘Quantitative Methods in Doctrinal Legal Studies: Using citation
  network and corpus linguistic analysis to interpret judgments of the European Court of
  Human Rights’
  Professor Henrik Palmer Olsen, University of Copenhagen

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Research seminar: ‘Science Barbeque - Undertaking PhD Research in Law’
  Professor Henrik Palmer Olsen, University of Copenhagen; and
  Professor Stuart Toddington, University of Huddersfield
  Research seminar: ‘The Korean Peninsula: International Law Perspective’
  Professor Suzannah Linton, Zhejiang Gongshang University, China
  Research seminar: ‘Doing a PhD as an academic and publishing’
  Professor Andrew Keay, University of Leeds.
  Seminar: Research Grant Funding
  Jo Addie, University of Huddersfield
  Research seminar: ‘Regulating Contractual Discretion: Rationales and Legal
  Instruments’
  Dr Qi Zhou, University of Leeds

  Event
  Research seminar: ‘Blind Eye to the Telescope: Legal Education Looks to the Future’
  Professor Margaret Thornton, Australian National University
  WIPs Presentation: ‘From Thesis to Monograph: ‘Reimagining Deportation Law: What
  would a child-centric deportation law look like in the UK?’
  Jonathan Collinson, University of Huddersfield
  Reading Group led by Dr Andreas Dimopoulos, University of Huddersfield
  REF Grading Presentation
  Professor Roger Brownsword, Bournemouth University
  Research seminar: ‘But we want to come in the front door: a qualitative study of ‘BAME’
  women lawyers’
  Professor Hilary Sommerlad, University of Leeds
  WIPs Presentations: ‘Making sense of the law in a time of austerity?’
  Phil Drake, University of Huddersfield
  Research Seminar: ‘Rights and Justice Beyond the Legal: Transformative Justice,
  Human Rights and Interdisciplinarity’
  Dr Matthew Evans, Linguistics, University of Huddersfield
  Reading Group led by Dr Andreas Dimopoulos
  Research Seminar: ‘Maritime Trade Law and Technology: Disruptive Technology and
  the Law?’
  Professor Jason Chuah, City University of London
  WIPs Presentation: 'Framing Resilience: From Disaster to Conflict via Austerity'
  Dr Michael Kearney, University of Huddersfield
  WIPs Presentation: ‘A “New” Theoretical Approach to parliamentary Sovereignty’
  Vince Pescod, University of Huddersfield
  Reading group led by Dr Andreas Dimopoulos, University of Huddersfield

 We are also very supportive of colleagues bringing external research events to the school.
 During this period, we have hosted prestigious events with which Law has engaged including –
 the Annual Social Justice Lecture series; 6th International Workshop: Efficiency in Education,
 Health and Public Services (September 2018); and Northern Advanced Research Training
 Initiative (NARTI) (July 2019).

 A key strand of our vision and mission involves engaging with our communities – local, regional,


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national and international. We are a regional University and are particularly keen to ensure that
 we engage with our regional community. HBS (including Law) provided events for the local
 community including the Knowledge Sandwich (lunch-time sessions on themes which might
 interest local business people), Business Breakfast Briefings and the Annual Social Justice
 Lecture which is hosted by Law in collaboration with the LAC.

 Research Profile

 Going forward into the next period our strategy involves building on our inclusivity in research
 agenda to become a truly research intensive institution by the time of REF 2027 with a KPI of all
 staff publishing at an international level. The School encourages cross-disciplinary research and
 anticipates several areas where Law will work on research with the other HBS disciplines;
 however, we also anticipate that Law will develop its own research profile as the staff become
 independent researchers and the Department matures in terms of research. To this end, we
 intend to make further senior research appointments in Law (following the recent appointments
 of our Reader and Professorial HOD) to lead on the transition from an embryonic research UoA
 to one which, by the next REF, will be mature including through the future appointment of
 another Professor.

 Open Research

 Open access is encouraged by our use of the Elsevier PURE system to record the full research
 contribution of Law, HBS and the wider University. Publications that we judge to be 3/4* quality
 with a Huddersfield affiliated first author are supported by paying for gold open access.
 Additionally, as per funder criteria, Open access reports are available for industry and policy-led
 events.

 Research Ethics and Integrity

 Given that our mission and vision revolve around responsibility, research ethics and integrity are
 important to us. We align our research ethics and integrity strategy with that of the University,
 and have an Integrity Champion within HBS. Over the REF period no issues relating to integrity
 have been referred to the Champion. The School Research Ethics Committee (chaired by our
 Integrity Champion) feeds into the School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC), and
 then into the University Research Committee. Our HBS Research Conference encourages
 integrity in all aspects of research both explicitly (a special session was organised during a
 School research day in June 2019) and implicitly by example.

 2. People

 Staff Strategy

 The School, like the University, aligns with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. Our academic staffing policy in terms of recruitment and promotions is clearly
 linked to our research objectives and targets and reflects our vision and mission. All staff being
 appointed must have a doctorate unless appointed at Lecturer level in which case they must be
 within 6 months of completion. For internal promotions at all levels, staff must exhibit a strong
 internationally excellent research record combined with ambitious but feasible research plans
 and an accompanying pipeline of outputs. We have a clear induction programme where new

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recruits meet with the AD(R&E) to be appraised of the importance of research in the School, our
 strategy and their research interests discussed in order to recommend an appropriate Research
 Centre for them to join. All staff are on teaching and research academic contracts; we do not
 employ either teaching or research only staff. We do not routinely have fixed term staff, other
 than the occasional full academic (teaching and research) to cover maternity leave. Staff with a
 contractual fraction above 0.5 contracts must engage in doctoral training opportunities as well as
 all other initiatives listed in this statement. All staff, whatever their fractional appointment are
 encouraged to join in staff development including doctoral training where necessary. We have
 eliminated the Principal Lecturer (grade 9) whereby staff could be promoted on the basis of
 management and administration roles in favour of promotion to Reader (grade 9) which is only
 awarded when an individual has an established record of research achievement.

 Staff Support

 Staff without a doctorate have been able to pursue one either at Huddersfield or at an external
 university. Financial support and substantial workload hours (20%) have been made available to
 staff doctoral candidates. Fees for those supervised by external universities are further provided
 for by Huddersfield. Going forward we will continue to support these staff in terms of training
 opportunities and conference attendance as they transition from PGR to research active staff.
 We expect to see the benefits of a fully qualified workforce during the next REF period, allowing
 us to set more challenging research objectives. Three of the staff have now graduated. The
 others are on their way to submit their thesis and complete their degree in 2021 or in 2022.

 HBS has a clear policy on research mentorship with all staff allocated an appropriate research
 mentor. Individuals have support from their research mentor (typically one of our professoriate or
 other senior members of staff), their SGL (R&E), and AD(R&E). The annual appraisal
 (supplemented with a mid-year review) has a specific form called the Research and Enterprise
 and Activity Planning (REAP) that needs to be completed by all staff and agreed with their
 mentor and then their appraiser. The REAP form ensures that each member of academic staff
 commits to writing their research aims and rationale, records their progress throughout the year
 regarding publications, other research-related work, funding activity and applications, PGR
 supervision activity and then their research targets for the year ahead. It also provides an
 opportunity to discuss forthcoming conferences to attend, existing and potential international
 collaborations and the actual and potential impact of their work. Individual training and
 development planning is the final component of the REAP form. ECRs are a particular
 beneficiary of this discipline. They benefit from the annual HBS Research Conference that
 provides a safe space for presentation of initial ideas and research development as well as
 research education, for example the panel of journal editors that formed a plenary session at the
 2020 event.

 Rewarding Research Excellence

 We have a research incentive scheme (called ‘Points Means Pounds’ – PMP) whereby staff
 receive funds into research accounts upon publication of papers. This is a positive message for
 staff that there is a tangible reward for their labours related to academic papers and the funds
 have helped in, for example, providing specialist equipment for researchers, purchasing
 consumer panel respondents for experiments and surveys, as well as financing research trips
 and collaborations. We have expanded and amended this scheme throughout the period to

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include a policy that also embraces R&E funding applications and to provide greater incentive to
 publish higher quality internationally excellent and world leading research outputs.

 As well as supporting staff with our publication’s incentive scheme (PMP), we provide a relatively
 generous annual conference allowance of £2,500 each for each member of staff. We have
 maintained this allowance throughout the current REF period including post-Covid. Conference
 attendance and the ability of all staff including part time colleagues as well as those with caring
 or other responsibilities, is monitored though the risk assessment process completed by all staff
 when travelling. The financial burden that is associated with travel, particularly for those staff
 who are in more difficult financial positions, such as single parents, is supported through the
 School booking conferences and accommodation up front. There is no payment by staff who
 would then have to claim payments back later. Relevant individuals see this as a positive
 measure.




 The same process applies to the PGR cohort as evidenced below:




 We have in the past adopted a ‘one size fits all’ policy for staff excluding professors, but we
 recognise that different staff have different skills, and that a WLA (and accompanying
 expectations) which reflects that would permit us to more effectively realise our research (and
 enterprise) ambitions. Research, particularly impactful research, a strength in our last REF
 submission, is key in our mission and vision and our specific research targets align with the
 University’s for the strategy map up to 2025. Thus, targets relating to publications (2* and 3*),
 citations, impact, publications with key partners (international and end user), and working on
 research grant projects which align with our mission and vision, will determine research WLA for
 all staff going forward.

 As a consequence we have revised and implemented a new workload model, which rewards
 research activity and supports PhD and ECR development. The new workload allocation model
 was implemented for the 2020/21 academic year. For example, (out of a 1550 hours workload)
 staff undertaking a PhD receive 300 hours (in addition to 155 hours for scholarship) for their
 studies. An ECR in year 1 out of their PhD receives 400 hours and in year 2, 300 hours (both in
 addition to 155 hours for scholarship). Staff categorised as established senior researchers,
 receive up to 620 hours. These allocations are preserved even in the post-Covid environment,
 demonstrating our commitment to research and setting the tone for further research
 achievement as we move into the new REF period.

 Staff Well-being




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There is increasing recognition of the importance of well-being in the work place and in
 particular, pressures arising from the move to becoming a research-focused institution. This has
 created difficulties for staff being able to dedicate sufficient time to research whilst fulfilling their
 teaching and administrative responsibilities. HBS has responded to this by implementing a
 revised WLA model in 2020 which recognises the importance of research and an appropriate
 balance alongside teaching responsibilities. The University has ambitious research targets within
 its 2025 strategy map and HBS is committed to ensuring staff well-being throughout this
 process. As a consequence, a more structured and embedded approach has been implemented
 and Quality of Working Life (QoWL) is a standing item on the HBL Senior Leadership Team
 meeting agenda. The HBS Athena Swan Bronze action plan (see below) also plays an important
 contribution alongside the QoWL issues with regard to staff well-being.

 The evidence of the success of our people strategy includes the submission, for the first time, of
 staff to UoA18. Moving forward to REF2027 the continuation of our staffing policy has the aim of
 further increasing the numbers of staff conducting high quality research.

 PhD Students

 Law graduated 14 students in the period, all of whom were PhDs. Law has support mechanisms
 for the training and supervision of PGR students. HBS participates in the University policy of
 PGR Supervisor training, where all supervisors must commit to attending training every 3 years
 as a minimum. We are also in the process of developing a more specific in-house supervisor-
 training programme with the aim of encouraging best supervisory practice within HBS. This will
 concentrate on areas of best practice and will feature interactive sessions during the HBS
 Research Conference and mid-year Research Day.

 Law has seen an increase in PGR numbers over the period, in part facilitated by the Vice
 Chancellor’s Fee waiver scheme. Most of the PhDs carried out in Law have received a fee
 waiver. There has been a learning experience related to this project and bursary schemes are
 being enhanced. In future, awards will be more competitive, therefore leading us to recruit the
 best possible students, which in turn will assist HBS in improving research culture and achieving
 mission and vision, which in turn will assist Law in improving research culture and achieving
 mission and vision.

 A clear objective for the next REF period is to increase the number of good quality publications
 generated from our doctoral students.

 The University provides careers advice for PGR students; information and advice for PGRs is on
 the Graduate School website
 https://students.hud.ac.uk/grad/graduate-school/support/careers/

 HBS has developed a PGR teaching policy that allows interested individuals to develop their
 future teaching careers by training with us and becoming Associate Lecturers. Central TAPP
 training programmes are also offered for students wishing to teach. PGR students are part of the
 University PATS scheme, a personal tutor system providing a named academic who supports
 them through their time with us as well as being associated with NARTI and the support it offers
 though our Huddersfield affiliation. PGRs are supported in this regard by our Learning Innovation
 and Development Centre.

                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI)

 The UoA18 Equality Impact Assessment shows a 50:50 male: female distribution of staff
 submitted and a 55.6: 44:4 male: female in the overall output selection. As we have just
 recruited new female staff who have completed their PhD, the split has evolved since then and
 we expect more of them in the next cycle. The diversity of our academic staff is also indicated by
 less than two thirds of the staff being within the “White British” category.

 The School achieved Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2020. The application identified areas for
 more focus relating to the inclusivity and diversity agenda. We have created two work packages
 to tackle EDI issues amongst staff, and these overlap with QoWL themes. The packages are:

       School culture – Chaired by the Dean

       Appraisal and career progression (Academic) – Chaired by HoD Logistics Marketing
        Hospitality and Analytics


 The Athena Swan self-assessment process identified a significant imbalance (male dominated)
 in research leadership in the School. As a result, the Research Centres have been restructured
 into clusters, which provide a broader leadership structure, and has allowed for a more balanced
 representation. In addition, more women have been appointed in the last 12 months to roles
 such as SGL (R&E) and Research Centre Director.

 In the student context, HBS has formed a Student Experience work package under the Athena
 Swan umbrella to examine EDI issues across all student levels. There are four areas of work
 with the last two being most pertinent to the PGR context:

        -   Developing accessible learning materials
        -   Diversity in the curriculum
        -   Pastoral support
        -   Sense of belonging

 Staff returning from long-term leave can go to conferences without the necessity of presenting a
 paper to help them reintegrate into their subject area. Flexible working requests are considered
 on an individual basis and phased return to work is available after, for example, longer periods of
 sickness absence. Keeping-in-touch days facilitate staff development and research engagement
 during long-term absence e.g. maternity leave.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income Generation

 The three Centres and the four departments that make up HBS (see section 1) provide ‘wrap-
 around’ support and guidance for all R&E activity in the School: the departments provide
 discipline-specific operational support, while the Centres provide overarching strategic direction
 of the research effort as well as cross-School support. This matrix-like approach facilitates a
 collegiate environment to research within the School for staff and PGRs.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Over the current period, Law has generated ~£15k research income of which approximately two
 thirds came from EU sources and the remainder from UK Research Councils (BEIS). For
 example, Professor Stuart Toddington successfully secured an Erasmus + International Capacity
 Building funding and Professor Sam Halliday received an ESRC (ES/M002659/1) funding for
 ‘Towards a European Understanding of Advance Decision-Making’. This small level of income
 represents Law’s growth programme over the new period as staff have become research active
 and further staff are being recruited.

 In the future, we intend to generate income that will facilitate both applications for larger
 research grants and establishing partnerships towards the development of collaborative
 research projects, both nationally and internationally. We will also support our growing
 population of Early Career Researchers to bid for funding from programmes specifically
 earmarked for ECR support. Some staff have already started doing so, including Dr Andreas
 Dimopoulos who has applied for a Leverhulme Small Research Grant and Dr Jonathan Collinson
 who has applied for a UK and Ireland PRME Chapter. Moving further, we intend to work
 especially through our Law Research Centre in order to get the means for impact-intensive
 initiatives within our two clusters of work (i.e. social justice and international business). We are
 currently recruiting a new professor who together with Professor Kasim Sheikh and Dr Gauthier
 de Beco will seek funding in relation to the global protection of human rights (for instance,
 through the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF)).



 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Over this REF period, Law has moved to the Oastler Building in order to foster a law-specific
 research community. Besides a dedicated space for the students, a number of rooms have been
 available for the organisation of meetings including both staff and PGRs. There is furthermore a
 Courtroom, where conferences as well as research seminars with guest speakers have been
 hold on a regular basis, as indicated in section 1. We have furthermore increased the physical
 space available for PGRs in the Oastler Building. This has more than doubled our PGR desk
 space.

 We have strengthened our professional services support. We now have a Research
 Development Manager (RDM), assisting with the identifications of new funding streams, and the
 development of applications for external research funding to organisations such as Research
 Councils and Leverhulme. The RDM also provides support with costing grant applications
 through the University’s costing system. In order to improve our success in both applying for and
 winning grants in the future we aim appoint a dedicated RDM and bid writing mentor to support
 the growth of research income.

 As well as strengthening support for measuring and reporting impact from research through the
 appointment of an Impact Support Officer (referenced above), various other elements of support
 have been developed as part of the PSS restructure carried out in April 2018. For example, a
 Business Development Team was created in the School. This team provides support on a range
 of areas such as employer engagement, funding opportunities, bid development and writing and
 partnership development. Second, we have further developed the Academic and Research
 Support Team who now provide services such as transcription of interviews, proof reading,

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 typing, arranging focus groups and we have expanded our research incentive scheme (PMP) to
 include rewarding grant wins.

 The PSS team organises ‘Writing Retreats’ and we have trained academic School staff to be
 facilitators to support all research writing activities including grant bids. We have a dedicated
 writing room where staff in shared offices can find a quiet space to conduct research work during
 the day. Going forward, we wish to tie the PGR space to our Law Research Centre to facilitate
 further engagement between PGRs, staff, visiting researchers and research activities. Each
 space is therefore intended to act as a thematic hub.

 PGR Support

 We have a number of measures in place to facilitate and support the integration of the PGR
 community into the wider academic community. We hope the PGR community will have
 sustainable research careers and we take a measured and developmental approach to their
 progress, initially via their training and supervision and subsequently implemented through the
 activities of the Research Centres and the department. Our seminar programmes for each
 Centre and the department provide a critical but supportive environment to, amongst other
 things, allow PGRs (and ECRs) to present research papers and to extend their abilities and
 competencies in academic writing and presenting to expert and lay audiences. Feedback in the
 seminars enables improvement of papers and builds the required confidence to present at
 external conferences, for which HBS provides financial support. A commitment to PGRs allows
 us to develop one strand of our strategy which is to have a sustainable pipeline of future
 publications.

 We aim to bring together expert staff at HBS in order to attract capable and motivated PGR
 candidates from around the world to facilitate high quality research on topics of interest to our
 applicants, which fit in well with our research expertise. We are implementing a number of
 improvements to the PGR programme including streamlining our processes and strengthening
 our methods training as well as graduate training overall. We aim to deliver effective and timely
 supervisory inputs and support, alongside efficient management of the PGR lifecycle by
 providing appropriate administrative support. By working closely with our Research Centres and
 spanning a range of areas in Law, we wish to showcase areas of research strength which can
 help facilitate exciting and dynamic research projects by postgraduate researchers working
 closely with Law researchers. We aim to provide a dynamic research environment by providing
 regular opportunities for skills development and participation in a range of research activities for
 PGRs including through the HBS annual conference, monthly PGR focused research events
 organised for Law, research seminars and events aimed at skills development. We strongly
 believe strong subject specific, technical skills are essential for producing innovative research,
 and we wish to train our PGR cohorts in this important area. We also wish to foster a strong and
 inclusive research culture whereby postgraduate research students are an integral part of the
 research community and that they participate fully in research activities and contribute to a
 higher quantum of research outputs targeted at high quality peer reviewed journals. We regard
 our PGRs as current and future research colleagues and wish to equip them with appropriate
 discipline, social and technical skills to help them develop into strong professionals in their future
 areas of work.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Developing PGRs is an objective that aligns with the University research strategy of ‘we will
 nurture these contributions within an inclusive and enabling environment’ (p.3 exec summary of
 Research Strategy 2016-2025) and our own mission of ‘enriching lives’.

 We have continued to support our PGR community during the pandemic. PGR training sessions
 and workshops have been delivered online rather than F2F, covering a wide range of topics,
 including Postgraduate Funding: Considering the Alternatives; Developing and Styling Your
 Academic Writing amongst others. The Researcher Environment Team has been running weekly
 PGR catch-ups – an informal discussion of a topic relevant to postgraduate research. The
 Library has remained open, for the most part, and has continued to provide PGRs with access to
 a wealth of physical and online resources, in addition to research support and training, in areas
 such as open access; research data management; citations and bibliometrics; and, use of
 EndNote. Supervisory and PSS support has continued online.

 Evidence of the success of these infrastructure developments is evidenced by this the first REF
 submission of Law to UoA18 with the accompanying outputs and impact cases.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 National Collaboration

 Our Legal Advice Clinic (LAC), which operates in the centre of Huddersfield Town Centre, helps
 members of the community with legal issues. The service includes student led interviews leading
 to detailed written legal advice, under the supervision of current and former solicitors.
 Additionally, the LAC, in collaboration with a range of local solicitors in the Huddersfield area,
 offers weekly free legal advice drop-in sessions over a range of different areas of law. More
 recently, a virtual legal advice service has been used in order attract clients from outside the
 area. The LAC also participates in fundraising events throughout the year to raise money for pro
 bono activities.

 Law has in addition fostered a close relationship with a number of local, regional and national law
 firms, which takes place through our Partners in Law initiative. The latter supports our annual
 graduation and prize giving ceremony. Some of the law firms provide guest lectures and
 masterclasses across a range of subject disciplines. The Partners in Law also provides drop-in
 advice sessions and supports our annual mentoring event.


 International Collaboration

 As part of the University’s internationalisation agenda, HBS is developing and progressing
 various international collaborations. UoH recently provided some seedcorn funding to encourage
 international collaboration notably with universities within the Top 300 (THE/QS) rankings in the
 world. HBS was successful in receiving nine awards to the value of £41,300 to be used over the
 next 3 years. The awards are to support collaboration with the following institutions: Moscow
 (Lomonosov) University; Lund University (Sweden); King Abdulaziz University (Saudi Arabia);
 The Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Sun Yat-sen University, (China); Tecnologico de
 Monterrey (Mexico); Aalborg University, (Denmark); Griffith University, (Australia); Queensland
 University of Technology, (Australia); Nanjing University, P.R., (China). This funding will help to



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 establish collaboration on research publications, potential visiting professorships and potential
 joint PhD supervisions.

 Further testament to the growth in Law’s international reputation is its rise in the School’s THE
 ranking that did not feature in 2014. It is now ranked at 176-200 within THE ranking.

 Within Law, the following members of UoA18 staff have held Visiting Professorships over the
 period: Dr Gauthier de Beco has had a visiting professorship at the University of Louvain,
 Belgium, and has been guest professor at the NUI Galway, Ireland, and the University of
 Geneva, Switzerland. Professor Kasim Sheikh is a visiting professor at the British University in
 Cairo, Egypt, and is due to begin a professorial research associateship at SOAS, University of
 London.

 Involving our students

 We do not believe that only our PGR students should be exposed to research. We introduce our
 LLM students to research with local and regional organisations through their involvement in
 knowledge exchange activities conducted at local and national levels. The selected projects are
 assessed by an academic who is leading the consultancy route and aims to provide guidance to
 SMEs and local businesses that deliver economic and societal benefits to our external partners
 as well as to MSc and MBA students. This route forms a source of external engagement, which
 involves students in consultancy and/or other activities with businesses and community partners,
 while including a plan for dissemination of lessons and theories that have been learned. Overall,
 this has added a value to teaching practices and research at HBS, and has benefited the School
 by incorporating learning from knowledge exchange practices. Over the past few years, this route
 has served the community in the UK by conducting consultancy projects with e.g. Calderdale and
 Huddersfield NHS Foundation Trust (CHFT), Kirklees Council, Calderdale Council, in addition to
 a few projects for Small Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Yorkshire.
 Collaborations with HBS and these organisations will open up potential for future research and
 impact.


 Conferences and conference organisation

 Senior staff are involved in International conference organising committees.

 HBS has consistently supported our academics to attend external conferences in order to
 present their own work as well as to increase their personal research networks. Over this REF
 period, we have spent approaching £170267 on conference attendance and associated
 expenses for staff in UoA18, as can be seen in the table above in section 2.

 Service to the discipline

 The following staff hold editorial board positions of peer-reviewed international legal journals: Dr
 George Ndi is on the editorial board of the International Journal of Law and Public
 Administration. Dr Gauthier de Beco is on the editorial board of the Revue Trimestrielle des
 droits de l’homme (the reference journal for international human rights law in the French-



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 speaking world). Professor Sam Halliday has been on the editorial board of Cogent Social
 Sciences.

 Several Law staff also have reviewed for other international legal journals throughout the period.
 Dr Gauthier de Beco is assessing books proposals for Oxford University Press and Cambridge
 University Press and reviewing articles for international journals (including Legal Studies,
 Journal of Human Rights Practice the International Journal of Human Rights, the Nordic Journal
 of Human Rights and the International Journal of Law and Psychiatry). Dr George Ndi is
 reviewing articles for international journals (including the Journal of Energy and Natural
 Resources Law and MDPI Sustainability) and providing reviews for the Journal of Huddersfield
 Student Research (FIELDS).

 Staff have furthermore been guest editors for the following international journals during this
 period: Dr Amanda Warren-Jones was quest editor at the Journal of Health Economics, Policy
 and Law in 2017 (https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/health-economics-policy-and-
 law/issue/BB0DC61F0B4091EEF9CCA69E392C184C).

 Several staff have also been involved in reviewing grant applications both nationally and
 internationally. Professor Sam Halliday has been member of both the Economic and Social
 Research Council (ESCR) and Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) peer review
 college. She has also been reviewing grant applications for the Dutch Research Council. Dr
 Gauthier de Beco reviews grant applications for both the Canadian Social Sciences and
 Humanities Research and the Austrian Science Fund.

 Many are also members of academic associations, including the Socio-Legal Studies
 Association (SLSA), the Society of Legal Scholars (SLS), the UK Constitutional Law Association
 as well as professional organisations such as the Law Society.

 Policy

 In addition to policy influences from our impact cases, the following staff have been involved in
 developing or forming policy: Dr Jonathan Collinson has worked with Ms Gemma Manning to
 respond to the Law Commission’s consultation on the simplification of the Immigration Rules
 (https://tinyurl.com/r3wjfex). They also published an article in Judicial Review which responded
 to the Commission’s final report on the UK Administrative Justice Institute blog
 (https://tinyurl.com/szvx96z). Dr Gauthier de Beco has contributed to a Position Paper on
 Inclusive Education as well as a Disability-Inclusive Response to COVID-19 of Inclusion Europe
 (https://www.inclusion-europe.eu). As member of the Working Group of Inclusive Education, he
 also advised the organisation on the way in which it decided to approach the issue. Mr Vincent
 Pescod has finally submitted evidence to the consultation on a New Magna Carta organised by
 the Political and Constitutional Reform Committee.




                                                                                            Page 17
