Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Arts University

 Unit of Assessment: 32 - Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Leeds Arts University gained University title in 2016 and this will be the first Research
 Excellence Framework submission that the institution has made. Research and strategic
 infrastructure planning for this submission began in 2013 with the appointments of the Director of
 Studies - Higher Education Enhancement and Research [the title changing to Pro-Vice-
 Chancellor Academic with a responsibility for research in 2016] and a full-time Head of
 Research. One of the first tasks was to review and rewrite the Research Strategy (2013-2018)
 which was amended and extended through to 2021 in 2019-2020. The strategy was considered
 through the University’s deliberative structure (recommended by the Research Committee and
 approved by the Academic Board). An Ethics Policy was written and an Ethics Sub-Committee
 established, reporting to the Research Committee. During the years 2013-2018 all the research
 undertaken at the University fell into UoA 32, Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory.
 Therefore, there was a close alignment between the institutional strategy and the strategy for the
 unit of assessment. The research areas covered are: fine art, visual communication,
 photography, fashion photography, creative advertising, fashion design, fashion branding with
 communication, textile design, graphic design, illustration, comic and concept art, curation, art
 and design education, art and design widening participation, social design, arts writing and
 animation. All academic staff who were on teaching and research contracts were supported to
 undertake research.
 The main objectives were to:
     1. Establish postgraduate programmes to enhance and progress practice-based research
         and scholarly activity in subject disciplines.
     2. Develop research across the College [University] and encourage international links to
         enhance research outcomes.
     3. Source research funding, as appropriate, from a wide range of sources.
     4. Support our staff and help them to develop their research practice; encourage internal
         collaboration; and, through external networks and meetings, enhance subject-specialist
         knowledge (especially as it relates to teaching and learning).
 By 2018 these objectives had been met.
     1) Two successful taught masters’ courses had been established in creative practice and
         curation practices. In 2019 three more masters’ courses were introduced, MA Fine Art,
         MA Graphics and MA Photography. The masters’ provision was expanded in 2020-21 to
         include MA Animation, MA Creature Design, MA Digital Fashion, MA Graphic Novel, MA
         Illustration and MA World Building.The University is looking to include doctoral provision
         and is now working with a validating partner to set up the infrastructure to support
         practice-based PhDs.
     2) The University has active researchers working across all its subject areas, progress has
         been monitored through the deposits in the University repository. Metrics show that
         outputs are accessed by an international readership. Researchers presenting work at
         conferences and festivals have also been monitored through the Annual Research
         Report. In 2013, staff presented at two international conferences, compared to 2018,
         when researchers presented at 32 international conferences. This indicates the scale of
         development. The strategy has been successful in the establishment and growth of a
         research culture.
     3) It is not currently a requirement for researchers at Leeds Arts University to source
         funding, but it is encouraged when appropriate. Staff have been successful in gaining
         awards from the Arts Council, the Wellcome Trust and the Marie Skłodowska-Curie
         fellowship.
     4) In order to support staff in developing their research practice four research clusters were
         established. They were led by a cluster leader who was given a budget to run internal
         events. These clusters were:



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            •    Pedagogies - Exploring experience and the ideas around the pedagogy of art and
                 design education [led to two impact case studies, Mature Students Matter and
                 Tactile Writing Workshops].
             • Curatorial and Craft Practice - Exploring collaboration through archives, practice
                 and exhibition opportunities [led to feminist curation case study].
             • Crossing Borders - Exploring national and international links and cross-
                 disciplinary activity. [led to Co-making Economic Cultures].
             • Technology - Exploring art and technology at the intersection of society. [led to a
                 fine art impact case study].
 The activities from the research clusters later informed five of the six impact case studies
 appropriate for UoA 32.
 Staff were also given access to funds to support the dissemination of their work. They were
 responsible for submitting an Annual Research Proposal where they would describe how they
 would use their 15 days research and impact time and request appropriate funding. In 2013
 three articles published in Networks (Art, Design, Media Higher Education Academy Subject
 Centre Journal) were recorded, compared to 22 publications recorded in 2018. The 2013 report
 documents one exhibition whereas in 2018 15 were recorded. This demonstrates a body of staff
 and researchers who are growing more active in disseminating their research.
 After seven years of development it is possible to identify particular areas of expertise. These
 are widening participation in the arts, fine art practices, arts writing, social design, curation and
 photography. The University has made great progress in growing its research culture and
 developing its researchers. In 2020 there is a pool of 20 active researchers with PhDs who are
 potential doctoral supervisors for subjects relating to art and design access, widening
 participation and education and fine art practices. The pool of UoA 32 researchers and the areas
 of expertise means the University is ready to develop research degrees.
 Strategies and approaches for developing UoA 32 research in the next five years:
      1. Develop policies and procedures for PhD to be scrutinised through stage 2 of The Open
          University Affiliated Research Centre approval process.
      2. Develop a pool of PhD supervisors with training and mentoring support
      3. Recruit 10 doctoral students in Fine Art/Graphics/Lens-based (4), Art and Design
          Education (2), Curation (2), Creative Writing (2)
      4. Reflect on and evaluate current performance.
      5. Revise research strategy in light of experience gained from 2021 submission.
      6. Continue to support UoA 32 researchers at the University.
      7. Continue research events suitable for UoA 32 research and impact.
      8. Through the process of continuous improvement develop the research infrastructure to
          meet the of needs of UoA 32 researchers.
      9. Research Team to work on research bids for external funding where appropriate.
 Impact
 The approach towards enabling impact originated within the University’s research clusters as
 described above (Pedagogies, Curatorial, Crossing Borders and Technology). The clusters were
 given a small budget and were led by a Category A member of staff. The clusters supported
 research activity but also instigated public engagement activities that were appropriate for each
 subject area.
 As particular strands of research progressed, it was apparent that there were some research
 staff who developed an expertise in designing integrated research and impact activities. These
 members of staff were asked to think about how they could plan their impact in a more
 systematic way. They were supported in creating ‘pathways to impact’ that recognised the
 importance of building long-term relationships with the beneficiaries of the research. Research
 staff were able to apply for funds through the research budget to undertake public engagement
 and impact activities. The researchers also took part in various training opportunities and were
 mentored by the Head of Research. The training comprised CREST (now GuildHE/Research)
 case studies and impact training, 25 September 2018; impact case study training, 6 December
 2018; enhancing impact case studies, 31 October 2019; impact case study workshop, 4
 February 2020.
 Research staff are responsible for identifying, documenting, measuring and providing evidence
 for the impact of their work. This is done in a collegial and supportive environment. The benefit

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of this approach is that researchers are mindful of the need to integrate impact strategies into
 their overall research design. Impact activity is regularly reported to the University’s Board of
 Governors and to the Research Committee. The Impact case studies are made visible to the
 public through the University’s website.
 As a result of this activity, the following areas of impact have emerged:
 Mature Students Matter: Accessing art and design higher education describes the impact of
 research on mature students, communities of creative educators and politicians aligned to the
 All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for Art, Craft and Design in Education.
 The awareness of capacities, such as phronesis, has shaped attitudes towards learning in later
 life, enabling people to make better informed decisions about studying as noted in AccessHE –
 UKADIA Creative HE Apply Guide 2020. The APPG (Art, Craft and Design in Education) are
 aware of the valuable contribution mature students make to learning as they lobby for arts
 education. Insights based on the experiences of mature students have informed Certa/Access’
 art and design modules on Certa’s Access to Higher Education Diploma (validated by the QAA).
 Feminist-Surrealism: Seeing the unseen focuses on the impact of feminist-surrealist research at
 Leeds Arts University on national and international public collections and their audiences. This
 research has contributed to greater public recognition of artists Dorothea Tanning and Leonora
 Carrington, significantly raising their profiles. It overcomes media myths towards more nuanced
 understandings of how these artists speak to contemporary issues such as well-being and
 creative ageing, feminism and intergenerational cooperation. The research comprises long-term
 revisionist histories of these artists, activating their legacies to drive a contemporary feminist
 curatorial investment in acknowledging women’s creative achievements.
 Co-Making Economic Cultures mobilised participatory social design and feminist approaches to
 the economy to support individuals, citizen groups, welfare organisations and local municipalities
 in the development of empowering socio-economic practices. This research has benefitted
 design practitioners across Europe, supporting them in the creation of socio-economically
 sustainable cultures of work and organisation. It has also enhanced the capacity of self-
 organised citizen groups, community welfare organisations, public administration and cultural
 associations in Italy, and especially the Italian Alps, to address eco-social issues – such as
 social segregation, exclusion of asylum seekers, low consideration for the environment – in
 collaborative and innovative ways.
 Drawing as Collaborative Tool in Community Visualisation has impacted on international
 emerging artists through a drawing blog and a social media project ‘Aphorisms for young artists’,
 where it has changed understanding and produced a resource for emerging practitioners. The
 communities of Chapeltown, Leeds have also benefited from the drawing and narrative
 research, which has created a platform where their stories can be heard. The research has
 created a new gallery space where local audiences and practitioners can see research-informed
 artwork.
 The Tactile Writing Workshops deepen writing skills by exploring the interaction of objects, text
 and language in the making of visual and textual connections. They break down the barriers
 between image and text and explore the tactile and aesthetic qualities of writing, making
 connections between theory and practice and between visual and textual language. They
 provide opportunities to interact with writing, materials and academic text in a purposeful, non-
 threatening environment. They have had measurable effects on the positioning and teaching of
 writing on the University. They were instrumental in the decision to write and deliver a creative
 writing undergraduate degree. The workshop was one of the central philosophical and practical
 methods of delivery. They have promoted writing as an enabling creative practice. They are
 based on the ethics of critical disability studies and as such have impact beyond the pedagogic,
 and into the field of social justice.
 Reframing Environmental Issues Through Still Life is a series of workshops that aim to raise
 awareness of issues of waste in consumer culture. During the workshops’ participants made
 sculptures using rubbish. Some of the participants sculptures were shown on posters in Leeds
 and a large-scale building wrap in Wakefield, temporarily changing the environments they were
 located in and exposing the general public, who may not usually visit art galleries, to
 contemporary art. Additionally, with permission from the participants sculptures were shared on
 @consumerrelics, an Instagram page set up to disseminate the artworks. Purposefully selected


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hashtags placed the posts in a wide range of newsfeeds, in order to reach a wide and varied
 audience.

 Strategies and approaches for developing research impact during the next five years.
      1. It is important that the initial relationships that the researchers have instigated with their
          publics and beneficiaries are deepened and widened. Therefore, a more explicit
          infrastructure to support impact will be created alongside a dedicated training and
          development programme for identifying, capturing and measuring impact.
      2. Researchers will be encouraged to see impact as an integral part of research design
          from the start of a project.
      3. Identify potential new areas of research impact, that do not necessarily depend on the
          research of one academic but on a body of work from a group of UoA 32 researchers.
 Interdisciplinary research
 Where interdisciplinary research is central to a researcher’s practice it is facilitated through the
 research proposal process where individuals can request funds to support collaborative working
 with researchers from other institutions and disciplines. The continuous professional
 development budget can support any scholarship activity in other disciplines needed to support
 this kind of research. The UoA 32 researchers have been successful in undertaking
 interdisciplinary practice and many examples are given in Section 4 of this statement.
 Open Access
 Throughout the assessment period the UoA 32 has made progress towards an open research
 environment. An essential aspect has been the increased number of research outputs made
 openly available via the institutional repository. All researchers within UoA 32 are asked to
 deposit all research outputs, wherever possible, including outputs outside the scope of the REF
 open access policy requirements, such as exhibitions, artefacts and creative projects. Deposit is
 encouraged via a consistent, fully mediated deposit process, which promotes the repository to
 researchers as a space for all output types. Additionally, through visual enhancements, the
 repository has adapted to better suit the requirements of visual, non-text outputs, so that visual
 practice research that is openly deposited is showcased and more easily accessible to users. As
 a result, as of 31 July 2020, 85% of outputs proposed for submission in UoA 32 are openly
 available.
 As open access and open research continue to develop within art and design, the institution has
 made contributions to the wider field in this area. For example, research staff have presented at
 conferences on scholarly communication, specifically addressing the role and challenges of
 open access within art and design research. For example, ‘Adapting and Evolving: overcoming
 challenges in the arts’ at the Scholarly Communication Conference 2019. Additionally, the
 institution has participated in ongoing discussions around open access and the role of
 repositories in the sector, at both local and national levels. For instance, the institution is a
 member of the GuildHE Open Access Policy discussion group. The University Research Co-
 ordinator engages with external training opportunities in order to keep up-to-date with
 developments in national and global open access policies.
 Open access guidance has been published on the staff intranet to inform UoA 32 Category A
 research staff. There have also been research training sessions for staff focused on the
 principles and policies relating to open research.
 Research Integrity
 Researchers from UoA 32 are required to create work in line with the institution’s Ethics Policy.
 Researchers are mostly practice-based and working within the visual arts, therefore sections of
 the Ethics Policy have addressed particular issues associated with the visual arts. For example,
 the section named Representation and appropriation addresses research integrity when
 representing others and appropriation in creative practice. It addresses tensions that may exist
 within areas such as fine art practice, where the appropriation of styles and imagery may be
 common practice. This needs to be done in such a way that it does not impinge on the legal and
 moral rights of other people.
 All research that is carried out with participants, irrespective of method or topic is required to
 follow the University’s Ethics Policy. Research misconduct by not adhering to the policy is dealt
 with through the University’s disciplinary policy and procedure.


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Ethics Sub-Committee plays an important role in supporting research integrity, it reviews all
 research proposals submitted by staff on an annual basis. There is also provision in the Ethics
 Sub-Committee’s terms of reference for additional meetings when required. Researchers from
 UoA 32 have been active members of the Sub-Committee and their expertise has guided its
 work from an informed perspective. The chair of the Ethics Sub-Committee is a researcher from
 UoA 32.
 As well as the Ethics Policy and the work of the Ethics Sub-Committee there is also an Ethics in
 Research Procedure that describes how ethics operates within the University. Participant
 consent forms are provided which researchers from the UoA 32 discipline areas can adapt to
 their own context and needs.
 A collaboration between three UoA 32 researchers has led to the making of an open access
 resource called A conversation about ethics. This demonstrates the engagement some
 researchers from UoA 32 have with ethics and research integrity, and how they embed this into
 their practice.
 Strategies and approaches for developing research integrity in the next five years
 A lot of work has been achieved in the areas of research ethics and integrity. However, there is
 still more to be done. Going forward, over the next five years there are four areas that need
 development:
       1) An ethical review process needs to be designed for research degree students that is
          appropriate for researchers from UoA 32. This may be part of a wider process that
          considers the ethical issues relating to undergraduate and taught postgraduate students
          as well as members of staff.
       2) Work needs to be done to develop a clear research misconduct process that is visible to
          external audiences so that reporting of misconduct can be clear and transparent.
       3) The promotion of examples of good practice relating to research integrity in UoA 32
          activity.
       4) Signing up to the principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and
          complying with its basic requirements, exceeding them where possible.


 2. People
 Staff development strategy for all staff pursuing a career in research at all stages of their
 careers
 All new UoA 32 Category A staff have an induction period including a one-to-one induction with
 the Head of Research and the Research Co-ordinator. At this point they are introduced to the
 research infrastructure, the Research Team, the research proposal and the institutional
 repository. They are also encouraged to share their research achievements and future
 aspirations. The Vitae Researcher Development Framework is also discussed and new staff are
 signposted to it. As part of the probation period new UoA 32 Category A staff are asked to
 submit a research proposal. Members of the Research Team act as mentors if a member of staff
 requires support and guidance. Researchers’ progress is recorded and acknowledged through
 the annual appraisal process which is designed to include research goals in particular. The
 Research Team offer training through ‘Research Tuesdays’, regular events based on sharing
 good practice around ethics, research, dissemination and impact activity is shared. One-to-one
 training is given by the Research Team where appropriate. Actions suggested by the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers are reviewed by the Head of Human
 Resources and the Head of Research on an annual basis and reported to the Research
 Committee and the Academic Board.
 Staffing and recruitment policy and evidence of its effectiveness
 Overall University staff numbers have not seen a significant increase between 2014 and July
 2020. The general numbers of staff on academic contracts have remained relatively static.
 The University has historically provided courses in one Unit of assessment, UoA 32. Recently
 there was a launch of new courses that has expanded the University provision to include UoA
 33.
 Concerning UoA 32, the introduction of new undergraduate courses such as Fashion
 Photography, Comic & Concept Art, Creative Writing and Fashion Branding with Communication


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as well as the growth and development of previously launched courses such as Illustration and
 Animation led to an increased in the number of academic contracts in the UoA 32.
 It is the policy of the University to give people permanent contracts where possible, to support
 the wellbeing of the staff. On the census date it can be seen that 95.2% of the Category A UoA
 32 staff have a permanent contract. Only 4.8% have a fixed term contract. Fixed term contracts
 are only issued in specific situations such as maternity covers, working towards retirement or
 growth in new developing areas such as postgraduate studies.
 When Category A staff have been appointed they are able to request support and remission
 from teaching to undertake a PhD. Between 2014 and July 2020 the University has supported a
 total of 17 UoA 32 staff studying their PhDs.
 The table below provides information about the staff roles. The introduction of the University’s
 first Professorial Policy and Procedure in 2014 has led to the appointment of 2 Professors and 1
 Associate Professor in UoA 32.
   UoA Cat. A           Numbers
   Staff roles
   Professor            2
   Associate
   Professor            1
   Course
   Leaders              12
   Subject
   Specialists          7
   Senior
   Lecturers            36
   Lecturers            25
   Progression
   Manager              1
   Head of
   Research             1
   Director of
   Undergraduate
   Studies x3           3
   Curator              1
   Subject
   Leaders              2
   Associate
   Researcher           1
   Head of
   Postgraduate
   Studies              1
   Research
   Fellow               2
 This ambitious, but also prudent, approach to recruitment and staff development has been very
 successful. This is seen in the growth of the research culture over the last 6-7 years noted in
 Section 1. The growing pool of 20 potential PhD supervisors also indicates that the approach to
 recruiting and developing Category A staff has been effective. This strategy has enabled the
 University to make its first REF submission in 2021 and to look forward to working with a
 validating partner to deliver PhDs.
 Demographic analysis of UoA 32 Category A Staff
 The proportion of female staff in UoA 32 is consistent with the University’s gender profile (of the
 Category A staff for Unit of Assessment 32, 57.1% are female). The average age of Category A
 staff is 44.5 and 72.6% are aged between 35 and 54. Many of the staff are mid-career in terms
 of teaching but are new to research due to the particular history and development of the
 University as a small specialist arts institution. Therefore, the research strategy aimed to
 support the staff in developing their research practice.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There are slightly more UoA 32 Category A staff on part-time contracts (51.2%) than full-time
 (48.8%). This reflects the nature of the subject area where many staff also have a creative
 practice or business that complements their part-time paid employment. Some may also have
 caring responsibilities that fit in with part-time work. If an individual begins on a part-time contract
 there is sometimes the opportunity to expand their contract if appropriate.
 The ethnicity profile of Category A staff for UoA 32 is predominantly white with 2.4% of staff
 identifying themselves as coming from backgrounds other than white. The University has begun
 to analyse and address the systemic reasons for the ethnicity profile of academics in the wider
 staff population through its Senior Management Team and its deliberative structure.
 5.9% of the Category A staff in UoA 32 have declared a disability. The University has policies
 and procedures in place that provide reasonable adjustments for staff with particular needs.
 Supporting and integrating individuals at the beginning of their research careers into the
 research culture
 The contribution of postdoctoral researchers has been very important in supporting the evolving
 research culture. During the assessment period there have been three postdoctoral research
 fellows employed who have mentored individual members of staff. New researchers are
 encouraged and given support in disseminating their work through internal dissemination days.
 During the induction period the Head of Research connects individuals with others who have
 shared research interests.
 Evidence that this has been a useful strategy comes from a comparison between the Annual
 Research Report 2012-13 and the Annual Research Report 2019-20. In 2012-13, most of the
 activity was related to presenting at conferences with 6 published articles and book chapters
 documented in the report. This activity had grown to 49 publications and exhibitions in 2019-20,
 in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, many of the UoA 32’s ECRs have been able to
 submit at least one output for the REF2021 submission. On the census date, July 31 2020,
 were 84 UoA 32 Category A staff and all but 12 have submitted at least one output. Of the
 remaining 12, 5 had been newly recruited and this was their first academic post. They have
 been encouraged to plan for the next cycle and continue to be supported with research time and
 resource.
 Research and impact leave/sabbatical leave
 All part-time and full-time UoA 32 Category A staff are able to apply for research leave of 15
 days pro rata per academic year according to their contract. This is managed through the HR
 system where staff can request research leave.
 Rewarding staff for carrying out research and for achieving impact
 The achievement of research and impact goals are acknowledged and recorded through the
 appraisal process. Successful completion of goals can lead to the member of staff progressing
 up the pay spine. Researchers must “have agreed an outline research project in place with the
 Head of Research by the agreed date and that the Head of Research is satisfied with the
 progress made”. (Staff Pay Increase Policy, section 1, page 2). Staff achievement can also be
 recognised through the appointment of associate and full professors. The Professorial Policy
 and Procedure lays down the criteria for achieving these titles through research and impact
 activity. Two UoA 32 members of staff have been promoted to Professor and one has been
 promoted to Associate Professor at the REF 2021 census date.
 Study leave arrangements
 The University currently does not have research students. Members of staff who are studying
 qualifications including PhDs are considered for funding and/or remission/time from teaching.
 This is noted in the Continuous Professional Development Framework.
 Arrangements for supporting flexible and/or remote working
 There is a Flexible Working Procedure published on the staff portal that is related to large scale
 and long-term changes in working patterns. An individual may request such a change due to
 parental or caring responsibilities. Such a request may be approved if it meets certain stated
 criteria. On a day-to-day basis UoA 32 Category A staff are able to negotiate when they take
 their research time with their line managers. This process is managed online where staff can log
 their research days through the HR system. Where researchers are working remotely there is
 some detailed advice available to ensure they protect their well-being, health and safety while
 being away from the workplace. The line manager or Head of Research maintains regular
 contact with the member staff to enhance a feeling of continued belonging to the institution.

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Remote working policies and procedures have been particularly valuable during the covid-19
 pandemic.
 Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff
 Currently there is only one UoA 32 research-only member of staff on a fixed term contract.
 Where fixed-term contracts are used staff have the same access to University resources and
 facilities and enjoy the same terms, conditions and service. The University seeks to avoid the
 use of temporary contracts and only uses them where there is a direct business need,
 recognising that the insecurity of employment may have an impact on both the employee’s
 wellbeing and performance.
 Researchers on fixed-term contracts and part-time contracts have the same access to and
 participation in probation processes, induction, appraisal and continuous professional
 development as full-time permanent staff.
 Conference attendance or other necessary travel to support research
 All UoA 32 Category A staff are able to apply for funds to attend and present at conferences.
 The University will make reasonable adjustments to ensure no one is disadvantaged in this
 activity. The Research Coordinator works with an individual on a one-to-one basis to ensure
 travel and accommodation bookings are suitable for the particular researcher. Internal research
 dissemination activities are organised during different days and during twilight hours to
 accommodate part-time staff and those with caring responsibilities.
 Equality and diversity considerations
 All UoA 32 Category A staff are welcome to ask for support from their line managers and the
 Head of Research in regard to the submission of funding applications, access to internal funds,
 research-related promotion, conference attendance and training. All staff can access this
 support either directly from the Research Team or through the research proposal process.
 All staff including the Research Team participate in equality, diversity and inclusion training
 including online training and a session on behaviour in the workplace delivered by Human
 Resources. An external training organisation also provides unconscious bias training to all staff
 who participate in staff and student recruitment and this forms part of an ongoing rolling
 programme.
 The University has a range of policies to support and promote equality and diversity: there is an
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy, which is supplemented by policies on Equality in
 Employment and its Anti-Bullying Policy which outlines how issues around harassment,
 discrimination and bullying should be both raised and tackled. The University also has a policy
 on how it will support a member of staff who has experienced domestic violence.
 When promoting or recruiting individuals for research-related leadership roles the Equality in
 Employment Policy is followed which references equality issues in relation to career
 development and research assessment.
 All staff, including researchers with protected characteristics, are represented in the University’s
 deliberative structure.
 Support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave
 The University has various policies and guidance in relation to returning after a period of leave
 such as Maternity, Paternity & Adoption, Flexible Working Procedure, Authorised Absence and
 Special Leave Policy and Absence Management Procedure. Individuals are supported through
 staged or phased return that is agreed with the individual, Human Resources and line managers.
 Tasks and deadlines may be revised where appropriate. ‘Keep in touch’ contact between the
 individual and the University can also be arranged.
 Support for staff with protected characteristics to enable them to research productively
 All UoA 32 Category A staff are able to discuss their needs with their line managers, through
 induction, probation, regular catch-up meetings and appraisal. Risk assessments can then be
 undertaken by Human Resources and the Health and Safety Team so that issues are identified
 and reasonable adjustments can be made. This is done in consultation with the researcher. For
 example, a researcher may require a particular kind of software to mitigate against dyslexia or a
 special office chair to help with physical conditions.
 Individuals may need more nuanced support that requires a change in management style, or
 style of communication. The equality and diversity pages on the staff portal provide sign posts to
 relevant policies and procedures that can help research managers support staff with protected


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 characteristics. There is also more detailed advice and information available on the staff portal
 for staff and managers.
 In relation to REF 2021, Equality Impact Assessments (EIA) have been carried out in 2018 and
 2019 as part of a mock research assessment exercise. They considered the processes for
 deciding research independence to identify any disadvantage to any groups with protected
 characteristics. Further EIA will also consider the processes that take into account staff
 circumstances and the adjustments to the numbers of expected outputs in relation to protected
 characteristics. The selection of outputs and the appeals process will also be subject to EIA as
 outlined in the Code of Practice.
 Approach to supporting the wellbeing of staff
 The submitting unit has encouraged its Category A staff to submit a minimum of one output,
 irrespective of being full or part-time. Time scales and deadlines for REF 2021 have been
 published in the Code of Practice well in advance and have been adhered to. This approach was
 to reduce unnecessary anxiety due to unexpected and changing demands on staff time. After
 the REF 2021 Selection Panel met in June 2020, it was concluded that the output pool
 considered met the REF eligibility criteria.
 If a line manager or the Head of Research suspected that someone’s wellbeing required support
 then a meeting would be arranged where deadlines could be negotiated and additional help and
 guidance could be given. UoA 32 Category A staff could also be directed to the ‘wellbeing
 benefits’ page on the staff portal. If needed they can access the free resources Care First
 (Employee Assistance Programme) and Big White Wall. Discounts are also offered on Bodyline
 gym membership to aid with fitness and mental health.
 Practical tools available to managers are The Well Persons Questionnaire and Stress Risk
 Assessment Form. These are used in conjunction with the Policy and Procedure on Stress
 Management.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 UoA 32 Category A staff are not required by the University to seek out external funding for their
 research activity. However, staff from UoA 32 have been successful in gaining funds for
 research through the Education and Training Foundation, Creative Scene, the Arts Council and
 GuildHE/Research sandpit project.
 One research fellow was awarded a 2-year Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowship, which is part of
 the European Union flagship program for excellent research. From April 2019 to March 2021
 they are working on the project ‘Alpine Community Economies Lab’ in collaboration with EURAC
 Research (Italy) and the Habitat Unit at the Technical University Berlin. This work has
 contributed towards an impact case study about social design ‘Co-making economic cultures’.
 The course leader for Graphic Design was successful in gaining seed money for her research
 project about the ‘nail bar’ and social inclusion from the CREST (now GuildHE/Research) ‘Sand
 Pit’ award 2018.
 Three UoA 32 Category A staff were awarded a series of Research Development grants from
 the Education and Training Foundation to carry out research on access, widening participation
 and pedagogy in arts education. This led to eleven peer-reviewed outputs and an impact case
 study focusing on mature students in art and design education.
 One UoA 32 Category A member of staff was successful in bidding for an evaluation project
 based on an action research project from Creative Scene, an Arts Council funded creative
 people and places project. This was suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, it is
 anticipated that it will resume and contribute to the impact environment for the next REF cycle.
 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Funds are made available from the University’s general income, the majority of which comes
 from student fees. In addition to the 15 days research time, the University makes £70,000 per
 annum available for the purposes of supporting research and impact activity. This money can be
 applied for by UoA 32 Category A staff through the Annual Research Proposal process.
 Proposals are reviewed by the Research Team and approved by the Senior Management Team.
 Staff are given individual feedback on their proposals.


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 If proposals are approved staff are able to apply for funds. This is done through a budget
 request form that records their funding requirements and intended research output. Funding is
 related to creating research outputs or creating impact activity and this is documented by the
 Research Team.
 UoA 32 Category A staff are able to apply for additional funds through the Research Committee
 for costs that cannot be applied for through the proposal process. If successful, staff are asked
 to report back on the progress of their projects to the Committee.
 When the University made the strategic decision to develop its research culture four research
 clusters were created: Pedagogies, Curatorial, Crossing Borders and Technology. Their role
 was to support and encourage staff who, although may be mid to late in their teaching careers,
 were actually quite new to undertaking research. The clusters were led by research champions
 who organised dissemination events and provided individual staff mentoring. Each cluster
 aligned to UoA 32 as this was the only subject area covered by the University until 2018.
 Management of the Research Team is undertaken by the Head of Research. Individual UoA 32
 Category A staff are managed in undergraduate and postgraduate courses, most often by the
 Course Leader or Subject Leader. Issues relating to research can be discussed by line
 managers with the Head of Research if required.
 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The estate for research comprises one research and postgraduate office and two open-plan
 learning and dissemination spaces. These were created as part of the investment in 2018 of the
 new building.
 Staff from UoA 32 have been active using this space during the research events that have been
 used for dissemination, research training and development.
 Any facilities or equipment needed by UoA 32 Category A staff for their research are sourced
 through the Research Team. In addition to the research budget the University has an Annual
 Capital Bids process which the Research Team can access if required. Previously specialist IT
 software and equipment has been applied for by the Research Team for UoA 32 researchers.
 Currently, the Research Team share an office with the Postgraduate Team. There are also two
 large multi-purpose rooms with projection facilities that can be booked for research and
 dissemination events. The Research Coordinator manages the open access provision for
 research outputs. They share an office with the Curation Team and also have a desk in the
 University library.
 There is a comprehensive specialist artists’ book collection containing publications spanning
 from the previous 90 years, providing a resource for archival research. There is also an archive
 housed in the Blenheim Walk library relating to the University’s history which is of interest to
 those researching the development of art school curricula, pedagogies and social stratification.
 The University gallery showcases internal research but also shows internationally important
 practice-led research by invited practitioners. The University has developed an acquisitions
 policy and acquires examples of visual arts for its growing collection.
 Addressing relevant equality and diversity issues
 As the research culture of the University which relates directly to the growth of UoA 32 research
 is seven years old there are many ECRs. These are staff who may be employed in higher
 education for the first time and as yet do not have a research profile. There are also those who
 are mid or late career as teachers but are new to research. Within UoA 32, many staff work
 part-time so they can carry on their own creative practice as well as tend to their caring
 responsibilities.
 In order to ensure no one is disadvantaged an inclusive approach to funding has been taken. All
 Category A staff can apply to the research budget for the funds they need to undertake their
 research, scholarship and impact activity, as long as the requests are reasonable and comply
 with budget constraints and financial regulations. Funding is not related to the size of contract so
 part-time staff have equal access to the support they need.
 In relation to the selection of outputs for REF 2021, the aim again was to be as inclusive as
 possible. As such, everyone on a teaching and research contract or a research only contract is
 included in the submission. The University recognises that undue anxiety can arise in the staff
 who are new to research. To counter this, all staff irrespective of contract size are asked to
 submit a minimum of one and a maximum of five outputs to the Selection Panel. The process is
 described in the Code of Practice.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Activities designed to support research such as dissemination events, training sessions and
 research briefings are planned to consider the needs of part-time workers and those with caring
 responsibilities. Therefore, events such as research breakfasts, research lunches, twilight
 reading groups and twilight dissemination events have taken place. The Research Team aim to
 be flexible in timing, content and the nature of events.
 Much of the day-to-day work of the Research Team is flexible, offering one-to-one support to
 individuals when required. For example, any accessibility requirements are accommodated
 when booking events. Training resources are supplied online for staff to use if they are unable to
 attend a particular research session. The Head of Research is available to talk to individuals if
 they need further support.
 The Research Team has received extensive training in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion training
 as noted previously in Section 2.
 Infrastructure, facilities and expertise utilised in relation to impact activities
 Impact activities are funded through the research budget, which is accessed via the research
 proposal process or by direct application to the Research Committee. UoA 32 Category A staff
 can use this fund to pay for travel, hospitality and accommodation for impact events, such as
 meetings, presentations to public bodies, dissemination events and workshops in communities.
 Training for impact activities and evaluation is provided for by the University’s Continuous
 Professional Development budget. The Head of Research has also provided targeted training for
 those researchers writing impact case studies.
 The research and postgraduate estate is used for impact activities where particular groups of
 beneficiaries have been invited into the University. For example, ‘Mature Student Matters in Art
 Craft and Design’ was an event where mature students, access practitioners and interested
 members of the public were invited to take part in a research dissemination event. Resources
 were used for hospitality and to film the event. The subsequent films were edited and provide
 evidence of impact.
 The impact case studies are presented on the University’s website in order to make the projects
 more visible.
 The University gallery is another venue that has been driven by public engagement events.
 There is a potential to develop this further so that future impact is systematically recorded.
 Cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure
 Opportunities for cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure arise from the
 research projects and interests of UoA 32 Category A staff.
 For example, a collaborative research project with the School of Earth and Environment,
 University of Leeds entailed a sharing of resources. The University supplied the time, expertise,
 IT equipment and software for creating a virtual environment suitable for a virtual geology field
 trip. The University of Leeds supplied the expertise and resources for geo-mapping the virtual
 terrain as well as the underpinning geological knowledge and pedagogies.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The Annual Research Reports (2014-2020) have charted the University’s fast-paced
 development of its research culture. This is a small and specialist institution; however, Unit 32
 has been successful in engaging with a wide range of communities and publics through its
 research activity. Although the majority of projects are small and are funded by the University
 rather than externally, they have had an impact on many diverse groups of beneficiaries outside
 of academia. This impact has the potential to be developed in future years.
 Collaborations, networks and partnerships Collaborative arrangements.
 Leeds Arts University are members of GuildHE/Research, an annual subscription is paid for
 membership and additional services are paid for as the arise. Over the previous nine years,
 Leeds Arts University and GuildHE/Research have participated in many joint ventures such as
 the shared repository for research staff outputs, research training, subscription to VITAE, the
 annual doctoral summer school and sandpit research projects. The University has been pro-
 active in developing the repository for practice-based and visual outputs with GuildHE/Research
 that are suitable for UoA 32 researchers.
 Shorter-term collaborations are facilitated on a case-by-case basis. The University is open to
 projects that align with its research strategy. For example, Robinson (a UoA 32 senior lecturer)
 undertook a collaborative project with University of Leeds. Robinson was allocated time and

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resource so that the project could be completed with the colleagues from the University of Leeds
 geology department. They developed the Geology E-Learning project which was awarded Times
 Higher Education Award for Outstanding Digital Innovation in Teaching or Research in
 November 2016. The project was driven by an interest in equality and diversity as it aimed to
 give those students who could not go on geological field trips authentic, but simulated
 experience.
 A similar approach to collaboration was taken when Elzenbaumer (Research Fellow) worked
 with colleagues from Goldsmiths, University of London on the PhD by Design project. This
 entailed running a series of workshops around the United Kingdom aimed at those researching
 design practices as part of their doctoral studies. The events led to PhD by Design publications
 that were created and disseminated in one day, these were inclusive documents that drew upon
 the skills of all who attended the events.
 The Head of Research has been given time and resource through the University’s research
 infrastructure to work with many other universities including University of the Arts London as part
 of the Inclusive Arts Education Forum. This has led to research outputs and impact activity
 around widening participation and access in the arts.
 The researchers from UoA 32 have a new and developing relationship with Creative Scene,
 which is the Arts Council England’s Creative People and Places Project for West Yorkshire. The
 Head of Research and the Progression Manager have undertaken a funded research project
 that evaluates Creative Scene’s strategies for engaging new audiences for the arts. The
 University is flexible and open to such projects as long as they are in line with its research
 strategy, Ethics Policy and financial regulations.
 The Director of Art and Performance [title now changed to Director of Undergraduate Studies]
 began an interesting connection as an invited research consultant in July 2018 with the Dance4
 International Centre for Choreography, Nottingham. This was funded by Arts Council England
 and Dance4 International Centre for Choreography.
 Research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 The University has supported particular UoA 32 research that has been designed to engage with
 various research users, beneficiaries or audiences, from its inception.
 The beneficiaries of the research can be identified through the impact case studies where
 researchers addressed mature students, emerging artists, Leeds residents, widening
 participation practitioners and creative writers. The research undertaken at Leeds Arts University
 has been used by organisations such as Creative Scene, who seek to widen participation in the
 arts, and NEON, who lobby for widening participation in education.
 The University has supported many activities designed to engage and support the communities
 outside academia by UoA 32 Category A staff for example the case studies that have been
 mentioned previously:
 Mature Students Matter in Art, Craft and Design is a project comprising activities that
 disseminate the research about the capacities of mature students, including their practical
 wisdom.
 Tactile Writing Workshops explore how people write using arts-based methods. This has led to
 the University’s new BA (Hons) Creative Writing.
 Reframing Environmental Issues Through Still Life, a practice-based research encourages
 people to think more deeply about our consumer culture and the impact this has on the
 environment.
 Feminist Surrealist Curation, through curation and scholarly practices audiences are made
 aware of female surrealist artists.
 Co-making economic cultures, where strategies are shared to enhance the capacity of long-
 standing community welfare organisations, public administration and cultural associations in the
 Italian Alps to address eco-social issues in collaborative and innovative ways.
 Wider activities and contributions to the economy and society
 Sandpit project: This was a project that used a nail bar as a setting to encourage young women
 to think about participating in higher education.
 Creative Scene evaluation project: commissioned by Creative Scene supported by Arts Council.
 The project used Action Research Learning Sets to facilitate arts organisations in their work with
 new audiences in North Kirklees. The organisations were: Yorkshire Sculpture Park; Hoot;
 Northern Broadsides; Bradford Literature Festival and Kirklees Museums and Galleries.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Black and Ethnic Minority (BAME) project: a ‘Community of Inquiry’ approach was used to
 explore the Black and Ethnic Minority Student Experience in the University. The findings of the
 research informed the strategic action plan going forward to improve the experiences of students
 in further and higher education.
 Other collaborators include Leeds Film Festival and Hyde Park Cinema where the University’s
 facilities have been used to show films and host corresponding symposia relevant to UoA 32
 research and concerns.
 Engagment with communities and publics
 UoA 32 Category A staff have engaged with various communities and publics through various
 kinds of activity.
 They have engaged in dissemination through public engagement activities with organisations
 outside academia such as NSEAD, Certa/Access, NEON Mature Learner Working Group, the
 Yorkshire Sculpture Park, Ilkley Literature Festival, Chapeltown Arts Festival, Chapeltown Arts,
 The Hepworth Wakefield, Wakefield Adult Education Centre, and adult learners at a WDH
 Independent Living Scheme in Pontefract. Outside of the UK, there have been links with
 Comunità Frizzante, an Italian design- and agro-ecology-led community drinks enterprise,
 Trajna, a Slovenian eco-social think and do tank, the Social Welfare Service of the Vallagarina
 Community and the Political Service Socials of the Municipality of Rovereto.
 On occasion, engagement with different communities is through collaborative or integrated
 research projects, such as the one with Creative Scene. One of the UoA 32’s Research Fellows
 has carried out projects with Yorkshire Sculpture International, the Hepworth and Leeds
 Inspired, part of Leeds City Council. Another Research Fellow has undertaken research projects
 with refugees in Rovereto in Italy.
 A second approach is to invite groups into the University to take part in research and public
 engagement events. Examples of this would be communities of mature students and access
 practitioners coming to see Mature Students Matter events. Researchers have also worked with
 the University gallery to run public engagement activities related to the practice-based research
 outputs shown in that space.
 Indirect engagement with different publics has also been through the press and the media. For
 example, one of the University’s Fine Art researchers spoke on BBC Radio 4 on 22 November
 2014 in a programme called Art School Smart School. Wragg wrote an article about one of the
 researchers’ cultural practice, My Yorkshire Sheila Gaffney published in the Yorkshire Post
 Magazine, 17 October 2015. During the same year Chapman wrote, Do You See What I See? in
 The City Talking, May 2015.
 One of the research fellows had press coverage based on their public engagement activity.
 Articles included those from Bradford Zone Council class gets visit from Hepworth artist, 12 June
 2019.; Wakefield Express, ‘Wakefield's history to get covered by artist’, 6 July 2019 and
 Wakefield Council Press Release, Artistic wrap for watermill at The Hepworth, 3 June 2019.
 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 The UoA 32 researchers are very open to interdisciplinary research and look for opportunities to
 work with others on various research projects. This has led to a sustainable approach to the
 subject due to increasing the scope of networks, collaborations, dissemination opportunities and
 possible beneficiaries of the unit’s research.
 One of the strong areas of research in UoA 32 is widening access and participation in the arts
 and arts education. This has been facilitated an interdisciplinary approach drawing upon the
 visual arts, social sciences and educational methods. This work has been in response to the
 national fall in numbers of mature or ‘second chance’ students studying the arts.
 A very successful interdisciplinary project came from the work Robinson did through their
 research into serious games design, virtual worlds and geological study. This led to collaborative
 work with the School of Earth and Environment, University of Leeds. The project benefited
 geology students who would not be able to go on field trips but needed to engage with an
 environment for their studies. By creating a virtual field trip Robinson’s practice-based research
 facilitated inclusive pedagogies.
 Another strong area of research activity draws upon the interdisciplinary approaches of curation,
 art history and feminism. This has led to an exhibitions programme that is diverse and
 champions under-represented artists.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interdisciplinary research involving the arts and medical science has been a dominant theme in
 the research profiles of some of UoA 32’s researchers. For example, Cumberland’s expanded
 drawing practices have explored scientific and medical research and imagery, contributing to
 Visions of Science Exhibition at University of Bath, 2018. Woolley has also explored scientific
 perspectives through research into representations of the body, publishing in Fat Studies: An
 Interdisciplinary Journal of Body Weight and Society.
 Wider activities and contributions to the research base
 UoA 32 Category A staff are encouraged through the annual progress review process to develop
 their academic citizenship and identities. Their achievements are recorded in the Annual
 Research Report and are celebrated in regular updates provided to the Board of Governors and
 Research Committee.
 Journal editorship
 As the research profiles and expertise of UoA 32 Category A staff become recognised outside
 the institution they have undertaken editorial work. For example, Tobias-Green sits on editorial
 board of Critical Commentary, Newman University. Broadhead has been part of the editorial
 panels for Forum for Adult and Continuing Education and Journal of Widening Participation and
 Lifelong learning, 2017-2020. Broadhead has also been guest editor for two editions of Journal
 of Widening Participation and Lifelong learning, November 2019 and April 2020. This activity
 reflects the researchers’ interests in arts writing and widening participation the arts.
 Participation on grant committees
 UoA 32 Category A staff, McAra and Syng Tan, were appointed to the Peer Review College for
 Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), 2014-2018. They have been active in reviewing
 many grants.
 The University’s Research Committee comprises Pro-Vice-Chancellor Academic, Head of
 Research, University Curator, Research Coordinator, two Research Fellows, five elected HE
 academic representatives and Head of Postgraduate Studies. It may award funds for research
 projects to those who formally apply for them. UoA 32 Category A staff have contributed to
 reviewing funding proposals since the creation of the Committee.
 Fellowships
 Broadhead, Baines and Norton have all been successful in gaining one-year research
 development fellowships funded by the Education and Training Foundation.
 In 2018, the University was honoured when Elzenbaumer was awarded a Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie fellowship, to achieve such a prestigious fellowship when the University’s research culture
 is still relatively new is a good indicator of progress. From Intrecci Possibili she also gained
 funding for pilot activities of the ‘Accademia di Comunità’, 2018.
 Prizes and awards
 UoA 32 Category A staff have produced practice-based research that has been publicly
 recognised through a diverse range of prizes and awards. This recognition indicates the
 substantial progress that has been made in developing influential researchers.
 In 2016 Bainbridge was successful in gaining a Churchill Travel Award so that they could look at
 craft-based archives as a means of preserving textile making skills across Europe. Robinson,
 with University of Leeds, won a Times Higher Education Award for Outstanding Digital
 Innovation in Teaching or Research.
 The Fine Art department comprises many successful practice-based researchers. Virgoe won
 the Jackson’s Art Prize at the Air Gallery Open exhibition in 2017. Barker was first winner in the
 Sketch 2017 Derwent Prize for his sketchbooks. Cumberland was voted best artist and winner of
 the support grant: RADAR Mexico open call and was selected for two solo shows at Liliput,
 Puebla, and Mercado Negro, Puebla.
 In 2018, Smith was successful in gaining seed funding for their social practice research from the
 CREST (now GuildHE/Research) ‘Sand Pit’ award 2018.
 Norton and Baines were awarded bursaries from the Education and Training Foundation (ETF)
 in 2019 to support their practitioner research into inclusive arts education. Tobias-Green was
 highly commended for her poem The Little Park at Winchester Poetry Prize 2019. In 2020 Cooke
 was selected by Art & Heritage to take part in Blue Sky Museums with the Bronte Parsonage.
 Invited keynotes, Lectures and/or performances, or conference chair roles.



                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academic staff at Leeds Arts University are recognized as experts in social design, widening
 participation, curation, fine art and photography. The following shows the range of invited
 speaker, keynote and panel member activities that the staff undertake.
 Social design
 One of the Research Fellows has expertise in social design and has gained an international
 reputation in this area of research. They have been asked to talk about their innovative research
 at many events across Europe. Elzenbaumer as part of design group Brave New Alps, has been
 invited to present at Anti-festival, Kuopio, Finland, 2015; Fermywoods Contemporary Arts, 2015;
 the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences University, Malmo, 2015; the University of
 Bozen-Bolzano for their annual by Design or Disaster conference, 2017.
 Widening participation, access and pedagogy in art and design
 The area of research related to access, widening participation and pedagogy in art and design
 education was one on the earliest to be established within the University. Therefore, its
 researchers have had time to become recognised for their expertise. This has led to staff
 members being asked to give presentations, talks and keynotes.
 Broadhead has been invited to contribute to many conferences such as: Making an Entrance? A
 Critical Workshop On Talent, Merit, Opportunity And Selection In The Cultural And Creative
 Industries organised by Mark Banks and Doris Ruth Eikhof, University of Leicester 2015; ETF
 Research Conference 2017; AoC College HE Research and Scholarship Conference 2016;
 Widening Access and Success: First in Family 2015; Research Development Fellowship
 seminar supported by the Education and Training Foundation and delivered by SUNCETT
 (Sunderland University Centre of Excellence in Teacher Training): 5 November 2015.
 Broadhead’s interests in access and mature students has led to them being asked to give key
 note presentations: A writing life: Sharing research through writing and publication at
 #FEResearchMeet, 13 July 2020. This was an online event with 40 attendees. They also spoke
 about Purpose and values in practitioner research for the Education and Training Foundation
 Research Conference, Monday 6 July 2020. This was an online event due to the Covid-19
 pandemic with 66 attendees. They were also an invited speaker as part of Finding our place in
 the world through art and design at NSEAD’s conference Voices, Value and the Visual Arts
 along with 5 mature graduates from Leeds Arts University. This was an online opening event on
 26 June 2020 with 103 attendees.
 Broadhead and Baines, were also asked to present How can HEIs attract greater numbers of
 mature learners? National Education Opportunities Network (NEON) Summit, 13 May 2020
 [online due to Covid-19 pandemic].
 In 2015 Tobias-Green was asked to speak at Festival of Dyslexic Culture, London. Bainbridge
 and Sykes were invited to talk at Art School Educated as part of the exhibition Mary Martin
 Thomas 1927 - 1930: A Classical Art Education, Yorkshire Sculpture Park, 2016.
 Curation
 The University has invested in a gallery to showcase the research of its Category A staff. It also
 created the academic role of University Curator, McAra, who has expertise in feminist curation
 and women surrealists. As a result, they have been an invited speaker at The Stirling Maxwell
 Centre at the University of Glasgow, 2015 and at the Foam Gallery in Amsterdam, 2016.
 Fine Art
 The Fine Art Category A staff have a strong research profile due in part to the leadership of one
 of UoA 32’s two professors, the Director of Art and Performance [new title is now Director of
 Undergraduate Studies]. As a result, the department’s research staff are asked to chair panels
 and speak at national conferences. For example, in 2015 Gaffney was a panel member at the
 Shift Symposium: The Future of the Arts held at the University of Leeds. In 2016 Gaffney was
 asked to chair The Future of Art Education at the Festival of Art and Design held at Ulster
 University. In the same year, Crouch, as part of Practising Place: Conversations About Art and
 Place, was invited to take part in an ‘in conversation’ session (Vocal Landscapes: Bodies,
 Language and Place) with David Cooper. Taylor was invited to be seminar convener for the
 Professional Doctorate Programme, at the end of year showcase exhibitions in Fine Art at the
 University of East London.
 More recently Gaffney, due to their expertise in feminist sculpture was an invited speaker at the
 Paradox and Absurdity: Alina Szapocznikow and the Body in Crisis (2018) symposium at the
 Hepworth, Wakefield. The talk was called, Alina Szapocznikow’s sculpture and drawings before

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 feminism provided the language. Their interest in life writing and creative practice led them to
 being invited to talk about A feminist space at Leeds: Looking back to think forward in 2017 at
 the University of Leeds. The paper was called Yet Another Story.
 Photography
 The UoA 32 Category A staff in photography are developing an international reputation for the
 subject knowledge and practice-based research. The influence of a photography Research
 Fellow has been beneficial in supporting the research in this department. In 2016 Davies was
 asked to be a panel member at the International Rencontres d'Arles Photography Festival,
 France. They were also a panel member discussing the Discursive Documents exhibition at
 Huddersfield Art Gallery in 2017. In 2018 Woolley was invited to do an artist talk at the Female
 Focus: Confronting Gender Stereotypes symposium held at University of Gloucester and also at
 the Royal Photographic Society in 2019.
 Refereeing academic publications
 Many of the UoA 32 Category A staff act as academic citizens, sharing their expertise through
 peer-review activities. This activity reflects the interests of the researchers and also improves the
 rigour of their own work. The diversity and richness of the review work undertaken is in keeping
 with the vibrant areas of activity that contribute to UoA 32 in this University.
 Social design
 Elzenbaumer, as a recognised expert in social design has extensive experience in reviewing for
 publications such as Ephemera: Theory & Politics in Organization; Journal of Destination
 Marketing & Management; Utopian Studies Journal; International Journal of Sociology and
 Social Policy; Design Research Society biannual conference and the Swiss Design Network
 conference.
 Collins, due to his work in visual communications and social practice, was invited to undertake
 review work for Lapland University Press in 2016.
 Widening participation in the arts
 Broadhead has undertaken review work for journals such as Education Science since 2020;
 Journal of Art, Design and Communication in Higher Education since 2019; Journal of Education
 and Training since 2018; Arts, Basel, Switzerland since 2017; Forum for Adult and Continuing
 Education reviewer since 2017; Continuum: Journal of Media & Cultural Studies since 2015;
 Journal of Educational Action Research since 2013. Broadhead has also been an expert
 reviewer of book proposals about arts education for Emerald Publishing since 2019 and a book
 reviewer for the Journal of Gender and Education since 2016.
 Norton has been a reviewer for Forum for Adult and Continuing Education since 2019.
 Photography
 Woolley has carried out peer review work for Fat Studies.
 Film criticism
 Broadhead has reviewed films in relation to an interest in equality issues from 2016, 2017 and
 2018 for The Senses of Cinema Journal, Australia.
 Fine art and curation
 McAra’s feminist curation and research has led to a wide range of peer-review work for specialist
 arts journals such as Soanyway 2018-2020; ASAP/Journal (the scholarly publication of the
 Association for the Study of the Arts of the Present) 2016-2020. More widely, McAra has peer-
 reviewed for journals such as Feminist Review in 2019; Modernism/modernity in 2018 and the
 Journal of Romance Studies in 2017. Book proposals and books have been reviewed for
 Manchester University Press from 2017-2020 and Routledge 2017-2020.
 Tobias-Green has carried out review work for The State of the Arts since 2019 due to a research
 interest in arts writing.
 Conference/symposia organisation
 The conferences and symposia that UoA 32 Category A staff organise reflect the researchers’
 individual interests and expertise.
 Access, widening participation and inclusion
 Broadhead has organized a range of symposia for those researching the areas of access,
 widening participation and inclusive pedagogies. These include the Inclusive Arts Education
 Forum (IAEF) symposium on 15 May 2014. Dr Michael McMillan from University of the Arts,
 London conducted a session about a project called, The West Indian Front Room. McMillan also
 led a discussion about the work of the late Stuart Hall and his influence on identity politics, 2014.

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Broadhead, in collaboration with University of East London and The Growth Company,
 organised Alive and Kicking: Perspectives on Access Education Symposium at BERA 2017 and
 at FACE 2017. This drew upon the research on access programmes in the UK. In 2019 there
 was another symposium organised, Mature Students Matter in Art, Craft and Design, this was
 open to the public and show-cased the research undertaken by UoA 32 Category A staff in
 relation to access and mature students.
 Communities of sustainable practice
 There was a growing interest in sustainability and creative practice that was pertinent to the
 research practice of many Category A staff. Archer, Broadhead and Elzenbaumer organised
 Expanding Communities of Sustainable Practice symposium, 2016, [with published conference
 proceedings]. There was participation from researchers based in Pittsburgh, Mexico and Oslo.
 The CREST (now GuildHE/Research) mobility fund paid the travel expenses for two
 delegates/presenters. Two staff papers were included: Bainbridge’s The Museum and the
 Maker: Exploring sustainable models of education within craft and Tobias-Green’s Walking in
 Urbana: Sustainable pasts and possible futures. Due to the success of the event Archer and
 Broadhead organised the second Communities of Sustainable Practice symposium, 2018, [with
 published conference proceedings]. UoA 32 Category A staff, Pratt, Collins, Jones, and Smith
 acted as peer-reviewers and provided peer-review feedback to delegates.
 Film, games and animation
 There were a cluster of researchers interested in digital technologies and moving image. This
 led to a series of research dissemination events. Robinson organised a Leeds Film Festival spin-
 off; Alien: Film to Game, The Creative Assembly and SEGA’s sci-fi survival horror game Alien:
 Isolation, 2015.Robinson and Hooper organised Leeds City Council’s new Short Film City
 scheme, 2015.
 Fashion and textiles
 Leeds College of Art [Leeds Arts University] curated a show, The Radical Decade (7 October –
 16 December 2016) which explored the archive and work of the 1960s fashion designer Gerald
 McCann.
 Riches and Bainbridge facilitated The Radical Decade symposium/colloquium to coincide with
 the exhibition. McCann (born in Lancashire in 1931) had a long and varied career in fashion. The
 one-day symposium/colloquium explored the social, cultural and political dynamic changes
 enacted in the 1960s. The University was honoured with a key note from Sylvia Ayton MBE.
 Exploring the nature of research
 In May 2015, Elzenbaumer organised a PhD by Design study and workshop day hosted at
 Leeds College of Art [Leeds Arts University] to explore questions around the dissemination of
 practice-based design research. The topic of the day was inspired by the many questions raised
 around research dissemination during the PhD by Design conference at Goldsmiths in
 November 2014.
 Taylor led Making…making research (2017), an exhibition that explored practice-led research.
 The combination of the words and what the practice of ‘Making Research’ means was part of the
 enquiry.
 Creative writing
 Tobias-Green was in conversation with Yvonne Battle-Felton and Saskia Vogel as part of a
 symposia hosted by Leeds Arts University (22 May 2018). The speakers reflected on the power
 and possibilities of storytelling. Topics covered included the writers’ themes, the authors’ craft,
 and diversity in contemporary literature and today’s world.
 Thing power
 Woolley and Chambers have designed a series of meetings, symposia and workshops around
 object-based research during 2019-2020. Some of these took part on line due to Covid-19
 pandemic. For example, the third Thing Power research seminar brought together Dr Fiona
 Johnstone, an art historian focusing on the intersections between art, visual culture and the
 medical humanities (Durham University), and Garry Barker, an artist who creates art objects that
 help participants to translate thoughts about their health into words (Leeds Arts University). This
 series is a part of an ongoing collaboration between the Thing Power research group, Thinking
 Through Things Wellcome Trust research project and The Fashion Research Network.



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 18
