Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of South Wales

Unit of Assessment: B7 Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences


Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1. Unit Context and Structure:
The University of South Wales’ (USW) Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences Unit of
Assessment (UoA) comprises 13.6 FTE staff with Significant Responsibility for Research (SRR;
Table 1) from the Applied Sciences Research Team (AS Research Team) in the School of Applied
Sciences (SApS) within the Faculty of Computing, Engineering and Science (FCES). The AS
Research Team is divided into six research themes, three of which are relevant to this submission:
Geoscience; Genetic and Molecular Applications; and Wildlife Ecology.
The UoA’s research structure and strategy both contribute to USW’s interdisciplinary Accelerated
Development Area (ADA) of Sustainable Environment, with potential crossover into the Health and
Wellbeing ADA. The AS Research Team is also home to research students and other staff (under
our Chemistry, Forensic Science, and Geographical Sciences themes) who are not returnable in
this submission, but who contribute to the Unit’s research environment.
Table 1. SRR staff alignment with research themes.
                                 Number of
                 Number of                            Number of Senior          Number of
 Theme                           Associate
                 Professors                           Lecturers                 Lecturers
                                 Professors
                                 1 Associate
 Geoscience                      Professor (Pirrie,   1 Senior Lecturer         1 Lecturer
                 0 Professors
 Theme                           Research Theme       (Skilling)                (Diskin)
                                 Lead)
 Genetic and
                                                      2 Senior Lecturers
 Molecular       1 Professor     0 Associate                                    1 Lecturer
                                                      (Hayhurst; Nieuwland,
 Applications    (Murphy)        Professors                                     (Jones)
                                                      Research Theme Lead)
 Theme
                                                      4 Senior Lecturers        4 Lecturers
 Wildlife
                                 0 Associate          (Grass; Lee, Research     (Caravaggi;
 Ecology         0 Professors
                                 Professors           Theme Lead; McKinney;     Cunha;
 Theme
                                                      Scheibler)                Newman; Smith)


1.2. Research and Impact Strategy:
This is a new area of research growth within the University and a result of investment and buoyant
student numbers. The ethos is to support effective research informed undergraduate and
postgraduate learning and teaching that produces skilled individuals capable of contributing to a
range of global and multi-disciplinary challenges. The aims are to:
• Increase the number of active researchers to grow reputation and reach;
• Expand the research culture to contribute positively to economic, societal, environmental and
    cultural challenges;
• Improve research quality through demonstrable indicators of impact and strategic collaborative
    partnerships; and
• Increase research income to reinvest in the Team and across themes.
The UoA’s research strategy aligns with the actions, objectives and timeline of USW’s 2018-2028
Research Strategy and the USW 2030 Vision (as outlined in REF 5a). It centres on (1) Prioritising
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


People, (2) Maximising Impact, and (3) Diversifying Income. Following the University’s research
success measures, the UoA has set the following targets for the REF assessment period 2020-
2028:
(1) Prioritising People:
• A 50% increase in research metrics (outputs, citations, income).
• Establish research mentor-mentee pairings to nurture future talent.
• All staff with SRR to be engaged with an Institutional, research-focused Continuous
    Professional Development (CPD) programme.
• A 33% increase to 27 postgraduate students in 2028. All SRR staff to be involved with
    postgraduate supervision.
(2) Maximising Impact:
• 75% of impact case studies scoring 3/4*, with a 3*:4* split of 50:50.
• Three SRR staff members to complete an impact leadership development programme or
    equivalent.
• Two cross-School strategic partnerships with interdisciplinary scope established from within
    the UoA.
(3) Diversifying Income:
• The UoA to be included in one of the eight strategic research priority areas within the
    University.
• £100+K of research income generated per annum.
• 25% success rate for overhead-bearing grant applications.
• One SRR to be a member of a UKRI peer-review college and/or on a REF panel.
While the UoA includes the three active research themes listed above, the Research Team aims to
expand its interdisciplinary research culture to include Chemistry, Forensic Science and
Geographical Sciences themes in the next phase of the research and impact strategy.
The recent COVID-19 pandemic elicited a rapid response by the Genetic and Molecular
Applications researchers alongside Cwm Taf Morgannwg University Health Board to develop a
new, rapid diagnostic test to detect whether people are actively infected with the underlying SARS-
CoV-2 virus. This serves to demonstrate the responsiveness and adaptability within the Research
Team and supporting facilities to an urgent research-based need (see sections 3.1 and 4.2).


Section 2: People
2.1. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
Our Research Team is a growing area, and we are investing in new, qualified staff with skills and
proficiencies that complement and build on our existing expertise over the next seven+ years. All
new staff have time protected for research and professional development, while the USW
Academic Workload Model (AWM) includes at least 20% of time allocated for research and
scholarly activities of academic staff with SRR, and 30% for professors to support and develop
their research portfolios. The University’s Research Innovation Services (RISe) supports staff and
postgraduate student development and research opportunities, and on matters relating to research
ethics, integrity and governance.
Within the context of USW as a post-92 institution, the AS Research Team have varying levels of
teaching and other academic-related duties. The UoA leader (Lee) is allocated additional time
within their AWM for research leadership, and meets regularly with Unit members to offer individual
mentoring as and where appropriate. In addition, timetabling is managed for academic staff so as
to allow a clear day for research per week and, when appropriate, for ‘light’ teaching terms.
Research is a key element of USW’s Development and Performance Review Scheme, which
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


includes a 12-month review in June-September and a mid-point review in January-February.
All new staff recruited during the assessment period have been required to enrol on and complete
the University’s Postgraduate Certificate in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education
(PgCLTHE); three staff with SRR are enrolled, currently. A further three staff have completed
USW’s PgCLTHE. Upon completion, staff are encouraged to apply for Advance HE Fellowship; the
Team includes one Associate Fellow, five Fellows, and three Senior Fellows.
The University provides a varied professional development programme, which includes training in:
information security essentials and General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR); Prevent; writing
for a public audience; cultural and trans-awareness; supporting effective digital teaching and
assessment; Advance HE Senior Fellow applications; and mental health and first aid at work.
Within the UoA, Nieuwland received Horizon 2020 (EU) funding training across two workshops
(2015, and with the UK Research Office, 2016). Diskin, Lee and Nieuwland obtained grant-writing
training, while Scheibler gained training support for applying to external funding programmes.
Skilling received training in research and business engagement.
In 2019, the University launched its Research Leaders Impact Programme (RLIP), which is an
integral element to its Research Impact Support Plan, to promote leadership skills and invest in
impact leaders of the future (see REF 5a). Hayhurst and Lee were selected for, and completed
the inaugural RLIP. Lee, Murphy and Nieuwland have all received impact training in the last three
years.
In 2018, Pirrie was promoted from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor of Geology. Murphy’s
Professorship of Plant Biology was twice reviewed successfully during the assessment period
(2013 and 2018).
Lee, Nieuwland and Pirrie are members of the Research Committee for Computing, Engineering
and Science.
Staff have also engaged with externally led development opportunities that support both their
individual professional development and that of the Research Team, including:
• Caravaggi: Marie Curie Individual Fellowship webinars (2020).
• Grass: Phase 1 habitat mapping and Hedgerow surveying (The Chartered Institute of Ecology
     and Environmental Management, 2018); Taxonomic identification courses (Field Studies
     Council, 2019).
• McKinney: Engage Researchers Academy (National Co-ordinating Centre for Public
     Engagement (NCCPE, 2019-20).
• Murphy: Unconscious Bias Awareness (2019).
• Scheibler: British Standard (BS) 8848 compliance - Organising and managing visits,
     fieldwork, expeditions, and adventurous activities outside the UK (Royal Geographical Society,
     2018).
• Smith: Geographic Information System (GIS; Environmental Systems Research Institute,
     2020).
Early to mid-career researchers across USW are encouraged to apply to the Welsh Crucible
programme, which is designed to develop the personal, professional and leadership skills of future
research leaders and encourage cross-disciplinary research. Hayhurst (2018) and Lee (2020)
were among the 30 successful candidates selected annually from Welsh universities, and research
and development departments in Wales-based non-HE organisations. Hayhurst attended a series
of residential workshops focused on building networks, forging collaborations, enhancing
professional profile, and increasing research effectiveness. The 2020 programme was postponed
until 2021, when Lee will participate. In 2016, Hayhurst was awarded an NRN-LCEE Returning
Fellowship grant, stimulating her research and developing networks.


2.2. Research Students
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


In 2014, 14 postgraduate students were aligned with the UoA’s Research Team. This has grown to
20 current postgraduate students in 2020, consisting of MRes and PhD students at various stages
of their studies (Diskin, Hayhurst, Lee, Nieuwland, Pirrie and Skilling). Half of the current
postgraduate students are from outside the UK, and funding has been obtained from an extensive
range of sources, including:
•   Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS 1 and 2) supported by European Social
    Funds (ESF) through the Welsh Government and an industrial partner, e.g. Alba Minerals Ltd,
    Brecon Beacons National Park Authority, Dwr Cymru Welsh Water.
•   Fujitsu, the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, Welsh Water.
•   International Iguana Foundation, Irish Research Council, the National Parks and Wildlife
    Service Ireland, Operation Wallacea, Primate Conservation Inc. (PCI), The Mohamed bin
    Zayed Species Conservation Fund.
Aligning with the University’s strategy of delivering impact through industry-led research, several
industrial collaborations also provide in-kind support to the research of these postgraduate
students, including:
•   Geoscience theme: Alba Mineral Resources Ltd, Finland Geological Survey, Gold Mines of
    Wales Ltd, Natural Resources Wales, Terradat UK Ltd.
•   Genetic and Molecular Applications theme: Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation
    (Embrapa), Feed, Food and Future Ltd, Fujitsu, Imspex, the National Botanic Garden of
    Wales, Sime Darby, Dwr Cymru Welsh Water.
•   Wildlife Ecology theme: EcoSulis, Fort Worth Zoo, Texas, the National Parks and Wildlife
    Service Ireland.
All research students are provided with office space comprising: individual desk space equipped
with a desktop computer or laptop, standard software packages (e.g. ArcGIS, SPSS), and any
necessary project-specific specialist software (e.g. bespoke bioinformatics software, digital
mapping software). Computers and laptops are linked to printers and scanners, and paired with
cloud storage.
Students meet with a member of their supervisory team, usually their Director of Studies, on a
weekly or fortnightly basis, either in person or via video and web conferencing software. More
frequent meetings may take place during data collection periods or when writing up. Supervisory
meetings are documented and stored on the University’s postgraduate research student
management information system (PhD Manager), which the student and supervisory team access
and contribute to. The system also records student training activities and facilitates effective
progress monitoring by the University’s Research Degrees Committee and Graduate School
Board.
From 2013 to 2017, the University’s Postgraduate Research Centre enabled research students
from multiple disciplines to come together and support each other through their development as
early career researchers (ECRs). In 2018, the University-wide Graduate School (as outlined in
REF5a) was established, which administers (via PhD Manager) the research student’s journey to
graduation, supports students and supervisors, and facilitates network development and research
engagement through a Research Engagement Fund (£750 per student).
All the UoA’s research students are encouraged to engage with the University’s Graduate School
calendar of training events, which brings students from multiple disciplines together in one
research community, supports their individual development plans, and helps provide a framework
for developing and delivering impactful research. Postgraduate training events are mapped to the
domains and sub-domains of the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF), helping
support the behaviour and attributes of successful researchers. The UoA’s postgraduate students
with Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS 2) also attend an external residential
Graduate School during the early or mid-phase of their research programme. Here, the focus is on
working effectively with others outside their own research environment, including interacting with
different project stakeholders. KESS 2 is designed to prepare and train individuals so they
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


contribute as research professionals. This is provisioned by working with the sponsoring industry
partner, providing developmental impact through high-level skills training.
The UoA’s research students contribute to undergraduate teaching through a range of course
activities, including lectures, tutorials, and laboratory and field practicals. Their teaching
responsibilities increase from supporting practicals, to preparing and delivering taught activities, to
marking and co-supervising undergraduate projects as they progress through their research
programme. In 2019, a member of the unit’s research team secured the first Graduate Teaching
Associate (GTA) post offered by the Faculty (FCES), which is designed to support graduates in
developing the skills and experience required to become future lecturers. The GTA is enrolled as a
part-time PhD student and employed as a part-time lecturer, supported by an indicative teaching
development schedule. Upon successfully completing their doctoral studies after the five-year GTA
period, the University aims to transfer the postgraduate student into an indefinite Lecturer position.


2.3. Equality and Diversity
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I) is supported by the USW’s Strategic Equality Plan (see
REF 5a) and demonstrated by the implementation of Advance HE’s Athena SWAN Charter, and
Athena SWAN Institutional Bronze Award achieved in 2020, Fairplay30 (USW’s Equality
Champions Scheme), and the Women in Universities Mentoring Scheme (WUMS), which
establishes mentoring partnerships across Welsh universities to support the professional
development of women in academia. The UoA’s Research Team is fully committed to promoting
ED&I. Caravaggi is a member of the University’s Athena SWAN committee, promoting actions that
address and remove barriers to career progression for females in STEM, and including peer-to-
peer support, guidance for professional development appraisal, events showcasing role models,
and participation on Faculty focus groups.
In 2019, and to further understand the long-standing underlying factors that influence the under-
representation of females in Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM), USW launched
the Wales Women in STEM Network (WWiSN) with an all-Wales symposium. The WWiSN offers a
networking space, a repository of STEM initiatives, support for employers, highlights STEM events,
and profiles inspirational females in STEM. Both Hayhurst and McKinney have been featured by
the WWiSN as inspirational women working in science in Wales. Within the first month, 117
females joined this collaborative platform, with 855 suggested collaborations made based on
members’ areas for development and expertise. The University and AS Research Team will
continue to develop and implement the WWiSN, broadening its reach across women and girls in
Wales working, or aspiring to work, in STEM in FE, industry and academia. REF 5a indicates that
39% of staff in USW’s REF2021 submission are female (42% of all academic staff are female). The
UoA’s submission (in a STEM discipline) comprises 40% female staff with SRR, or 43% of the
FTE.
Additionally within the Research Team, McKinney is the Faculty’s representative for the Race,
Religion and Belief Equality Group. Both Caravaggi and McKinney act as LGBT+ allies in the
University. Externally, Caravaggi is a LGBT+ STEMinar co-organiser. McKinney is a member of
the planning committee and previous speaker for Soapbox Science, the public outreach platform
for promoting women scientists, and an attendee of Spectrum meetings, the staff network for
LGBT+ people.


Section 3: Income, infrastructure, facilities
3.1. Income
During the assessment period, contributions from UoA staff have secured over £358K of research
funding (Table 2). Of this, 36.5% was received from competitive bids to UK industry and charitable
research streams, and 42.7% from UK government. From zero research income at the start of the
current assessment period in 2013-14, the UoA’s team has since secured an average of over £51K
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


per assessment year or £3.8K per FTE per annum. In 2019-20, the UoA was awarded nearly
£180K of research income. Using a two-year moving average, research income has grown
annually as follows: £16.2K (2013-15), £24.0K (2014-16), £18.1K (2015-17), £38.7K (2016-18),
£55.2K (2017-19), and £116.7K (2018-20).
Table 2. Summary of research income secured during the assessment period.

Date      Total      Income       Income       Income from Income        Income      Income
Period    Income     from UKRI    from UK-     UK          from UK       from UK     from
                     Research     based        Government Industry       Other       Non-EU
                     Councils     Charities                              Sources     Other
                     etc.                                                            Sources
2013-14 £0 total     -            -            -              -          -           -
        income
2014-15 £32,412      £2,530       £27,837      £684 income    £0 income £0 income    £1,361
        total        income       income       from UK        from UK from UK        income
        income       from         from UK-     government     industry  other        from
                     research     based                                 sources      non-EU
                     councils     charities                                          other
                                                                                     sources
2015-16 £15,550      £849         £2,009       £0 income      £0 income £12,631      £61
        total        income       income       from UK        from UK income         income
        income       from         from UK-     government     industry  from UK      from
                     research     based                                 other        non-EU
                     councils     charities                             sources      other
                                                                                     sources
2016-17 £20,700      £0 income    £7,054       £4,354         £0 income £9,292       £0
        total        from         income       income from    from UK income         income
        income       research     from UK-     UK             industry  from UK      from
                     councils     based        government               other        non-EU
                                  charities                             sources      other
                                                                                     sources
2017-18 £56,645      £0 income    £6,880       £16,414        £10,860    £11,946     £10,545
        total        from         income       income from    income     income      income
        income       research     from UK-     UK             from UK    from UK     from
                     councils     based        government     industry   other       non-EU
                                  charities                              sources     other
                                                                                     sources
2018-19 £53,674      £0 income    £1,178       £9,995         £29,565    £7,297      £5,639
        total        from         income       income from    income     income      income
        income       research     from UK-     UK             from UK    from UK     from
                     councils     based        government     industry   other       non-EU
                                  charities                              sources     other
                                                                                     sources
2019-20 £179,635 £0 income        £1,715       £121,623       £43,849    £12,448     £0
        total    from             income       income from    income     income      income
        income   research         from UK-     UK             from UK    from UK     from
                 councils         based        government     industry   other       non-EU
                                  charities                              sources     other
                                                                                     sources
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Funding examples include Hayhurst receiving Science Research Investment Funding to
investigate wastewater treatment plants as critical control points for the dissemination of antibiotic
resistant bacteria and genes into the environment. Hayhurst and Nieuwland were awarded
£14,000 of seed funding from the Longitude Prize Discovery Award to help develop their
revolutionary rapid testing kit for the underlying SARS-CoV-2 virus. Since then, they have been
awarded £115K from the Welsh Government’s Covid Response, Research, Development and
Innovation Solutions fund to validate the test device and kits, in collaboration with manufacturing
partners GX Group, BioMonde and UPG, and Public Health Wales and NHS Wales. Their spinout
company from USW, Llusern Scientific, which developed this rapid coronavirus testing, won the
2020 MediWales Innovation Award for best Start-up.


3.2. Infrastructure and Facilities
The UoA is located in two inter-connected buildings on the University’s Glyntaff campus, which
include its biosafety level (BSL) two teaching and research laboratories, enabling the safe handling
of human pathogens and genetic modification of BSL 1 organisms, microscopy laboratory and
genetics analysis hub. Specialist field and laboratory equipment secured for research staff,
students and programmes include:
 • Geoscience: Optical and digital microscopy; portable X-ray fluorescence analyser (XRF);
     scanning electron microscope (SEM).
 • Genetic and Molecular Applications: Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)
     equipment; gas chromatograph-ion-mobility (GC-IMS) spectrometer; robotic nucleic acid
     extraction equipment, pipetting and quantification pipeline; quantitative and High Resolution
     Melting (HRM) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) thermal cyclers; portable RNA-DNA
     sequencing unit (MinION).
 • Wildlife Ecology: Bioacoustic recorders and microphones; camera traps; platform transmitting
     terminals (PTT tags); VHF telemetry and global positioning system (GPS) trackers.
To add sustainability to the UoA’s research strategy, in 2020 the Geoscience team, together with
industry investment of nearly £400,000 from TESCAN, installed a high specification Field Emission
Gun SEM using a TESCAN TIMA-X mineral measurement and analysis system. This is the first of
its kind in any UK university and has applications for research areas across the Faculty (FCES),
and the wider collaborative environment, including industry.
All staff and research students have a high-quality research setting with either individual networked
desktop PCs or Surface Pros installed with standard and appropriate specialist research and
statistical software, including:
 • Geoscience: Petroleum Experts Ltd (Petex) has donated 10 licences of the MOVE software
     suite, the commercial equivalent of which is £1,341,962; Schlumberger Petrel modelling
     software (company donation); TESCAN TIMA-X SEM and software suite for analysing mineral
     data (in kind contribution from TESCAN of £387,231).
 • Genetic and Molecular Applications: Bayesian Evolutionary Analysis Sampling (BEAST);
     Geneious Prime; Molecular Evolutionary Genetics Analysis (MEGA); MrBayes; Python-based
     open source software (for gene expression analysis, genome and transcriptome assembly,
     variant calling).
 • Wildlife Ecology: Adobe Illustrator, ArcGIS, Kaleidoscope Pro, PRIMER, QGIS.
Information on all research activities, and their outputs and impacts are aggregated and stored in
Pure, while PhD Manager supports postgraduate student supervision and development (see
Section 2.2). To support this, the UoA receives full professional IT support from the University’s on-
campus team.
The University has four campus library collections, two of which are discipline-relevant. Physical
copies of books, journals and theses are held in these learning resource centres, while a significant
number of resources are available online and remotely accessible via the FINDit search software.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
4.1. Geoscience Research Theme
Staff under this research theme have four focuses: Applications of Advanced Automated Mineral
Analysis; Forensic Geoscience; Geoarchaeology; and Applied Mineralogy. Research on advanced
automated mineral analysis has pioneered the application of automated Scanning Electron
Microscopy with Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy (SEM-EDS) to novel discipline areas with
significant benefit to industry (Pirrie). For example, Pirrie’s forensic geoscience research has led
to criminal casework with involvement in over 100 murder investigations, contribution as an Expert
Witness with the National Crime Agency (UK), and his appointment to the US National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) Organization of Scientific Area Committees (OSAC) Geological
Materials Working Group (Pirrie). USW has a strategic alliance with the National Museum Wales,
which includes joint research related to geoarchaeological provenance, including new work on the
origin of Stonehenge’s bluestones.
Past and present collaborations include work with the following:
• Industry: Vidence Inc. (mineralogical analysis); Alfred H Knight Ltd (metals, minerals and solid
    fuels); Alba Mineral Resources (mineral exploration); Bruker (materials analysis); Tescan Ltd
    (geological analysis).
• Government: British Antarctic Survey (BAS); British Geological Survey (BGS); Federal
    Bureau of Investigation (FBI, Washington, D.C.); Finland Geological Survey; Geological
    Survey Canada; National Museum Wales.
• International universities and research institutes: Azores, Portugal; Iceland Geosurvey
    (ÍSOR), Reykjavík; National University of La Plata, Argentina; Oslo, Norway; Toronto, Canada;
    Tromsø, Norway; Ongava Research Centre, Namibia.
• UK universities and research institutes: Brighton; Cambridge; Exeter; The James Hutton
    Institute; Keele; Queen's University Belfast; Sheffield Hallam; Staffordshire; University College
    London.
These research collaborations often provide access to facilities not currently available at USW and
expand international partnerships. In-kind financial support through the provision of analyses was
in excess of £100,000 during the assessment period. Much of the current research has
demonstrated how advanced automated mineralogy can address key research questions in earth,
forensic and archaeological science (Pirrie, Skilling and Diskin).


4.2. Genetic and Molecular Applications Research Theme
The prevalence of antibiotics in natural and anthropic systems is a key focus of this research
theme.
Hayhurst is a molecular microbiologist with expertise in anti-microbial resistance. She is interested
in the transmission and detection of antibiotic resistance in the environment and the clinic, and in
the wider issue of reducing inappropriate prescriptions through improved diagnostics, public
engagement and improvements in public health. She works in partnership with the water industry
and the NHS. The recent work of her research group on antibiotic resistance in sewage sludge
digestion was published in PLOS ONE in 2020.
Jones’ research investigates the discovery of novel antimicrobials from bacteria using genome
sequencing analysis, and the development and characterisation of antibiotic alternatives for use in
animal feeds. Collaboration is with Cardiff University, Warwick University, the Wellcome Sanger
Institute, and Feed, Food and Future Ltd, which has led to six publications since taking up post at
USW.
Murphy’s research in biotechnology, genomics and computational biology tackles challenges
related to global food security. Murphy applies genomics, bioinformatics and biotechnology to crop
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


improvement in developing countries. He is also researching the role of novel lipid-binding proteins
involved in stress and disease in plants and fungi. The focus of Murphy’s crop improvement
research is tropical food/biomass crops such as oil palm via a 20-year collaboration with the
Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB) and other commercial partners in Malaysia. Other collaborators
include the European Bioinformatics Institute, Cambridge, The James Hutton Institute, Dundee,
and several universities in the US. Target traits include climate and pest/disease related genes, oil
traceability, and yield and quality attributes related to food security. More recently, this work has
expanded to cover sustainability and biodiversity issues related to palm oil land conversion in the
Far East, especially Borneo, and the use of modern biotechnology and infotechnology tools for
assisting smallholder farmers. The lipid-binding protein research focuses on a newly characterised
family of proteins discovered by Murphy’s postgraduate team, which may have a variety of
important roles in environmental responses. This involves international collaboration with partners
in France, Syria and the US. The Conversation global news and analysis website captures
Murphy’s work on land conversion and environmental toxins.
Nieuwland’s work focuses on research, innovation and application of molecular technology.
Whereas his background is in plant development, he changed the focus of his research on more
applied research in microbial detection in collaboration with Hayhurst. The development of a rapid
molecular assay for the detection of urinary tract infections (UTIs) was supported by Nesta through
the Longitude Prize Discovery Award. This work was fundamental for the development of a rapid
COVID-19 test. In partnership with Hayhurst and industry partners (GX Group, BioMonde, UPG,
Public Health Wales, NHS Wales), cross-discipline collaboration with USW’s Centre for Electronic
Product Engineering and B12 UoA produced the 3D printed probes for this rapid testing. The Team
used Formlabs’ Form 2 SLA 3D printer alongside SolidWorks 3D modelling software to make the
3D model of the probe and PreForm 3D printing software to slice the model for printing. The
developed reader device will be in production in February 2021 and have a range of applications,
including environmental, wildlife, forensics, agriculture and clinical testing.


4.3. Wildlife Ecology Research Theme
Caravaggi’s work in applied conservation biology focuses on species and community ecology,
addressing research questions relating to species distributions, habitat selection and
anthropogenic impacts. His current project areas include: identifying factors affecting breeding hen
harriers (Circus cyaneus) and informing conservation strategies in Ireland and Europe; refining the
application of camera traps for wildlife studies; and using novel data sets to describe species
ecology. Recent research also includes quantifying the impacts of invasive mice on nesting
seabirds on Gough Island, informing conservation and management decisions and the IUCN’s
Outlook Assessment for Gough and Inaccessible Islands World Heritage Site. Collectively, this
research features in seven publications since he started at USW. This work is supported by
collaborations with: BirdLife Netherlands; BirdWatch Ireland; FitzPatrick Institute of African
Ornithology; Golden Eagle Trust; Irish Raptor Study Group; National Parks and Wildlife Service
Ireland (NPWS); The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds; UK Local Environmental Record
Centres; Zoological Society London; and the universities of Durham, British Columbia,
Saskatchewan, and Victoria (Canada), Stellenbosch University (South Africa), and University
College Cork (UCC). Some of these partnerships have led to new research opportunities, including
work on hen harrier genetics and movement ecology with UCC, wild pig movement ecology in
Canada, and predator-prey systems in Namibia in association with Ongava Research Centre and
the University of Newcastle, Australia.
Cunha is a molecular ecologist specialising in soil ecology. His work embraces historic
anthropogenic ecosystems and soil ecology, with multidisciplinary international collaborations that
include: the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology; Embrapa Forests (Brazil); and the universities of
Cardiff and Warwick, Federal University of Paraná and Sao Paulo (Brazil), Martin Luther Halle-
Wittenberg (Germany), and Montpellier (France). His diverse research areas cover: Amazonian
Archaeology, Agroecology and Anthropology; Amazonian Pedology, Microbiology and Molecular
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Ecology; Computational Biology; Earthworm Ecology; Ecotoxicology and Molecular Ecology;
Population and Conservation Genetics; and Soil Biogeochemistry and Biodiversity. He has
published eight papers since joining USW in 2018.
Lee’s research in wildlife ecology and conservation biology centres on two areas – tropical forest
ecosystems and upland landscapes in Wales. Lee’s work seeks to understand species and
community interactions along gradients of environmental quality or degradation, and inform
effective conservation management of these species and systems. Current research in the Welsh
uplands focuses on landscape suitability for key bird species, including hen harrier and the
regionally extirpated black grouse (Lyrurus tetrix). In collaboration with the Brecon Beacons
National Park Authority (BBNPA), this research is informing landscape management decisions
within the National Park. As a cross-thematic collaboration, Lee and Hayhurst used ecological
field and microbiological laboratory techniques to quantify the biodiversity value of translocated
soils, and ascertain whether they act as suitable substrates for natural habitat regeneration, adding
biodiversity value to quarry landscapes. Funded by HeidelbergCement’s Quarry Life Award, this
project focused on soil microorganisms and plant communities, with research findings transferable
to other quarries. The project won the UK research section of the Quarry Life Awards in 2018.
Lee’s role as a scientific advisor to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)
Galliformes Specialist Group has led to collaborative research with the Himalayan Nature
Conservation Foundation (HNCF) and International Islamic University (Islamabad, Pakistan) on
montane bird communities in remote areas of Pakistan, and five conservation publications. This
network has expanded to include representation from the University of Gujrat (Pakistan) to
evaluate bird communities in anthropic landscapes. Since 2019, Lee’s role with the IUCN Bear
Specialist Group has led to collaboration on one publication with the HNCF, and developing
collaborations with the University of Göttingen (Germany) and the Smithsonian Institution
(Washington, D.C.), and Riau Ecosystem Restoration, Sumatra (Indonesia) on landscape
restoration for the conservation of the globally threatened species, including sun bear (Helarctos
malayanus). Previous work on bird conservation in tropical forests has led to collaboration with
Bristol Zoological Society and the University of the West of England in 2020 on threatened forest
birds of the Negros and Panay Endemic Bird Area in the Philippines. From 2016, Lee has also
established applied conservation science research in Honduras, investigating: population ecology
of the Critically Endangered Utila spiny-tailed iguana (Ctenosaura bakeri; in collaboration with
Kanahau Research and Conservation Facility, Honduras, and Fort Worth Zoo, Texas); and
ecological consequences of long-spined sea urchin (Diadema antillarum) dieback on degraded
Caribbean coral reefs (with Operation Wallacea). The work on Utila spiny-tailed iguana has
informed the 2018 IUCN Red List assessment and 2020 conservation action plan for the species.
McKinney’s research on anthropogenic impacts on non-human primates led to her accepting a
membership invitation to, and in 2020, Council Membership of the IUCN Primate Specialist Group
on Human-Primate Interactions. Collaborations with the universities of Lincoln, Durham,
Pennsylvania, US, and the Caribbean Agricultural Research and Development Institute (CARDI)
have produced three publications on specific human-animal interactions, and led to the creation of
a universal model for reporting anthropogenic effects in primatological literature. One of the UoA’s
impact case studies (Informing best practices and national policy for tropical terrestrial biodiversity
conservation) fully captures the impact of this research.
Scheibler’s work uses interspecies coexistence models to understand the plasticity of temporal
behavioural patterns and their impact on the survival probability of small mammals. This has
contributed to a better understanding of animal activity patterns, their physiological state and
welfare. Scheibler has collaborated on this work with the Inner Mongolia Agricultural University,
China and the University of Zurich, Switzerland. Since 2015, collaborations have expanded to
include The National Trust, Coleg Gwent (UK), Selati Game Reserve (South Africa), and the
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare (UFAW).
Smith’s work on breeding productivity of woodland birds contributes to large-scale (UK and
European) data collection, informing trends regarding the state of bird populations. This work
includes a number of collaborators in Wales: The British Trust for Ornithology, Cardiff University,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Eco-explore, and Natural Resources Wales. The collaboration with Eco-explore on the effects of
climate change on pied flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) has led to the procurement of an ancient
woodland in Powys, Wales, which is now a core research site for Smith, who has produced two
co-authored publications to date on this research.


4.4. Exemplars on Leadership in the Academic Community across the UoA
Conference / workshop organisation:
• Hayhurst and Lee: National Research Network for Low Carbon Energy and Environment
   (NRN-LCEE) funded workshop (Facilitating Collaborative Research Opportunities between the
   National Parks and Academic Institutions across Wales, 2017).
• Pirrie: International Union of Geological Sciences’ (IUGS) Resourcing Future Generations
   Conference, (Vancouver, 2018); 3rd European Mineralogical Conference (EMC; Krakow,
   Applied Mineralogy, 2020; since rescheduled to 2021).
Advisory board membership:
• Caravaggi: British Ecological Society Welsh Policy Group (2019-present); USW Athena
   SWAN committee member (2019-present); Curlew Cymru (2021-present); Council member of
   the Welsh Ornithological Society (2021-present).
• Cunha: Co-director of Terra Preta de Índio Network; member of the EU Biodiversity Panel,
   and Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Research Fellowship Programme.
• Lee: Scientific Advisor of the IUCN Gallifomes and Bear Specialist Groups; Member of the
   Asian Bear Conservation Monitoring Team; USW Representative (Biodiversity and
   Ecosystems) for the Environment Platform Wales (University membership is supported by
   Quality-related research funding); USW Board Representative (Wildlife Ecology and
   Conservation) for the USW-Brecon Beacons National Park Strategic Partnership.
• McKinney: Council Member and Membership Secretary of the IUCN Primate Specialist Group
   on Human-Primate Interactions (2020-present).
• Murphy: Chair of the Biology Advisory Committee, Malaysian Palm Oil Board; Member of the
   International Advisory Panel, Malaysian Oil Science and Technology Association;
   Biotechnology Advisor to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization; Consultant on GM crops
   to European Chemicals Agency (ECHA); Consultant on public-private partnerships to the EU’s
   Joint Research Centre (JRC) science and knowledge centre; CEO of Oleatech Ltd, UK.
• Pirrie: Home Office Centre for Applied Science and Technology (CAST) Technologies
   Advisory Research Group (2016-19); National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST
   USA) OSAC Working Group on Geomaterials.
• Smith: Council member of the Welsh Ornithological Society (2019-present).
Leadership roles in industry, commerce, Research Councils, learned societies:
• Grass: Fellow of the Linnaean Society.
• Hayhurst: Member of the Microbiology Society, Society for Applied Microbiology, and British
   Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy; Project lead on the UK water industry research
   project Anti-microbial resistance in waste and drinking water (2020); Co-founder of Llusern
   Scientific Ltd.
• Jones: Member of the Society for Applied Microbiology, and Microbiology Society.
• McKinney: Member of the Primate Society of Great Britain, and American Association of
   Physical Anthropologists.
• Murphy: Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology; consultant for large multinationals,
   government departments, small biotechnology and seed companies; Expert witness for crop
   biotechnology patent dispute, USA (2019); Due diligence report on potential multi-national
   acquisition of oil-related biotechnology assets (2017).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


•   Nieuwland: Member of the Royal Society of Biology; Director of Llusern Scientific Ltd.
•   Pirrie: Secretary of the UK Forensic Geoscience Group, Geological Society London;
    Committee member of the International Union of Geological Sciences Initiative on Forensic
    Geology.
Conference program chairs:
• Hayhurst: Equality and Diversity in STEM Conference (Cardiff, 2018).
• Skilling: International Volcanological Congresses, American Geophysical Union meetings.
Invited keynote lectures, lecture series and seminars:
• Caravaggi: Invited speaker to Cardiff University (2019); School of Biological, Earth and
     Environmental Sciences Seminar Series, University College Cork (2019); and Bangor
     University Zoological Society, Bangor University (2019).
• Hayhurst: Invited speaker to British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy (BSAC) annual
     conference (2020, since cancelled); and the Nesta Urinary Tract Infections Conference (2020).
• Nieuwland: Invited speaker to Dutch Embassy COVID-19 research series (2020); Nesta
     Urinary Tract Infections Conference (2020).
• Pirrie: Keynote lectures at the 2nd and 3rd British-Finnish Natural Resources Initiative (2019-
     20; 2020 attendance funded by the British Embassy, Finland); Research seminars at the
     universities of Cardiff, Cranfield, Liverpool, Plymouth, and Royal Holloway.
• Skilling: Invited speaker at International Volcanological Congresses.
• Smith: Invited speaker to Cardiff University (2019); and The Wildlife Trust of South and West
     Wales (2019) seminar series.
Conference presentations:
• Caravaggi: Movement and Quantitative Ecology Conference (Sheffield, 2019); Invasive
   Species Conference (Belfast, 2019; Environ 2019 Engagement for Climate Action (Carlow,
   2019); Wales Biodiversity Partnership Conference (online, 2020).
• Hayhurst: UK Water Industry Conference (Birmingham, 2019); Welsh Water Annual
   Conference (2019).
• Jones: Antibiotic Discovery and Antibiotic Alternatives at the Understanding Drivers of
   Antimicrobial Resistance in the Food Chain workshop (South China Agricultural University /
   Quadram Institute / British Council, Guangzhou, China, 2019).
• Lee: Asian Bear Conservation Monitoring Workshop (Taipei, 2019).
• McKinney: British Ecological Society-Society for Tropical Ecology (2019); Primate Society of
   Great Britain (2017-19); International Society of Primatology (2016).
Journal editorships:
• Caravaggi: Editor, Birds in Wales; Associate Editor, Remote Sensing in Ecology and
   Conservation.
• Lee: Editorial Board Member, Zoological Research.
• Murphy: Executive Editor, World Agriculture; Editor, Plant Biology Series, Oxford University
   Press.
• Pirrie: Deputy Editor, Geology Today; Co-Editor, Minerals; Editor Professional Handbook,
   Geological Society, London.
Grant and journal reviews:
• Caravaggi: Grant review for British Ecological Society Grant Review College (2015-present),
   Alberta Conservation Association (2019), Croatian Science Foundation (2019), Swedish
   EPA/Wildlife Management Fund (2020); (selected) Peer review for Behavioural Ecology and
   Sociobiology, Biological Conservation, Bird Study, Diversity and Distributions, Ecology and
   Evolution, Global Change Biology, Journal of Zoology, Mammal Research, Oryx, PeerJ, PLOS
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    ONE, Remote Sensing in Ecology and Conservation.
•   Cunha: Grant review for Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (EU), Newton Fund (UK), Biodiversa
    (EU); Peer review for Acta Amazonica, Aquaculture Research, Chemosphere, Coral Reefs,
    Ecological Indicators, Integrative Zoology, Revista Brasileira de Ciencia do Solo.
•   Hayhurst: Peer review for Frontiers in Microbiology.
•   Jones: Grant review for the Medical Research Council (2020); Peer review for Nature, PeerJ,
    Scientific Reports.
•   Lee: Grant review for NERC Industrial CASE Studentships, Biological Sciences (2016-17);
    Technical review for Daphne Jackson Trust fellowships; Peer review for Biotropica, Bird
    Conservation International, International Journal of Primatology, Journal of Tropical Ecology,
    Tropical Conservation Science, Zoological Research, Garland Science textbooks.
•   McKinney: Peer review for American Journal of Primatology, Ethnobiology and Conservation,
    Folia Primatologica, International Journal of Primatology, Primates.
•   Murphy: Grant review for Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC),
    Medical Research Council (MRC), Nuffield Foundation, Wellcome Trust; (selected) Peer
    review for Nature, Science.
•   Nieuwland: Grant review for Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council
    (BBSRC); Peer review for Nature Scientific Reports, Plant Cell, Plant Methods.
•   Pirrie: (selected) Peer review for Forensic Science International, Geological Society London,
    Lethaia, Minerals.
•   Skilling: Grant review for National Science Foundation, National Research Council (Canada),
    Icelandic Research Council; Peer review for Bulletin of Volcanology, Geological Society of
    America Bulletin, Icarus, Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research.
•   Smith: Grant review for Welsh Ornithological Society Small Grant Council.
External examination:
• Lee: for BSc Biology, University of Gloucestershire (since 2019); for MRes, University of
    Nottingham (2020).
• McKinney: for MPhil, Bristol University (2019); for MRes, Bangor University (2020).
• Pirrie: for PhD, Heriot-Watt University (2020).
