Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East London

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business & Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context

The research in the University of East London’s (UEL) Royal Docks School of Business and Law
(RDSBL) is strongly influenced by its location in one of the UK’s most culturally mixed and
socioeconomically deprived areas, but which is undergoing seismic change in the economic
landscape resulting from investment in the Docklands regeneration zone and Queen Elizabeth
Olympic Park. Our work is inspired by this context as well as the egalitarian and inclusive ethos that
has shaped the institution’s outlook from its beginnings and which continues to influence the focus
of our critical enquiry and participatory engagement with local and global communities.

The UoA is distinguished by its commitment to producing inter-disciplinary research that contributes
to knowledge and impact by addressing concerns related to innovation, entrepreneurship,
sustainability, governance, equality, diversity and culture at the interface of the local business
community and the wider global business environment.

The UoA comprises a diverse body of staff and students - 85% of UoA staff and 90% of postgraduate
research (PGR) students are from a range of ethnic backgrounds; The majority (65%) of PGR pay
international fees, but of the home/EU students, nearly half graduated from UEL, indicating that we
support a strong research pipeline. The diversity of this research community informs our approach,
our collaborative partnerships and our engagement with local businesses, public authorities,
voluntary organisations and communities.

Since 2014, the strengthening of our research environment together with targeted recruitment,
development and promotion of research active staff, has both improved our depth of engagement
with local organisations and expanded our global scope, reach and impact. During the current
assessment period our investment in the research community, infrastructure and research
environment can be evidenced by the significant increase in FTE submitting to REF2021 (from 3.25
in 2014 to 14.2 in 2021) and the gender and ethnic diversity of staff involved in high quality research.
During the current assessment period the UoA has increased the number of PGR completions nearly
threefold and research grants awarded by tenfold (GBP 51,819 in 2014 to GBP 512,391 grant value
awarded).

1.2 Structure

Since 2015, the UoA has formed part of the RDSBL. The management and coordination of the
School’s research is provided by the School’s Director of Impact and Innovation (Roy-Mukherjee),
who represents the UOA’s interests at university-level and chairs the School’s Impact and Innovation
Committee (SIIC) whose membership includes Early Career Researchers, Readers and Professors
together with Research Centre Directors, Research Degrees Leader, Impact Coordinator and Chair
of the School Ethics Committee. The committee meets regularly to discuss the continuous research
and impact strategy and ways to continuously enhance the work and broaden the inclusivity of the
UOA.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3 Research and Impact Strategy

During the current period of assessment, the UoA has effectively built on its first successful
submission in 2014. The intellectual framework of the UoA research and impact strategy is provided
by five thematic priorities and advanced through four Research Centres, each of which draw upon
the expertise of UoA staff across RDSBL and its external partners. These themes underpin the inter-
disciplinary nature of our research and focus of our impact, addressing various areas of
contemporary business and management concern (See Section 4).




During the current period of assessment, and in line with the University’s Vision 2028, the RDSBL
Research and Impact Strategy (2015-20) has evolved to focus on the following five objectives:

Strategic:
• To strengthen a diverse, inclusive and sustainable research environment.
• To facilitate a high calibre of scholarship and research outputs aligned with priority thematic
    areas.
• To generate and disseminate high impact research, in collaboration with a wide range of
    professional, practitioner and community partners.
    Enabling:
• To increase PGR numbers and ensure a successful doctoral programme.
• To support the growth and diversification of research income generation,
    interdisciplinary collaborations and external partnerships.

1.3.1 Strengthen a Diverse, Inclusive and Sustainable Research Environment

During this period of assessment, the UoA has benefitted from increased investment in its research
communities (academic staff, ECRs, external partners and students) research centres, and
supporting research infrastructure. RDSBL has made significantly enhanced the diversity and
sustainability of its research environment and improve the breadth and diversity of research through
the following initiatives:
• Expansion and consolidation of research centres (Section 2.1) to create a platform for
    dialogue, mentoring and collaborative research for publications, grant applications, public
    engagement, training and consultancy. The research centres also provide an important platform
    for staff and ECRs to present preliminary research findings, work in progress and as a forum for
    book launches.

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Targeted recruitment and promotion of research active staff (Section 2.4) aligned with a more
    focused strategic direction and focus on core research strengths and thematic priorities.
•   Staff development (Section 2.4) active support for and recruitment of PGR students into
    emerging areas of research aligned with our principal research themes. The introduction of the
    ‘researcher development programme’ and the ‘early career researcher network and mentoring
    scheme’ has enhanced research mentoring and created a more inclusive research culture.
•   To develop and enhance impactful research (Section 4.1- 4.2) centred on a critical mass of
    core UoA staff around core research strengths. The RDSBL has developed interdisciplinary
    ‘impact platforms’ and enhanced the quality of impact case studies through targeted mentoring
    and seed funding as well as training on Impact Template use, via the Vertigo Ventures Training
    System.
•   Increased research visibility (Section 4.2 – 4.3) organise more public events to disseminate
    research impact both at a local and international level through our research centres; increase the
    visibility of research to the student body, UEL staff and visiting scholars as well as to the general
    public and external stakeholders.
•   Student research internships schemes enable students to work with academic staff on twelve-
    week research projects. We have had several students present their work at the Poster
    Competition organised by the UEL Knowledge Dock. A group of undergraduate research interns
    presented a poster on ‘Impact of Globalisation on Inequality’ for which they received recognition.
•   Support for research-informed teaching amongst all members of staff resulting in improved
    NSS, PTES and PRES scores results at School and Institutional level. The UoA encourages
    and supports the active engagement of staff in pedagogical research, disseminated through
    workshops, seminars, visiting speakers and collaborative projects in this area. Learning and
    Teaching conferences are designed to share best practice research-informed teaching and to
    enable staff to embed this approach in their curricula (Section 2.2.)

1.3.2 Facilitate a High Calibre of Scholarship and Research Outputs

The UoA has implemented a number of organisational and resource-driven initiatives to support staff
to produce high-calibre research outputs. This has resulted in a threefold increase in the number of
high-quality publications (3* and above) during the current assessment period and fivefold increase
in the number of staff engaging in high quality research. Our work is shaped by the five thematic
priorities related to sustainability; political economy and governance; equality, diversity and inclusion;
consumer cultures; innovation, entrepreneurship and management, and contributes to advancing
areas of significant theoretical debate as well as addresses key areas of practical concern for our
external public, private and community stakeholders (Section 4.1 - 4.2). UoA staff are also
encouraged to produce and disseminate work through a range of professional, policy and other
media that is relevant and accessible to wider stakeholders and the general public. During the current
assessment period the RDSBL research budget (GBP 96,000 approx annual) has been increased
and the following initiatives implemented to support an increased in the number and quality of
published outputs by UoA staff:

•   Investment in research infrastructure: improvements to the research infrastructure and
    facilities including, the ‘Bloomberg trading room’, the Tax and Accountancy Clinic and the
    Institute for Government and Public Policy (IGPP).
•   Support for staff conference attendance and research training: funding for staff to
    participate and present in conferences, including PhD students and ERC staff. Staff are also
    encouraged to attend external workshops and training programmes to enhance their
    research skills

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Methodology workshops: ECR lead (Mingasova) and the UoA coordinator (Roy-Mukherjee)
    have developed methodology workshops for early and mid-career researchers inviting both in-
    house and external speakers to present innovative and updated research methodologies in
    various fields of study related to business
•   Annual research review process: feedback on staff outputs prior to publication is provided
    through peer review. This has enhanced the focus on originality, methodology and significance,
    thereby raising the quality of the work.
•   Writing retreats: (off-campus) retreats provide a conducive environment for staff to focus on
    their writing with minimal distraction. There are additional workshops that focus on topics such
    as writing techniques, writing research proposals and impact case studies.
•   Mentoring system: research centre Directors and senior research staff provide support and
    guidance to ECRs and mid-career researchers in developing research plans, setting clear
    performance measures and expectations underpinned by effective support and personal
    development reviews. External mentors have also been hired in to provide expertise support
    in niche research areas and have been incorporated into funded research projects (see Section
    1.3.5) led by senior research staff in the UOA.

1.3.3 Generate and disseminate high impact research, in collaboration with a wide range of
professional, practitioner and community partners.

Guided by its thematic priorities and supported by the work of the Research Centres, the UoA has
broadened and strengthened the network of public, private and civil society partnerships and
collaborative research partnerships with a range of local, national and international HEIs through
which its research is both carried out and impact is targeted. Supported by the various initiatives
outlined in 1.3.1, the tenfold increase in research income during this period of assessment has also
been strengthened by and contributed to a more robust ecosystem of external collaborative
research, partnership with public stakeholders and civic engagement. The latter is undertaken by,
for example, the Tax and Accountancy Clinic and UEL Centre for Mediation and Workplace Conflict
while staff have actively strengthened collaborative relationships with HEIs across Europe (Bianchi
with Wageningen University and Research, Netherlands; Fouskas with the Ministry of Science
Technology and Education, Republic of Srpksa; Mimoza with Meiji University, Japan). The UoA has
encouraged the emergence of inter-disciplinary research teams around a number of thematic
priorities, including on such themes as the gig economy, social entrepreneurship, sustainability and
degrowth. UoA staff have also developed strong links to the local authorities (LB Tower Hamlets and
Newham) with whom major research bids on social entrepreneurship have been developed and work
on community enterprise and sustainability is being undertaken. The research centres also regularly
host public lectures and debates of significant public import, guided by our over-arching thematic
priorities (See Section 4.2)

1.3.4 Increase PGR numbers and ensure a successful doctoral programme.

The UoA has committed resources to expanding the recruitment of high-calibre PGR students and
to ensure that they complete their research within the requisite registration period. To achieve this
the UoA has developed an effective Post Graduate Research (PGR) strategy centred on:

•   Effective recruitment and admissions processes that are designed to attract high-quality
    candidates to work in targeted areas of research expertise within the School.
•   Tracking PGR student progress through an annual review system and supporting students at
    risk.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•     Regular supervisory meetings recorded on PhD Manager.
•     Encouraging PGR students to join and become involved in the work of research
      centres, enhancing the research ecosystem.
•     Emphasising the importance of research ethics and ethical approval through workshops and
      School Ethics Committee.

The Research Degrees Subcommittee, chaired by the Research Degrees Leader, makes final
decisions on applications, monitors student progress and manages the process of formal transfer
onto the PhD programme. This strategy has contributed to an increase in PGR income and threefold
increase in doctoral completion rates (31 since 2014), as well as enhanced PGR satisfaction
(93.33% of students positively responded to the Supervision category). It has also enabled the
students to make significant contributions to the research environment of the school.

1.3.5 Support the growth and diversification of research                        income     generation,
interdisciplinary collaborations and external partnerships.

To support UoA staff to apply for research funding the RDSBL Director of Impact and Innovation has
implemented several key initiatives to help increase grant capture and the management of
collaborative research projects evidenced in the number of UoA staff working collaboratively with
external partners and submitting applications for research funding. In comparison with REF2014,
there has been an increase in the number of grant submissions by UoA staff, resulting in a tenfold
increase in research income within the UOA.

•     Researcher Development Programme: This programme complements the university program,
      offering discipline-specific support to early career (ECR) staff, and post-graduate (PGR)
      students, new staff and all staff who self-identify as ‘developing or re-engaging researchers. The
      programme offers funded initiatives, interdisciplinary events, and resources to enhance grant
      applications, academic publishing and career development. Senior academic staff act as
      mentors to offer guidance and support in the development of personal research plans and
      funding applications.
•     Grant writing support: University support offered by the ReDs team (e.g., pre-award support;
      GrantCraft training; Research Professional subscription) is complemented by individual support
      form staff in the UoA.
•     Seed funding projects: the UoA has seen an increase in seed funding applications invested in
      collaborative projects that demonstrate research impact at a local and global scale.

    2. People

2.1 Research Centres

Research in the UOA, is guided by the inter-disciplinary thematic framework (see Section 4.1) and
brought together under the umbrella of the four research centres. The research centres support an
inclusive and inter-disciplinary research ecosystem that has catalysed a wider scope of collaborative
research partnerships and public engagement as well as provided a platform for an increasingly
diverse scope of domestic and internationally focused research.

•     Centre for the Study of Sates, Markets & People (STAMP): Launched in 2013, STAMP is a
      major inter-disciplinary research centre in the RDSBL whose members are drawn from across
      the UoA and the university. Its primary focus is the study of global and European political

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    economy and the forms of governance and regulation required to address global capitalism,
    crises and geo-political conflicts. STAMP is led by Professor Vassilis K. Fouskas and Dr.
    Shampa Roy-Mukherjee, with support from an executive board comprised of UoA staff and an
    international advisory board drawn from major international universities around the world. The
    Centre hosts the Journal of Balkan and Near Eastern Studies (Routledge).

•   Noon Centre for Equality & Diversity in Business and CIFLAC Centre for the Islamic Finance,
    Law & Communities (CIFLAC): Led by Professor Siraj Sait the Noon Centre and CIFLAC were
    launched in 2012 with the support of Lord Noon (Kt. MBE). The Noon Centre provides a platform
    for collaborative, high impact academic and policy-oriented research to address complex
    intersectional issues at the local, national and global level and which contribute to a fairer,
    inclusive and resilient society aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the UK’s
    2018 Diversity and Inclusion Strategy. CIFLAC provides a forum for research, education,
    training and consultancy on Islamic finance and banking industry and is major platform for
    dialogue between lawyers, bankers, academics and policymakers working in these areas.

•   Centre for Innovation Management & Enterprise (CIME): Relaunched in autumn 2020 CIME is
    led by Dr Slawomir Raszewski with support from an international advisory board drawn from
    business and academia. CIME brings together an inter-disciplinary group of scholars in the UoA
    to promote and develop interdisciplinary impactful research, business-relevant teaching and
    practitioner engagement in business and society. CIME’s principal focus relates to the theory
    and practice of innovation and enterprise, including inter alia, the following research themes:
    sustainability; finance; digital transformations, innovation in management and entrepreneurship;
    equality, diversity & inclusion.

2.2. Equality and Diversity

Linked to our egalitarian ethos and spirit of inclusivity, the UoA is strongly committed to promoting
equality, diversity in its research, as well as its day-to-day working practices. The RDSBL is
committed to ensuring that all members of staff, regardless of their ethnicity, gender, sexual
orientation or disability, should have the opportunity to be involved, including as PI, in research. This
has improved the level of female participation in high calibre scholarship and research in the current
assessment period such that 30% of FTE submissions to REF 2021 will be from female members of
staff compared to none in the REF2014. Although this is still not 50%, it represents significant
progress and we continue to seek ways to support women researchers in business.

An Equality Impact Assessment is conducted after every Annual Research Review to ensure that
there are no barriers to members of staff with protected characteristics carrying out research. This
also applies to the School’s procedures for awarding research conference funding and mini-
sabbaticals as described above.

The RDSBL was awarded the Athena SWAN Bronze Award in October 2020 in recognition for its
commitment to gender equality. The Athena SWAN School Committee consisting of academic staff,
students and staff from professional services and senior management (Roy-Mukherjee, Jackson,
Sait, Mingazova, Kypuram, McDonald, Harrison, Sait, Sandland, Page-Tickell, Akoto Al-Abdulrazak,
Okoya) and the School EDI committee (Sait, Roy-Mukherjee Akoto Al-Abdulrazak, Okoya, Wyld,
Courtney, Ali) have been set up to ensure that the structure, practices and processes in the School
are reflected upon from an equality, diversity and inclusion perspective.

RDSBL staff are also able to obtain further support for their career development through external

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
initiatives with other universities, such as Aspire, the Diversifying Leadership Programme, the Aurora
Leadership Development Programme. In 2017 Okoya, chair of UEL’s Womens’ Network, was
shortlisted for the prestigious Excellence in Diversity Award (EIDA). She is also an Athena Swan
champion, leads the Women’s Network and helps run the Young Black Professionals student
mentoring scheme at UEL.

UoA staff (Page-Tickell, Sandland, Roy-Mukherjee Udeogu, Boahen, Butt) are currently working
on projects and sharing best practice in areas such as reducing the awarding
gap amongst BAME students, dual delivery models and their impact on the digital divide.

2.3 Staff Recruitment

Since REF2014 the University has experienced several rounds of restructuring which inevitably has
led to a high turnover of staff. One of the cornerstones of RDSBL’s recruitment strategy has been to
support the transition of our best PGR students into full-time academic researchers, as well as to
recruit and nurture the development of early career researchers with the demonstrable ability and
potential to contribute new and existing strategic fields of growth. Once recruited the ECRs are
mentored and supported through our Developing Researcher programme and Early Career
Researcher Network. We have also funded several academic Doctorates (Mingazhova, Yerby,
Udeogu, Kypuram, Butt, Okaya, Olatubosun and Page-Tickell). The support provided builds their
research expertise and provides them with skills to develop research informed teaching. Our newly
appointed ECRs include experienced industry practitioners (Lutz, Page-Tickell, Bigi, Adisa, Ambe,
Hussain, Olatubosun, Naghieh, Preddie). This has benefitted the School leading to an infusion of
new expertise and a consequent diversification of research outputs and grant application activity.

2.4 Staff Development Strategy

The RDSBL has provided increased support for research active staff through:

•   Retaining, rewarding and promoting staff through annual Performance Development Review
    (PDR) which encompasses all areas of teaching, research and management. Staff can agree a
    personal development plan with their line manager and identify their research goals and training
    needs. Based on research performance the School has promoted several staff to senior
    research positions, including Readers and Professorships (Bianchi, Lutz, Chandler, Richter)
•   Providing funding to staff for research development activities such as conference presentation
    skills, learning new and innovative research methodology skills, specialist software training and
    writing grant and funding proposals. UoA staff working in relation to political economy, finance
    and governance attended the Econometric Modelling and Forecasting Summer School run by
    Timberlake consultants every year (Boahen, Udeogu, Roy-Mukherjee). UoA staff working in the
    area of consumer cultures (Kelly, Abdulrazak, Kypurum, Gbadamosi) attended a conference on
    digital marketing run by Google Digital Garage.
•   Providing a flexible working environment for staff to meet their learning and teaching and
    research commitments. Several staff have taken research sabbaticals ranging from six months
    to four weeks leading to several published outputs and research collaborations (Bianchi, Lutz,
    Chan, Kelly, Fouskas)
•   Offering competitive grants to staff from the QR Global Challenges fund, supporting in projects
    that are connected to developing countries and transition economies. At School-level seed
    funding is available to staff for small research projects.

    ERCs and new staff are supported through the annual Researcher Development Programme
                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    and Early Career Researcher Network Forum and Mentoring Scheme. The aim is to enhance
    their research skills through encouraging the following:

•   Participation in drafting research bids making use of their expertise and methodological skills.
•   Participation in workshops and seminars by way of presenting their ongoing research to wider
    audiences (students, members of UEL staff, general public)
•   Participation, together with PhD students, in the organisation of research workshops, seminars
    and special events taking care of logistical and practical issues concerning preparation and
    dissemination of their research
•   Organising their research material for publication and having one to one meetings with their
    mentors to discuss publication outlets, peer-review processes, targeting high impact 3* and 4*
    journals.

Four former PhD students are now ECRs in the Department of Business (Udeogu, Butt, Yerby and
Mingazhova). Their research on banking capital regulation and financialization have broadened the
scope of the UOAs work related to thematic areas of political economy, finance and governance.
Senior Lecturer in Marketing, Mingazova also recently completed her PhD in the School and
specialises on innovative qualitative research into youth consumption.

2.5 PGR Students and Doctoral Supervision

Since 2014 there have been 31 completions in the UOA, the highest result across the University.
PGR students have access to all university facilities and any additional support for specific projects
(see section 1.3.4). PGR students also have the option to sign up-to 6 hours of teaching per week
which helps with their professional development. In addition to in-house research skills training PGR
students also receive funding to participate in conferences and external methodology training
workshops. For example, Udeogu, received funding to attend a conference at Cardiff University in
2016 on the impact of financialization in Sub-Saharan African countries.

Currently there are 43 PGR students in the School and 22 in the UoA working on a range of topics.
Topics include: “The role of Chinese banks in China’s economic rise” (Ms Chenzhu Song), “The role
of Islamic banking in the Malaysian panic of 1997” (Ms Ainie Shahar), “Passionate leaders at work”
(Mr Sok-Ho Trinh), “Petroleum resource governance in Nigeria” (Mr. Aslam Kaitah) and hospitality
organisations and ethics institutionalisation (Janice Lalu).

The PRES 2018 survey results highlight the categories in which RDSBL has scored higher than the
UEL benchmark, namely supervision, progression, professional development, teaching and well-
being. Other areas such as resources, research culture, research skills and overall experience have
all been areas targeted for improvement in our research strategy.

PGR students go onto achieve promising careers in academia, corporate and financial institutions.
Four of our recent PhD graduates are currently employed as Lecturer/Senior Lecturer in RDSBL
(Butt; Mingazhova, Udeogu, Boateng, Okoya). Yerby was recruited as a Teaching Fellow by the
LSE and Alele hired by a fintech company in the City of London. Most of our PGR students are
international and on completion return to high profile sector jobs in their respective countries and/or
return to their corporate sector roles.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.1 Research income

Investment in an improved research environment has helped to support the growth in the number of
local and international collaborative partnerships and concomitant step-change in the growth and
scope of research outputs, grant applications and research impact. This is demonstrated in the
growing number of published outputs and grant applications, some of which involve ECRs, and the
tenfold increase in research income between 2014-2020 (GBP 51,819 to GBP 512,391)

The UoA has seen an increase in the number of internal ‘seed’ funding applications invested in small
collaborative projects:

•   Duong received GBP 2000 to carry out research in collaboration with the University of
    Economics (Ho Chi Minh City) on the impact of a shift to online learning on the student
    experience in Vietnam as a result of Covid-19.
•   Fouskas received GBP 2,000 from the Lipman & Miliband Trust to organise a STAMP lecture
    honouring Professor Peter Gowan of London Metropolitan University; he also received a grant
    of GBP 1,000 from the Political Quarterly to organise a STAMP workshop on Brexit.
•   Fouskas received GBP 4000 to appoint two external researchers from the University of Banja
    Luka to conduct fieldwork on outbound youth migration. This is a pilot project requested by the
    Ministry of Science, Technology and Education he advises.

    Successful grant applications to external funding bodies made by UoA staff include:

•   Bathgate (formerly of CIME) secured EURO 124,680.00 as part of an EC Interreg IVC (ERDF)
    project: Zero-impact Cultural Heritage Event Network (Total budget: EURO 1,252,456.14). Led
    by Umbria Regional Government, Italy, and including a consortium of academic and local
    government partners, the aim was to develop a shared methodology to reduce the impact of
    events and festivals on the cultural heritage of historic urban cores. This project commenced
    during the previous period of assessment but ran until December 2014.

•   Bathgate (formerly of CIME) secured EURO 71,287.68 EU FP7 grant (Total budget: EURO
    3,999,997.00) as part of a multi-sectoral project (TRADEIT: Traditional Food: Entrepreneurship,
    Innovation and Technology Transfer) to support a network of food SMEs and researchers in of
    collaboration, innovation, entrepreneurship and technology transfer to increase the
    competitiveness and inter-regional advantage of traditional food producing SMEs (2014-2017).

•   Mostert (formerly of CIME) secured two Erasmus + grants (2014 and 2016): SETTLE – Social
    entrepreneurship training (EURO 64,402.00); and on building employability through sports
    entrepreneurship (EURO 36,698.00).

•   Bianchi is part of a successful British Academy/Leverhulme Small Research Grants (GBP
    9,964.00) bid (2018-2021) to research the impact of the European financial crisis on state
    support for social tourism in Spain. The project is led by the University of Nottingham and
    includes the University of Huelva and University of Malaga.

•   (2018) London City Airport awarded GBP 10,000 to Ali, N. and Schmitz to carry out a survey
    with 205 business travellers in order to determine whether ‘bleisure’ travel contributes to
    productivity and well-being.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Sait was awarded GBP 5,000.00 from the Global Challenge Research Fund for training on
    Muslim women’s land rights (July 2019); he also secured funding from UN-HABITAT for three
    projects (April, 2020): on land and climate change (USD 55,000.00); gender and youth (USD
    30,000.00); and land finance and curriculum (USD 20,000.00).

Improved research support and a widening network of external collaborative partners has resulted
in staff both participating in and leading applications during the period of assessment. These include:
Even our unsuccessful bids have expanded our increasing our networks and collaborative
partnerships

•   Bianchi and Linden have worked with the Global Learning London Development Education
    Centre (London Borough of Tower Hamlets) and several European partners to develop a series
    of four projects, around social entrepreneurship, tourism/creative sectors and immigrant
    entrepreneurs in deprived parts of East London (March 2019 – October 2020). Bianchi and
    Linden also developed work looking into participatory cultural heritage governance in East
    London as part of a project led by Carlos III University submitted to Horizon 2020 (JPI Cultural
    Heritage) (Sept 2019).

•   In relation to our work on the political economy of transition states and governance Fouskas led
    a consortium of six European partners (2014-15) on the project The Idea of Europe in the
    Balkans and a consortium comprising a further 16 universities on a Horizon 2020 application
    (2014 -15) The Balkans in Europe: Governance, Innovation, Development.

•   Bianchi and Fouskas were partners in a European-wide consortium to develop a programme of
    research on overtourism and sustainable degrowth, led by Wageningen University and Research
    (Netherlands). This project was submitted to the Horizon 2020 - Research and Innovation
    Framework Programme (Marie Sklodowska Curie Action: H2020-MSCA-ITN-2020).

•   Bianchi coordinated an application to the EU COST ACTION (European Cooperation in Science
    and Technology (COST) (2016) on cross-border tourism and regional economic development in
    European borderlands in partnership with the University of Huelva (Spain)

3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

UoA staff are based at University Square Stratford (USS) and Docklands campuses. As the more
central campus USS regularly hosts public events, research seminars and engagement activities.
The UoA receives support for its research through a dedicated School Research Administrator, as
well as an Academic Services Librarian. The Academic Services Librarian provides students and
members of staff with assistance in locating subject-specific resources as well as training in the use
of legal databases (Lexis-Nexis, Scopus and Westlaw).

USS hosts the world-class Bloomberg trading room.16 Bloomberg terminals are available to staff
and students for research. Investment in this facility has allowed our staff and PGR students to
expand their research in financial markets using real-time trading information and data analytics.
Staff and students can carry out comprehensive research on the view of industries and their key
constituents at sector, industry and company level using Bloomberg. Students making use of this
facility complete the globally recognised Bloomberg Market Concepts (BMC).

During the current assessment period the RDSBL has set up a Tax and Accountancy Clinic to


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
support the local businesses and communities in East London. The Clinic provides free accounting
advise to the most vulnerable communities in the local area and has been particularly active during
the Covid-19 lockdown period. It provided awareness and guidance to local SMEs about the financial
support provided HMRC during the lockdown and how to access it. Currently staff within the UoA
(Roy-Mukherjee, Boahen, Udeogu) area carrying out an internally funded research project on the
financial resilience of the local SMEs and local councils impacted by Covid-19. The project aims to
inform policy of the local councils and their SME strategy.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The UoA encourages all staff to generate and disseminate high quality research that impacts policy,
industry and society more broadly. Staff are committed to producing work of the highest academic
rigour and quality while remaining mindful of the relationship between theory, policy and practice.
As demonstrated by the submitted outputs and grant application activities our research is shaped by
a combination of UEL’s egalitarian heritage and ethos, the diverse and challenging local socio-
economic context as well as the innovative methodologies and critical theoretical frameworks
develop by UoA staff looking into questions of wider global import. UoA staff engage with a diverse
range of commercial (London City Airport; Good Projects, ADKN, Nomad Projects), government (e.g.
London Boroughs of Tower Hamlets & Newham; Republic of SRPSKA, Bosnia & Herzegovina;
Region of Crete, Greece), inter-governmental (e.g. UN-HABITAT), not-for-profit (e.g. Global
Learning London) and numerous academic stakeholders in local, national and international contexts.

4.1 Contribution to the academic community and wider research environment

Research by UoA staff is underpinned by the five thematic priorities and supported by the by the
Research Centres in line with the strategic direction given by the RDSBL Research and Impact
strategy (2015-2020).

a) Sustainability:

Research in this area encompasses diverse areas of business and sustainable economic
development. UoA work on such areas as sustainable tourism and degrowth in the Mediterranean
(Bianchi, Fouskas); energy security and sustainability in Eastern Europe, Black Sea and the
Balkans/Eastern Mediterranean (Raszewski, Roy-Mukherjee, Fouskas). There is a strong focus on
the UN Sustainable Development Goals and their relationship to tourism (Bianchi), land rights,
climate justice and womens’ empowerment (Sait). Staff (Hayes; Bigi, Kypuram, Roy-Mukherjee)
also work with UEL’s Sustainability Research Institute on community enterprise initiatives in
Newham.

b) Political Economy, Finance and Governance:

Research in this area is concerned with innovative methods of analysis in banking, financialization
and trade (Duong, Shabani, Tat Lung; Udeogu), governance (Fouskas, Hayes), the political
economy of energy (Rasewski, Fouskas), tourism (Bianchi), and Islamic finance (Sait). There is a
strong current of work framed by heterodox political economy theoretical perspectives, in relation to
the rise of Chinese capitalism (Fouskas, Roy-Mukherjee, Huang and Udeogu);
neoliberalism/ordoliberalism and the European financial crisis (Fouskas, Roy-Mukherjee), and the
Arab ‘spring’ (Roy-Mukherjee). UoA staff are noted for their work related to specific geographic
regions, including the Balkans and Mediterranean (Bianchi, Fouskas), Eastern Europe (Rasewski),
Sub-Saharan Africa (Sait, Udeogu) and, the Middle East and North Africa (Elfeituri, Roy-Mukherjee,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sait).

c) Innovation, Management and Entrepreneurship:

Research in this area is concerned with innovation in management, new business models and
employment. Staff have examined the impact of Covid-19 on the tourism industries and
entrepreneurship (Bianchi), small businesses (Ambe), unemployment and the financial resilience of
the local economy in Newham and Tower Hamlets (Roy-Mukherjee, Boahen, Udeogu, Sait). UoA
staff have carried out work in relation to ‘bleisure travel’ and its relationship to worker productivity
and well-being (Ali, N., Schmitz); the influence of AI on strategy formulation (Bigi); inter-organization
collaboration and responsible management (Hayes), women's’ entrepreneurship (Gabadamosi);
supply chain planning and forecasting (Ali, M.).

d) Equality, Diversity & Inclusion:

This research theme is concerned with the influence of ethnicity, culture and digital transformations
on business practice and organisational cultures in a variety of business and national contexts. Staff
have investigated employee relations in the ‘gig economy’ (Naghieh, Boocock, Page-Tickell, Roy-
Mukherjee); the influence of ethnicity on consumption (Al-Abdulrazak, Gbadamosi) and the influence
of patriarchy on the work-life balance in Nigeria (Adisa). UoA staff specialised in tourism focus on
Arab hospitality and Islamic travel (Ali, N.) and have developed projects on tourism, social enterprise
and immigrant entrepreneurship in East London (Bianchi, Linden).

e) Consumer Cultures:

This research theme is concerned with consumer cultures, marketing and the interconnection
between consumer behaviour and technology. Staff have investigated branding and consumption
among specific ethnic communities (Al-Abdulrazak; Gbadamosi), brand history and the importance
of marketing workers as cultural intermediaries in developmental processes for brands (Kelly). Staff
have also developed innovative approaches to the study of consumption looking at vinyl record
collectors (Kelly, Linden), the travel behaviour of Eurovision Song Contest fans (Linden). Staff also
carry out work on digital marketing and the influence of social media and technology on consumption
(Broderick).

Further to increasing the quantity and scope of published outputs in a diverse spectrum of
interdisciplinary and leading peer-reviewed journals, monographs, edited collections and book
chapters UoA staff make a significant contribution to the wider academic and research community
through journal editorships, editorial board membership, working for funding agencies and playing
an active role in professional associations.
 • Fouskas is the founding Editor-in-chief of Journal of Balkan and Near Eastern Studies (Taylor &
     Francis) - on whose editorial board Bianchi and Roy-Mukherjee also serve – and sits on
     numerous editorial boards (Journal of Global Fault-lines; Journal of Contemporary Central and
     Eastern Europe; Notebooks).
 • Bianchi is an Associate Editor for Annals of Tourism Research Empirical Insights, a new golden
     open access social journal affiliated to Annals of Tourism Research (ABS rank 4 *; Impact Factor
     5.908) and a member of the editorial board of Tourism Planning & Development (Taylor &
     Francis).
 • Gbadamosi sits on the Editorial Boards of Journal of Global Marketing (Routledge), Journal of
     African Business (Routledge), African Journal of Economic and Management Studies (Emerald).
 • Kelly sits on the Advisory Panel for the book Business Research Methods (Bryman, Bell and
                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Harley, Oxford University Press, 2019). In 2018 he was also awarded the title of ‘Outstanding
    Reviewer’ by the Journal of Arts and Markets.
    Staff are also actively involved in diverse academic and professional associations. Bianchi is a
    Fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute’s (RAI) Tourism and Heritage committee and
    Research Committee 50 on International Tourism (International Sociological Association). The
    IoHT is a member of the Awards for Training and Higher Education (ATHE), Association of
    Tourism and Leisure Education (ATLAS) and Institute of Hospitality. Fouskas is chief adviser to
    REDETE (Researching Economic Development and Entrepreneurship in Transition
    Economies), the largest academic and professional network in the Balkans (www.redete.org).
    Gbadamosi is the current Program Chair for the International Academy of African Business
    Development (IAABD) annual conferences. Sait sits on the advisory committee of the World
    Urban Forum and the High-Level UN-Habitat Stakeholder Advisory Group.

    Evidence of the local, national and global reach of our work and its contribution to the research
    community as well as wider to issue of significant import to economic, commercial, policy
    practitioners is evinced by the number and diversity of invited keynotes given by several UoA
    staff, nationally and internationally.

•   Linked to our research on political economy, the Journal of Balkan and Near Eastern Studies
    (JBNES), whose founding Editor-in-chief is STAMP Director Professor Fouskas, celebrated its
    20th anniversary in April 2018 in Banja Luka, Bosnia & Herzegovina. This event was held jointly
    with the REDETE network and was sponsored by Routledge-Taylor & Francis, local banks,
    Ministries and Universities. In recognition of his work on tourism political economy and
    sustainability, Bianchi was invited to be expert participant at the roundtable on Governing
    Mobilities and Sustainable Tourism at the Università Iuav di Venezia (July 2019). Bianchi’s work
    on tourism, citizenship and politics has led to numerous invitations to deliver keynote talks at the
    University of Primorska, Slovenia (September 2014), Saxion University, Netherlands (July 2017)
    and University of Oulu, Finland (September, 2016).

•   Linked to our work on entrepreneurship, equality and diversity Gbadamosi was invited to deliver
    keynote talks at the International Academy of African Business and Development at the
    University of South Africa, Durban (May, 2018) and University of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania (May
    2019) and on Pentecostalism, entrepreneurship and customer-orientation at Edinburgh Napier
    University (January, 2014). Ali was invited to give a keynote on ‘Halal Tourism at the Tourism
    Management Institute’s annual convention (November, 2015). Hayes was invited to give a
    keynote speech on Mauritius, migration and merging at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute (2015).

•   In recognition of UoA expertise in innovative areas of finance Sait was invited to deliver the
    annual public lecture, Revitalising Islamic and Social Finance at the London School of
    Economics (2016) and training for a World Bank Masterclass on Land and Financing Tools in
    MENA and Asia at the World Bank Land and Poverty Conference in Washington DC (March
    2017). Sait was invited as a high-level plenary speaker at Dialogue 6: Partnerships and Initiatives
    Supporting Culture and Innovation in Cities (February 2020). In the area of international finance
    Duong was invited to give key-note speeches at the Open University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
    (2016 and 2017).




4.2 Public Engagement and Impact on Economy and Society


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Many of the School’s leading researchers have developed and sustained ongoing relationships with
external partners and collaborators to achieve work that is ‘outstanding in terms of their reach and
significance’ (HEFCE). UoA staff are closely engaged with the local authorities, SMEs and local
communities to provide professional support work to specific organisations and residents in the area,
particularly the more vulnerable.

i. The Tax and Accountancy Clinic was set up in March 2020 as a free online service to support
local businesses and communities during the Covid-19 national lockdown. The main aim was to raise
awareness and help access the various government funded schemes, grants and welfare payments
made available to businesses and households as a result of the lockdown. As and when the economy
starts to re-open the Clinic will continue to provide tax and accountancy services to the local
community. The Clinic has two co-directors (Ambe and Hussain) and is supported by other UoA
Accounting staff (Boahen, Duong, Osinubi)

ii. The UEL Centre for Mediation and Workplace Conflict Management was established in 2019 and
run by Hobby and Hayes. The Centre aims to promote and develop interdisciplinary research,
teaching and engagement with practitioners to offer training in conflict and compromise training.
Page-Tickell has spoken at professional conferences, with former UoA staff members (Yerby)
including, the East London CIPD Conference Workplace Compromise. A key function of the centre
is to contribute to the research agenda on conflict resolution, mediation and restorative practices. In
2019 the Centre hosted a conference (Managing Conflict and Difficult Conversations), attended by
80 HR professionals. The Centre hosts the Pan-London Community of Practice for mediation and
provides mediators for HEIs across London. is Staff involved in setting up the centre together with
other UoA members (Yerby, Naghieh, Boocock; Page-Tickel; Roy-Mukherjee) have published
numerous related works on workplace mediation, including, an edited volume: Conflict and Shifting
Boundaries in the Gig Economy; An Interdisciplinary Analysis (Emerald, 2020).

iii. The Noon Centre supports key collaborative projects in Newham Council, such as ‘50 steps to a
Healthier Newham’ and is developing work on the economic impact of Covid-19 in East London. As
part of its commitment to promoting a fairer and more inclusive society the Centre provides advice
to local business and helps to link students with employers through the Elite Scholars programme.

UoA staff contribute to wider public debate through the development of sustained and wide-ranging
research partnerships with numerous universities, public authorities and NGOs across Europe. Our
research centres organise of several events and workshops open to the wider academic community
and the general public. These include:

•   In June 2018 the Noon Centre organised a public event to commemorate the 50th anniversary
    of the Ford Dagenham strike of 1968. at which two of the original women strikers (Gwen Davis
    and Eileen Pullen) spoke of their experiences and about gender and pay equality in the
    workplace today. In March 2019 Former Paralympic athlete and journalist Ade Adepitan was
    invited to spoke of his experiences of working in the media and the challenges he had to address
    in order to do so.

•   Since 2014 the STAMP research centre has organised over 60 seminars, public debates and
    lectures on themes of contemporary economic and political import, including the Arab uprising
    (February 2015); the global financial crisis (December,16); the future of the Labour Party (March
    2016) and Brexit (April and December 2016). In December 2017 Fouskas and Roy-Mukherjee
    convened the STAMP Conference on “Neoliberalism and Ordoliberalism” at which they delivered
    keynote lectures. This resulted in a special edition of Critical Sociology guest edited by them. In

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    June 2019 the STAMP research centre organised a conference on “Privatisation in Europe” to
    debate the variegated state of privatisation programmes across EU/Euro-zone countries. The
    event brought together an esteemed group of international scholars as well as a number of ECRs
    from STAMP and Economics staff in RDSBL (Fouskas, Roy-Mukherjee, Udeogu), and was
    managed by STAMP Visiting Fellow, Dr. Ozgun Sarimehmet Duman.

•   UoA staff have also been working with the local authorities of Newham and Tower Hamlets to
    support and advise on Covid-19 socio-economic recovery initiatives (Sait). Bianchi and Linden
    have worked with the Global Learning London DEC (Tower Hamlets) to develop impactful
    programmes of research targeting immigrant communities, arts practitioners and tourism
    entrepreneurs struggling to integrate in the wider economy.

•   UoA staff (Hayes, Roy-Mukherjee, Kypuram, Bigi, Mingazhova, Butt, Duong, Gbadamosi) are
    working with the Sustainability Research Institute (UEL) to support local residents and other
    actors (housing developers, local council) on community enterprise initiatives and to provide
    business consultancy to SMEs working in green and innovative projects as part of the Advancing
    Resource Efficiency and Urban Ecology Innovations (ARENA) project. Hayes also works with
    the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries (Bath Spa Business School) to analyse the
    governance of collaborations in creative industries.

•   In 2019 Ali, N. and Schmitz delivered a report Bleisure Travel Report: Worker Productivity and
    Well-being commissioned by London City Airport.

Through work carried out by staff in the Noon (Sait) and STAMP (Fouskas) research centres, our
work has grown in its international stature and impact.

•   Since 2013, in his role as Policy Adviser to the Ministry of Science, Technology & Education in
    the Republic of SRPSKA, Bosnia & Herzegovina Fouskas has influenced government policy in
    its drive to reverse high levels of unemployment and outbound youth migration, while affecting
    ethnic reconciliation and promoting multi-faith cultural cooperation. His work has improved links
    between the Ministry and other universities across Bosnia, the Balkans and Europe, and made
    a substantial contribution to macroeconomic policy oriented towards enhancing the employability
    for young graduates and halting youth emigration from the Republic.

•   Mimoza received a GBP 3,200 grant from the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation and GBP
    6,000 from the Toshiba International to host workshops at Meiji University, Tokyo (2016) and
    SOAS, University of London (2017) to discuss the impact of ‘Abenomics’.

•   Huang is working with local authorities and tax consultants in Guangdong Province in China to
    bring about policy change relating to the deviant behaviour in SMEs in the province.

•   Sait collaborates with such international agencies as UN-Habitat, the World Bank and the Global
    Land Tools Network and has contributed to major UN policy papers in the areas of land reform,
    gender equality, education, smart cities and impact of Covid-19.

4.3 Media and Public Awareness

Staff in the UoA are actively involved in informing and engaging public debate in national and
international media as well as by giving public lectures to a variety of audiences. Many also feature


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
prominently in national and international media (Al-Jazeera, BBC, Bloomberg; CBC, CBS, RT, TRT
World), and make frequent contributions to the print media (Alba Sud; Brave New Europe; Open
Democracy), commercial reports and public policy.

Bianchi has lectured on UNESCO World Heritage for the international cruise company, Seabourn
Cruises, and on the Politics of Tourism, at Kelowna Public Library, British Columbia, Canada
(September 2018). He has given interviews to CBC Radio Canada and spoken at a Tortoise Media
“ThinkIn” on the moral basis of holidays (April 2019). Linden has given an interview for the Turkish
national broadcaster international channel, TRT World, on the call for a boycott of the 2019
Eurovision Song contest, the Israel-Palestine conflict (the event took place in Tel Aviv), the voting
system, and Turkey’s continued absence from Eurovision (May, 2019). He has also contributed
views on fans and fandoms to popular culture magazines such as E!News and Noisey/Vice, as well
as the BBC.

Fouskas is a regular commentator for: Radio Kapodistria (Slovenia and Italy); Russian International
TV (RT-London) and TG-48 (New York); Al-Jazeera English; BBC Radio 3 and 4 (Free Thinking
series and "Moral Maze"); Radio Sputnik (Moscow), BBC Radio 5 Live; Bloomberg.org; Dutch
National TV in its Newshour (Newshour is the leading daily current affairs show on Dutch National
Television, Australian ABC); The London-based London Greek Radio (LGR) and the Athens-based
Hellenic Radio and Television Broadcasting (ERT).

Fouskas has appeared several times on Greek and Cypriot TV and given interviews to the BBC
(UK), Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Istanbul Broadcasting (Turkey), Zagreb National TV,
Ankara Radio (Turkey), Alpha Channel (Greece), Alter (Greece), Bosnian Television and Radio, RIK
(Cyprus), Sigma Channel (Cyprus), Italian Amisnet, Croatian TV and Radio, Swedish TV and the
Finnish Uutiset.

Fouskas participated in Michael Buerk's "Moral Maze" (BBC Radio 4). He provided consultancy for
The Wall Street Journal on the Greek shipping industry, and to the Greek Ministry of Defence on the
Cyprus issue. He has written countless op-eds for Open Democracy and The Conversation, as well
as in many print and electronic outlets in the Balkans. He's a regular contributor to the mainstream
daily, The Paper of the Editorialists (Greece), il Manifesto (Italy), Iskra (Greece), Brave New Europe,
the Axis of Logic and other media outlets in the UK, Europe and elsewhere.

4.4. Conclusion

During this period of assessment research in the UoA has undergone considerable growth and
diversification. The UoA has capitalised on its strengths in relation to its geographic location and
diverse body of staff to boost the quantity and scope of research outputs, grant awards and
applications and external collaboration across a wide range of areas. This work has been guided
and supported by the four research centres and aligned with five organising thematic clusters. The
body of research active staff in the UoA has undergone considerable change and renewal thanks in
part to the development and promotion of PGRs and ECRS. While bringing in valuable new
perspectives and diversifying the focus of research, our work continues to be inspired by the spirit of
critical enquiry and participatory engagement with local and global communities that has always
been the hallmark of the institution.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
References

Rustin, M. and G. Poynter (Eds.) (2020) Building a radical university: A history of the University of
East London. London: Lawrence & Wishart.




                                                                                            Page 17
