Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Middlesex University

 Unit of Assessment: 23

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 Since our founding institution, St Katherine’s College, opened in 1878, the Education
 department at Middlesex has been central to the university’s history. St Katherine’s
 concerns with gender, the interdisciplinary arts and professional practice, particularly
 pedagogy, have remained the core focus of practice-led research and teaching for
 Education ever since.

 For REF 2014 and earlier RAEs, our education research staff were entered into other
 UoAs, but the strong development of our research profile led to the decision to make a
 separate Education submission in REF2021. This submission provides the opportunity
 to demonstrate our distinctive problem-based approach reflecting our interdisciplinary
 and transdisciplinary praxis. We have created new conceptual, theoretical and
 methodological innovations that move beyond disciplinary boundaries, acknowledging
 and capturing interdisciplinary complexity. Since REF2014, the department has
 consciously invested in growing an educational research culture from the bottom-up,
 hence our small but robust submission of 15.2 FTE Education staff.

 Deconstructing professionalism ties the entire Education Unit together. As educational
 research and policy in early childhood, citizenship and inclusive education have become
 increasingly complex and multidimensional, the strong potential for transdisciplinary
 research has become apparent. Such research holds the potential for the definition and
 analysis of issues that transcend traditional boundaries between academic disciplines,
 academic and non-academic knowledge production, and different domains of society.
 There is evidence across the Unit of original contributions to research knowledge, such
 as drawing on non-western, holistic or metaphoric theory; posthumanist; feminist, post-
 structuralist approaches to problematisation and deconstruction, and by developing
 innovative research methods, such as affective methodologies and transdisciplinary,
 ethno-autobiographical and digital innovations for multimodal research.


 Research and Impact Strategy


 Prior to REF2014 the department had a strong Continuing Professional Development
 (CPD) and Knowledge Transfer (KT) profile. However, it became evident that in line with
 our University strategy, that research-led teaching needed strengthening. Immediately
 after REF2014 a period of consolidation focused on nurturing areas of strength. The
 Unit’s subsequent research strategy reflected that of the University (2017-22, REF5a),
 with its commitment to develop research and practice as twin elements. The strategy


                                                                                       Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 encourages research related to our professional practice, the use of our research in
 teaching, and the development of research-informed pedagogy. To achieve these
 outcomes, the decision was taken to invest in professorial and research-active staff
 appointed to a new Centre for Educational Research and Scholarship (CERS). In 2014
 CERS was initiated with the appointment of a full-time research Professor (Gibbs) to
 formalise, take research forward and oversee strategic investment of resources. This
 has enhanced education research practice, widened exposure, increased research
 outputs, facilitated significant increases in research funding and impact. Evidence for
 this is provided in the Impact Case Studies and the following text.

 Professor Gibbs was initially recruited as Director of Research and the first Director of
 the Centre for Education Research and Scholarship (CERS). His recruitment was of
 strategic benefit to the UoA due to his international reputation based on academic
 outputs from 20 books and more than 100 academic articles and chapters on topics
 ranging from transdisciplinarity to the marketing and philosophy of HE.

 By 2015, Prof Gibbs led research in the department supported by the new Director of
 CERS (de Rijke) and a dedicated research assistant (Elwick), who supported
 proposals, bids, research events, such as seminar series organisation, and website
 development. The CERS Action Plan enabled every staff member within the department,
 regardless of their research status, to develop at least one published output. This was
 achieved through allocating resources to support staff and students to complete
 research degree programmes and to produce publishable outputs.

 CERS provides capacity building in academic writing, research methodology,
 conference attendance and research grant application. These concerted initiatives have
 enabled us to raise the profile of research across the department, supported by the
 creation of research groups (see below). The appointment of senior academics (eg
 Gibbs, Osgood, Jerome) enhanced the department’s capacity to recruit and support
 doctoral and post-doctoral students and staff, to grow a vibrant research culture as an
 inclusive community, with firm institutional backing and on-going investment to develop
 capacity, with the following key aims:

    1. to develop capacity to support the application of research by increasing the
       overall number of active staff who can produce high quality outputs
    2. to support students and staff to complete doctoral studies with all new part-time
       students completing in 4 – 4.5 years and full time in 3 – 3.5 years
    3. to increase bidding for RKT grants and contracts in order to increase revenue and
       develop support strategies within CERS
    4. to audit and review our research and practice strengths annually to ensure we
       can utilise them effectively in seeking to diversify KT and increase income.
    5. as a consequence of 1-4, to develop CERS to support a high quality submission
       for an Education UoA in the 2020 REF.




                                                                                       Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 These were informed by the following goals:

    1. Build a sustainable research culture that provides an accessible, supportive and
       energising environment for researchers at different career stages
    2. Involve the UG and PG student community in research that informs and
       enhances the curricula and teaching of the university and partners
    3. Improve the quality, national and international reach, and impact of our research

 Interdisciplinary research activities are organised from CERS through a number of
 Special Interest Groups (SIGs), focused on the following themes:

 Theme 1: Childhood and Society (C&S) led by Prof Osgood.

 This SIG aims to promote critical debate on practices and theories shaping education,
 welfare and lives-lived by children in contemporary societies. The network comprises
 researchers working across a broad spectrum of topics and published outcomes,
 including: theories of childhood; children’s everyday lives at home, school and in
 communities (Osgood); children’s engagements with play, art (de Rijke) and digital
 technology(Harding; Sakr); and cultures of childhood, rights and participation (Barker;
 Robertson). The C&S SIG is committed to critical research that recognises the
 complexities of contemporary childhoods, exploring them through theoretically-driven
 intellectual projects, empirical research and evaluation projects, as exemplified by the
 Impact Case Study concerning research-informed approaches to addressing gender
 inequalities in childhood contexts. C&S has many national and international partners,
 such as a formal affiliation with the Leadership in Early Years Education Research
 Interest Group (BELMAS) to co-investigate the role of leadership in a post-Covid context
 and the outlook of the sector more broadly.

 Theme 2: Professional Education Practice (PEP) led by Ass. Prof Jerome.

 This SIG is aimed at professional educators in teacher education, nurse education and
 social work education. It aims to explore the theory and practice of the education of
 professionals in university and the workplace; analyse policy regulating and framing
 professional education; develop inter-professional comparative perspectives on
 professional education; and explore the connections and tensions between university
 and workplace elements of professional education. The PEP SIG works across the
 School of Health and Education involving staff running academic programmes and
 managing partnership processes, and offers colleagues, students and members of our
 partnerships the opportunity to share their doctoral research. Publications related to the
 SIG include aspects of school pedagogy (Jerome & Elwick; see Impact Case Study on
 the Prevent Duty), the emotional labour of EY practitioners (Morris) and comparative
 analysis of mentor frameworks across professions (Jerome & Brook).




                                                                                      Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Theme 3: Higher Education and Transdisciplinarity initially led by Prof Gibbs and now
 by Ass. Prof Maguire.

 This SIG researches higher education concerning its fundamental epistemology, its
 value and its teaching practices. It has run international conferences on topics such as
 truth, values, hope and transdisciplinarity. Each of these conferences has attracted
 participation from world renowned academics (e.g. Ronald Barnett, Peter Maassen and
 Basarab Nicolescu for example) and academics from all the continents of the world.
 These events have led to increased level of engagement of staff with the five core areas
 of its endeavour: policy and history; teaching, learning and transdisciplinary practice;
 higher education purpose and identity; investigated through anthropological,
 sociological, philosophical, and transdisciplinary lenses. Its members hold visiting
 professorships and research fellows outside the University the UK, Australia, Hong
 Kong, USA, Brazil, the Caucuses and in Europe, making international keynote
 conference presentations. A highly successful stream of research has been with
 Transdisciplinary(TD) and its application in education, includes the production of four
 edited books on subject with, according to the publisher, Springer, over 45,000
 downloads. The research has also informed world leading transdisciplinary doctoral and
 master programmes.
 With published outcomes by Gibbs, Elwick, Maguire, Ryder.

 Theme 4: Work and Learning (SIG) led by Prof Costley

 This SIG undertakes research in professional practice and change in work. It engages in
 practice-based research and knowledge co-creation between the University and the
 public, private and voluntary sectors. It leads, nationally and internationally, in practice-
 based research and learning in work and is a key constituent of the MU excellence in
 innovation in research and development in professional learning, with publications by
 Boud, Costley, Nottingham and Eastman. Its research covers: approaches to
 pedagogy and curriculum development for work-based learners and professional
 practice researchers, including learning interventions within the workplace; the study of
 process and underpinning frameworks that enhance and embed organizational and
 individual learning in the work place to improve performance and impact; frameworks for
 conceptualizing change in work and innovative and responsive methodologies for
 practitioner-research; theoretical and ethical aspects of Practice-Based Studies; and
 approaches to Change and Development in Work, and Policy and Work Based Learning.

 The boundaries of each SIG are intentionally permeable. Collaborative engagement and
 interdisciplinary research across groups and disciplines has emerged organically but has
 been consistently and actively encouraged. Researchers are frequently members of
 multiple groups, which ensures on-going cross-fertilisation of ideas and synergies that
 enrich each SIG, and the department more widely. As a result of the sustained work of
 CERS, and the leadership and support of the senior management in the department
 over the past five years, research activity has been unprecedented, with a now-vibrant
 research culture, already meeting many of the aims and objectives initially set out. From
 a department that was previously focused upon teaching and practice, we have moved

                                                                                        Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to one where 21 now have doctorates, and every academic staff member, even where
 not designated as a researcher, has produced one published reviewed academic
 artefact.

 Through a clear vision, collective commitment, and a willingness to be adaptive, CERS
 has established a thriving and sustainable environment in which research will continue
 to flourish. Our mechanisms are in place to support the research further focused on
 Early years, professional practice and transdisciplinarity. CERS will continue to develop
 its research culture through sustained SIG activities (currently online), active support for
 colleagues to undertake research and scholarly activity, and building our profile within
 and beyond Middlesex, in order to secure greater impact.


 Research integrity


 Research integrity is expected in all research activity at Middlesex, whether carried out
 by staff or research students. The University complies with the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity. Given compliance with the concordat to support research integrity is
 a condition of grant receipt in English institutions, we reach compliance by, for example
 identifying a named safeguarding contact when talking to children, DBS disclosures, and
 working with teacher colleagues to ensure they consider the tensions arising from
 insider-researcher roles. All Unit research staff are ORCID registered and are seeking to
 engage with the open data agenda, through integrating examples of openly accessible
 research data in future projects, such as Jerome et al’s British Academy funded
 research for the deliberative classroom with data extracts available online and
 embedded in workshop resources.

 Enhancing ethical standards training is identified as a pan-university priority, and in pursuit
 of this the Unit has acted as a leader for the university, committed to connecting the
 broader development of students and staff to creating a culture for research ethics and
 integrity that asked rigorous questions about honesty, transparency, communication, care,
 respect and accountability. Thus, having worked together to strengthen the integrity of
 university systems for research ethics approval, we uphold high standards of rigour and
 integrity in all aspects of research from undergraduate projects to principal investigators,
 conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks,
 obligations and standards. Such practices include audits of researchers to learn from their
 practices in the field after they received approval from the Ethics Committee, and audits
 of module practices where assignments include aspects of data collection (e.g.
 observations on placement). We continue to review this as a standing item for all CERS
 meetings and offer feedback to wider university practices.




                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Research management is operationalised through the Research and Knowledge Action
 Plan which is reviewed annually and updated as appropriate throughout the year. The
 Education Research and Knowledge Transfer Strategy reflects the vision and objectives
 outlined in the School of Health and Education Strategy. All staff are encouraged to
 apply their research interests to develop activities leading to impact that contributes to
 the development of Education policy and practice and have wider impact on society. The
 integration of research and KT has a synergetic effect on our activities and thus is
 actively encouraged, supporting funds made available to the department to fund
 research and scholarship activities.

 The Director of CERS is supported by a committee that includes the Head and Deputy
 Head of the Education department, which ensures departmental leadership incorporates
 knowledge of the research environment, and supports the development of researchers.
 CERS is structured on a model of collaborative management: all roles and
 responsibilities are shared, taken for designated periods of time, and flexibly adjusted
 according to work programmes, individual needs, skills and interests. Following an initial
 period of single Directorship to ensure stability, current directorship operates on a
 rotational basis for six monthly periods with a next-in-line deputising; thus, all members
 of the CERS management team are well-versed in all operational aspects of the centre.
 This positive strategy ensures sustainable, equitable experience of leadership, shared,
 collaborative knowledge of the centre’s management, and fair distribution of decision-
 making and workload.

 All Departmental staff, whether on Research and Teaching pathway (submitted here) or
 the Practice and Teaching pathway, are encouraged to engage with our research
 culture. Some form of active engagement in research is viewed as part of everyone’s
 career progression, including graduate and postgraduate researchers, staff on teaching
 and research, research or teaching only contracts, and professional support staff. All
 staff registered on research programmes (PhDs/DProfs) attend research methodology
 seminars and regularly present their work to research communities. All staff with
 doctorates are expected to undertake University training to enable them to be actively
 involved in supervision and examination.
 In line with the University COP all staff on R&T pathways are submitted. Of all eligible
 staff submitted, 3 are Professors, 5 Associate Professors or Principal Lecturers, 5 Senior
 Lecturers, 2 Lecturers (also defined as ECR). Of the 15 with significant responsibility for
 research, the ratio of academic to senior management academic is 4:1; for gender it is
 female 2:1 with an even age spread (7 aged between 31-50 and 8 between 56-66).

 Education’s inclusive staffing strategy over this REF period has comprised:

    1. Gibbs appointed as Research Director (2014) and now an active emeritus
       professor of Middlesex University, holding visiting professorships at three
       universities in Australia, Azerbaijan and Georgia.


                                                                                      Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. In 2015, a Professor in Childhood Studies (Osgood) appointed, whose principal
       role was to further build research capacity.
    3. In 2017, Professor Carol Costley joined the department, whose reputation leading
       Work and Learning research has had an international impact. Bezerra et al (2020)
       describe her team at Middlesex as having a leading role in WBL research based
       on data bibliometrics and network analysis, with Boud as international leader in the
       field.
    4. Recognition that the Unit needed to strengthen capacity having invested in
       research-focused Professors (Gibbs, Osgood, Costley), through releasing
       research leaders (Jerome, Robertson) via reduced teaching loads (de Rijke 0.5
       release to lead CERS) and appointing research assistance (Elwick); all of whom
       are returned in this submission.
    5. Moving staff from practice into research, via a policy encouraging and supporting
       staff doctorates. The Department Head has biannual discussions with staff working
       on doctorates, advising them on and finding opportunities for research leave. This
       is a means for staff to take ownership of their career as well as to monitor and
       report on their engagement in research activities. All staff are allocated 20 days
       ‘scholarly time’ as an integrated part of their work programme.
    6. Supporting early career researchers and less experienced members of staff by
       providing encouragement and structured support (such as group conference
       attendance) and twice-annual open research funding applications for conferences,
       support with transcripting, etc.
    7. By 2015, specific targets for research activity were introduced to annual staff
       appraisals. Staff are now regularly advised on the research activities likely to raise
       their profile, impact and measures of esteem, routes to academic publishing,
       ranking of published outputs, and so on. There is now an explicit expectation for all
       staff to be actively engaged in research activity on an on-going basis, which is
       actively supported and regularly monitored.
    8. CERS established a variety of stimulating and developmental events for staff and
       students to engage with research such as regular seminar series showcasing
       research and nominated speakers from across the department. The seminars
       welcomed staff and students from across the university and were available to
       partners such as teachers and other professionals.

 All researchers are actively welcomed into the Education research community and made
 aware of policies and practices relevant to their position. The university and department
 have clear and transparent merit-based recognition, reward and promotion pathways
 that recognise the full range of researchers’ contributions, and the diversity of personal
 circumstances. Annual appraisal with a chosen mentor is an opportunity to discuss the
 development of staff research and professional identity, support needed to achieve their
 goals and broader leadership skills. Examples of mentoring and career management
 success include those joining as ECRs: Elwick, promoted from RA to Lecturer and
 Ethics Committee Chair; Sakr, promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer and now
 university Governing Board member; Gholami gaining experience of running doctoral
 training as Lecturer, now Head of Department at University of Birmingham.


                                                                                       Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Equality, diversity and inclusion


 Of all eligible staff FTE submitted, 22% are Professors (66% women), 20% Associate
 Professors/Principal Lecturers (90% women), 46.6% Senior Lecturers, 6.6% Lecturers; it
 is a diverse group with 66.6% women, 6% non-white; 20% of non- British origin. In
 Education, women make up 53% of the active researchers, and 80% of Professors.
 The university is steadily rising in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index (165th of 503
 in 2020) and is committed to improve everyone’s experiences of diversity and inclusion
 at work.

 Improving BAME staff figures is a goal for the university and unit, as diversity is a
 characteristic of our community and a key part of what the University strategy describes
 as ‘a values-driven culture’. Recruiting research staff is open, transparent and merit-
 based, and has attracted excellent researchers, using fair and inclusive selection and
 appointment practices. The university is currently working towards the Race Equality
 Charter, and, as part of the university’s Anti-Racist network, Unit staff Robertson and
 Fretwell are supporting the university to achieve this aim by leading a project on
 decolonising the curriculum. In the summer of 2020 this process started with a BAME
 student and alumni panel featuring contributions from PhD and Masters students drawing
 on their research.

 In preparation for the REF, the Education UoA received an EDI principles document
 from the Equality and Diversity Panel on selecting REF outputs, REF staff selection
 panels received unconscious bias training, and the entire selection process was open
 and transparent to those submitting, plus all department staff. As with the wider
 university, research is considered an inclusive activity, not one only carried out by
 people classed as ‘researchers’, with different terms and conditions of employment, or
 opportunities for research. All staff are engaged in an inclusive process of research
 enquiry. Research is thus inclusive as a process and not just in principle. The Unit
 ensures fairness in the allocation of time and resources among its members, to our grant
 application process, subsequent research process, and the dissemination of research.
 All staff with ‘significant responsibility for research’ have been given the opportunity to be
 included and have informed the selection process as authors, which was considered
 with shared selection criteria (authorship, output type, journal and reviewer rankings).

 It is a pan-university priority to ensure new appointees are given effective and ongoing
 training in relation to equality, diversity and inclusion, wellbeing and mental health. As a
 significant proportion of our research output is on matters of equality, diversity and
 inclusion, we have used every opportunity to put these practices into our work, such as
 three Education staff sitting on the PREVENT committee as university academic reps to
 ensure the duty aligns with research integrity and freedom of expression. This is
 demonstrated by the submitted Impact Case Studies featuring Gender Equity (Osgood)
 and the PREVENT duty and its problematics (Jerome et.al).


                                                                                         Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The CERS committee is partly responsible for ensuring that institutional policies and
 practices relevant to researchers are inclusive, equitable and transparent, and that they
 are well-communicated to researchers and their managers. As the Head of Department
 attends CERS meetings, this is regularly checked and acted on. In addition, an on-going
 commitment to promoting good mental health and wellbeing is achieved through
 effective management of workloads and people, including providing rapid and
 appropriate support for any reported issues. These include flexible working requests and
 other appropriate arrangements to support research progress, such as release from
 teaching for short periods. This is now standard practice given the Covid 19 situation.


 Research students

 As this is our first UoA23 submission and staff submitted to Education this time were
 submitted to other UoAs in 2016, PGR students they supervised do not appear in UoA23
 HESA numbers.

                            2013-14   2014-15    2015-16       2016-17       2018-19
    Research                2         6          7                           2
    doctoral degrees
    awarded by
    academic year


 Education has MA research pathways in: Education, Higher Education, Leading
 Inclusive Education, Childhood and Education in Diverse Societies, Translation, and
 PhD, DProf and PhD or DProf by Public Works doctoral routes. Doctoral students
 include 2 funded by PhD bursaries, 5 co-supervised with staff in other departments and
 4 international students studying abroad (Oslo University, Norway, and University of
 Turku, Finland). In 2016, Education had 6 staff supervising research degree students,
 and by 2019-2020, 13 supervising 47 doctoral students overall; effectively more than
 doubling previous output.

  DoS PhD          2013-     2014-    2015-16 2016-17 2017-18            2018-19 2019-20
  completions      14        15
  P.Gibbs                             3         1          1             1         2
  C. Costley                          1
  V.deRijke                           1                    1             1         1
  L.Robertson      1                                       1                       1
  J.Osgood                                                               2         1

  DoS               2013-     2104-    2015-16 2016-17 2017-18           2018-19 2019-
  DProf/EdD         14        15                                                 20
  PhD/DProf
  PubWks
  completions
  P.Gibbs           2         2        8         1         1

                                                                                       Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  K.Maguire         4        5         3          1          2           4
  C. Costley                           1                     1
  C. Eastman                                      1                                 1
  V.deRijke         1        1         1                     1           1          2


 An analysis of all PG students registered across all research pathways above indicates
 that the proportion of BME students has risen from 33% to 40%, and the proportion of
 women has risen from 41% to 56% during this period.


 Research impact and reputational capital harnessed in the service of researchers


 In addition to university PhD development, transdisciplinary DProfs as research degrees
 have been established directed at the professionals’ market, thus engaging actively with
 the community. Organisations often support this programme as a form of career
 development for employees, who benefit through research, communication skills and
 networking opportunities. Examples include: establishing a new approach to belonging
 and inclusion in Investec Ltd; increased uptake in sound enhancement to preserve
 Cantonese Opera; dealing with problem gambling among youth of Hong Kong;
 establishing a new foundation in New York to promote the rights of the child.


 Researcher Development Strategy


 All staff have been actively supported to develop their research skills and profiles
 through a ‘Rewards & Incentives’ scheme. Initially funding was made available to
 support early career researchers to present education research at conferences and take
 opportunities to network across research communities. This was an important first stage
 in a strategy to raise confidence and disseminate research findings. The second stage of
 this strategy prioritised publication-related support, so that by 2018, there was a stated
 expectation that staff were required to publish the work presented at conferences in
 journals and other high quality outputs (with the support of CERS researchers through
 writing workshops and mentoring). This strategy of investing in Early Career Research
 staff, as well as nurturing excellent doctoral students has led to a series of collaborative
 first publications (e.g. Allen, Burghardt, Harding, Patel, Scollan, Wilson; Ryder,
 Lazar, Barnaby) new teaching appointments (Elwick) and doctoral research
 collaborations, (e.g. Osgood with Mohandas; Robertson with Kessler-Singh and
 Corrado).

 A core aspect to growing our research culture was the development of research
 students through targeted research training, which was specifically designed for the
 practitioner-researcher. From 2014, training consciously built upon practitioner skills to
 undertake research in professional contexts. In tandem, CERS launched staff

                                                                                        Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development sessions on topics such as preparing grant applications and writing for
 publication. CERS facilitated a range of events for staff and students designed to
 provide access to some of the most prominent thinkers in the field of education (e.g.
 Professors Stephen Ball, Nell Noddings, Karin Murris). CERS has also consistently
 showcased staff and doctoral student research across SIG seminars. ECR staff have
 been actively supported to present their research at conferences, engage in Summer
 symposia as teacher-researchers, and gain experience with conference presentation
 and writing collaborations.

 From 2015-16 CERS Research Methods Workshops, led by Gholami, formed part of a
 three-pronged CERS Researcher Development Programme, focusing on a wide range
 of issues relating to methodology. These sessions covered topics such as Epistemology,
 Research Questions and Design; Ethics; Power, Representation and Reflexivity;
 Teachers as Researchers; Ethnographic Research; Qualitative/Quantitative Analysis,
 Arts-based Methods of Research; Participant Observation; Interviewing; and
 Multimodality. From 2017, the doctoral development strategy shifted under the
 leadership of Osgood; it was renamed ‘research support’ to indicate a more inclusive
 approach and move away from the narrower idea of training and skills acquisition. The
 success of these Research Methods Workshops continues as most of them have been
 adopted as part of the university-wide Research & Knowledge Transfer Office doctoral
 training programme.

 Research support is comprised of 5 taught/blended components and 3 research
 student opportunities:

    1. Digital development material

 Education researchers (staff and students) collaborate and interact with those from other
 disciplinary fields fostering greater communication and synergies across the university,
 representing an important mechanism for researchers to share their expertise, not only
 across disciplines, but to students located outside the UK (eg on Malta and Mauritius
 campuses) via the delivery of webinars.

 Training for leadership, chairing, supervising, and examining research degrees has
 tripled since 2014 with 15 supervisors, 124 doctoral completions within the REF period,
 and 96% overall satisfaction in PRES results. At the chalk face, integrating research and
 knowledge exchange has become a core feature of our teaching and learning
 environment to the benefit of students and staff. We have instigated a raft of initiatives to
 support research staff and students from mock transfer panels and viva examinations, to
 coaching and mentoring arrangements, to research surgeries and other drop-in events.

    2. Regular research development seminars and conferences

 Since 2014 the two annual and university-wide conferences have become firmly
 established in the CERS calendar of events; and at the Research Students’ Summer
 Conference (RSSC), all doctoral students were expected to participate initially by


                                                                                       Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 presenting a poster and later a paper, and supervisors took on the role of chairs and
 judges. The 2019 RSSC Conference was jointly chaired by Robertson.

    3. Research support groups

 Since 2017, Education has delivered a bespoke and targeted form of research support
 to early career researchers and doctoral students in addition to the research
 development sessions outlined above. Osgood introduced timetabled ‘Research
 surgeries’ to provide one-to-one, tailored support on specific issues that individual
 researchers encounter. The availability of seasoned and expert Education scholars was
 recognised as an important means to support those newer to research to navigate a
 range of opportunities from addressing reviewer feedback on journal submissions,
 preparing grant applications, to submitting abstracts in response to open calls.

    4. Supporting the supervision of research with established professionals

 The doctoral programme at the Institute for Work Based Learning (DProfs) established
 the first fully integrated training for supervisors working with established professionals in
 the university (lead Maguire) complete with supervision guides for supervisors and
 candidates and presentations open across the university, e.g. ‘The challenges of
 research and publishing in learning and teaching in higher education’ (Boud).

    5. Research mentoring

 A complimentary form of research support is made available to staff through a mentoring
 programme instigated by Osgood. Again, early career researchers have access to the
 knowledge and expertise of more established scholars through regular mentoring.
 Through this process mentees are encouraged to map out personal plans for research
 (publications, dissemination, grant applications etc) and with the active support of their
 mentor are supported to realise their ambitions. This clear and structured form of
 support has been embedded into the appraisal system and has therefore been very
 effective at ensuring staff are focused and well supported to achieve realistic research
 goals.

 The needs of Education researchers are regularly monitored via the CERS management
 committee, via supervisor and mentor session feedback, which ensures that the support
 provided is both appropriate and effective. Colleagues have requested additional
 opportunities to engage with peers about developing as researchers, and for more
 taught sessions. Some of the responses include a whole department workshop on
 “Writing a Journal Paper in Seven Days, (Osgood); Professor Murris (University of Cape
 Town) delivered a workshop on posthumanist approaches to childhood studies; and
 one-off sessions (e.g. mock transfer panels and vivas) are also provided to individual
 students whenever the need arises.

 CERS has worked tirelessly to cultivate a vibrant research culture within which doctoral
 students are invited to contribute in the following three substantive ways:

 1. Presentations

                                                                                        Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Students present their research at regular departmental research seminars organised by
 the departmental SIGs. These events take place typically once a month during term
 time.

 2. Publishing
 Research students are actively supported by their supervisory teams and fellow
 research students to consider ways in which to develop their ideas for writing; students
 write in a range of outputs with varying audiences in mind, often in collaboration with
 their supervisors, examples in addition to our submission include:

 Osgood, J. and Mohandas, S. (2021). Figuring gender in M.Tesar (Ed) Sage Handbook
 of Global Childhood; Elwick, A., Osgood, J., Robertson, L.H., Sakr, M. & Wilson,
 D. (2018) In pursuit of quality: early childhood qualifications and training policy.;
 Osgood, J. and Mohandas, S. (2020). Reconfiguring the ‘Male Montessorian.’ Early
 Years; Corrado, E. W. and Robertson, L. H. (2019) Challenging Negative Perceptions
 around the ‘African Child’. In Scollan, A. and Farini, F. (Eds.) Childhood in the Mirror;
 Kell, E. (2018) How to Survive in Teaching; Burghardt, V., Barnaby, B. and
 Robertson, L. (2015) All about… multilingualism & critical thinking. Nursery World.

 3. Teaching
 Research students may teach up to 6h a week and typically conduct seminars and
 supervise undergraduate dissertations. For example Sid Mohandas (supervisor
 Osgood, PhD on-going) has contributed to the teaching on the MA Childhood and
 Education in Diverse Societies, in 2020; Sarah Vipond (supervisor Osgood, PhD
 ongoing) teaches regularly on BA Early Childhood Studies programme; Anthony
 Meehan (supervisor Robertson, DProf ongoing) and Andrew Dykes (supervisor de
 Rijke) have given guest lectures for FdA teaching and Learning students, and BA
 Teaching and Learning student cohorts in 2019-2020; Arif Mahmud (supervisor Sakr,
 PhD awarded in 2018) and Evelyn Corrada (supervisor Robertson, PhD awarded in
 2020) both taught as hourly-paid lecturers on BA Education Studies and BA Early
 Childhood Studies programmes and supervised undergraduate dissertation students
 between 2016-2019. Since then they have both gained permanent posts in another
 London university.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Research income


 Our explicit funding strategy thus has 3 prongs:

 (1) senior CERS researchers continue to bid for research grants linked to Unit strengths,
 (2) provision of seedcorn funding for strategically selected initiation projects with a view
 to bringing funders on board later (as seen in the TCTV project),

                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (3) encourage new ideas through a twice-annual open call to our research and
 scholarship fund.

 Across the REF period the UoA has been successful in achieving modest but consistent
 research income. Key sources have been UK charities and there has been an important
 international dimension through the EU and overseas sources, reflecting the importance
 placed upon international collaboration. 4 1.2% of grant income came from projects with
 at least one non-UK partner, such as the Unit’s 2014 Erasmus+ Key Action 2 (KA2),
 Strategic Partnerships Project: Interactive dual language immersive learning space -
 €261,317.
 Having bid in excess of £3million with a 41% success rate, the table below demonstrates
 the competitive and precarious research funding landscape for education research over
 the REF period (43.8% of successful bids totalling £649,308 from EU and 19.2% overseas
 bodies and charities).

              2014/15    2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20            TOTALS
  Total       138,460    12,304 121,404 33,550 54,666 107,129               467,513
  research
  income
  (£)
  OST         2,789      0         0         0         2,871     6,489      12,149
  research
  councils
  UK          20,263     6,335     40,375    10,906    7,096     1,842      171,792
  Charities
  EU Gov      93,711     10,056    19,055    -1,016    6,979     0          128,785
  EU          0          0         0         0         9203      58888      15,091
  Charities
  Overseas    20,895     132,83    15,602    24,804    9,017     39,910     123,511

 Examples of success include Bravenboer’s national funded research projects which
 include a consortium led by Middlesex University with Gibbs and de Rijke, Sheffield
 Hallam, Staffordshire Universities and the University Vocational Awards Council (UVAC)
 (£99K) from education charity Edge Foundation’s 2018/9 grant fund for research into
 degree apprenticeships. A major report (‘Sustainable Degree Apprenticeships’ 2020)
 includes 18 recommendations to inform professional bodies and major government
 policy initiatives on apprenticeships and skills development. This research and impact
 builds from ‘Work-integrated Degrees: context, engagement, practice and quality’
 (2016), ‘Certifying and Accrediting the Current EASO Training Curriculum’ (2016) funded
 by EASO (£42k) ‘Professional Practice in Coaching’ (2015), funded by Nationwide
 Insurance, ‘Accelerated work-based degrees in the creative industries sector’ (2014-
 2015), funded by HEFCE/Creative Skillset (£35k).

 In a difficult climate, we are proud of our successes such as £50,000 DfE funding to
 Jerome and the Association for Citizenship Teaching (ACT) in 2018-19 for ‘The

                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Deliberative Classroom’ and a £10,000 British Academy grant to Jerome to research its
 impact. This collaboration led to a recent 2020 award of £2.7m for an active citizenship
 programme across schools. Jerome will be the PI for the research and evaluation work
 package, with a total value of £320,000 over 4 years. This work is integrally bound up with
 the development of the national programme for schools and so will secure impact on
 practice through the project. It will also provide opportunities for colleagues to join smaller
 projects within the programme (eg Fretwell will collaborate on a young activists’ project).
 Additional bids will be submitted as the programme develops and the evidence builds to
 indicate areas for further work.

 Research investment performance

 KE supports research by generating income so we can develop the research activities of
 the department beyond designated researchers to build our ethos. The table below
 shows the KE income generated and the amount of funds made available to the
 Education department to fund research and scholarship activities. This research and
 scholarship fund is open to all members of staff, and has been variously used to help
 with transcription, data collection, buying equipment and funding for travel and
 conferences. It has helped enable every member of the department to publish.

 KE and Research income
  Year               KE income                    Research &
                                                  Scholarship fund
  2014/15                 £517,962                £30,789
  2015/16                 £521,428                £18,228
  2916/17                 £728,845                £68,736
  2017/18                 £550,000                £67,000
  2018/19                 £845,000                £22,000
  2019/20                 No figures available

 Research income generation strategy
 Strategic ambitions for research are set by Faculties once REF2021 results are known,
 and subsequently used to determine research income for the next 5 or 6 years. The Unit
 is supported by the Research Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO). During the REF
 period both the RKTO and CERS have produced funding portals with support tools,
 early notice of opportunities for competitions and tendered research opportunities.
 CERS staff will continue to bid for research funds through these pathways, but is also
 developing an alternative strategy of nurturing specific projects.

 Our current and future strategic investment of resources into research is to support a
 number of small seedcorn research projects, with a view to generating innovative research
 that can prove its value before seeking more substantial external funding. Such projects
 are designed to be scalable and can draw in more members of staff with established
 interest / expertise and are likely to have direct impact (embedded within networks and
 designed to inform practice all the way through). For example, Harding’s ‘Tomorrow’s

                                                                                        Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Child TV’, combines film-making and research. This project benefitted from the general
 investment in Education infrastructure, including extensive building renovation; new IT
 suite equipment and specialist AV, as well as access the University’s specialist film and
 recording studios and equipment and the employment of MU students via the MDX-works
 employment hub, for digital design initiatives. This has maximised the impact of the
 seedcorn funding.

 The successful phase one of the research strategy has seen ethos changes and
 impactful outputs. Phase two is to continue to strengthen research coherently around
 the SIGs in CERS, to build reach across the department, within and beyond the
 university.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Networks and partnerships


 The Education Department is committed to networking and collaboration, both as a
 reflection of our interdisciplinarity and our rootedness in communities of practice. In part
 this is evident in the role we play in the university, for example, CERS has run events
 with colleagues from the Centre for Critical Research in Nursing and Midwifery, the
 Department of Mental Health and Social Work, the Department of Criminology and
 Sociology and the Research Ethics Committee. The Department of Education also
 plays a central role in developing interprofessional skills across the university, such as
 Apprenticeships, the PGCertHE, MA Higher Education and DProf pathways, at our
 London campus and in our Dubai, Malta and Mauritius campuses. It has also run joint
 events with the London Educational Researchers Network for Social Justice
 (LERNS) to foster collaborative conversations between departments of education across
 London, involving colleagues from UCL Institute of Education, Kingston University,
 the University of East London, Goldsmiths, London Metropolitan University and
 London South Bank University.

 In this section we discuss four examples to exemplify what this looks like in practice and
 how this enables us to make a contribution to, and secure impact within, different
 research and practice communities.

    i.     Early Years

 The Professional Association for Training of Early Years Teachers funded research into
 new qualifications and training for Early Years (Osgood, Sakr, Robertson, Elwick,
 Wilson) which highlighted the vital role that Maintained Nursery Schools play in areas of
 social deprivation. Impact resulting from the research is that all 39 London EYF
 nurseries have adopted the term ‘LEYF teacher’ as opposed to levelled practitioner

                                                                                      Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 roles, and as a result of the report, further public output and lobbying Parliament, the
 requirement for Early Years Educators to have Cs in GCSE Maths and English (which
 created huge difficulties staffing the sector) was removed. This research has been taken
 up by PACEY (Professional Association for Childcare and Early Years). Collaboration
 with LEYF continues in Sakr’s work on social leadership, to build communities of
 partnership and professional confidence.

    ii.    Citizenship education

 The Education Department has a long history of commitment to nurture citizenship
 education. It was one of the first providers to offer a Citizenship PGCE and has worked
 consistently with the Association for Citizenship Teaching (ACT) (the national subject
 association), for example Jerome is the editor of the teacher’s journal ‘Teaching
 Citizenship’. In addition, Jerome is national lead in the Five Nations Network for
 citizenship education, and Jerome and Whitworth are members of the Expert Subject
 Advisory Group for Citizenship. These relationships have enabled our research to be
 reported directly to hundreds of citizenship teachers across England and the rest of the
 UK and Ireland, and to inform training for hundreds of new and experienced teachers.
 Middlesex research has directly informed policy for ACT and programme development in
 schools, for example the Deliberative Classroom resources were based on principles
 identified in Jerome and Elwick’s evaluation of an earlier project (see Impact Case
 Study).

    iii.   Professional doctorates

 The International Association of Practice Doctorates (IAPD) influences opinion and
 practice through its successful seminars and workshops and Costley co-hosts the
 biannual International Conference on Professional Doctorates. Nottingham and
 Nikolou-Walker co-convene a Work Based Learning network of the UK Universities
 Association for Lifelong Learning (UALL). Linked projects include: ‘Doctorates for the
 Future’ at University of Eastern Europe (Tbilisi) (Gibbs and Maguire); an Erasmus
 project ‘Supervision as Translation’ (Maguire); Eastman & Maguire’s article (2016)
 ‘Critical Autobiography in the professional doctorate’ was based on writing workshops
 developed at Middlesex and won the UALL innovation award; Maguire et al’s 2014-2017
 Erasmus project ‘Investigation into best practice in doctoral supervision (Professional,
 Practice and Industrial PhDs)’ was disseminated in Italy, Netherlands, Ireland, England
 and the USA and led to the creation of a comprehensive annotated bibliography of
 doctoral supervision, SuperProfDoc website, a supervisor’s handbook and a Special
 Edition publication of Studies in Higher Education (2018). In addition, Erasmus + is
 currently funding research into doctoral supervision of doctorates in the Arts and this
 body of work provides the basis for a supervision qualification in supervising
 professional doctorates undertaken by established professionals (Ryder and Maguire).

    iv.    Supporting parents




                                                                                  Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Harding’s TCTV is a free web-based resource launched in November 2019. It was
 instigated based upon an evidence-base that indicated parents of children of all ages
 typically feel under-prepared for the digital world children encounter, from TV to iPads,
 X-boxes to phones. TCTV contains over forty freely accessible films designed to help
 parents in the digital age. The platform features 100 round-table discussions and videos
 with experts, parents and children. This project is designed in close collaboration with
 partners (parents, the Children’s Commissioner, NSPCC, Childnet, Kidzania,
 Friendslikeme and Lord Knight), produced by Film and Computer Science students
 with the university’s apprenticeship scheme MDXworks, and features researchers
 from across the university (Education, Art & Design, Psychology, Law) bringing fresh
 findings to this important field. Importantly, as part of this joint action, the voice of the
 child is being heard. TCTV has been accessed from almost half of the countries in the
 world, reaching Europe, North and South America, Africa, Middle East, Asia and
 Australia. It is currently being syndicated to trusted partners such as the Bright Start
 Foundation, to ensure it reaches an even wider audience.


 Additional routes to impact and influence


 In addition to the examples above, staff (individually and collaboratively) have secured
 international impact in a range of ways:

 •   Boud was identified (2019-20) as the highest cited researcher in the world in the field
     of research on higher education, based on the quality, volume and impact of his work
     and an analysis of citations in the top 20 journals in the field by the League of
     Scholars. Boud’s concurrent appointment at Deakin University Australia has forged
     links with the very strong research in Education there: the Centre for Research on
     Assessment and Digital Learning which is part of the strategic research priority,
     Research for Educational Impact.
 •   Gibbs was a distinguished visiting scholar at the Open University Hong Kong and
     holds Fellowships at the Centre for Advanced Studies in Transdisciplinarity at Texas
     University and the Oxford Centre of Higher Education Policy, New College, Oxford.
     He is a founder director of the Philosophy and Theory of Higher Education
     Association. He has served as editor of Higher Education Quarterly and currently
     editor for Springer’s successful series Thinkers in Education (35 titles).
 •   Osgood has established an international reputation for engaging with new areas of
     challenge, such as her work on the Anthropocene and new-materialism in relation to
     childhood. She has frequently been ranked amongst the top 0.5% of authors on the
     international open scholarship networks, Academia.edu. Osgood has represented
     Middlesex University at over 53 international conferences and has given 33 invited
     keynote addresses based upon her reputation and expertise. She has taken up
     fellowships and visiting chairs at several international universities (in Hong Kong,
     Norway and Australia).



                                                                                       Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   In 2015 ‘Phematerialisms.org’ was co-founded by Osgood as an international
     network of over 1000 researchers, practitioners, educators, artists and activists
     engaging with feminist new materialist research methodologies in education as a
     means to find innovative ways to address gender inequalities; also in 2015,
     ‘Performing Methodologies in Early Childhood’ based in Norway, was co-founded as
     a broad international interdisciplinary network of over 300 early childhood experts
     working to advance research methodology innovation. Osgood is a core member of
     the ‘Decolonising Childhood Discourses Project’, based in South Africa, which
     includes internationally acclaimed philosophers and experts (e.g. Karen Barad and
     Rosi Braidotti) and emerging scholars – all working to determine how theory can
     better inform educational systems in the pursuit of greater equity for all.
 •   Osgood’s Gender-neutral schooling (see Impact Case Study) and Harding’s TCTV
     exemplify our vision for a research culture that values, recognises and supports
     public educational engagement. Our research projects have created opportunities for
     public engagement in multiple ways: presenting to the public/parents, involving the
     public/parents as researchers, engaging with young people to inspire them about
     research, contributing to new media enabled discussion forums; the public/parents
     informing the research questions being tackled and researchers and public working
     together to inform education policy.

 A range of colleagues’ secure impact through creating practical research informed
 outputs for practitioners, such as:

 •   Arts, creativity and design teaching (Bailey, Burghardt, Flinn, Patel, de Rijke).
 •   Learning in a digital age (Allen, Barnaby, Barter, Burghardt Gallagher, Harding,
     Sakr, Scollan, Wilson).
 •   Religious Education and Worldviews (Whitworth).

 In addition, projects designed to secure an impact in the funding organisation, such as:

 •   In 2017/18 the British Council’s Diversity Unit awarded funding to Prof Gibbs (CERS)
     and a small team (Maguire, Prof Scott Baumann (SOAS) and Elwick) to undertake
     research into challenges to promoting and enacting British Council EDI principles
     across the BC staff of five mutually agreed countries. The team developed an
     innovative methodology (ethno narrative) as sensitive to the cultural contexts.
     Outputs included two major reports, a symposium of diversity managers in UK
     organisations and bodies, and a Springer publication Global Diversity Management:
     A Fusion of Ideas, Stories and Practice (2019, Eds Gibbs, Ozbilgin (Brunel
     University) & Bartels –Ellis (British Council Diversity Unit).

 Colleagues also have a range of leadership roles in external networks and journals:

 •   Organisations include: The British Education Research Association, Gender &
     Education Association, Royal Society of the Arts, the International Childhood Critical
     Policy Studies Collaborative.

                                                                                     Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 •   Editorial roles with internationally refereed journals include:
        - Gibbs is series editor of SpringerBriefs on Key Thinkers in Education and
            Debating Higher Education: Philosophical Perspectives for Springer Academic
            Press, and served as editor of Higher Education Quarterly (2017-19).
        - Boud is a member of several editorial committees including Assessment and
            Evaluation in Higher Education; International Journal of Training Research;
            Vocations and Learning; and serves on the International Advisory Committee
            of the International Conferences on Researching Work and Learning.
        - Osgood is series editor of Feminist Thought in Childhood Research for
            Bloomsbury Academic. She is also editor of Gender & Education Journal,
            Reconceptualising Educational Research Methodology Journal, and guest
            editor for Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood Journal, and Genealogy.
            She sits on the editorial boards of other early childhood education journals.
        - Costley edits The International Journal of Work Based Learning (Costley).
        - de Rijke edits Children’s Literature in Education.
        - Jerome edits Education, Citizenship & Social Justice and Teaching
            Citizenship, and is a member of the editorial board for Human Rights
            Education Review.




                                                                                  Page 20
