Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 22B Development Studies



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 Development Studies research at Oxford aims to understand the economic, political,
 historical and social structures and processes that drive change and underpin inequality
 and deprivation in the Global South. We aspire to influence the theory, analysis and
 practice of development worldwide to benefit disadvantaged people and countries. To
 achieve these goals, we build partnerships with academics, development practitioners,
 international institutions and local organisations across the world.

 UoA22B is centred on the Oxford Department of International Development (ODID), one
 of the constituent graduate departments of Oxford’s Social Sciences Division (SSD). We
 work closely with development economists at the Blavatnik School of Government
 (BSG) and researchers at Oxford colleges; in total eight are included in this submission
 (15.7% of total FTE).

                  UoA22B-CatA             Headcount            FTE
                  REF 2021                   51               49.15
                  REF 2014                   47               44.13

 Research and impact collaboration by Category A staff and doctoral students cover most
 regions of the Global South:




                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 UoA22B’s research addresses four themes that bring together five externally-funded
 Research Groups — International Growth Centre (IGC), Oxford Poverty and Human
 Development Initiative (OPHI), Refugee Studies Centre (RSC), Technology and
 Management Centre for Development (TMCD) and Young Lives (YL) – and a number of
 individual researchers, as shown in the diagram:

                               ODID Research Themes
                               (UoA22B-CatA: FTE%)




 Research under these themes has grown significantly since REF2014, with several new
 areas arising from new appointments, external funding and researchers’ changing
 engagement with development challenges.

 Economics of Development and IGC benefitted from new appointments – Doss,
 Krishnan and Woodruff (replacing Dercon as statutory professor) – and by ever-stronger
 links with development economists in other departments, notably BSG, particularly
 through the Centre for the Study of African Economies that straddles ODID, Economics,
 and BSG. Researchers study land and labour markets; trade and firm productivity;
 macroeconomic policy, public investment and debt. Much of this is supported by major
 new funding (Section 3.1): research on firms in the garment sector in Bangladesh
 (Woodruff); project on structural transformation and economic growth (Gollin); much
 expanded research in TMCD on technology and innovation in developing countries (Fu),


                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which has helped formulate policy in African countries and changed the global agenda
 through UN institutions (Impact Case-3).

 Research on Migration and Refugees in a Global Context at RSC has gained
 international prominence with ground-breaking research on refugee economies and
 humanitarian innovation (Betts, Easton-Calabria, Omata, Sterck), influencing
 governments and UN agencies to adopt a new approach to refugee integration (Impact
 Case-1). New research includes immigration law (Costello), asylum and deportation
 (Gibney), and an innovative project on refugee shelter, “Architectures of Displacement”
 (Scott-Smith). As external funding ended, the International Migration Institute
 transitioned into an international research network in 2017, in collaboration with the
 University of Amsterdam. Meanwhile, research on international migration was boosted
 by two new permanent appointments: Landau working on urbanisation and mobility, and
 Andersson on borders and security.

 Research on Human Development, Poverty and Youth has gained enhanced global
 profile and expanded in new directions. OPHI won the Queen’s Anniversary Prize.
 Thanks in large part to OPHI's Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) research, the UN
 now recognises eradicating poverty "in all its forms and dimensions" as an indispensable
 requirement for sustainable development (Impact Case-4). YL has won substantial
 further funding from several sources (including £9.4million from DfID) to extend their
 multi-country longitudinal research from children to youth, as their original child cohorts
 have grown older (ages 19 and 26), and into new areas such as sexual, reproductive
 and marital relationships, mental health, education, and, particularly, skills and work to
 address the crisis of youth employment. Evidence from YL’s research has led to
 changes in policy and law in India, Ethiopia and Peru (Impact Case-2).

 Research on Political and International Dimensions of Development has benefitted
 from new appointments (Bolt, Chigudu, Gledhill) and research grants (Section 3.1).
 Research spans sociological, anthropological, historical, human geography and political
 economy approaches and is marked by detailed in-country studies, focussing on
 analysis from the vantage point of the disadvantaged, linking micro and macro politics.
 New research addresses growing struggles over natural resources, land and labour in
 Africa and India (Bolt, Chatterjee, Goodwin, Sud); political economy of rising inequality
 (Sánchez-Ancochea); global health politics and epidemics (Chigudu, Pailey); religious
 identity and politics in Africa, the Middle East and India (Bano, Friedrichs, Gooptu);
 urban politics, violence, gender, youth and new forms of work in South Asia (Gooptu,
 Jackman); state control, law and political mobilisation in Africa (Alexander, Hodgkinson,
 Verheul). New research on international dimensions includes conflict and peace-making
 (Gledhill) and politics of digital surveillance, diplomacy and cyber-terrorism (Bjola,
 Manokha). A recent initiative is to explore the limits of the North-South binary in
 development studies (Sánchez-Ancochea, Sud).




                                                                                      Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.2 Research and impact strategy: 2014 onwards

  UoA22B’s overarching strategy is to develop innovative research approaches and
  set new agendas in development studies by nurturing the intellectual strengths and
  analytical interests of researchers, while simultaneously addressing the needs of
  research users, as well as informing and influencing public and private development
  actors, at national and international levels.


 Our researcher-led approach offers staff flexibility, autonomy and support to develop
 their projects and address development challenges, by accessing appropriate funding
 and collaboration opportunities and by exploring new methodologies and research
 questions. For example, to shape national and global pandemic responses, OPHI swiftly
 accessed COVID-19-related research funding to analyse country-level microdata from
 global MPI databases and published a briefing paper, with data and results for 5.8 billion
 people in 103 countries. Similarly, YL collaborated with their country partners in Ethiopia,
 India, Peru and Vietnam to rapidly transition to phone surveys for research on work and
 also generated new data and insights into the effects of COVID-19 on health, household
 dynamics and employment.

 UoA22B’s detailed six-point strategy consists of:

  ONE: Support researchers to pursue their own research agenda, promoting research
  leadership, career progression and early career capacity building within an inclusive
  research culture.

 Since 2014, with departmental support, our researchers at all career stages have
 extended their research portfolios significantly through competitive grants and
 fellowships (three ERC, 19 UKRI, five British Academy, one Royal Society, three
 Leverhulme, four Marie Curie, seven DfID). New research has also been enabled by
 diversifying and expanding the number of our funders by 35% since 2014, in line with
 the planned strategy set out in our REF2014 Environment statement. This has earned
 researchers at all career stages external recognition for excellence (Section 4.3) and
 facilitated research leadership. We have also created and recruited to three new
 Associate Professor posts. Our strengthened leadership (following the strategy set out in
 REF2014) has been recognised by the University conferring professorial titles on seven
 researchers (six Associate Professors and one PI of a major externally-funded project:
 Bano, Betts, Costello, Gibney, Krishnan, Landau, Sánchez-Ancochea) and by external
 bodies: Betts – selected Young Global Leader 2016 by World Economic Forum and
 named Leading Global Thinker by Foreign Policy in 2016; Scott-Smith – selected AHRC-
 BBC New Generation Thinker in 2020 for bringing research to broader audiences.

 Continuing and enhancing our strategy set out in REF2014, we attach high priority to
 mentoring and career development of Early Career Researchers (ECRs) as well as
 other researchers at various career stages on fixed-term contracts, with an emphasis on

                                                                                       Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gender equality (Sections 2.1-2.2). We have supported ECRs on externally-funded
 projects to secure funding to move to their own independent research (Godin and Pailey
 won British Academy and Leverhulme Fellowships, respectively; Easton-Calabria
 secured her own funding as a PI). Over the REF2021 period, we have built capacity by
 supporting 12 competitively-funded postdoctoral fellows (BA, ESRC Future Leader,
 Leverhulme, Marie Curie) (e.g., Godin, Pailey, Verheul) and employed 24 Departmental
 Lecturers in career development posts with an emphasis on research (e.g., Chatterjee,
 Goodwin, Hodgkinson, Irfan, Jackman, Klymak, Manokha).


 TWO: Promote multi- and interdisciplinarity and plurality, as key to achieving research
 innovation.


 Our researchers are drawn from multiple disciplines, pursue a plurality of analytical
 approaches, publish in a variety of disciplinary and interdisciplinary journals, and often
 co-author with researchers within and beyond Oxford (half of our REF2021 outputs are
 co-authored). Research groups and themes are designed to address a wide range of
 research questions by bringing together multiple methodologies and theories drawn from
 intersecting disciplines. E.g., YL and those researching refugee economies use methods
 ranging from ethnography to quantitative surveys and perspectives from economics,
 politics and anthropology. Those working on the politics of development approach it
 through multiple disciplines, as noted above. In recent years, researchers have started
 exploring new methodologies and questions pertaining to data science and digital
 technology: e.g., understanding rural-urban migration in Sub-Saharan Africa using global
 positioning data from mobile phones (Gollin); examining digitally-enabled business
 models to promote economic inclusion (Fu); investigating digital tools and social media
 in the conduct of diplomacy (Bjola).

 Interdisciplinarity is advanced through the joint supervision of around 30% of our
 doctoral students, often with staff in other departments. In addition, we collaborate
 closely with other Oxford departments and higher education institutions across the world
 (see Section 4.1). We also foster cross-disciplinary research interaction through a
 number of departmental activities. These include five regular seminar series organised
 or co-organised by the department, on diverse topics explored from multiple disciplines;
 meetings on specific topics (e.g., violence/conflict, education/skills, religion, work) with
 researchers contributing from different disciplines; and public lectures on “Frontiers of
 Development”, exploring how various disciplines approach “development”.

  THREE: Form collaboration for both research and impact on a footing of equality.


 We emphasise the importance of non-hierarchical partnerships, being mindful of North-
 South power asymmetries in the production and use of knowledge. To this end, we have
 organised departmental ethics training on collaboration and impact pathways, and held
 an international symposium (December 2013) on North-South relations with academics


                                                                                       Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and policymakers from the Global South, including Srivastava, Chair, Centre for the
 Study of Regional Development, Delhi; Aryeetey, Secretary-General, African Research
 Universities Alliance; Lyakurwa, Chair, Tanzania Investment Bank; Lim, Director, China
 Economic Research and Advisory Programme; Gray Molina, Chief Economist, Regional
 Bureau for Latin America, UNDP.

 Our researchers are part of extensive academic and policy networks across the world,
 through which closer research and impact collaborations develop organically (Section
 4.1). New research grants are used strategically to forge partnerships for comparative,
 interdisciplinary research and impact: e.g., Gollin co-directs the “Structural
 Transformation and Economic Growth” project (DfID), involving the African Centre for
 Economic Transformation (Accra), Yale, Notre Dame and Gröningen; Gooptu’s project
 on urban gendered violence in Delhi and Johannesburg (ESRC) is with Cambridge,
 Delhi, Johannesburg and Kampala (Makerere).

 We have finalised discussion with the University of Witwatersrand on a shared
 appointment for Landau to develop collaborative research on migration, to be based at
 the newly-launched “Oxford-Wits Mobility Governance Lab”. This is a pioneering
 initiative at Oxford to enhance formal collaboration with a Global South partner.

 Our research partnerships involve co-production of knowledge and capacity building
 with local organisations and communities. Sud used innovative methods to generate
 knowledge for her research on land struggles in India through workshops held with local
 communities of producers, workers, activists, journalists, singers and cartoonists in non-
 metropolitan India. Alexander collaborates on historically-oriented knowledge production
 with public intellectuals, journalists and liberation war veterans in Bulawayo, locally
 publishing memoirs, oral histories, biographies. She co-founded the Zimbabwe Historical
 Review journal in 2019-20, intended to disseminate knowledge produced in southern
 Africa. Betts’ project in Ugandan refugee camps, with UNHCR, Ugandan government
 and Makerere University, involved 42 refugees who were trained as peer researchers,
 enabling them to become co-creators of research knowledge and, in some cases, to go
 on to new employment or further study, drawing on the skills they had acquired (Impact
 Case-1).

 To further promote research collaboration, our departmental visitors’ programme has
 welcomed 187 researchers in the REF period. These ranged from former President
 Santos of Colombia as Visiting Professor working on a book with OPHI, to mid-career
 researcher Kaihua Chen collaborating with Fu on publications and subsequently being
 promoted to full professor at the Institute of Science and Development, Chinese
 Academy of Sciences, to PhD students Ferri from Italy (Erasmus programme) and
 Gazeaud from Portugal, mentored by and co-authoring papers with Bano and Sterck,
 respectively. Cambridge architect Mark Breeze’s visit led to collaboration with Scott-
 Smith on the “Architectures of Displacement” project and new funding (AHRC).




                                                                                     Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ODID staff have developed collaborative research through Visiting Fellowships offered
 to African researchers by the University-wide GCRF-funded Africa-Oxford Initiative
 (AfOx): e.g., Crivello with Abuya (Kenya) on girls’ education; Landau with Sukuna (Mali)
 on local governance of mobility. We now propose to jointly fund Visiting Fellowships with
 AfOx.

 We encourage partnership through advisory work to help shape development agendas:
 e.g., Fu contributed to UN policy on innovation by serving on the High-Level Advisory
 Group of the UN Technology Facilitation Mechanism (Impact Case-3); Adam served on
 the IGC-DFID/FCDO COVID-19 advisory group on macroeconomics; Sánchez-
 Ancochea’s co-authored papers for UNDP informed the 2019 Human Development
 Report on inequality.


  FOUR: Support our externally-funded research groups to conduct policy-focussed
  research by forming partnerships that integrate research with policy-influencing
  infrastructures and processes from the outset.


 Research groups specialise in policy-oriented work and forge impact-focused
 partnerships with in-country researchers in the Global South as well as stakeholders in
 international institutions, national governments and local organisations. This, along with
 extensive departmental support, described below, has led to our REF3 Impact Cases:

  Impact case      1: Transforming    2: Banning          3: Transforming      4: Transforming
                   the role of        corporal            global and           how
                   refugees in host   punishment in       national             international
                                                          policies on
                   economies          Peru and                                 and national
                                                          innovation in
                                      reducing            LICs                 policymakers
                                      childhood                                measure and
                                      violence                                 tackle poverty
                                      internationally
  PI               Betts              Boyden              Fu                   Alkire
  Research         RSC                YL                  TMCD                 OPHI
  group
  Collaborators,   UNHCR, DFID,       UNICEF-             UNCTAD,              UNDP, national
  partnerships     World Bank, EU,    Innocenti,          UNIDO,               governments,
                   Jordanian          GRADE –             UN DESA,             World Bank
                   government,        thinktank in Peru   government of
                   Colombian                              Ghana, Science
                   government                             and Technology
                                                          Policy Research
                                                          Institute in Accra

 This impact-oriented approach has generated new engagement with business. OPHI
 launched Oxford’s first ever social enterprise innovation spinout, sOPHIa, using the
 business Multidimensional Poverty Index (bMPI) to monitor and tackle employees’


                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 poverty. The bMPI has been adopted by 45 companies in Costa Rica, and has begun
 trials in Guatemala and Colombia.

 RSC and OPHI Summer Schools give rise to research and impact partnerships. They
 draw around 70 participants from up to 35 countries, coming from government, NGOs
 and international organisations. Participants in OPHI Summer Schools (held in Oxford
 and partner countries) have subsequently solicited collaboration to develop national
 MPIs (Impact Case-4); a participant from Costa Rica (Aguilar) collaborated to develop
 and implement the bMPI, eventually leading to the creation of sOPHIa; an RSC
 participant (Porras) facilitated connections with the Ecuadorean government in
 responding to the Venezuelan refugee crisis (Impact Case-1).


  FIVE: Continue to expand our support for impact and embed a culture of impact at all
  levels.


 To offer leadership on impact, Betts has been appointed a University Public
 Engagement with Research (PER) Leader. Impact is institutionally supported by an
 expanded team (Section 3.2); they provide training and bespoke advice – particularly on
 impact pathways and funding (Section 3.1). This support has helped to generate the
 research impact of several researchers (Sections 4.1-4.2), and notably of Alkire, Betts,
 Boyden and Fu (REF3 Impact Cases).

 We nurture a culture of impact by celebrating and recognising impact work. Staff and
 students are supported to apply for awards, leading to 11 impact, PER and innovation
 awards and commendations from within and beyond the University. This includes two
 ESRC Celebrating Impact Prizes at very different career stages: OPHI Director Alkire
 and ESRC Future Leader Owen. Impact work is also celebrated through our websites,
 publicity material, social media and the University’s Press Office.

 To enhance student research impact, the Divisional Researcher Development Team
 organises impact collaboration and policy engagement workshops. We strongly
 encourage students with both training and funding: e.g., ESRC funding supported Philip
 to draw on his research on young men in India to offer inputs to the Global MenEngage
 Network on masculinities and to contribute to an outreach programme for rural men with
 a Delhi NGO; Jaju and Naka were supported with departmental and University funds to
 make a documentary based on their research on everyday state-citizen interactions in
 India.


 SIX: Recruit and support the career development of high-calibre international and UK
 doctoral students as a central component of our capacity building.


 We have enhanced training and support for students (see Section 2.5). Recognising that
 funding is critical to recruitment and the provision of on-course support for progression


                                                                                    Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and career development, we made significant additional investments, with just under
 £250,000 in 2013-14 rising to just under £400,000 in 2019-20.


 1.3 Research strategy setting and governance

 ODID’s research strategy is discussed and adopted during the University’s review of the
 department every 5-7 years, involving extensive consultations with different researcher
 constituencies: permanent staff, fixed-term researchers, ECRs, students. The previous
 strategy, set in 2010, was reviewed and revised in 2017, incorporating the
 recommendations of the SSD review committee, such as greater inclusion of ECRs in
 committees. The strategy is monitored and adapted once a year at the time of the
 annual divisional review of departmental plans.

 The responsibility for implementing and monitoring this strategy rests with the
 Departmental Management Committee (DMC), consisting of staff at various career
 stages and chaired by the Head of Department (HoD), who also acts as the Research
 Director. DMC oversees the committees for graduate studies (doctoral students), safety
 (fieldwork risk assessment and insurance), research ethics, and equality and diversity.

 Our research governance has become more inclusive since 2014. DMC has been
 extended to include a representative of ECRs and fixed-term research staff. The
 Departmental Forum was formed as a more inclusive body – comprising all academic
 and research staff, as well as student representatives – in place of the erstwhile
 Departmental Committee, consisting of senior academics.

 DMC takes research-related decisions and measures through ongoing and inclusive
 consultative processes that work at different levels: termly meetings of the Departmental
 Forum; departmental “away days” held every two to three years; and the HoD’s
 individual annual meetings with all independent researchers and termly meetings with
 ECRs as a group and with student representatives. These consultative mechanisms
 feed into dynamic and responsive decision-making and implementation by DMC. Recent
 measures arising from these processes include the creation of a new Associate
 Professor post, in response to “away day” discussions on augmenting doctoral
 supervision capacity and better management of the teaching-research balance of
 current staff. Similarly, additional support staff, for grant application and management as
 well as impact and outreach, have been appointed in response to discussions on
 researchers’ growing needs (Section 3.2).

 1.4 Future research and impact strategy

 While maintaining the essential features of our strategy, we will focus on a number of
 priorities identified during departmental consultations. We will:




                                                                                      Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       support staff to develop research on the environment across all research themes,
        and promote institutional and research practices to reduce our carbon footprint.
        First steps have been taken by investing in digital technology for research and
        introducing an innovative research-led module on climate change in our MPhil,
        co-taught by eight academics from different disciplines. This aims to generate
        collaborative research among staff and encourage student projects, leading to
        doctoral research;
       expand research on interactions and comparisons between the Global North and
        South, through strategic collaboration with the Oxford School of Global and Area
        Studies;
       advance the equality, diversity, anti-racist and decolonial agenda in our staffing,
        institutional and research practices, as well as augment collaboration with Global
        South researchers through funded visitors’ programmes;
       continue to diversify funding sources in order to support the majority of
        researchers and to build resilience and mitigate the effects of Brexit, pandemic
        shocks and changes in UK aid policy;
       further extend our impact engagement beyond governments and international
        agencies to social movements, local communities and grassroots beneficiaries.

 1.5 Open research agenda


 We aim to ensure the widest possible access to our research and work with the
 University to make all research open access. We have made major datasets publicly
 available (YL’s household and child surveys; OPHI’s global MPI databank) and
 developed tools to present research outputs and data in accessible formats, particularly
 for the Global South. YL is considered one of four University-wide exemplars of good
 practice in advancing the University’s Open Scholarship agenda, adopted in Oxford’s
 2018-23 strategy. Published in English, Arabic, Spanish and French, RSC’s Forced
 Migration Review is a freely-available online and print journal that acts as a bridge
 between research and practice. We actively contribute to the Oxford Research Archive –
 University’s online institutional repository of outputs (including theses) and research
 data. Researchers are trained and supported by the Data Manager in the Social
 Sciences Library and the University’s Open Access team. Open access is promoted by
 supporting publication in journals with which Oxford has negotiated reduced or waived
 article processing charges.

 1.6 Research integrity and ethics

 Ethics plays a central conceptual and practical role in our research. We rigorously apply
 the framework set by the University Research Ethics Committee and the Code of
 Practice for Academic Integrity in Research. ODID’s Research Ethics Committee,
 chaired by a senior academic, manages the approval and monitoring of research ethics.
 Since 2014, in view of steady expansion of research projects, the department has
 assumed direct responsibility for assessing the bulk of our applications, within the
 framework set by the University. Projects involving more complex ethical issues are


                                                                                    Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 referred to an ethics panel in the division. This has enabled us to enhance in-house
 training, emphasising researchers’ responsibility towards individuals and communities in
 the Global South. YL has been at the forefront of this. YL’s approach to ethics is cited as
 a case study on international research in ESRC’s research ethics framework, while,
 during the pandemic, Favara and Crivello produced an agenda-setting paper on the
 “ethics of disruption”, addressing dilemmas posed by crises in the lives of vulnerable
 Global South research subjects.



 2. People

 The following discussion, including data, is focussed on ODID as the primary
 entity in UoA22B, except when UoA22B-CatA (ODID, BSG and colleges) is mentioned.

 2.1 Staffing strategy



                                       UoA22B-CatA

      Permanent staff        Senior and mid-career researchers       Postdocs and DLs
       (SP, TP, AP)            (predominantly on fixed-term            (on fixed-term
                                        contracts)                       contracts)



            22                              16                              13
     (7 women, 15 men)               (12 women, 4 men)                (8 women, 5 men)



 SP = Statutory Professor; TP = Titular Professor; AP = Associate Professor;
 DL = Departmental Lecturer

 The high proportion of fixed-term research staff in UoA22B-CatA reflects ODID’s
 continued funding success, but also makes career progression and professional mobility
 for these valued colleagues a key departmental priority, as emphasised in REF2014 and
 during the 2017 ODID review. This is discussed below.

 ODID had 117 part- and full-time staff on the census date, of whom 69 were academics
 and researchers, including researchers on externally-funded projects who are not
 deemed independent by REF rules.

 Our strategy is to recruit and support staff to achieve excellence, professional
 advancement, work-life balance and well-being. We aim to maintain a balance of posts
 at different career stages and provide structured support to all researchers, within an
 institutional culture of equality and diversity.




                                                                                     Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Permanent academic staff
 The chief criterion for appointment is proven research excellence. Recently-appointed
 APs have substantial publication portfolios, won major book or thesis prizes and held
 competitive postdoctoral fellowships. For career progression, since 2014, 6 APs have
 been offered support to apply successfully to the University’s research-led,
 internationally-benchmarked and externally-reviewed Recognition of Distinction exercise
 for conferring titular professorships. None of our TPs is nearing retirement age, enabling
 succession planning for research leadership roles.

 Annual appraisal is offered with the HoD, during which support for research, workload
 management and career development are discussed and facilitated: e.g., extended
 leave was arranged for Alexander to work on her Leverhulme-funded project. APs in
 their five-year initial periods of office (IPO) are offered additional mentoring through two
 formal reviews at 2nd and 5th years, including advice on application for funding to
 develop research leadership. During or shortly after their IPO, Betts, Costello, Gledhill
 and Scott-Smith won major grants.

 Sabbatical leave is allowed for one term every six. Staff can take leave at a time that
 best suits their research plans, and for up to a year, enabling the completion of major
 works: e.g., Sánchez-Ancochea finished a book on income inequality (listed in the
 Financial Times among Best Economics Books of 2020). To enhance individual and
 departmental research capacity and for better workload distribution, we created three
 new AP posts and appointed DLs in academic-career development posts, discussed
 below. To support the research of those undertaking departmental academic
 administration (e.g., course directors), enhanced fieldwork and research assistance
 grants are offered. This has helped the completion of book projects (Andersson, Scott-
 Smith, Sud) and article and special issue publication (Alexander, Gledhill).

 TPs and APs are encouraged to assume research-related leadership roles in the wider
 University: Betts is Associate Head of Division for Doctoral and Research Training, and
 Director of the ESRC Grand Union Doctoral Training Programme; Gooptu has been a
 member of the University’s Personnel, and Equality-Diversity Committees and of the
 Research Staff Working Group; Adam and Gollin are members of the University’s GCRF
 committee.

 Senior and mid-career researchers
 ODID currently has 13 (including 10 women) senior and mid-career researchers in
 Grades 8 to 10 (highest grades) on fixed-term contracts, except one on an open-ended
 contract. HoD or directors of research groups offer annual appraisal and career advice.
 Promotion takes place through direct application for post regrading, benefitting Crivello,
 Easton-Calabria, Favara, Kanagaratnam, Omata, Sterck. With departmental support,
 their research distinction is recognised by University conferral of professorial (Bano) and
 AP (Alkire, Doss, Omata) titles on a footing of parity with permanent staff. Departmental
 and divisional research support staff (Section 3.2) offer bespoke advice on competitive
 grant bids and conduct mock interviews; senior academics give peer-review feedback.

                                                                                       Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Several senior and mid-career researchers have successfully applied for successive
 grants and continue to be retained in the department (Alkire, Bano, Crivello, Favara,
 Omata, Sterck). Past staff have moved to academic or research posts elsewhere
 (Krutikova – Institute of Fiscal Studies; Bakewell – Manchester; Seth – Leeds;
 Georgiadis – Brunel; Fiddian-Qasmiyeh – UCL; Ersanilli – Amsterdam). To further
 support such mobility, we have enhanced mentoring and training (see Equality and
 diversity below).

 Early career researchers
 In the REF2021 period, we employed 36 (20 women,16 men) postdoctoral fellows
 (ESRC, Leverhulme, etc) and Departmental Lecturers in career-development, fixed-term
 posts, whom we consider de facto ECRs. That compares to 11 in REF2014. The
 department also affiliated seven independently-funded ECRs (Newton International
 fellow, Social Research Foundation fellow, a Syrian Council for At-Risk Academics
 fellow, four Oxford college Research Fellows) who receive similar departmental research
 support to ODID staff. So too do researchers on externally-funded projects, who are not
 considered “independent” by REF criteria, but are treated on a par with ECRs within the
 department.

 Directors of research groups or the HoD offer career and research guidance. ECRs are
 mentored and given bespoke advice by senior academics on grant applications.
 Departmental and divisional research facilitators offer training on applications,
 collaboration, ethics and impact, enabling ECRs to apply successfully for fellowships
 and grants as PIs (Easton-Calabria, Godin, Owen, Pailey, Roy) and also to the
 University’s Fell Fund and Impact Accelerator Fund for new projects, fieldwork and
 impact work (Section 3.1). The HoD meets once a term collectively with postdocs and
 DLs to discuss their needs.

 We introduced an arrangement with St Antony’s College in 2018 to offer affiliation to
 ECRs and other fixed-term staff, hitherto available only to APs, thus offering access to
 college social and community life.

 To prepare for academic careers, postdocs are integrated into our teaching
 programmes, as permitted by their funders (Pailey, Omata, Owen, Roy, Sterck,
 Verheul), and teaching is part of DL contracts. Several have won University teaching
 awards (Ersanilli, Hodgkinson, Jonsson, Manokha, Roy).

 All postdoc and DL leavers during the REF2021 period have continued to the next rungs
 of the academic ladder, including tenured posts: seven to research posts and 18 to
 teaching posts at Oxford, LSE, York, Bath, Sheffield, Warwick, UCL, Université Rennes
 2, Rutgers, Kolkata, among others.

 Academic and research staff at all career stages mentioned above are eligible to receive
 departmental research grants for research assistance, fieldwork and conference
 travel (Section 3.1).


                                                                                    Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.2 Equality and diversity (E&D)


 Gender

                 UoA22B-CatA              Women                  Men
                   REF2021                 27                     24
                   REF2014                 19                     28

 The table above shows that the number of women in UoA22B-CatA staff has risen by
 42% compared to REF2014 and women now constitute the majority.

 This is related to the fact that the proportion of women in ODID’s overall research staff
 (54%) has risen significantly since REF2014 (40%) and is higher than for the University
 as a whole (42%) and SSD (45%). A higher proportion of women than men applied
 successfully for research grants in the past four years, reaching a high point in 2019-20,
 when women were 69% of grant applicants and 74% of recipients. Early and mid-career
 fixed-term staff of both genders are making successful transition to the next stage of
 their career. ODID has recently received the Athena SWAN Bronze award.

 Still, we are far from achieving gender equality. Women represent 40% of ODID’s
 permanent academic staff and 41% of TPs. Only one among seven new APs appointed
 since 2014 was a woman. Women are more numerous among fixed-term independent
 researchers (17 women, seven men on census date). So, our task is threefold:
       address the imbalance at the senior, permanent level;
       sustain the trend of women’s success in appointment to research posts and
         winning grants to pursue new research;
       augment career progression support for female researchers.

 The Athena SWAN application process highlighted that gender issues need to be
 embedded in a generally inclusive culture of E&D. A new dedicated E&D and anti-racism
 committee is implementing and monitoring our action plan.

 To improve our AP recruitment strategy, we will:
     proactively identify academically-excellent female, as well as BME (see below),
       potential candidates through our networks;
     emphasise more strongly our commitment to gender and race equality in
       recruitment material;
     constitute more diverse appointment committees;
     ensure that our job offers are attractive to a more diverse pool of applicants,
       paying attention to our teaching and research environment and our support for
       work-life balance;
     seek to increase the number of women TPs by offering additional support to plan
       work to meet the requirements for conferment of professorial title.


                                                                                     Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have started to augment our support and training for researchers by:
    enhancing and systematising personal development reviews for all fixed-term
      staff;
    reforming the existing mentoring system to increase its effectiveness, particularly
      for women researchers;
    creating a bespoke induction for fixed-term staff;
    facilitating fixed-term staff’s uptake of career development training available within
      the University.

 Ethnicity, nationality

              Ethnicity (UoA22B-CatA)              BME          White      Unknown
              UoA22B                              21.6%         58.8%           19.6%
              Social Sciences Division            9.0%          63.0%           20.0%
              University                          9.4%          67.5%           23.1%


 Among UoA22B-CatA staff, the percentage of BME staff is much higher than for SSD or
 the University (table above), while 62.73% are non-UK nationals from 18 countries.

 This relates to ODID’s diverse and international staff composition: 72% of all academic
 and research staff hold non-UK nationality, compared to 44% for the University.

        Nationality (academic and            UK           EU            Other     Unknown
        research staff)
        ODID                                23%           25%            47%            5%
        Social Sciences Division            37%           25%            26%            12%
        University                          44%           23%            23%            10%


 One of Oxford’s only seven Black permanent academic staff is at ODID, though only five
 out of our 22 permanent staff are BME. It is, therefore, our strategic priority to increase
 the proportion of BME – especially Black – staff, following the same recruitment strategy
 as for women (discussed above) as well as actively addressing racism. An important
 priority is to recognise how race affects everyday institutional practice and to promote a
 more inclusive, decolonial academic culture. Thus, alongside unconscious bias training
 for staff and students, we seek to address systemic and epistemic issues on race. To
 engage with our past, we have started writing a history of ODID, which began as a
 training centre for postcolonial elites. As part of our initiative to decolonise development
 knowledge, Hodgkinson, Chigudu and Chatterjee run workshops on “Diversity and your
 learning”, leading to a University teaching excellence award. Our staff seek to lead
 institutional rethinking on race: e.g., Sánchez-Ancochea is Chair of the Divisional Anti-
 racism Listening Project and member of the University’s Race Equality Task Force;
 Chigudu regularly engages in public debates on race in academia; Pailey gave a
 keynote (“De-centring the ‘White Gaze’ of Development”) at the Development Studies


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association conference, subsequently published in Development and Change (most
 downloaded paper, 2019).

 2.3 Output selection

 The selection of outputs was a rigorous process to ensure parity of treatment across all
 Category A researchers. The REF Coordinator and Administrator handled the
 confidential process, which was overseen by the REF Board, comprising the current
 HoD, three former HoDs, a departmental professor and a professor from another
 university. Procedures to manage outputs were approved by the Departmental
 Management Committee. In spring 2018, we asked staff to nominate up to five strongest
 outputs, with new publications added subsequently. All outputs were graded by two
 subject experts, drawn from emeriti and external senior academics. The strongest output
 of each staff was chosen, followed by the strongest outputs from the entire pool,
 balancing gender and career stage and ensuring an even spread across all staff, as far
 as possible. Owing to the over-representation of women among ECRs (nine out of 13)
 and under-representation in senior, permanent grades (seven out of 22), women’s
 average contribution to outputs is lower than men’s. Thirteen ECRs account for 23
 outputs.

                                 Distribution of outputs

                           No of outputs in        Category A staff
                             submission
                                  5                        2


                                  4                        9

                                  3                        12

                                  2                        12

                                  1                        16



                      Average outputs per ECR           1.77

                      Average outputs per FTE           2.21
                      Cat A female



                      Average outputs per FTE           2.77
                      Cat A male




                                                                                  Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                      Total outputs                   123




                                                        No. of Outputs Submitted by Gender
                                                50%
                  % of total output by gender




                                                40%

                                                30%

                                                20%

                                                10%

                                                 0%
                                                           5          4       3         2      1
                                                                      Women    Men



                                                      No. of Outputs Submitted by ECR Status
                                                60%
            % of total output by ECR status




                                                50%

                                                40%

                                                30%

                                                20%

                                                10%

                                                0%
                                                          5           4       3         2      1
                                                                      ECR   Non-ECR



 2.4 Support for health, family and carers

 The department prides itself on being family-friendly and responsive to the needs of
 carers. Flexibility in departmental duties is offered to manage family responsibilities
 (e.g., home-schooling during the pandemic). All staff are granted parental leave at
 departmental cost and contracts are extended to cover parental leave of fixed-term staff,


                                                                                                   Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 if needed. The University’s Returning Carers’ fund offers funding for research support;
 Sud and Jonsson successfully applied, enabling Sud to make progress on her book.
 ODID pays to reserve two places permanently at a University Nursery; these have been
 used by APs, ECRs and fixed-term staff. Staff may access housing through colleges.
 Families are invited to departmental summer and Christmas parties, with entertainment
 for children. Staff are encouraged to discuss special needs with the HoD, to help
 manage periods of stress or health and family problems by arranging relief of duties,
 short-term leave or access to University support systems, but these are occasional
 cases. During the pandemic, the department and University provided a number of online
 resources for managing home-working, mental health, physical fitness and staff group
 activities.

 2.5 Doctoral students

 Our staff supervise students at ODID, as well as a small number in other departments
 (reflected in REF4a). The following refers to ODID students.

 ODID was home to 191 DPhil in International Development students during the
 REF2021 period; 108 (average 15.4/year) degrees were awarded (no professional
 doctorates), compared to 64 (average 12.8/year) in REF2014. Building on our strength
 in migration research, ODID and Anthropology jointly launched a new DPhil in
 Migration Studies in 2019, admitting six students, of whom one is supervised by ODID
 staff.

 The DPhil in International Development admits around 15 students annually (average
 ten applicants per place), based on proven academic excellence and the originality and
 analytical sophistication of their research proposal. Students currently come from 29
 countries and 60% are women, up from 53% in 2013-14. A growing number of female
 students receive competitive scholarships – 57% in 2019, compared to 36% in 2014.
 Diversity is maintained through recruitment via extensive staff networks overseas. Our
 Masters courses, with highly diverse student bodies, offer thorough research training
 and are a major route into the DPhil. We use our departmental scholarships strategically
 to support students from the Global South, prioritising those educated in their home
 countries; current recipients come from Mozambique, Zimbabwe, India, South Africa.

 On average, 75% of our new entrants each year are supported by full or fees-only
 scholarships. Students win highly competitive scholarships, for which we offer
 institutional application support (e.g., ESRC Development Studies and Migration
 Pathways of the Oxford-Brunel-Open University Grand Union Doctoral Training
 Partnership, CONACYT-Mexican government, Commonwealth, Oxford scholarships,
 etc). We offer our own full ODID scholarships (on average three students per annum),
 covering fees and living expenses (£35,600/student/year). To ensure the progression of
 our students from Masters to DPhil, we introduced fees-only scholarships, spending up
 to £85,000 annually and benefitting 11 students since October 2015. We have also
 increased student funding through strategic collaboration with Oxford colleges.

                                                                                  Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Fieldwork is supported by a departmental grant of £700 per student, supplemented by
 other funds in the University (Africa-Oxford Initiative, Radhakrishnan Bequest for India,
 etc.) and colleges.




                      Major scholarships (2013-4 to 2019-20) by source

                    Departmental Scholarships                         26

                    ESRC                                              28

                    Rhodes                                             8

                    Oxford University: Clarendon, Orisha-             12
                    Waverley, Weidenfeld-Hoffman

                    Commonwealth                                       3

                    Jointly-funded ODID-Oxford colleges                8

                    Oxford Colleges                                    8

                    Overseas governments, research councils            7
                    (Canada, Mexico, Chile, Colombia, China)

                    Charitable Trusts                                  3

                    Total                                            103



 We have sought to ensure steady progress towards submission by introducing
 workshops that create clear expectations about timely progress and provide thesis
 advice from staff beyond the supervisor. The first year includes an examined taught
 course to broaden students’ subject knowledge and methodological skills as well as
 ethics and safety training. All our students now routinely achieve “transfer of status” at
 the end of the first year and begin their fieldwork, after successful examination of their
 literature review and research design. We have also instituted post-fieldwork workshops
 on writing-up challenges, including data analysis. Submission rates increased from
 8.79% in 2013-14 to 23.25% in 2018-19, resulting in a drop in overall student numbers
 and stabilising gradually at around 80 per year. Submission rates decreased slightly to
 19% in 2019-20 due to COVID-19 disruptions (see chart below)

 To help students adapt their research to pandemic-related fieldwork restrictions, an
 eight-week departmental course on digital and desk-based research methods was


                                                                                     Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 introduced in 2020, while Oxford libraries made extensive online research materials
 available.


                                                      DPhil in International Development
                                 120                                                                    25%
     Number of Students/Theses




                                 100
                                                                                                        20%

                                  80
                                                                                                        15%




                                                                                                                Completion Rate
                                  60
                                                                                                        10%
                                  40

                                                                                                        5%
                                  20

                                   0                                                                    0%
                                        2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
                                       Total no. of students   No. of theses completed   % Rate of completion


 We work closely with students’ colleges on financial hardship and pastoral support
 and to ensure access to the University’s extensive support systems for well-being,
 mental health and disability. Students with financial, health or family problems receive
 support from our departmental hardship fund (£60,000 per annum). Additional
 departmental funds are made available for exceptional circumstances, e.g., £23,000 for
 COVID-19-related support. Over the REF period, 39 women and 37 men have received
 between £1,000 and £10,000 for cases of cancer, chronic illness, mental health crises,
 parental death, scholarship reduction due to exchange rate fluctuation and caring
 responsibilities.

 Training sessions and peer meetings across SSD departments are offered on ethics,
 methodology, publications, policy engagement, collaboration, safety and vicarious
 trauma in fieldwork. These are organised by the Divisional Researcher Development
 Team and the ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership. For teaching experience, we have
 established the departmentally-paid post of Graduate Teaching Coordinator, recruited
 from among the DPhil cohort, to facilitate courses for teaching qualifications, discuss
 pedagogy and coordinate information about teaching opportunities across the University;
 27 current students have undergone teaching training. We have created teaching
 assistant positions on our five Masters courses, with 31 posts available in 2019-20.
 Career events are held with alumni sharing their experiences. Betts organised “Doctoral
 Davos”, an event for students to explore collaboration to enhance the impact of
 research. Fifteen partner organisations from business, government and the third sector
 participated, such as Google, Bank of England, CBI, Gapminder Foundation, Deloitte,
 Oxford City Football Club.

                                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research presentations are facilitated through the student-run work-in-progress
 seminar, while specialist seminar and study groups (e.g., on southern Africa, quantitative
 methods in development studies, social life of work) are supported by departmental and
 University funds. Students organised ambitious international workshops – e.g., a Social
 Order in Africa workshop, which contributed to a special issue of Africa (86 (1), 2016).

 We fund students to attend conferences (around £300/applicant) and encourage
 publication: e.g., Jaju won the best paper prize at the 2019 British Association of South
 Asian Studies conference and published it in a peer-reviewed journal. Our post-
 submission publication grant, awarded to 36 students in the REF2021 period, offers
 short-term support (around £2,000) to turn thesis chapters into articles and write
 monograph proposals. Students have published in Africa, African Affairs, the Journal of
 Southern African Studies, Contemporary South Asia, Journal of Gender Studies, etc. In
 addition, staff who edit journals host a regular publishing seminar.

 Several students have won external awards: e.g., Verheul – Terence Ranger Prize,
 Journal of Southern African Studies; Chigudu – Audrey Richards Prize for best African
 Studies doctoral thesis; Roa-Clavijo – Alejandro Angel Escobar Foundation thesis award
 for the social sciences; Pradhan, Semplici, Sharma – awards for papers. Students
 typically publish theses with university presses (most recently Chigudu, Hodgkinson,
 Pradhan – all CUP); Husaini co-edited the Dictionary of African Politics (OUP).

 The department assesses and responds to students’ needs through student
 representatives, who are members of the Departmental Forum, E&D and Safety
 Committees, and the Social Sciences Library Committee.

 DPhils who graduated in the REF period were appointed to teaching posts at
 Cambridge, Edinburgh, UCL, Bath, Bristol, Oxford, Queen Mary London, Harvard,
 Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de Mexico, Delhi. Others won Leverhulme and ESRC
 postdocs, Oxford college fellowships or took up research posts at Western Cape,
 Witwatersrand, Chicago, Max Planck Institute-Göttingen, European University Institute,
 LSE, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Humboldt University. Others
 obtained research-related posts at the World Bank, Boston Consulting Group, UNDP,
 Oxfam, Centre for Community Development (Zimbabwe), Indian Ministry of Skill
 Development and Enterprise.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income and funding

 UoA22B’s stated strategy in REF2014, now even more relevant with changes in DfID
 and UK’s overseas development budget, was to reduce reliance on large grants from the
 UK government, and to target EU and overseas sources. While this has led to a slight

                                                                                    Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 drop in average annual income from £5.1m in REF2014 to £4.87m in REF2021
 (UoA22B), we have secured substantial EU funding and diversified our grants. Most of
 our projects still have secure funding for the coming 2-3 years, which should help us ride
 out COVID-19-related and post-Brexit turbulence as well as changes in UK development
 funding. Going forward, we plan to continue this strategy of diversification and expansion
 of sources.


                       UoA22B Sources of Research Income (2013/14 to 2019/20)
                £4.0
     Millions




                £3.5
                £3.0
                £2.5
                £2.0
                £1.5
                £1.0
                £0.5
                £0.0
                         2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/28 2018/19 2019/20

                EU                        Overseas + Other       UK Research Council
                UK Charity + UK Other     UK Government


 We have increasingly turned to non-UK public sources, including UN institutions and
 European governments, as well as less traditional funders, such as overseas trusts,
 charities and businesses, while continuing to apply to UKRI, British Academy, etc. The
 list of funders, mostly competitive, in the REF2021 period runs to 70, rising from 52 in
 the REF2014 period. E.g., US institutions (Sloan and Gates Foundations), European
 sources (IKEA Foundation and Swiss, Dutch, Danish governments), private companies
 (Deloitte), NGOs (Save the Children, Oxfam), international institutions (UNICEF, World
 Bank, UNDP) and bilateral development agencies (SIDA).

 We continue to receive large grants that support major projects. In addition to £9.4m
 DfID funding for YL, larger grants include ERC starting grants for Bano (€1.4m) on
 changing structures of Islamic authority and for Costello (€1.5m) on refugee law and
 rights; and an ERC advanced grant for Woodruff (€1.6m) for a multi-country comparison
 of productivity and income.

 Importantly, however, in line with our inclusive strategy of supporting more individuals at
 all career stages to secure research funding, ODID’s funding portfolio now includes
 more small and medium-sized grants, won by a larger number of our staff. Both the
 number of ODID grant applications (37 in 2014-15 to 77 in 2019-20) and the success
 rate in winning grants (30% to 43%) have risen. This “democratisation” of our grant
 funding culture has enabled new research and collaborations (Sections 1.1-1.2, 4.1),
 while mitigating the funding risk and potential unsustainability of over-dependence on a

                                                                                       Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 few large grants. This has involved both established academics (e.g., Leverhulme –
 Alexander; ESRC – Fu, Gledhill, Gooptu, Scott-Smith; AHRC – Scott-Smith; British
 Academy – Fu, Sánchez-Ancochea, Scott-Smith; GCRF – Fu, Scott-Smith, Sud; DfID –
 Bano, Gollin) and ECRs (e.g., Leverhulme – Pailey, Verheul; ESRC – Owen, Roy;
 British Academy – Godin; Humanitarian Innovation Fund, Geographic Early Career
 Grant – Easton-Calabria).

 Increasing funding from business, industry, foundations and charitable trusts has
 particularly benefitted research groups and has allowed them to undertake innovative
 research, offer research fellowships and advance impact activities: e.g., TMCD’s funding
 from Tencent and Facebook has enabled research on digital innovation and inclusion;
 RSC’s IKEA Foundation grant funded fellowships and enabled research to build an
 unprecedented three-year panel dataset on refugee economies in Uganda, Kenya and
 Ethiopia; YL’s funding from the Children’s International Fund Foundation enabled
 research on child marriage in India and Ethiopia, influencing governments, UNICEF and
 the Population Council.

 Alongside external sources, the University and ODID offer research grants strategically
 to develop new research, fill gaps in external funding and enable access to new funds.
 ODID awards its own research grants from an endowed trust fund. All researchers are
 entitled to receive on application up to £2,500 annually towards conference travel and
 organisation, fieldwork, research assistance, data acquisition, translation, impact and
 outreach. Since 2014, 233 grants have been awarded (average £1,600/grant),
 particularly benefitting ECRs for conferences and fieldwork. Researchers without
 external funding have used departmental grants to plan collaborative activities that led to
 successful major grants (Gledhill – ESRC; Alexander – Leverhulme).

 UoA22B researchers won 20 grants from the University’s competitive John Fell (OUP)
 Research Fund, amounting to nearly £427,000. These particularly benefitted ECRs:
 McConnachie to complete an award-winning book; Bloomfield and Owen to conduct field
 research in Sri Lanka and Nigeria, respectively; Caria to conduct field experiments in
 Ethiopia on youth employment. More senior staff used grants for pilot projects and
 conferences, e.g., Gooptu on skill development in India, yielding a special issue of the
 Journal of South Asian Development. Fell funding also enabled rapid responses to
 urgent challenges, e.g., Omata on Syrian refugees in Oxford; Alkire on COVID-19 and
 poverty.

 The Oxford Martin School’s Grand Challenges Fund makes large competitive awards for
 innovative, multi-disciplinary, cross-departmental projects – ODID researchers
 collaborate on two major projects (see Section 4.1). The University-administered GCRF
 fund supported two innovative projects with an impact focus: Sud’s research on land
 struggles in India and Scott-Smith’s on refugee shelter (total £68,409).

 ODID’s impact work, particularly by ECRs, has benefitted from the ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Account: e.g., Roy’s (ESRC Future Leader) project to support Ajeevika, an


                                                                                     Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 advocacy NGO on internal migrants’ rights in India; Owen’s (ESRC Future Leader) work
 with the Nigerian police on institutional reform (ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize).


 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Our extensive support structure has enabled us to secure and administer a growing
 number of grants and manage complex collaborations. A consequence of our rising
 applications and success in diversifying grants involving more researchers has been an
 increased need for support staff. In response, we have created part- and full-time posts
 to strengthen our departmental research and collaboration facilitation team, led by
 the Research and Grants Manager. These include a Research and Grants Officer; a
 Finance Manager; and a Deputy Administrator for HR. Our team works with Divisional
 Research Facilitators, who support multi-partner collaborative research projects as well
 as fellowships and ECRs, and with the Divisional European & International Team, for
 both funding and global collaborations. The Divisional Development Team helps access
 charitable and industry funding globally.

 Impact and public engagement support is provided by a Departmental
 Communications Officer, a new Communications Assistant, and three further officers in
 our research groups. They work with the specialist divisional research impact facilitation
 team, one of whom has dedicated responsibility for ODID. They provide general training
 and bespoke advice on engaging different audiences, designing impact plans in grant
 applications, and monitoring and evaluation of impact.

 Our IT support team has been strengthened by the appointment of an additional IT
 Officer, alongside the IT Manager, to assist researchers with their increasing digital
 needs for collaboration, networking, dissemination, IT security, data sharing, transfer
 and storage. We recently invested £280,000 to upgrade equipment and network
 infrastructure, much of which directly benefits our research, and has come into its own
 during the pandemic for digital/online research. The department supplies IT equipment
 for research and acquires statistical packages for staff and students.

 Research material is housed in the Bodleian Social Science Library, where a dedicated
 Subject Consultant for International Development offers guidance on literature and data
 sources and a Data Management Adviser assists with data accessing and archiving.
 They offered enhanced support during the pandemic for digital research and acquired
 new material.

 The Departmental Safety Committee, supported by the Divisional Safety Team,
 oversees health and safety in fieldwork. For staff and students, the department provides
 training, reliable support and swift emergency response in the field when faced with
 serious political, health or conflict problems (Turkey during the 2016 coup, Liberia during
 the 2015 Ebola epidemic and in many countries during the current pandemic). The
 department has its own specialised risk assessment procedure, for which the HoD bears

                                                                                     Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ultimate responsibility. A dedicated departmental officer handles travel insurance,
 contingent upon approved travel risk assessment and FCDO guidance.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration

 Collaboration for research and impact is an essential element of our strategy, with a
 commitment to the principle of equality and co-production of knowledge, avoiding a
 hierarchical North-South relationship (see Section 1.2, Strategies Three and Four). Our
 growing collaboration with industry and charitable funders to advance impactful research
 and our institutional support structure to facilitate collaboration are noted in Sections 3.1-
 3.2. Our research is conceived with research users and end-beneficiaries in mind and is,
 thus, impact-seeking, outward-looking and collaboration-oriented. Our collaborations are
 researcher-led and develop organically, drawing on our extensive local and global
 networks.

 Our wide-ranging collaborations with other Oxford departments, going beyond social
 sciences and humanities, promote disciplinary cross-fertilisation, enhance publications,
 secure funding for research, and access global academic networks. E.g.:

    Department/Unit             Cat A staff          Collaboration


    Oxford School of Global     Sánchez-Ancochea     Joint appointment with Latin American
    and Area Studies                                 Centre, of which he was Director
    (OSGA)
                                Alexander            Co-edited book on Zimbabwe with
                                                     Tendi and book series for the Africa
                                                     International Institute with Pratten at
                                                     African Studies Centre

                                Sud                  GCRF-funded research on land politics
                                                     in India in collaboration with Mathur at
                                                     Contemporary South Asian Studies
                                                     Programme

    Oxford Martin School-       Adam, Doss,          African Governance programme with
    funded multidisciplinary,   Favara, Gollin       OSGA/History (Adebanwi),
    cross-departmental                               BSG/Economics (Dercon) and
    projects                                         Politics (Soares-Oliveira)

                                Gollin               Future of Food group, involving
                                                     Department of Population Health,
                                                     Environmental Change Unit in
                                                     Geography, Zoology etc

    Anthropology                Migration            Joint DPhil in Migration Studies with
                                researchers          Centre on Migration Policy and Society



                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                               Migration          Joint research seminars with Oxford
                               researchers        Migration and Mobility Network,
                                                  straddling Social Sciences and
                                                  Humanities

   Politics and                Gledhill           ESRC-funded research on peace-
   International Relations                        keeping in collaboration with Kaplan
                                                  plus Cornell and North Carolina at
                                                  Wilmington

                               Chigudu            China-Africa research network,
                                                  convened with Soares-Oliveira,
                                                  promotes external collaboration and
                                                  support researchers within and beyond
                                                  Oxford

   Law                         Costello           Publication collaboration on refugee
                                                  law with Bogg, Freedland and Davies

   Geography                   Doss               Participates in REACH programme:
                                                  Improving water security for the poor,
                                                  researching in Ethiopia

   Economics and BSG           ODID: Adam,        Multiple research and policy advisory
                               Doss, Gollin       collaborations (notably with Dercon,
                               Krishnan,          Collier, Quinn), joint seminars and
                               Woodruff; BSG:     international conferences through IGC
                               Hensel, LaBonne,   and the Centre for the Study of African
                               Mahmud, Mani,      Economies
                               Orkin

                               ODID: Bano,        Collaborate on Research on Improving
                               Outhred; BSG:      Systems of Education (RISE) (DfID,
                               Pritchett          Gates Foundation)

                                                  See also Oxford Martin School above

   Said Business School        Fu                 Annual international joint-conference
                                                  on innovation and development

   Oxford Internet Institute   Gledhill           Co-edited journal special issue with
                                                  Bright on peace and conflict studies

   Medical Sciences            Favara (YL)        Research on childhood mental health
   (Psychiatry)                                   with Stein

   Pitt Rivers Museum          Scott-Smith        Contribution to exhibition on refugee
                                                  shelters

   Ashmolean Museum            Sud                Research on land in India with
                                                  Kumbera-Landrus (Keeper of Eastern
                                                  Arts)




                                                                                      Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Building academic networks and research partnerships beyond Oxford, spanning
 the Global North and South, is critical to developing in-country and interdisciplinary
 research, diversifying funding and building capacity in the Global South. E.g., Alexander
 and Chigudu conduct workshops with students at the University of Zimbabwe on
 research funding, publishing, collaboration and application to Oxford. Alexander co-
 organises conferences at several southern African universities. Sánchez-Ancochea co-
 founded the Latin American Social Policy Research Network; his long-term research
 collaboration with Martínez-Franzoni on social policy led to funding from University of
 Costa Rica, British Academy and CAF-Development Bank of Latin America. Fu leads
 the UK-China Research Network, promoting collaborative research, comprising 20
 research institutions across both countries. Her project on technological capability is with
 Tsinghua University.

 Forging partnerships with international organisations to enhance research impact is
 our strong suit. Building on our longstanding relationship with UN institutions (all Impact
 Cases), we have added new impact partners: e.g., the International Fund for Agricultural
 Development, to which Doss contributed a background paper for the Rural Development
 Report, 2019; Gollin worked on genetic resources for agriculture with the Global Crop
 Trust and the International Food Policy Research Institute; Adam contributes to IMF’s
 policy as a member of the IMF-DFID Program on the Macroeconomics of LICs; Scott-
 Smith collaborated with Médecins Sans Frontières in editing a Refugee Survey Quarterly
 special issue on “Humanitarianism and the migration crisis”.

 Leveraging our research expertise on major regions of the Global South, we inform
 policymaking and development interventions by collaborating with governments, NGOs
 and in-country stakeholders, including in the UK. E.g., Chigudu and Alexander briefed
 the FCO on Zimbabwe and gave expert testimony to the House of Commons
 International Development Committee, as did Betts on refugees in Africa. Adam advised
 government officials and central bank governors in Ethiopia, Tanzania, Uganda and
 South Sudan, and co-edited the Africa: Policies for Prosperity book series (OUP) with
 governors of the central banks of Zambia and Tanzania. Fu gave science and
 technology policy advice to the Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology, and
 Development and Policy Research Division of the State Council of China. Labonne
 researched elections in the Philippines with the Parish Pastoral Council for Responsible
 Voting and the Liberal Party. His findings informed electoral reforms in Manila.
 Andersson wrote policy reports on border security and migration for the NGO
 Saferworld, Sweden's official Delegation on Migration and Germany’s Friedrich-Ebert
 Stiftung, providing input into the EU’s Strategic Review on security. Bolt worked with the
 South African legal NGO ProBono.Org on “family house” ownership and inheritance in
 Johannesburg’s formerly black townships. Gooptu’s research involves the Delhi NGO
 Community for Social Change and Development, working on domestic violence.

 An expanding area of work involves partnership with business and industry to inform
 business practice, promote innovation and advise on philanthropic action. sOPHIa
 enables firms to address workers’ poverty (Section 1.2). RSC collaborated with Deloitte


                                                                                      Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on a research report on the economic lives of Syrian refugees in Europe, to help
 business, government and NGOs target refugee assistance. Betts conducted an
 evaluation of the impact of a cooperatives-based IKEA Foundation programme (with the
 largest ever philanthropic donation to UNHCR) at refugee camps in the Somali Region
 of Ethiopia. Fu organises the annual China-UK Innovation and Development Forum,
 gathering academics, policymakers and industry professionals, including the Chinese
 Academy of Sciences, Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology, China-Britain
 Business Council and UKRI.

 4.2 Contribution to economy and society

 Our research seeks to respond to national and international development priorities and
 emerging development challenges, and addresses the Sustainable Development Goals.
 Examples, in addition to those above, include:

 SDG 4: Education: YL is working with Ethiopian policymakers on pre-primary-level
 schooling, which is also relevant to World Bank’s Early Learning Partnership; Bano’s
 model of integration of non-religious subjects in Quranic schools was adopted in three
 Nigerian states.

 SDG 5: Gender empowerment: YL’s research on early marriage of girls in India
 contributed to a change in the law on marital rape and led to a partnership with the
 National Council for the Protection of Child Rights to develop adolescent sexual and
 reproductive healthcare policies; SDGs 5 and 8: Decent work: Woodruff’s research on
 female supervisors in the garment industry in Bangladesh led the ILO, the International
 Finance Corporation and the NGO Better Work to give training to 700 women for
 supervisory roles.

 SDG 8: Decent work: Caria’s research with the Ethiopian Development Research
 Institute on unemployed urban youth led the government and World Bank to design new
 urban safety-net programmes; SDGs 8 and 16: Justice for all: Woodruff, with Mexican
 colleagues, conducted a prize-winning RCT intervention to improve the functioning of
 the Mexico City Labour Court, one of the largest in the Global South. The evidence was
 used by lawmakers to design new labour litigation laws.

 SDG 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions: Mustapha's research contributed to a
 new National Action Plan to counter extremism in Nigeria, moving away from a top-down
 military approach to one focussed on countering radicalisation by promoting
 development; Bjola designed a segment on digital diplomacy for an FCO MOOC,
 drawing on research on digital tools to enhance diplomatic activities pertaining to
 consular affairs, crisis communication (e.g., during terrorist attack) and public diplomacy,
 including contending with online hate and misinformation.

 We encourage students to contribute to society and economy through innovative work.
 Barnes, through his social enterprise Lanterne, developed an app for COVID-19-related

                                                                                      Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 social distancing and another for safe travel in conflict zones (finalist in the Santander
 Entrepreneurship Awards and winner of the Oxford Foundry All-Innovate competition
 award). Haenssgen was runner-up in the Student IT Innovation category of the
 OxTALENT awards for his use of satellite mapping in household surveys of rural China.
 Ware won Vice Chancellor’s Social Impact Award for founding 180 Degrees Consulting,
 the world’s largest university-based volunteer consulting organisation for non-profits and
 social enterprises.

 We believe public engagement with research is an important tool to shape public
 opinion, change mindsets and thus create the context for policy and structural change.
 Researchers receive professional media training from the University’s press office and
 have commented on critical issues in national and international media, with influential
 contributions by OPHI and YL researchers, Andersson, Bano, Betts, Bjola, Chigudu,
 Sánchez-Ancochea, Sud, etc in the FT, Guardian, New York Times, Washington Post,
 China Daily, Hindustan Times, Aljazeera, BBC, CNN, PBS, Deutsche Welle and Radio
 France, among others. We organised online 'Oxford Development Talks' by staff on
 different aspects of the pandemic for a wider general public. Betts gave TED talks on
 refugees (1million views) and Brexit (3.5million views). Social media is a significant
 vehicle for public engagement, with 60,000 Facebook and 70,000 Twitter followers for
 ODID and its research groups.

 Institutional support is provided to enable researchers to increase their multimedia
 outreach to wider audiences. Scott-Smith’s feature-length documentary on refugee
 shelters won the AHRC Best Research Film and Best Doctoral or Early Career Film,
 2020. YL has developed award-winning infographics to visualise complex data on
 childhood poverty, freely available on their website. Sud and Pailey produced books for
 children based on their research on land struggles and corruption, respectively, for
 which Pailey won an award. We held an exhibition of photos from fieldwork during
 Oxford Art Weeks to highlight research findings to Oxfordshire communities. ODID
 researchers participated in a Social Sciences Division event at the Ashmolean Museum,
 disseminating research on poverty, youth and migration to local audiences through
 hands-on activities, simulation exercises and a play on poverty.

 4.3 Contribution to the research base

 YL survey data and OPHI datasets are publicly available in accessible formats (Section
 1.5). The journal Oxford Development Studies, run from ODID, recently relaunched with
 an international editorial board (IAB), with most members being women and/or coming
 from the Global South. Their brief is to attract contributions from those usually
 marginalised in academic publications. Publications workshops for Global South ECRs
 are planned, in collaboration with IAB members.

 ODID organised the annual Development Studies Association conference in 2016 with
 440 papers. Our staff serve in learned societies and similar organisations: e.g., Gollin –
 DFID’s Research Advisory Group and CGIAR (network of publicly-funded agricultural


                                                                                     Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research programmes and centres); Doss – President, International Association for
 Feminist Economics; Bolt – Council, African Studies Association; Gooptu – Council,
 Development Studies Association; Sánchez-Ancochea – Treasurer, Latin American
 Studies Association and Scientific Advisory Council, Centre for the Study of Conflict and
 Social Cohesion, Chile.

 Our staff serve on the editorial boards of over 20 journals and as managing or associate
 editors of over 15 journals and book series, including Journal of Latin American Studies
 (Sánchez-Ancochea), Journal of Development Economics (Adam, Gollin), Journal of
 African Economics (Gollin, Krishnan), Oxford Review of Economic Policy (Adam), Africa
 (Bolt), Diplomacy and Foreign Policy (Bjola), Oxford Development Studies (Doss,
 Gooptu, Sánchez-Ancochea); Berghahn book series “Studies in Forced Migration”
 (Scott-Smith); Anthem series on “Diversity and Plurality in South Asia” (Gooptu);
 Routledge’s “New Diplomatic Studies” series (Bjola).

 Bano, Friedrichs, Gooptu, Sánchez-Ancochea have been members of ESRC and AHRC
 Peer Review Colleges. Staff acted as reviewers of grants, fellowships and scholarship
 competitions for ESRC (Adam, Bolt, Fu, Gooptu, Omata, Sánchez-Ancochea), DfID
 (Adam), Newton Prize (Fu), AHRC and Commonwealth Commission (Alexander,
 Gooptu), Leverhulme (Alexander), Wellcome Trust and CODESRIA-Africa (Chigudu).
 Gooptu was a member of the British Academy’s South Asia Panel and of three ESRC
 (GCRF, Newton) and Indian Council of Social Science Research collaborative grant-
 making panels, chairing two.

 Our staff have given over 100 keynote and plenary addresses: e.g., Adam – EU-East
 African Community-IMF Conference on Regional Integration; Andersson – European
 Association of Social Anthropologists Conference; Sud – Anglophone Postcolonial
 Studies Annual Conference; Fu – ODI China Africa Workshop; Doss – African
 Association of Agricultural Economists, Abuja.

 Members of staff held visiting fellowships, e.g., Fu – Professorial Visiting Fellow,
 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; Gibney – Distinguished Fellow of Munk School of
 Global Affairs and Public Policy, University of Toronto; Sánchez-Ancochea – Visiting
 Fellow, Kellogg Institute of International Studies, University of Notre Dame.

 Staff at all career stages and students received recognition for their research
 contribution and achievements. Students won two thesis prizes and six paper prizes
 (Section 2.5). Seven books and 12 research papers by staff won prizes, were
 shortlisted or received special mention. The following is a selection from a longer list:

 OPHI: Queen’s Anniversary Prize; Boris Mints Institute Prize.

 ECRs:
    Hensel: Young Economist Award, European Economic Association;
    McConnachie: Joint winner, Socio-Legal Studies Association Early Career Book

                                                                                    Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Prize;
       Irfan, Roy, Flahaux, Chaudhary, Fiddian-Qasmiyeh, Pailey: Commendations or
        awards for research papers.


 Mid-career and senior researchers:
     Andersson and Bolt: British Sociological Association/BBC Thinking Allowed
       Ethnography Award;
     Betts: elected Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, member of World
       Refugee Council; his co-authored Refuge named one of the Best Books of 2017
       by the Economist;
     Costello: Odysseus Network Best Publication Prize;
     Omata: Shortlisted, Thinking Allowed Award, as above;
     Sánchez-Ancochea, Fu: prizes for articles.

 These awards and distinctions demonstrate the positive impact of our extensive support
 for all researchers to pursue excellence in their chosen fields.




                                                                                 Page 31
