Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bath

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 9 Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The Department of Physics, which forms Bath’s UoA 9 submission, has substantially grown its
 research scope and staff numbers during the assessment period. It has delivered on its primary
 strategic objective, stated in the REF 2014 submission, to establish a new research group in
 Astrophysics, to complement existing strengths in Nanoscience, Photonics and Theory. Fifteen
 new academic staff (an increase of 11.4 FTE of which 7 were women) have been appointed,
 including 7 in Astrophysics and 5 Royal Society Fellowship holders to increase research quality
 and impact. The scope of our research ranges from answering big questions in fundamental
 Physics to solving problems of global significance which are increasingly cross-disciplinary.
 Since 2014, 30 articles, representing 34% of our submitted outputs, were published in the
 Nature and Science family journals. 40 further articles appeared in specialist journals such as
 Nano Letters, ACS Nano, Advanced Materials, Small and PNAS (17 papers) and Physical
 Review Letters (23 papers). Physics staff have given over 250 invited talks at international
 conferences and workshops. Highlights of major discoveries made during the assessment period
 include: observation of the X-ray counterpart of the gravitational wave event GW 170817 (Nature
 551, 71 (2017); 309 citations); odd elasticity (Nature Physics 16, 476 (2020); 19 citations);
 graphene sensor for non-invasive glucose monitoring (Nature Nanotechnology 13, 504 (2018);
 88 citations). Physics staff are leading six international consortia totalling 21.8M€ and contribute
 to a further 32 research hubs on quantum technology, solar energy, extragalactic exploration
 and biomedical devices. Since 2014, staff have founded 1 spin-out (Ceryx Medical) and 2 start-
 ups (ORCA Computing, Veriqcloud). The department’s research excellence has been
 recognised with Mundell’s appointment as Chief Scientific Adviser to the Foreign &
 Commonwealth Office (2018) and Knight’s election to FRS (2019).

 Research groupings
 Research activity is organised across four research groups in Astrophysics, Nanoscience,
 Photonics and Theoretical & Computational Physics. Within each group, members share
 common research interests, experimental facilities, materials and intellectual knowhow. The
 groups provide a collaborative environment for supporting the career development of
 postgraduate students and staff through group seminars, grant pipeline events and joint PhD
 supervision. Several academics are members of more than one group.

 The Astrophysics group explores the dynamic Universe seeking a deeper understanding of
 pulsating, resonating and exploding stars, relativistic jets shaking up their surroundings, motions
 of gas in and out of galaxies, and the expanding fabric of space itself. Activities centre on
 accretion and black-hole driven phenomena (Mundell, Schady, Tsang, van Eerten, Villforth), the
 properties of gamma-ray burst host galaxies and afterglows (Mundell, Schady, Wuyts), and the
 structure and enrichment history of galaxies through statistical censuses from the Local Group to
 the distant Universe (Scowcroft, Schady, Villforth, Wuyts). The seven Astrophysicists are joined
 by two academics with expertise in remote sensing (Blondel, Watson), three postdoctoral
 researchers and 11 PGR students. In establishing the group, the strategic focus has been to pair
 observation and theory to enable mutual benefits from shared expertise in big data analytics,
 and target growth areas that are strongly aligned with UK priorities. Group members are users of
 existing and upcoming facilities that form the cornerstone of the UK strategy for astrophysics,
 including the Vera C. Rubin Observatory (four academics are LSST:UK Affiliate PIs), the Square
 Kilometre Array (SKA), and new ESO instrumentation (we have membership of the VLT/MOONS
 Science Team and will have group buy-in to the 4MOST consortium) culminating in the
 European Extremely Large Telescope (ELT). The group has made substantial contributions to

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the detection of the first gravitational wave event with electromagnetic counterpart (Nature 547,
 425 (2017); Nature Astronomy 11, 791 (2017); Nature Communications 9, 4089 (2018)).

 The Nanoscience group is active in the Physics of nano-objects where reduced dimensionality
 brings novel electrical, magnetic and superconducting properties with important applications to
 electronic devices, energy materials and healthcare. Since 2014, research in 2D-systems and
 dichalcogenides has become increasingly cohesive through the collaboration of scanning probe
 microscopists, theoreticians and experimentalists in quantum transport and optoelectronics
 (Andrews, Bending, Crampin, Da Como, Dale, Ilie, Mucha-Kruczynski, Nogaret, Rusimova,
 Snow, Takashina, Valev, Wolverson). The Bath/Bristol Condensed Matter CDT has furthered
 this integration through a joint postgraduate training programme and increasing PhD co-
 supervision. Other research areas include: scanning probe engineering of novel atomic
 structures (Ilie, Rusimova, Sloan); biomedical nanoscience (Gordeev, Ilie, Nogaret, Zeidler);
 liquid and amorphous materials (Salmon, Zeidler); theory of 2D materials and plasmonic
 waveguides (Crampin, Gorbach, Mucha-Kruczynski). The group has grown with the
 appointments of Dale (Royal Society URF), Rusimova (University of Bath Prize Fellow) and
 Zeidler (Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship). It currently has 15 core staff, 6 postdocs
 and 16 PhD students. The group operates facilities ranging from the synthesis to the
 characterisation of nanomaterials which were for example implemented in pioneering studies of
 ReS2 as a novel low symmetry 2D material (ACS Nano 8, 11154 (2014)) and to control
 molecular reactions on the femtosecond scale (Science 361, 1012 (2018)). The group also
 demonstrates novel device concepts such as optimal solid-state neurons (Nature Comm. 10,
 5309 (2019)) and superconducting spin valves (Nature Phys. 12, 57-61 (2016)). Nanoscience
 staff lead the Centre for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (CNAN), which coordinates
 nanoscience projects with 9 other departments at Bath, and are regular users of 12 synchrotron,
 neutron, muon and high magnetic field facilities in Europe, Japan and the USA.

 The Photonics group embodied as the Centre for Photonics and Photonic Materials (CPPM)
 investigates the science of light from its most fundamental aspects to cutting-edge applications.
 Since 2014, the Centre has actively diversified its research portfolio beyond its pioneering work
 on micro-structured photonic crystal fibre for which it became established as a world-leading
 photonics centre. This diversification has been driven by the recruitment of high-quality ECRs,
 many of whom have won prestigious research fellowships: Bowman (Royal Society URF), Nunn
 (Royal Society URF, now Reader), Rusimova (University of Bath Prize Fellow), Stone (EPSRC-
 UKRI Innovation Fellow) and Valev (Royal Society URF). This has resulted in a more resilient
 and dynamic Centre with a research portfolio that encompasses six core themes: speciality
 optical fibres (Birks, Knight, Stone, Wadsworth); medical photonics (Birks, Knight, Stone);
 quantum photonics (Gorbach, Mosley, Nunn, Valev); nanoscale photonics (Da Como, Gorbach,
 Rusimova, Valev); theory & modelling (Bird, Gorbach, Skryabin); instrumentation (Birks,
 Bowman, Rusimova, Valev, Wadsworth, Wolverson). The CPPM has 14 core academic staff
 working alongside 6-8 postdoctoral researchers, 20 PhD students, and 2 technical staff.
 Landmark achievements include: the demonstration of a new class of hollow-core optical fibre
 laser (Optica 3, 218 (2016)); the world’s first fully-fibre-integrated source of high-purity heralded
 single photons (Optica 3, 1270 (2016)); a new noise-free quantum memory protocol, now the
 foundation of a spin-off company (Phys Rev A 97, 042316 (2018)); hyper-Rayleigh scattering
 (Phys Rev X 9, 011024 (2019)); polariton topological insulators (Phys Rev Lett 119, 253904
 (2017)).

 The Theoretical and Computational Physics group spans fields from condensed matter
 (Crampin, Mucha-Kruczynski, Souslov, Walker), photonics (Bird, Gorbach, Skryabin) and
 mathematical biology (James) to astrophysics (van Eerten, Tsang), with a major focus in
 studying far-from-equilibrium physics. Such systems are ubiquitous in nature, including those
 driven by external forces (explosions, intense light fields or harvested sunlight) and those with an

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internal source of energy (living systems, nanodevices). The group, which currently comprises
 10 academics, 3 postdoctoral researchers and 12 PhD students, identifies itself as consisting of
 “applied theorists”, with much of the research being in collaboration with experimentalists, and
 observational astronomers in other research groups and research centres. Research highlights
 include the design of active-liquid metamaterials with topologically protected sound modes
 (Nature Physics 13, 1091 (2017)); a two-dimensional topological polariton laser (Physical
 Review Letters 122, 083902 (2019)); an ion transport mechanism for hysteretic phenomena in
 perovskite solar cells (Energy & Environmental Science 9, 1476 (2016)); odd elasticity (Nature
 Physics 16, 476 (2020)).

 Research and impact strategy
 Our strategic vision is to deliver world-leading research in Physics and Astrophysics by
 identifying and promoting the emergence of novel research themes, especially at the interface
 with other disciplines, while fostering research depth and rigour in our core research areas.
 These areas have grown into critical masses of researchers from the priorities identified in
 REF2014. This vision is implemented through the following actions.

 To re-organise the unit into a leaner research structure the Unit’s research committee has
 been streamlined in line with a wider review of the department’s leadership structures, guided by
 the Athena Swan action plan, with the aim of creating effective committees that reflect the
 breadth and diversity of the Unit. The research committee’s ex officio posts are the Director of
 Research (Nogaret), the four research group leaders (Wuyts (Astrophysics), Wolverson
 (Nanoscience), Mosley (Photonics), Mucha-Kruczynski (Theory)) and the Director of Studies for
 PGR students (Da Como). Dale and Zeidler (both Royal Society Fellowship holders and ECRs)
 have been appointed via an open call for expressions of interest.

 The research committee supports the development of current and emerging research themes by
 organising grant pipeline discussions, relaying grant calls to relevant groups, engaging with
 sponsors beyond research councils (alumni, industry), managing research communication, and
 facilitating international engagement. 70% of our submitted outputs have international co-
 authors. The research committee shares best practice in publishing, grant applications and
 advises the department on academic staff recruitment. It promotes a culture of collaboration and
 inclusion that supports the development of ECRs by mentoring fellowship applicants and
 shortlisting candidates for PhD prizes. The research committee also has specific ED&I
 responsibilities and monitors data related to PGR student admissions, retention and attainment,
 postdoctoral researchers, and external seminar speakers, for reporting to the department’s
 Athena Swan team.

 The Unit has also appointed an Impact Director (Wadsworth), a Research Promotion Champion
 (Valev), and an Open Access Champion (Blondel). These roles provide support and a point of
 contact with central University services for academics seeking help in these areas.

 To support the emergence of multidisciplinary research the Unit has prioritised the
 development of two themes during the assessment period: Healthcare and Energy Materials.
 These areas offer outstanding opportunities for fundamental discoveries at the interface with
 biology and chemistry, and for translational research. Both themes align our research strengths
 with UKRI priorities and are increasingly supported by a widening network of national and
 international stakeholders. Our healthcare research stream builds on our strengths in photonic
 materials for medical diagnostics (EPSRC-PROTEUS) and semiconductor physics for
 bioelectronic medicine (H2020 CresPace). The energy materials stream encompasses solar
 cells, batteries and innovative methods for scavenging or converting energy. Walker leads the
 modelling effort of these materials within the three networks she coordinates. This area has


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been reinforced by the recruitment of Asadi (who joined after the REF census date) to lead a
 new experimental group on ferroelectric materials.

 Alongside these developments, broader interdisciplinary research has continued to thrive across
 the Unit: 22% of our submitted outputs have a co-author from the Life Sciences, Chemistry or
 Engineering. Twenty UoA staff are further engaged in collaboration with another Bath
 department (eight in total across three Faculties) or research centre (Centre for Therapeutic
 Innovation, Centre for Sustainable & Circular Technologies, Centre for Networks and Collective
 Behaviour). For example:
 •   Walker’s theory group collaborates extensively with Chemists and Material Scientists from
     the UK (EPSRC-Supersolar) and Europe (EXTMOS, MAESTRO, DESTINY). These cross-
     disciplinary collaborations are essential to making photovoltaic materials with greater
     conversion efficiency and flexible organic light emitting devices. Two of her publications are
     jointly with chemists and have received over 200 citations (Energy & Environmental Science
     9, 1476 (2016), Journal of Physical Chemistry C 119, 3456 (2015)). Walker has been
     appointed to the REF2021 panel as an interdisciplinary advisor for UoA9.
 •   Dale’s Royal Society Fellowship is highly interdisciplinary as it focusses on manipulating the
     electronic properties of 2D materials using electrochemical methods. By utilizing a chemical
     doping method called ionic liquid gating, she aims to modify the interactions between the
     ionic liquid and the 2D material to induce novel electronic, magnetic and superconducting
     states.
 UoA staff have contributed to the University’s Institute for Mathematical Innovation through
 participation in its research panel (James), internal secondment scheme (Blondel, James,
 Nogaret, Salmon, Villforth, Wilding) and the Undergraduate Research Experience scheme,
 where undergraduate students undertake an eight-week summer project (nine academics have
 hosted students).

 To maximise the impact of our research the Impact Director (Wadsworth) and the research
 committee support academics in developing awareness of the commercial value of their
 research and partnering with industry and third sector organisations to translate it successfully.
 Actions have included: informing eligible grant holders of calls for the Impact Acceleration
 Account (EPSRC) and the H2020 Launchpad, and about the availability of internal University
 funds to build prototypes, commissioning market studies and writing business plans; exploiting
 iCASE [2] and CASE [3] conversion PGR studentships; engaging in consultancy as a route
 towards securing research projects funded by industry [9], DSTL [2], InnovateUK [3], Knowledge
 Transfer Partnerships [5]; encouraging and supporting staff in disclosing patentable inventions to
 University commercial managers, protecting and licencing IP; engaging with the award-winning
 Bath SETsquared business incubator via their iCURE programme to prepare and pitch business
 plans to investors.

 The Unit supports impact creation by (i) recognizing that interdisciplinary research opens up
 important avenues for impact especially when done in collaboration with clinical partners, and (ii)
 by treating impact as having an equal value to research in making academic appointments, in
 recommending sabbatical leave, promotions, and within the workload model.

 The submitted impact case studies represent examples of research translation come to fruition.
 • Blondel has worked with Seiche Ltd and British Standards to develop remote sensing
    technology to minimise the effects of man-made sounds on wildlife. Impact generation was
    enabled by three KTPs and an impact-focussed sabbatical in 2015.
 • Watson has sought to translate his research on mapping the free electron density of the
    ionosphere to hand-held devices for the detection and location of GPS jammers. The


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     enabler of impact was a 10-year long collaboration with Chronos Technology Ltd supported
     by InnovateUK grants.
 •   Birks, Knight, Stone and Wadsworth have commercialised microstructured optical fibres.
     Impact was created by filing a family of patents on supercontinuum generation
     (WO2009098519A1) subsequently acquired by Fianium Ltd (now part of NKT Photonics) and
     through fruitful partnership with Fianium. Glophotonics was spun-out to commercialise new
     hollow-core fibre technology exploiting Bath IP (WO2006077437A1, WO2009044100A1).

 The Unit’s impact strategy, and its close linkage with our promotion of multidisciplinary
 collaborations, is illustrated by early-stage ventures with substantial potential for future impact:
 •   Ilie and colleagues in Pharmacy & Pharmacology patented a graphene-based sensor for
     non-invasive, transdermal glucose monitoring, prior to its publication in Nature
     Nanotechnology (13, 504 (2018)). The patent is now licenced to Bioelectric devices, San
     Jose, CA for exploring the commercial potential of the device.
 •   Nogaret, in collaboration with cardiologists at Bristol, has founded Ceryx Medical, a spin-out
     company aimed at commercialising Central Pattern Generators to provide novel therapies for
     cardiorespiratory diseases such as heart failure and sleep apnoea. The venture is based on
     research on implementing neuronal central pattern generators as pacemakers (Nature
     Communications 10, 5309 (2019); patent WO2013175171A2). Since its incorporation in
     2016, Ceryx Medical has raised £1.3M from investors and is developing its first-in-man
     pacemaker following successful animal trials.
 •   Nunn is a co-founder and chief technical officer of two quantum computing start-ups: ORCA
     Computing and Veriqcloud.
 •   Stone is working on three multidisciplinary projects grouping clinicians, physicists and
     electrical engineers at Bath, Edinburgh and Heriot Watt. Two involve building optical fibre-
     based endoscopes for accurate cancer diagnostics, one of which is fully funded by Boston
     Scientific. The third is the EPSRC-funded PROTEUS project (with Birks and Knight), creating
     diagnostic tools for pneumonia. Bath’s contribution is to develop a fibre bundle that combines
     imaging, sensing and drug delivery and that is small enough to reach the distal airways. This
     fibre is being trialled in several clinical studies, including diagnosis of COVID-19.

 To foster an open research environment the Open Access Champion and research
 committee monitor all published papers to ensure that 100% of research preprints and data sets
 are posted on the University’s open archive within 3 months of publication. At group level, many
 researchers develop software and designs on platforms such as GitHub and GitLab:
 •   The OpenFlexure Microscope has been developed within GitHub and GitLab for both its
     hardware and software, enabling Bowman’s group to engage scientists, entrepreneurs and
     enthusiasts in a worldwide community. They uphold the highest standards of open and
     reproducible science, where each publication is accompanied by an archive of raw data,
     interactive notebooks explaining the analysis and plotting codes, hardware designs,
     assembly instructions, and scripts to run automated experiments.
 •   The software developed by van Eerten for analysing relativistic astrophysical transients is
     publicly available online; further development and dissemination of these tools is funded by a
     H2020 grant for integrated activities within the high-energy astrophysics community. The
     software has been used by all the teams involved in the breakthrough observation of the
     relativistic jet accompanying the GW170817 gravitational wave event.

 Forward look
 Over the next five years we will build on the key research and impact strategies outlined above.
 A priority will be to develop further the cross-cutting research themes in Healthcare and Energy
 Materials; these will inform our recruitment strategy and will be the focus of major funding bids

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for people and infrastructure. Alongside this, we will support the four research groups to sustain
 critical mass in their core areas by targeting major funding programmes (e.g. ISCF, GCRF,
 Quantum Technologies) and access to international facilities (e.g. 4MOST, CTA, Vera C. Rubin
 Observatory, SKA), and by continuing our successful initiatives to attract external Fellowship
 holders. Key research themes will be the dynamic Universe, the physics of two-dimensional
 systems, atomically-engineered structures, quantum photonics, open-source instrumentation
 and topological materials.


 2. People
 Academic staffing and recruitment
 Academic staff numbers have grown substantially during the assessment period, underpinned
 by the introduction of the new Astrophysics group. 15 category A academic staff have joined
 since August 2013: Bowman (University Prize Fellow, followed by Royal Society URF), Dale
 (Royal Society URF), van Eerten, Mundell, Nunn (Royal Society URF), Rusimova (University
 Prize Fellow), Schady, Scowcroft (University Prize Fellow), Stone (EPSRC-UKRI Innovation
 Fellowship), Souslov, Tsang, Valev (Royal Society URF), Villforth, Wuyts, Zeidler (Royal Society
 Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship). 14 are on long-term contracts, and Rusimova should move to a
 long-term contract at the end of her Fellowship. In the same period, Coleman retired, Jack and
 Wilding left and Bird reduced his FTE to 0.4. Clark joined and left. Mundell is currently seconded
 to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office as their Chief Scientific Adviser; she retains a 0.4 FTE
 post at the University.

 This expansion was brought about by four strategic developments:
 •   Establishment of a new research group in Astrophysics. Four new posts were created in
     2014/15 and Mundell was hired as the founding leader of the group. Wuyts, van Eerten and
     Villforth joined in the first wave of appointments, followed by Scowcroft, Schady and Tsang.
     As discussed in section 1, these appointments have enabled us to develop a coherent
     programme of research in high energy and time domain astronomy, galaxy formation,
     supermassive black holes and cosmology, with strong links to UK and international
     consortia.
 •   The University’s Prize Fellowship programme is designed to support outstanding early career
     researchers to become tenured academics in strategically important areas. Two years of
     research enable Fellowship holders to establish an independent research group, before
     being considered for an academic position. Bowman, Scowcroft and Rusimova have been
     appointed via this pathway, joining Mucha-Kruczynski who was appointed in 2013. Mucha-
     Kruczynski has since been promoted to Senior Lecturer and currently is Head of the Theory
     group.
 •   The University is extremely supportive of appointing externally-funded fellowship holders.
     The Unit provides a strong mentoring programme to develop their outstanding potential to
     contribute to the research and impact environment and to move to permanent positions.
     Dale, Stone and Zeidler have been appointed through this route. All our Fellowship holders
     have permanent contracts or are expected to transition to one.
 •   We have used the opportunity of departing staff to allow replacements to align more closely
     with the research strategy. For example, the departure of Jack and the reduction of FTE for
     Bird enabled the department to recruit three new Lecturers in Astrophysics (Schady, Tsang)
     and topological physics (Souslov).

 In making appointments we have sought to: (i) enhance research excellence and the potential
 for ground-breaking impact (Bowman and Stone are already generating impact from their
 research, and Asadi’s appointment is impact- as well as research-focussed); (ii) ensure critical
 mass and sustainability in our activities; (iii) target emerging research challenges; (iv) forge new

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 intra- and inter-disciplinary links. The Unit’s strategy has had a strong emphasis on the
 appointment and development of outstanding early career researchers: 13 of the 15
 appointments in the assessment period were ECRs.

 We have also made a concerted effort to improve the Unit’s gender balance. All search
 committees and interview panels have women members. All members of these panels have
 undertaken unconscious bias training, and panel chairs have received specific ED&I training. We
 have used relevant networks to advertise posts (for example the AASWomen newsletter).
 Search committees, in drawing up lists of people to approach, included women and BAME
 Physicists with a strong research profile. For example, the top two candidates shortlisted for an
 Astrophysics lectureship were both women who had been invited to apply. We have also
 encouraged and supported our post-doctoral researchers to apply for Fellowships that could
 lead to tenure-track appointments (Dale, Rusimova and Zeidler were research associates in the
 department before obtaining their Fellowships and academic posts). At the start of the
 assessment period only two category A academics were women (Ilie, Walker). Seven of the 15
 newly appointed staff are women (Dale, Mundell, Rusimova, Schady, Scowcroft, Villforth,
 Zeidler).

 Future academic recruitment will focus on the interdisciplinary themes outlined in section 1. The
 appointment ofAsadi (from MPI for Polymer Research, Mainz; started 01/09/20) to a Chair opens
 up new research opportunities in energy materials, with substantial potential for funding and
 impact. The recruitment process started before the COVID-19 pandemic, but the contract was
 finalised during lockdown, with a major start-up package, demonstrating the University’s
 commitment to Physics. Two expansion posts in Theory are already in the pipeline. We continue
 our successful initiative to attract externally-funded fellowship holders.

 Staff development and recognition
 Career development of researchers at all levels benefits from a strong network of departmental
 and University support structures. These include dedicated support for ECRs, well-resourced
 research support and staff development units, a flexible sabbatical leave scheme, transparent
 promotion criteria, an effective workload model and a supportive departmental staff development
 and performance review (SDPR) process. Technical and support staff are supported in their
 professional development by the GW4WARD multi-university program and by the Technician
 Commitment Action Plan that helps technicians to achieve recognition and visibility.

 Our strategy to focus academic recruitment on exceptional ECRs is backed up by continuing
 support for their research careers. Start-up packages enable them to rapidly establish their
 research activity, with support for equipment, consumables and facility access. They are
 prioritised in the allocation of University-funded and EPSRC DTP studentships; all the open-
 ended, category A staff appointed during the assessment period have had at least one PGR
 student supported in this way. Probationary staff receive substantially reduced teaching and
 administrative duties during their first three years. They have regular formal meetings with the
 Head of Department where their funding, research and publications are discussed and where
 further support may be agreed. They take the Bath Course in Enhancing Academic Practice
 which introduces best practice in doctoral supervision, grant development and research
 dissemination. Successful completion of the Bath Course leads to an HEA Fellowship. Newly
 appointed staff are also assigned a senior academic as a mentor. The research of ECRs is
 showcased annually at the Vice Chancellor’s Research day; Nunn, Schady and Valev have
 presented their work in this forum.

 The University is committed to implementing the Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers and has a regularly updated action plan and Code of Practice for the


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Employment of Research Staff. Nogaret is the department’s Research Staff Coordinator and has
 the responsibility to ensure that the code of practice is being enacted. Scowcroft takes the lead
 on induction for new postdoctoral research associates (PDRAs) and for our mentoring scheme.
 She also coordinates the SDPR process for research staff. The SDPR reviewer is selected from
 a team of experienced academics and is distinct from the PDRA’s line manager; this policy has
 been instigated to focus the discussion on career development and to pick up any difficulties
 between PIs and their research staff. Our PDRAs have taken advantage of many of the
 University’s staff development opportunities, including the Kick Start to HE Teaching programme
 and the Academic Career Academy (Rusimova obtained her Prize Fellowship after attending this
 programme).

 To complement this Institutional support, Villforth has initiated and organised a series of ECR
 lunches (attended by around 10 postdoctoral researchers and probationary academics, with a
 senior academic guest) to share research experiences and to encourage peer support. The
 scheme has been taken up by other departments and was highlighted at a Faculty of Science
 Networking event in 2018.

 The University has a sabbatical leave scheme which aims to advance the pursuit of research,
 scholarship and impact, leading to the personal development of individual members of staff and
 to the production of outputs of significant benefit to the University. During the assessment period
 Andrews, Bird, Blondel, Ilie, Salmon, Skryabin and Zeidler had periods of leave. Blondel used
 his sabbatical to further develop his collaboration with Seiche Ltd, leading to new KTP awards
 and providing the foundation for one of the unit’s impact case studies. Salmon and Zeidler spent
 their sabbaticals at Corning USA, supported by the company’s Gordon S. Fulcher distinguished
 scholars’ scheme, which led to high impact papers and a substantial grant. Following Ilie’s
 sabbatical at the National Institute of Materials Science in Tsukuba, Japan in 2016-17, she
 joined Advanced HE’s Aurora programme in 2017-18 and was promoted to Reader in 2018.

 The Unit recognises achievements in research and impact in a number of ways.
 •   During the assessment period the department has introduced a promotions committee,
     whose remit is to support academics in developing their case for promotion, identify
     colleagues who may have a case for promotion but who have not brought themselves
     forward assess whether or not cases should be put forward, and report to the department’s
     Athena Swan team on relevant ED&I data. The promotion committee assesses individual
     cases against transparent promotion criteria set by the University which include a range of
     research and impact indicators, allowing academic staff to work to their interests and
     strengths. During the assessment period Gorbach, Mosley, Mucha-Kruczynski, Sloan and
     Takashina were promoted to Senior Lecturer, Ilie and Wuyts to Reader, and Nogaret, Valev,
     Wadsworth and Wolverson to Professor.
 •   The Unit has a long-established and trusted workload model for allocating duties. All
     academic staff receive a time allocation for research and scholarship in order to develop
     standard grant proposals or seed corn research ideas. Time funded by external research
     grants is on top of this, as is an allocation for PGR supervision. Academics can also request
     additional time for activities such as major grant applications or impact-related activities (for
     example, in 2019 Nunn had a mini-secondment to support his work with ORCA Computing
     (see section 4)).

 Research student training
 Research student numbers have grown from 9-11 per annum in REF2014 to 16-19 per annum
 during the REF2021 assessment period. Factors that have enabled this growth include:



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Success in securing two EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training in Condensed Matter Physics
     (joint with Bristol) and Sustainable Photovoltaics (with 7 partner institutions). Unit staff also
     participate in other Bath-led CDTs in Sustainable Chemical Technologies and Statistical
     Applied Mathematics, acting as principal or co-supervisors.
 •   The Unit has secured two EU MC-ITNs, MAESTRO and MicroCOMB, led by Walker and
     Skryabin respectively.
 •   University funded studentships to support newly-appointed staff and large grant applications.
 •   A Physics PGR open-day with invited talks from Bath PhD alumni and final-year PGR
     students, targeted at undergraduates to inform them about PhD opportunities.

 The number of new PGR starters in the past five academic years are:

                2015-16         2016-17        2017-18        2018-19         2019-20
                   19              17             16             18              17

 The primary funding sources for these students are: EPSRC DTP, I-CASE, Quantum Hub (24);
 CDTs (19); overseas governments (6); EU, including projects and ITNs (4); Royal Society (4);
 University funded studentships (23). In the same period, members of the Unit have co-
 supervised 14 PGR students in other departments at Bath and 10 students at other Universities.

 In 2017 the University created the Doctoral College (DC), a central department that provides
 guidance and support for PGR students and supervisors across the University. The DC
 coordinates the recruitment and induction of students as well as University-wide training
 including research ethics and data management. The DC provides professional support for the
 well-being of students and promotes important equality and diversity campaigns such as
 #NeverOK. It also provides training for supervisors, particularly probationary academics.

 Each PGR student has a supervisory team of at least two academics. Its role has been
 strengthened during the assessment period with the second supervisor having a more
 substantial role with a time allocation in the workload model. Students have a peer mentor who
 offers support with periodic meetings and assists the Director of Studies (DoS) in pastoral
 supervision. Student progress is monitored through 6-monthly reports, with input from the
 student and supervisors. There is a formal confirmation point assessed by a first-year report
 and viva, which offers formative feedback on progress and future plans for the PhD project.
 Other developments in the assessment period include:
 •   Creation of a Staff Student Liaison Committee for research students. This forum includes
     eight PGR students (representing different research groups and cohorts) and three
     academics (including the DoS). Its minutes go to the full department meeting.
 •   In PRES 2019 the department scored 90% in overall satisfaction.
 •   We have instigated a new PhD thesis prize supported for the first 10 years by a philanthropic
     donation.
 •   We have initiated a new student-led PGR conference with financial support from the Doctoral
     College, the department and industry.

 Group environment
 The research groups have a key role in the scientific and career development of PGR students
 and PDRAs. Groups hold weekly meetings involving research presentations, practice
 conference talks, journal clubs and external seminar speakers; PDRAs are encouraged to be
 involved in organising these activities. The groups also provide a supportive research
 environment to undergraduate MPhys students, who undertake a full-time, semester-long project
 in their final year.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   As part of the Condensed Matter Physics CDT the Nanoscience group has organised a
     comprehensive programme of postgraduate lectures, seminars, workshops and training in
     laboratory and computational techniques jointly with Bristol Physics. Non-CDT students in
     Nanoscience, Theory and Photonics have also benefitted from this training. The highly
     successful Frontiers of Condensed Matter Physics conference (www.frontiers-cmp.org) is
     organised by the CDT and includes a large student-led component. We have agreed with
     Bristol to continue an enhanced PGR programme (CMP-PhD+) which will build on the CDT-
     led investment in PGR training.
 •   PGR students in the CPPM established in 2019 an Optical Society (OSA) Student Chapter
     which organises academic and social events. The Chapter, alongside the Network of Women
     in Physics (see below), were instrumental in organising and obtaining funding for the
     department’s Week of Women in Science in February 2020.
 •   Astrophysics groups across the GW4 Alliance (Bath, Bristol, Cardiff, Exeter) organise a
     PGR-student only seminar day two to three times each year, with the venue rotating between
     the four Universities.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The Athena Swan (AS) team has oversight of ED&I issues across the Unit. The remit of the
 team goes beyond gender issues and actively addresses issues that could impact on BAME,
 LGBTQ+ members of staff. It has had an increasingly important role through the assessment
 period, ensuring the department’s committee structure reflects the ED&I strategy, and drawing
 up a wide-ranging and ambitious action plan. The AS team, chaired through the assessment
 period by Wuyts, has representatives of postdoctoral, technical and administrative staff and PGR
 students. Academic members are drawn from the research, teaching and promotions
 committees, to ensure effective communication and collaboration across areas. All departmental
 committees have ED&I as a standing item; the AS team reports to the full department meeting
 and the department executive, and the Chair is an ex officio member of the executive. All
 committees have academic members who are appointed following an open call for expressions
 of interest. This provides the opportunity for all staff, and particularly ECRs, to gain experience
 and be involved in departmental decision making. The department currently has a bronze AS
 award and is working towards silver.

 Several of the initiatives discussed above are evidence of implementation of the action plan:
 improvement in the gender balance of academic staff; support for Fellowship applications and
 proleptic appointments; improved mentoring and SDPRs for postdoctoral researchers. In
 addition:
 •   Regular Unit-wide events including research lunches (with talks by academics and PDRAs)
     and a colloquium series (with talks from prominent external researchers) have improved
     communication and cohesion.
 •   We have increased the proportion of female external speakers. Our colloquium series has
     had 50% women speakers over the last four years (including Sheila Rowan and Julia
     Yeomans). The department nominated Jocelyn Bell-Burnell and Natascha Forster-Schreiber
     for honorary degrees as women role models in Astrophysics; both awards were made in
     2019.
 •   Mundell was Head of Department for two years before her current secondment, making her
     the first female head of a science department at Bath. She also chaired the University’s
     Senior Women’s Academic Network.
 •   The Network of Women in Physics (NWP) was founded in 2016 by three undergraduate
     students with the aim of providing support for female students studying Physics at Bath,
     whilst also promoting female researchers within the department and beyond. The network is
     currently run by three PGR and three undergraduate students; it is affiliated with the IoP
     and has obtained funding from external bodies for workshops and social events. This year

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     the NWP collaborated with the Bath Student Chapter of the Optical Society to organise the
     Week of Women in Science. Seven women from academia and industry gave talks about
     their research and their careers, and participated in a panel discussion: “From the
     Perspective of Women in Physics”.
 •   One of the Unit’s PDRAs (Laskar) is an academic staff representative on the organising
     committee of Kaleidoscope, the University’s LGBT+ network. He is the PDRA representative
     on the AS team and is a co-author of the 2018 report “LGBT+ Inclusivity in Physics and
     Astronomy: A Best Practices Guide”. In 2019 Kaleidoscope organised a well-attended talk by
     a Bath Physics graduate (Dr James Claverley, currently working at NPL) which combined a
     discussion of changes to the SI standards with insights into working as an LGBT+ scientist.
 •   Two incubator workshops funded by an EPSRC Inclusion Matters grant called Reimagining
     Recruitment were organised by members of the CPPM in May 2019 (Imaging &
     Biophotonics) and February 2020 (Open hardware, organised by a PDRA (Stirling)). The
     goal of these workshops was to encourage collaboration in an inclusive environment, with
     seed funding enabling pilot projects to be taken forward by more junior participants.
     Delegates included scientists at all career stages, with a particular emphasis on diversity.

 Selection of outputs followed the University’s Code of Practice, with reviewers in the Unit (that
 included ECRs) receiving appropriate training, including ED&I. 19 of the 89 submitted outputs
 are from female staff (21%, cf 21% of category A staff); 35 of the 89 are from staff appointed as
 ECRs in the assessment period (39%, cf 33% of category A staff).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Funding strategy and support
 The Unit’s research funding strategy focuses on alignment with national and international
 research agendas, leadership of large consortia and programme grants, and support for
 Fellowships. This is closely linked with our recruitment strategy discussed in section 2 and the
 development of interdisciplinary research themes discussed in section 1. It is implemented
 through regular grant pipeline meetings overseen by the research committee, and the
 organisation of multidisciplinary seminars and workshops to initiate funding bids. University and
 departmental support for grant funding and generating impact has several strands:
 •   Large strategic bids (e.g. CDTs, Healthcare Technology) are reviewed and selected by
     cross-faculty peer-review panels involving external experts. Fellowship applicants undergo
     mock interviews at Faculty level. At Unit level, all grant applications are internally peer-
     reviewed by colleagues who have been successful in similar bids or who have sat on
     relevant grant panels.
 •   Research & Innovation Services (RIS) supports applicants with alerts of open funding calls
     from sponsors worldwide, coaching ECRs in proposal writing through “shut up and write”
     sessions, reviewing drafts of grant applications and costing proposals.
 •   The commercialisation and legal teams within RIS actively support the translation of Unit
     research, including: IP protection (Ilie, Knight, Nogaret, Stone, Valev); negotiating licence
     deals (Ilie), KTPs (Blondel) and University start-ups (Nogaret). The University hosts an
     award-winning business incubator, SETsquared, whose iCURE business development
     programme was instrumental in founding Ceryx Medical (Nogaret) with £500k pre-seed
     funding from InnovateUK.

 Highlights during the assessment period include:
 Horizon 2020 consortia. Four new major EU-funded grants have been led by Physics academics
 (Nogaret, Skryabin, Walker x2), with a total value of €17.7M. Details are given in section 4.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 GCRF funding. Bowman has attracted £1.6M of GCRF funding since his appointment as a Prize
 Fellow in 2017, including his GCRF-supported Royal Society URF (2018-), to develop high-
 quality, open source hardware for globally accessible science and healthcare.
 UK Quantum Technologies programme. Mosley and Nunn have received £1.1M from EPSRC,
 InnovateUK and through the Networked Quantum Information Technologies Hub for research on
 fibre-based single photon sources and quantum memories.
 Medical photonics. Birks, Knight and Stone have been awarded a total of £1.3M as part of the
 EPSRC-funded Proteus Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration, to develop new technology for
 rapid bedside diagnosis and management of lung diseases. Stone has also received £1.4M,
 including his EPSRC-UKRI Innovation Fellowship, to work on next-generation endoscopes.
 KTP awards. Blondel has received three KTP awards during the assessment period (2013-17,
 2015-18, 2019-22, total value £870k) for work on underwater acoustics projects with Seiche Ltd.
 New appointments. Dale, Nunn, Valev and Zeidler have been awarded a total of £2.9M from the
 Royal Society in support of their Fellowships. Bowman, Clark and Souslov have received
 EPSRC New Investigator awards (£550k total). Scowcroft and Wuyts have received STFC
 consolidated grant awards (£500k total); Van Eerten and Villforth have received H2020 awards
 (£280k total).

 University core facilities
 The University has organised its core, underpinning research equipment into managed Facilities.
 These are run by teams of research technical professionals who ensure that the operation of the
 equipment, analysis and data management are carried out to the highest standards. They induct
 all users in the appropriate use of equipment and chemical safety. The University invests in the
 facilities by underwriting the staff and space costs and by supporting equipment purchases and
 upgrades (through institutional contributions to external equipment grants or 100% funding from
 the University’s Major Equipment Fund (MEF)). All equipment is advertised on national and
 regional GW4 databases.

 Staff and students in Physics make extensive use of four of these facilities:
 •   CPPM operates a world-class optical fibre fabrication facility that underpins all of our fibre-
     based research and impact in photonics. A £225k upgrade was carried out in 2017, funded
     jointly from the MEF and by income generated by the Centre’s highly successful Continued
     Professional Development course in fibre fabrication.
 •   The David Bullett Nanofabrication Facility provides 150m2 of class 1000 cleanrooms that
     provide access to photo- and electron-beam lithography, thin film deposition, wet and dry
     etching, imaging, device characterisation and packaging. During the assessment period the
     facility has been upgraded with photolithography and thin film deposition systems with a total
     value of £985k, funded by EPSRC (strategic equipment and CDT equipment) and the MEF.
 •   The Material and Chemical Characterisation (MC2) facility provides high-end imaging (TEM,
     SEM, scanning probe microscopy, Raman, confocal and light-sheet microscopy) and
     characterisation (X-ray crystallography, mass spectrometry, NMR) equipment, and related
     specimen preparation. MC2 has attracted £7.2M of investment in equipment during the
     assessment period, from EPSRC (strategic equipment, core equipment, CDT equipment,
     ECR equipment), Welcome Trust, BBSRC and the MEF. Of particular importance to
     researchers in Physics are investments in TEM, SEM, X-ray crystallography and two-photon
     confocal microscopy (£3.7M total).
 •   The University’s high-performance computing (HPC) facility, Balena, provides an integrated
     environment for running compute, memory and data-intensive jobs. It has 3136 cores and is
     used extensively by researchers in the Astrophysics, Nanoscience and Theory groups.
     Balena is operated with a dual access model. Larger runs require funding, but spare capacity

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     for smaller runs is freely available to all researchers, supporting code development, pilot
     projects and occasional users. Crampin, Mucha-Kruczynski and Walker also make use of
     Isambard, an EPSRC-funded Tier 2 HPC facility operated by the GW4 alliance.

 Unit level Facilities
 Nanoscience hosts four scanning probe microscopes (cryo-STM, UHV-STM and two AFMs); two
 optical spectroscopy laboratories; four laboratories investigating the electronic properties of
 mesoscopic semiconductor, magnetic, superconducting and molecular devices; one laboratory
 for synthesizing and probing amorphous materials. Each laboratory has unique tools and know-
 how for structuring materials on the nanoscale using techniques including CVD growth, atomic
 engineering with local probes, molecular self-assembly and top-down nanofabrication. This
 equipment is shared within the group to support integrated research programmes on transition
 metal dichalcogenides and our condensed matter CDT training programme.

 The CPPM operates twelve photonics research laboratories as a pooled resource; they contain
 shared equipment including short-pulse laser systems, optical spectrum analysers and an ultra-
 wideband grating spectrograph. Major items of equipment purchased during the assessment
 period include four ultrashort-pulse mode-locked laser systems, two near-infrared single-photon
 detectors, a wideband optical spectrum analyser and an optical fibre fusion splicer.

 The Unit’s mechanical workshop provides key support to research laboratories by fabricating
 bespoke parts and precision tools. Workshop capability has been enhanced during the
 assessment period by a new CNC mill and an increase in technical staffing to 1.5 FTE.
 Prototypes are synthesized using our in-house laser cutting and 3-D printing facility. The
 University glassblower is a key resource for making bespoke glassware ranging from CVD tubes
 to vacuum parts.

 National and international facilities
 Astrophysics researchers are integrated into national and international consortia that have
 secured access to world-leading telescope facilities. Observing time is obtained through
 competitive peer review and through guaranteed observing time related to instrument
 development. The array of telescopes exploited spans the full electromagnetic spectrum and
 includes space- and ground-based facilities.
 •   Observing time awarded on NASA’s Great Observatories over the course of the review
     period includes 579 orbits on the Hubble Space Telescope (Schady, Scowcroft, Villforth,
     Wuyts), 290 hours on the Spitzer Space Telescope (Schady, Scowcroft) and 25 hours on the
     Chandra X-ray Observatory (Laskar, Schady).
 •   Among optical/near-infrared facilities operated by the European Southern Observatory
     (ESO), 2033 hours of VLT 8-metre telescope time were allocated during the assessment
     period (Schady, Villforth, Wuyts), and 1700 hours on ESO’s 2-4 metre class telescopes
     (MPG/ESO, NTT, VISTA: Laskar, Schady).
 •   Observations at millimetre wavelengths with ESO/ALMA (60 hours, Schady, Wuyts) and
     ESO/APEX (87 hours, Schady) were complemented with an allocation of 1320 hours on the
     IRAM/30m single-dish and IRAM/NOEMA millimetre array (Schady, Wuyts),
 •   Radio observations, mostly of a time sensitive nature, have been carried out for a total of 254
     hours with the NRAO Very Large Array in New Mexico, 272 hours with ATCA in Australia,
     and 322 hours using GMRT in India (Laskar, Mundell, Schady, van Eerten).
 •   Wuyts gained privileged access as External Collaborator to the SDSS-IV/MaNGA survey at
     Apache Point Observatory (10,000 galaxies over 2014-20) and to the Hyper Suprime-Cam
     Subaru Strategic Program (300 nights using the Japanese 8-metre Subaru telescope).



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These observations have critically underpinned the group’s research output, with 33 papers
 published within the assessment period receiving over 100 citations, and 21 papers ranking
 within the top 1% of most highly cited refereed papers in astronomy for their year of publication
 (source: ADS Abstract Service).

 Researchers in Nanoscience make extensive use of facilities on the research-income-in-kind list:
 ISIS (Bending, Salmon, Zeidler); Diamond (Ilie, Wolverson); ILL (Salmon, Zeidler); EMFL
 (Nogaret). The total value of the time on these facilities during the assessment period is over
 £3M. Additional usage of synchrotron and neutron facilities includes: Elettra synchrotron (Da
 Como, Ilie); Advanced Photon Source (Salmon, Zeidler); SOLEIL synchrotron (Wolverson);
 Spring-8 (Salmon, Zeidler); Laboratoire Leon Brillouin (Salmon); BER II – Helmholtz-Zentrum
 (Salmon).

 Future plans
 The Unit aims to substantially increase its research income over the next five years, to boost
 PDRA and PGR numbers and to further improve the equipment base. We will target the
 multidisciplinary priorities of UKRI, through the further development of critical mass in areas that
 cut across existing groups and disciplines (e.g. in Healthcare and Energy Materials) and by
 building on the activities and pooled infrastructure of the existing Centres, CNAN and CPPM.
 Over the last year, the Director of Research has organised sandpits for PIs centred on UKRI and
 EU priorities, and research days aimed to equip ECRs in particular with the tools to prepare
 large grant applications. Topics have included: co-funding from corporate bodies, understanding
 the mechanisms of commercialisation of research, partnering with alumni, moving from the
 sponsorship of PhD students to becoming stakeholders in research projects.

 In Astrophysics, access to recent and upcoming international facilities is critically important, and
 this has been a key driver in recruitment to the Bath group. In time domain astronomy, Schady is
 a member of the ENGRAVE (follow-up of gravitational wave events) and STARGATE (follow-up
 of gamma-ray bursts) collaborations, and Mundell of the Liverpool Telescope collaboration. In
 galaxy evolution, Wuyts is closely involved in surveys leveraging new instrumentation such as
 IRAM/NOEMA3D, VLT/MOONS and JWST/CEERS. Looking ahead to the UK’s strategic
 investment in the Rubin Observatory (formerly known as the LSST), the group includes four
 LSST:UK Affiliate PIs (Mundell, Scowcroft, Villforth, Wuyts). Funded by a strategic investment of
 £500k from the group’s start-up package, we will also join the 4MOST consortium, providing full
 data access rights with data acquisition extending over five years from end 2022. This will exploit
 the unique capabilities of a new, highly multiplexed fibre spectrograph mounted on, and
 benefitting from the wide field of view of ESO’s VISTA telescope and will enable cutting edge
 science covering all of the key research themes represented within the group.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 During the assessment period, category A staff have made important and wide-ranging
 contributions to the research base, the economy and society through their leadership of national
 and international programs, advisory role on steering panels and by communicating the
 significance of Physics research to the public.

 Senior appointments. Mundell: Chief Scientific Adviser at the Foreign and Commonwealth
 Office (2018-); STFC Council (2015-18). Knight: Fellow of the Royal Society (2019). Walker:
 Chair of UK Energy Research Centre’s Solar Commission (2019); interdisciplinary advisor on
 REF2021 subpanel 9 (2018-).

 Prizes, Awards & Fellowships. Birks & Knight: Rank Prize for Optoelectronics (2018);
 Bowman: Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 Fellowship (2015-18), Royal Society URF

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2018-), IoP Clifford Paterson Medal and Prize (2018); Dale: Royal Society URF (2017-); van
 Eerten: Alexander von Humboldt Postdoctoral Fellowship (2013-16); Knight (2019) & Wuyts
 (2017): Chinese Academy of Sciences President’s International Fellowship for Distinguished
 Scientists; Mucha-Kruczynski: IoP James Clerk Maxwell Medal (2017); Mundell: Everywoman in
 Technology Woman of the Year Award (2016); Nunn: Royal Society URF (2013-19); Salmon &
 Zeidler: Gordon S Fulcher Distinguished Scholar Award, Corning Inc (2016-17); Schady: Sofia
 Kovalewskaja award of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (2012-18); Stone: EPSRC
 UKRI Innovation Fellowship (2018-21), KTP Best of the Best Engineering Excellence award
 (2015); Valev: Royal Society URF (2014-22); Wuyts: Web of Science Highly Cited Researchers
 List (2019-20); Zeidler: Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship (2015-20), IoP/RSC BTM
 Willis Prize (2014), Sir Alastair Pilkington Award, Society of Glass Technology (2016).

 Major research consortia
 Collaboration is essential to the vitality and visibility of our research: 70% of our submitted
 outputs have international collaborators and a further 19% a national collaborator. Senior
 academics are supported to lead major research consortia, and ECRs are encouraged to join
 consortia with a view to lead one. Many of the funded programs highlighted below are highly
 interdisciplinary, particularly those involving Nogaret, Stone and Walker.

 Leadership. Gorbach: PI of EU-funded LIMACONA network, investigating light-matter coupling
 in composite nanostructures (9 institutions, 2013-16, €250k); Nogaret: PI of EU-funded
 CResPace consortium for developing adaptive bioelectronics (8 academic and industrial
 partners, 2017-22, €4.9M); Skryabin: PI of EU-funded MICROCOMB ITN in optical frequency
 combs in microresonators (16 institutions, 2019-22, €4.0M); Walker: PI of EU-funded MAESTRO
 ITN on the exploitation of perovskite materials in solar power and efficient lighting (17 partners,
 2017-21, €3.8M), PI of EU-funded collaboration EXTMOS on organic device modelling (12
 partners, 2105-19, €5.0M), PI of EU-funded DESTINY ITN on stable dye-sensitized solar cells
 (11 partners, 2012-16, €3.8M). Bending and Walker are co-leads of two CDTs (see section 2).

 Membership. van Eerten: EU-funded AHEAD2020 consortium in High Energy Astrophysics
 (2020-24); Mundell, Scowcroft, Villforth, Wuyts: Affiliate PIs for LSST; Schady: ENGRAVE
 collaboration on optical follow-up of gravitational wave events (2018-), STARGATE collaboration
 on optical follow-up of gamma-ray bursts (2018-), THESEUS consortium developing space
 telescope mission for ESA (2017-); Wuyts: IRAM-funded PHIBSS project (2012-18), KMOS3D
 team (2012-19), MOONS science team (2018-20); NASA-funded CANDELS project (2009-19).
 Bending: EPSRC-funded critical mass SFM consortium on superconductor / ferromagnetic
 heterostructures (2012-16); Birks: EU-funded OPTICON consortium on optical fibres for
 astronomical instrumentation (2013-20); Blondel: Co-chair of the Arctic Acoustic Environments
 group of the International Quiet Ocean Experiment (2107-20); Brook: Work package lead for
 ERC and STFC funded TORCH collaboration, developing detectors for the LHC upgrade
 (2012-); Mosley, Nunn: Quantum Technologies Hubs for Networked Quantum Information
 Technologies (workpackage lead on photonics, 2014-19) and Quantum Computation and
 Simulation (2019-24); Nunn: EU-funded QCUMbER consortium on ultrashort light pulses and
 pulse trains (2015-18), EU-funded COST action on nanoscale quantum optics (2014-18);
 Skryabin: EU-funded RISE project Soliring (2016-18); Stone, Birks, Knight: EPSRC-funded
 PROTEUS collaboration on optical fibres for medical devices (2013-22); Walker: EU-funded
 EoCoE collaboration on the production, storage and management of clean energy (2015-21),
 EPSRC-funded Supergen Solar Network and SUPERSOLAR solar energy hub.

 Contributions to the economy and society
 Engagement with industry and third sector organisations is a core part of the Unit’s impact
 strategy, leading to the submitted case studies and the burgeoning examples of impact

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 discussed in section 1. In addition, academics are engaged in a wide range of translational
 projects through CASE studentships, consultancies and industrial funding.

 Bending: Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology (supporting a CDT studentship); Blondel: NPL
 (PhD funding 2020-23); DSTL, AWE (iCASE PhD funding 2019-23); Bowman: Tech for Trade
 (UK based charity producing and trialling microscopes in Nairobi); Mosley: Chronos Technology
 Ltd and TMD Technologies Ltd, collaboration to develop compact atomic clocks (2015-date);
 Mucha-Kruczynski: CheckRisk Ltd, a Bath-based SME, funds a PhD studentship on analysing
 stock market crashes as critical transitions in complex systems; Nogaret: Chiesi Ltd funded three
 consultancies and a £140k project on microfluid chips; Nunn: Co-founder and Chief Technology
 Officer of ORCA Computing, a start-up company based on noise-free quantum memory
 technology and aimed at building a platform for photonic quantum computing (funding: £650k in
 venture capital and £1M from InnovateUK); Salmon: funding for PhD studentships from AWE
 (2015-19), ILL (2013-16), ISIS/Diamond (2016-19), Corning Inc (2019-22); Valev & Wolverson:
 Collaborative project with Renishaw (2019-23), including iCASE studentship and donation of a
 Raman microscope (~£200k); Wadsworth: Spectrum Technologies (CASE studentship), NPL
 (funded metrology project).

 Public engagement
 The Unit has greatly increased its public engagement activities since REF2014 thanks to the
 appointment of a research promotion champion (Valev) and an Ogden Outreach Fellow (Emma
 Osborne) to promote the uptake of Physics by under-represented groups in secondary
 education.

 Public exhibitions: Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition, 2016 (Mosley & Wadsworth),
 2019 (Bowman & Dale); Bath Taps into Science, annually (Bowman, Dale, Mosley, Wadsworth,
 Valev); School Physicist of the Year Awards 2017 (Bending); WeTheCurious, Bristol, 2018
 (Blondel); Quantum Technology Showcase, 2015 (Nunn).

 Talks, broadcasts, articles: 16 academics have been invited to deliver public talks about their
 research. Venues include Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution, Pint of Science and other
 festivals, Institute of Physics. Mundell featured on BBC Radio 4’s A History of Ideas in 2018,
 discussing the Big Bang; Walker presented a TEDx talk in 2014 on organic light emitting diodes
 and photovoltaic devices. Blondel, Clark, Mosley, Mundell, Nogaret, Scowcroft, Valev, Walker
 and Wuyts have contributed articles to The Conversation; Mundell’s 12 articles have attracted
 1.19M page views.

 Press releases: Over 35 press releases highlighting the Unit’s research have been made,
 supported by the research promotion champion and the University’s communication team. Two
 highlights are:
 •   “Bloodless revolution in diabetes monitoring” was based on Ilie’s Nature Nanotechnology 13,
     504, (2018) paper. It was picked up by over 340 news organisations worldwide, Ilie was
     interviewed on BBC Radio 4’s Today and the research was featured on the news feed of the
     EPSRC and MRC. The paper has an Altmetric score of 1092.
 •   “World first as artificial neurons developed to cure chronic diseases” was based on Nogaret’s
     Nature Communications 10, 5309, (2019) paper. It was picked up by over 615 news
     organisations worldwide, with a potential audience reach of 1.6bn, and an Advertising
     Equivalent Value of £14.8M. Broadcast highlights included interviews on BBC Radio 4, BBC
     Radio 2, BBC World Service and Australia’s ABC. The paper has an Altmetric score of 1384.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Outreach to schools and educational projects:
 •   Since 2016 Valev has led an outreach programme based on his research in photonics and
     metamaterials and supported by the Royal Society, STFC, Thorlabs, Zeiss and Edmund. 56
     workshops have been run with year 5 and 6 pupils in local primary schools; over 1500
     children have participated. 16 PhD students have been involved in delivering the workshops,
     along with Rusimova and Zeidler. Valev received the Vice-Chancellor's Award for Public
     Engagement with Research in recognition of this work (2018).
 •   Takashina leads a project on the propulsion of Leidenfrost droplets on structured surfaces.
     With MPhys students, he produced videos (released in Autumn 2013) of water droplets
     travelling uphill and around the “Leidenfrost maze”, a demonstrator designed for public
     engagement. These were featured on Science Friday’s YouTube (2.8M views, >1300
     comments) and Facebook channels (6.6M views). The Leidenfrost maze was demonstrated
     on BBC’s QI in 2016.

 Membership of advisory groups and grant, fellowship & facility time panels
 As discussed in section 3, members of the Unit are encouraged to work with funding
 organisations and professional bodies to influence policies and forthcoming initiatives, and to
 join grant, fellowship and facility time panels when the opportunity arises.

 Advisory groups. Bending: UK Management Committee on EU COST Actions, NanoSC (to
 2016), NanoCoHybri (2017-20), Chair of Strategic Advisory Board of EPSRC CDT in Compound
 Semiconductor Manufacturing (2019-24); Bird: EPSRC Strategic Advisory Team on Research
 Infrastructure (2013-18), Chair of high-level group overseeing EPSRC’s National Research
 Facilities (2018-); Blondel: Scientific Advisory Board for Centre for Innovative Ultrasound
 Solutions, Norway (2017-20), Management Board for STFC’s Global Network on Sustainability
 in Space (GNOSIS, 2019-), Underwater Acoustics committee of the British Standards Institute
 (2012-); Brook: League of European Research Universities Deans of Natural Sciences Working
 Group and a major author of LERU report "The Strength of Collaborative Research for Discovery
 in Horizon 2020" (2016); Mundell: Chair of STFC’s Skills and Engagement Advisory Board
 (2015-18), UK SKA Oversight Committee (2014-15) and Programme Board (2015-), SKA
 International Science and Engineering Advisory Committee (2016-); Salmon: Member (non-core)
 of STFC Science Board (2014-17); Scowcroft: LSST:UK Executive Group (2017-19); Walker:
 Team Leader, EU Materials Modelling Council (2016-19); Zeidler: Society of Glass Technology’s
 Basic Science and Technology Committee (2015-), International Commission on Glass’
 Technical Committee on Diffraction (2019-).

 Officers of IoP groups: Superconductivity group (Bending, Chair, to 2015); Nonlinear and
 complex physics group (Nogaret, Treasurer, to 2016).

 Grant awarding panels: Andrews (EPSRC, 2); Bird (EPSRC, 9, with 2 as Chair); Crampin
 (EPSRC, 7); Brook (Chair of STFC project review panel for GridPP renewal (2015), Canada
 Foundation of Innovation’s Subatomic Physics Review panels, 3 including one as Chair (2020));
 Mosley (EPSRC, Royal Society); Mundell (ERC Starter and Consolidated Grants 2013-17);
 Nogaret (H2020 Coordination Actions); Salmon (ESRF, ISIS, J-PARC); Schady (ESO); Villforth
 (Liverpool Telescope (2015-18) and Hubble Space Telescope); Wadsworth (Royal Society
 Newton Fellowships, 2014-20); Walker (EPSRC, 8, with 3 as Chair, and EU H2020, 3); Wuyts
 (ESO (3), Chinese Academy of Sciences (2), Subaru telescope (2)); Zeidler (Royal Society
 Newton Fellowship and Newton Exchange Scheme (2017-22), ILL (2019-20)).

 Editorial board membership. Bending (Physica E Low Dimensional Systems), Blondel (Journal
 of Marine Science and Engineering), Bowman (Journal of Open Hardware), Nogaret (Scientific


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Reports), Nunn (EJP Quantum Technology), Valev (Proceedings of the Royal Society A), Walker
 (Scientific Reports), Zeidler (MRS Bulletin).

 Conference organisation. 22 category A staff have participated in the organisation of 84
 national and international conferences as members of organising, scientific and programme
 committees. The University was due to host the National Astronomy Meeting of the Royal
 Astronomical Society in July 2020; this has been postponed to 2021 because of COVID-19.

 Invited talks. Category A staff have given over than 250 invited talks at workshops and
 conferences; further invitations received since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic are
 currently on hold. Highlights include:
 van Eerten, 6th Fermi symposium, Washington DC (2016); Gamma-ray bursts in the gravitational
 era, Yokohama (2019); Knight, Optic2015 Taiwan; Asia communications and photonics (2017);
 Mundell, Plenary ’20 years of Science Diplomacy’, World Science Forum, Budapest, (2019);
 Plenary ‘The frontiers of knowledge’, Congres Futuro, Santiago, Chile (2019); Nogaret,
 RISDA2017, 7th International Symposium on Data Assimilation, Kobe (2017); Salmon, 14th
 international conference on the Physics of non-crystalline solids PNCS-XIV (2015); 8th
 international conference on borate crystals and melts (2014); Wolverson, Energy Materials
 Nanotechnology, Spain (2015); Wuyts, The formation and evolution of exponential disks,
 Flagstaff (2014); Galactic dynamics in the era of large surveys, Shanghai (2019).




                                                                                           Page 18
