Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 The Ruskin is uniquely positioned as an intimately-scaled art school (130 students, including 25
 PGRs) embedded within a highly research-intensive university. Its dynamic, interdisciplinary
 structure (see infrastructure section) allows artists and theorists to work closely together and to
 respond quickly and flexibly to developments within the wider contexts of the university, the art
 industry, and an increasingly uncertain international climate. These overlapping circles of
 influence and knowledge exchange create fertile ground for rigorous, impactful research. In
 particular, we aim to lead by example in artistic research that intersects with politics, with
 psychology, with philosophy, and with medical sciences. That research is actively supported
 within the School by a Director of Research, a Research Committee, and termly research
 forums; within the Humanities Division by a Humanities Divisional Research Committee, a
 Research Facilitator, an Impact Officer, and The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities
 (TORCH); and through the School’s outreach activities, such as the Institute of Visual Research,
 the Oxford Artistic and Practice Based Research Platform (OAR), diverse industrial
 commissions, and numerous exhibitions (see section 4).

 With only nine postholders (7.16 FTE), we have, in this census period, renewed half our
 permanent faculty, replacing those who have retired or departed with a fresh group that allows
 us to strengthen common research themes around migration, art and politics, North/ South
 relationships, and intersectional feminism. Our dynamic researchers, supported by the Ruskin
 and the Humanities Division, collaborate with industry, network with partners, and engage with
 the public. The impact of our research has been well recognised in this census period: among
 our six studio postholders, two (Sworn 2015 and Kiaer 2018) received Philip Leverhulme Prizes;
 two (Ashery 2017, Martin 2018) have received Jarman Awards; Ashery received a Turner
 Bursary in 2020. Within a newly-designed, award-winning building, the Ruskin has quickly
 remade itself as home to leading-edge research across a faculty committed to examining identity
 in multiple forms, and to collaborating with less-frequently-engaged communities. Enhancing
 diversity—of staffing, but also of ideas—has emerged as a strong, new priority in the school.


 Achievement of Strategic Aims for research and impact 2014-2021

 In 2014 we identified our core research strategy as: ‘to provide a framework that offers support
 for individual and group initiatives while identifying particular research clusters that can be
 developed through targeted appointments, research seminars and network programmes, and
 appropriately scaled funding bids.’ Since that time, the Ruskin has achieved and furthered its
 strategic aims for research by: securing project and fellowship funding from Arts Council
 England, the British Academy, the European Commission, the Leverhulme Trust, and the
 Wellcome Trust; winning industrial commissions for solo exhibitions and production funds from
 major public galleries (Zeitz Museum, Johannesburg; Whitechapel, London; Musee d’Art
 Modern, Paris; Barbican, London); supporting the development of postdoctoral scholars through


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 early career fellowship schemes; enhancing impact in collaboration with the Humanities Impact
 Officer; and promoting equality and diversity across the school.

 While continuing to support and encourage permanent staff to pursue targeted research funding
 opportunities, and ensuring appropriate sabbatical time, the School has also focused its
 energies on supporting early career opportunities through five recent Leverhulme Early-career
 Fellows, Schaar (completed 2015), Massouras (completed 2017), Terracciano (completed
 2018), Taylor (completed 2019), and Smith (current).

 The Ruskin encourages a collaborative model of research in which its nine permanent faculty
 members are free to develop complementary, independent and distinct research trajectories that
 remain responsive to developments within academia, the art world, and the international
 landscape. To help facilitate, widen and connect our networks, in 2017 Ruskin postholders
 inaugurated a new termly forum for presenting and exchanging research plans within informal
 research planning sessions. These strategic sessions, complementing existing infrastructural
 support in the School and Humanities Division, have enriched thinking about our artistic
 research; for example, colleagues helped Kambalu brainstorm his shortlisted proposal for the
 Fourth Plinth in Trafalgar Square.


 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 Through a strategic engagement with industry and research development, the Ruskin will
 support individual research trajectories to enhance the School’s interdisciplinary and
 transdisciplinary strengths.

 Research Excellence: Within a flourishing, interdisciplinary environment, we will remain at the
 forefront of artistic research, including the embrace of new technologies. As we continue to
 recruit international research faculty and students of the highest calibre, we will support faculty,
 and use Humanities Divisional resources (such as TORCH), to develop funding applications that
 have impact worldwide.

 Income: We will pursue an approach that enables the School to maintain a balance between
 ambitious research, supported by major funding, and delivering its core teaching commitments.
 Given the small core FTE of academic staff, this means maintaining or increasing a diversity of
 funding sources.

 Themes: We will consolidate emerging areas of expertise through active recruitment of postdocs
 that support theme areas, including art’s engagement with intersectional feminism and with the
 politics of North/South relationships.

 Knowledge Exchange: We will form strategic KE collaborations with other world-leading
 institutions, including the Wellcome Trust, with whom we have discussed a joint postdoctoral
 placement, and industrial (art world and media) partners, including the Tate. We will continue to
 pursue TORCH-sponsored KE Fellowships, including those that encourage anti-racist
 approaches within the arts sector.

 Impact: We will continue to engage with the University’s commitment to create impact that
 ‘through new understanding . . . leads to cultural, societal, political, and economic change’
 including in the Global South. We will work with all the Ruskin’s external engagement partners


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Divisional and University-level, including the KE, Public Engagement with Research; Business
 Engagement Partnerships teams and Innovation, as well as professional, artistic and media
 contacts) to map the current impact landscape of the Ruskin’s research clusters and to build on
 these to foster further cultural change in the UK and internationally. We will continue, in
 collaboration with the Humanities Impact Officer, to train faculty in tracking and archiving impact
 so that the school’s thriving public engagement and impact activities translate sharply.

 Equality and Diversity: We will continue to promote, in visible forms, diversity and equality
 through our research questions and methodologies. Our rigorous pursuit of an anti-racist agenda
 will make the Ruskin a more inclusive place to research – an aim backed up by our priority to
 fundraise for more BAME PhD researchers. Through recruitment at all levels and in all roles
 within the Ruskin, we aim to be a leader in bringing diverse voices front and centre within an
 institution better known for its traditions.

 Open Access and Research Integrity: The Ruskin’s reflection on research methodologies will
 continue through initiatives like the Oxford Artistic and Practice Based Research Forum (OAR).
 Our website chronicles updates in research, and we will spotlight selected artworks for each of
 our studio postholders, who will continue to describe and document their research on individual
 websites. We will continue to use the Oxford Research Archive online repository (ORA) so that
 our scholarly work is available to all. We expect high standards of research integrity, and require
 staff to adhere to the University’s ethical, legal and professional frameworks as described in the
 University’s Institutional Environment Statement.

 Covid-19: We will continue to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on research by moving
 research events online, with the support of TORCH, and by holding firm to our sabbatical policy
 and to our strategic pursuit of research applications.


 How these aims relate to the structure of the Ruskin

 The Ruskin bridges two worlds: a collegiate university, and an internationally connected art
 world. At the fruitful intersection between the two, we seek to maximise opportunities for
 research excellence, income streams, knowledge exchange, impact, and equality and diversity.

 The Ruskin is distinguished from other art schools in its closeness and responsiveness to other
 parts of the University. The Ruskin has strong intellectual and practical connections with other
 specialisms across the University of Oxford (including the Department of History of Art; the
 postgraduate programme in Film Studies; School of Pathology; Departments of Astrophysics,
 Biochemistry, Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics; Department of Education) and draws on the
 extraordinary resources provided by the University’s museums and libraries, including the
 Bodleian (the second largest library in the UK); the Ashmolean (Britain’s oldest university
 museum with important collections of art and archaeology); Christ Church Picture Gallery (an
 important collection of old master paintings); the renowned ethnographic collection of the Pitt
 Rivers; the Museum of the History of Science and the Museum of Natural History; and finally one
 of the oldest scientific gardens in the world, the University of Oxford Botanic Garden. An
 example of artistic research arising from these relationships is postholder and Turner Prize
 winner Price’s collaboration with the Ashmolean and Pitt Rivers Museums to produce A
 RESTORATION, a moving image and photographic installation first exhibited in Oxford and
 subsequently internationally.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research is also supported through internal and Divisional structures, described below in the
 infrastructure section.

 Our faculty are highly visible members of the art community nationally and globally. Apart from
 winning prestigious national prizes (see above), studio faculty during this REF cycle have
 enjoyed thirteen solo exhibitions in major public galleries, represented in our chosen outputs,
 and seven further solo exhibitions for which there was insufficient room to nominate – for
 example, Kambalu’s films at the Schirn Kunsthalle in Frankfurt am Main in 2015; Sworn’s
 exhibition at Museum of the Himalayas, Shanghai in 2019; and Palmer’s commission at the
 Yorkshire Sculpture Park in 2018. Included in our outputs are six artistic monographs and four
 scholarly monographs. Gardner has recently succeeded as a co-investigator in a Horizon
 Europe consortium (total budget EUR3M): Art and Research on Transformations of Individuals
 and Societies. ARTIS is a first-of-its-kind collaboration to explore, empirically capture, and co-
 create individual and societal change via the transformative power of art.


 Ensuring the vitality and sustainability of impact

 We create impact by reaching less-frequently-engaged communities, tackling difficult issues,
 and making wider contributions to society, aided by Oxford’s base of institutional support
 including TORCH, Knowledge Exchange (KE) Fellowships, The Institute for Visual Research,
 and other infrastructural resources detailed in this document.

 Collaborations expand the impact of our research, creating opportunities for others –Including
 often-inaccessible groups – outside the Ruskin. Impact is fostered, structured, and embedded
 within our research culture through ongoing, interdisciplinary exchanges, and knowledge
 exchange with other industries – all supported by School and Divisional resources. Such
 ongoing exchange between our faculty and those in other sectors, including the art industry, the
 film industry, and the medical sector (see Section 4), create access to collaborations and traction
 for future impact. In turn, these sectors look to us for research quality and access to new
 audiences. A prominent example is our growing relationship to and impact on the Wellcome
 Trust, which forms one of our case studies (Ashery).

 The Ruskin recognises impact as something that requires time and resources and is actively
 supported in developing impactful research by the Humanities Division. The Ruskin Director of
 Research chairs its Research Committee and sits on the Humanities Divisional Research
 Committee that helps with formulation of strategy, meets challenges proactively, and responds
 to a larger national and international research environment. The Ruskin builds impact into
 research development at the application stage through its active dialogue with a specialist
 Research Facilitator; project plans are generated jointly with impact in mind. We collaborate with
 the Humanities Division Impact Officer, who leads workshops for and dialogues with our
 postholders; this Impact Officer has, for instance, creatively brainstormed with postholder Martin
 a series of knowledge exchange workshops with professionals in the heritage, gaming and
 health sectors to enhance her forthcoming research on immersive videogame design. Together
 we have also found innovative ways in which artists might collaborate with institutions in order to
 evaluate the significance of impact, adding self-directed elements to institutional impact
 evaluation mechanisms.
 TORCH provides a forum for enhanced impact. KE Fellowships, for example, broaden the reach
 of research and facilitate a public dialogue that pushes beyond the academic sphere. These
 fellowships build platforms that enable us to initiate further impactful collaborations and to inform

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 urgent social debate (e.g. Martin’s KE Fellowships on anorexia, and trauma transmission
 embedded these issues within collaborations with Theatre O, for maximally impactful
 communication).
 The Ruskin employs many visiting tutors who enrich the Ruskin’s aim to promote diverse
 practices. Lynette Yiadom-Boakye, for example, who paints portraits of fictional, black subjects
 recently surveyed in a mid-career retrospective at Tate Britain, was nominated for the Turner
 Prize and is currently the sole artist sitting on the board of the Serpentine Gallery. Gil Leung,
 whose practice engages with intersectional feminism, enjoyed a solo commission at Chisenhale
 Gallery. These VTs, alongside core Ruskin faculty and PhDs, marry socially engaged practice
 with industry engagement to create social impact around diversity of representation.


 How our case studies relate to our approach to achieving impact

 Our two Impact Case Studies, Ashery’s Misbehaving Bodies and Martin’s Mirror-Touch: working
 with synaesthetes to celebrate neurodiversity and empathy, embody the Ruskin’s strategy for
 achieving social impact via research that, through its very process, engages less-frequently-
 engaged social groups. Through these case studies, and in many of our submitted outputs
 (Gardner, Kambalu, Palmer, Smith, Sworn, Terracciano), we have worked with specific
 communities to make their experiences palpable and visible. Both case studies have been
 supported (and later exhibited) by the Wellcome Trust and fulfil the Trust’s aims of supporting
 the health and wellbeing of society, including mental health. Both projects grapple with difficult
 issues, including how to maintain human connection within a culture of information overload, and
 model ways of navigating the increasing mediatisation of life. They also enabled their exhibiting
 galleries to reach new audiences. Ashery’s project prompted members of the general public to
 confront the political complexity of illness and death, starting from an intimate core engagement
 with a dozen collaborators living with life-limiting conditions. Martin’s project similarly reached a
 very wide audience to raise awareness about a little-known neurological condition, through core
 work with members of that community. Both projects promoted the value of these under-
 represented groups.



 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 We have sought to increase the diversity of faculty through the appointment of new,
 internationally distinguished researchers. Panels are chaired by the Humanities Divisional
 Equality and Diversity Lead and are actively mindful of implicit bias. Appointments made during
 the census period include: Kiaer, Kambalu, Palmer, Ashery, Triming (a departmental lecturer to
 cover Kiaer’s Leverhulme), and postdocs Taylor, Terracciano and Smith. All research staff are
 encouraged and supported in pursuit of funding and impact enhancement by peer exchange in
 Research Committee and by institution-level administrative support at TORCH. Each new
 member of staff is mentored by senior staff, and meets with both the Director of Research and
 the Humanities Research Facilitator to discuss funding bids. Sabbatical is taken each seventh
 term (or accrued for longer periods), and postholders are encouraged to accept visiting
 professorships (in this REF cycle: Bull, Gaiger, and Gardner). The University’s maternity leave
 policy (taken up at the Ruskin in this cycle by Sworn and Martin) is generous, allowing six
 months of paid leave and six months of statutory pay. Martin’s return to work was supported by a


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 flexible working arrangement that balanced the demands of parenthood with both remote and in-
 person working.

 At the Ruskin, we are committed to supporting the career pipeline by enabling early- and mid-
 career researchers to move in strong upward trajectories. After these colleagues have left the
 university to take up another position, we have been able to make further excellent
 appointments, refreshing our faculty while maintaining our intimate size. For example,
 Terracciano, a former Leverhulme ECF, returned to the Ruskin in 2017 as a Mellon Trust-funded
 Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Global South, based jointly at the Ruskin, TORCH, and Wadham
 College, and has since been successful in securing a permanent lectureship at the University of
 Manchester’s History of Art department. Our current Leverhulme ECF Smith received an
 internal award from the university’s John Fell Fund (supported via an annual transfer from the
 university press) to run an international symposium leading towards her book about intimate
 affective relationships across cultures; Smith also received a British Academy Small Grant to
 fund an event to work on a special issue of a peer-reviewed journal to be titled Art,
 Representation and Ecological Emergency in Guyana and its Diasporas. Sworn moved from her
 first academic position at the Ruskin, as Associate Professor, to full Professor at Northumbria
 University. Price, whose John Fell Award allowed her to work with curators at the Ashmolean to
 photograph, for the first time, the Arthur Evans Albums, moved to a full Research Professorship
 at Kingston University but continued to supervise Ruskin PhD researchers. Just past the current
 census period, Kreider, a poet and artist, has joined the Ruskin faculty as our new Head of
 School.

 For five years, the Ruskin co-organised an annual series of Visiting Professorships in
 Contemporary Art via the Humanitas Programme. The Visiting Professors in Contemporary Art
 included artists whose practices achieve enormous impact globally: Maya Lin (2015), Vik
 Muniz (2014), William Kentridge (2013), and Shirin Neshat (2012). In addition to giving widely-
 attended lectures at the Saïd Business School and Modern Art Oxford, Visiting Professors spent
 a day with Ruskin students, giving seminars, and participating in tutorials with graduate and
 undergraduate students. Performance art luminary and Kyoto Prize winner Joan Jonas lectured
 at the Blavatnik School of Government in 2019, and took part in a studio dialogue with Ruskin
 students.

 The School also offers artists and academics the opportunity to spend between one term and a
 whole year as part of the Ruskin community as an Academic Visitor. Some recent Academic
 Visitors include Stefan Niklas (University of Cologne, supported by the Fritz Thysen Foundation),
 Tirdad Zolghadr (Summer Academy Paul Klee in Bern and KW Institute for Contemporary Art in
 Berlin), and Shan Chen (Fine Art College, Sichuan University).


 Support, training and supervision of PhD students

 Integrated Research Culture: The Ruskin Doctoral Programme is designed to support research
 in contemporary art making (through the practice-led PhD) and contemporary art history and
 theory (through the PhD by written thesis only). The programme supports interdisciplinary
 research by cultivating and maintaining strong links and dialogue with other University
 Departments and University Museums (see section 1).

 The PhD Research Seminar has focused on innovative models of contemporary art research,
 emphasising collaborations between artists, writers, and curators. A series of weekly ‘Ruskin


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Seminars’ complement students’ independent research by offering an opportunity to
 present and debate research projects in a small workshop format. Graduate supervision is
 monitored by termly Supervision reports, of which the Director of Graduate Studies has
 oversight, as well as discussion at termly departmental Graduate Studies Committees.

 Funding: The Ruskin’s doctoral students are eligible for AHRC awards (previously through the
 Oxford AHRC scheme and latterly through the Open-Oxford-Cambridge Doctoral Training
 Partnership), and internal Clarendon funding, along with other graduate students in the Division.
 In recent years the School has been successful in securing such funds, with nine currently
 enrolled students holding awards. Students on the art history and theory strand of the PhD are
 also eligible for an Ertegun Scholarship, funded by a generous bequest from the Mica and
 Ahmet Ertegun foundation; a 2017 entrant secured this award. A 2015 entrant has been funded
 through the AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award (CDA) scheme with the Imperial War Museums
 as the institutional partner. Throughout the current REF period, the School has also offered one
 smaller annual bursary (GBP3,000) from the Inger Lawrance fund. All PhD students may apply
 to the School’s Graduate Studies Committee for funding to support research costs, with an
 annual maximum of GBP500. A new BAME scholarship enabled by TORCH’s ‘Humanities and
 Identities’ grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation supports one PhD for full funding (home
 fees plus stipend) across three years.

 Training: The Ruskin runs annually our own iteration of the University’s Preparation for Learning
 and Teaching at Oxford (or PLTO), which introduces students to teaching and learning in
 contemporary art so that they may be added to the school’s teaching register. PhD students
 attend training sessions on leading group critiques, with further opportunities to lead in the
 Ruskin’s well-developed ‘crit’ programme; attend sessions on art history and theory teaching that
 cover an introduction to the curriculum, essays and examining, course design, and teaching
 strategies, with further opportunities to observe teaching at tutorials; and attend sessions
 dedicated to individual studio tutorials, focusing on one-to-one teaching methods. In addition,
 PhD students are encouraged to attend lectures of related disciplines across the Humanities and
 Social Sciences.

 PhD students also have the opportunity to take part in the Developing Learning and Teaching
 programme (or DLT) offered by the Humanities Division. If completed it leads to an award that is
 recognised at universities across the UK: Associate Fellow of the Higher Education Academy
 (HEA). The Ruskin is then able to arrange mentored teaching opportunities apart from group
 crits, including art history and theory tutorials, and studio tutorials.

 Finally, PhD students can train with the Humanities Impact Officer as an ‘impact evaluator’,
 enabling them to engage with impact in a supportive and creative environment through which
 they can nurture professional relationships. The Impact Officer held a workshop for all impact
 evaluators in February 2020 to help them understand how the skills they were developing in their
 REF support work were transferrable in other academic, academic-adjacent and non-academic
 contexts.

 Achievement: 24 PhDs have been awarded by the Ruskin during this census period – a marked
 increase since 2014, when 7 had completed, and a reflection of gathering momentum since the
 programme was inaugurated in October 2006. Although the student body is small, it is highly
 visible within the field of contemporary art. The current prestige of the programme is reflected in
 our stringent admissions standards: in our last admission cycle, 74 applications were made for 5
 places.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We actively support PhDs in their careers; contributions within curation and the creation of major
 exhibitions are often piloted by the Ruskin’s support through Humanities Divisional seed funding.
 Current PhD researcher Shawanda Corbett was one of ten artists awarded a Turner Bursary in
 2020 for her outstanding practice combining ceramics, paintings and performance. Corbett had
 previously been supported by seed funding for her project Women in Craft from the university’s
 Humanities Cultural Programme. Curator and current PhD researcher Madeleine Kennedy built
 towards her exhibition The Enchanted Interior at the Laing Art Gallery – which revealed the dark
 side of domesticity in Victorian Art – through a Humanities Heritage Seed Fund Award.

 Other doctoral researchers in Ruskin have introduced their research to the professional world
 beyond the School. Brook Andrew was appointed Artistic Director of the 22nd edition of the
 Biennale of Sydney, the longest running in the Asia-Pacific region and one of the world’s four
 more important art biennials alongside Venice, Istanbul and Sao Paolo. Andrew applied a
 curatorial strategy developed in his artistic research to shine ‘a light on the active, stable and rich
 pre-existing collaborations and connectivity of Indigenous and Edge cultures, to work together
 with artists, collectives and communities’. He recruited former Ruskin PhD researcher Jessyca
 Hutchens to work as his Curatorial Assistant, and invited current Ruskin PhD researcher Hannah
 Jones to present her artwork The Oweds in the Biennial, exploring the African diaspora via her
 ‘ongoing attempts to own a narrative, one that is simultaneously joyful, traumatic, depressive,
 and hopeful’. Meantime, Christian Thompson (PhD, 2018) was made an Officer in the General
 Division of the Order of Australia in the 2018 Queen's Birthday Honours (Australia), for
 ‘outstanding service to the visual arts as a sculptor, photographer, video and performance artist,
 and as a role model for young Indigenous artists.

 Oraib Toukan (PhD, 2019) is currently a Fellow at EUME (Europe in the Middle East—the
 Middle East in Europe), a multi-disciplinary research program at the Berlin-based Forum
 Transregionale Studien. The research that constituted her PhD at the Ruskin will culminate in
 two major outputs: a book, titled Cruelling Images / Uncruelling Images published by Archive
 Books, Berlin, and a public exhibition at KW Institute for Contemporary Art, Berlin.

 Curtis Winter (PhD, 2020) won the Best Film Award at the 2020 Berlin Film Festival in the
 Encounters Competition for his feature film and PhD project The Works and Days (of Tayoko
 Shiojiri in the Shiotani Basin). Nicola Brandt (PhD, 2015) published her PhD research as a
 monograph, Landscapes between Then and Now: Recent Histories in Southern African
 Photography, Video and Performance Art (Routledge, 2020). Vid Simonti (PhD, 2016) has
 published articles on the aesthetics of contemporary, socially engaged art in multiple peer
 reviewed journals, including Oxford Art Journal, Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism, and
 European Journal of Philosophy. Other accomplishments include fellowships, residencies, solo
 and group exhibitions, conference presentations, book chapters, and further awards and
 published academic papers; further monographs are in preparation.

 The Ruskin’s appetite for reflecting on its own research methodologies finds expression in an
 open-access, online publication created by PhD students: OAR: The Oxford Artistic and
 Practice-Based Research Platform. This online journal reflectively and performatively explores
 what might constitute practice-based and artistic research, including moving image works,
 sound-based projects, research papers, visual and textual interventions, by Ruskin PhDs,
 Ruskin faculty, and other luminaries in the field of practice-based research, such as art writer
 Professor Adrian Rifkin.



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Supporting and Promoting Equality and Diversity

 The Ruskin embraces and encourages equality and diversity of BAME, gender, and LGBTQ+ at
 all levels of staffing provision and student intake. Two of nine postholders are black. Half of the
 School’s holders of Professorial titles were, at the census date, women, and this has increased
 with the arrival of Kreider as Head of School. Triming’s appointment brings to the School an
 artistic practice steeped in the agency of queerness as a ‘current that unsettles’. In May 2018, on
 International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Bi-Phobia, Ashery contributed to a
 symposium entitled Queering the Map, organised by the Humanities Division’s Equality and
 Diversity Lead, which explored ways that research might deploy a queer lens to disrupt and
 challenge fields of scholarship. The Ruskin works readily with preferred gender pronouns and
 gender fluidity and ensures that its own records reflect members’ declared naming and pronoun
 preferences.

 The Ruskin is committed to supporting all protected characteristics. Within an institution in which
 Christian traditions have been a formative influence, the Ruskin (supported by Ashery’s and
 Martin’s research on Jewish identity) fosters an environment in which staff and students of all
 faiths, or none, feel able freely to express their beliefs. PhD students with disabilities are
 supported by the University’s Disability Advisory Service, through which dedicated officers assist
 individual students with advice on adapting their studies and finance towards additional costs.

 The Ruskin is as diverse in its research as it is in staffing. At least half of the outputs for this
 census period specifically address themes around equality and diversity. For example, Ashery’s
 Revisiting Genesis (see impact above) have addressed LGBTQ+ communities; the work of
 Gardner tackles the politics of the Global South; Kambalu researches the contribution that gift
 economies of Malawi can make to global art narratives; Terracciano researches pan-Asianism
 and post-colonialism in India; Palmer’s Necropolitan Line addresses neglected women’s bodies
 as part of a feminist historical recovery; and Smith examines artists of the Windrush generation.

 We have identified the investigation of the intersection of art and migration – both in concrete
 and more conceptual forms – as a prominent theme in postholders’ research. Terracciano’s Art
 and Emergency addresses India’s partition; Ashery worked with Syrian refugees in her
 NoNothing Salon series and with asylum seekers in The World is Flooding; Kambalu’s Wounded
 Negatives takes as its starting point ‘migration as the norm’; Sworn’s The Coat examines ‘the
 migrant as a social force’ through a restaging of Aristophane’s The Birds; Martin’s Tonight the
 World artistically revisits her Czech grandmother’s Holocaust refugee story; Smith brings to bear
 the narratives of post-colonial diaspora on the British landscape painting tradition. Recently, we
 co-organised with the Faculty of Law a collaborative series of talks to explore the connection
 between art and migration.

 In a number of different ways, the Ruskin addresses some of the major global issues of our time,
 as well as self-reflexively examining the role that art has to play in the political sphere. Gardner
 critically addresses postcolonialism, postcommunism and postsocialism, and globalism across
 Australasia; Europe (especially Eastern and Central Europe); and the Non-Aligned Movement.
 Gardner spearheaded a 2017 Andrew Mellon Foundation Global South Postdoctoral Fellowship
 for Terracciano, who in turn is a member of the NEW NORTHSOUTH NETWORK (which
 includes Tate Liverpool, Manchester Art Gallery, Whitworth, Tetley and numerous South Asia
 partners in Bangladesh, Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka, Nepal). Gardner’s contribution to the new



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Horizon 2020 project ARTIS will focus on generating new thinking, engagement and action with
 societal challenges, with specific consideration for marginalised and disengaged individuals.

 The Ruskin PhD community is a diverse group of researchers. Out of 25 individuals, 16 self-
 identify as female, 2 of whom are mothers; 12 as BAME; 8 as queer; 3 as disabled – but just as
 importantly, their areas of research collectively create a rich tapestry of work on marginalised
 communities, contemporary identity politics, intersectional feminism, and post-colonial critiques.
 More than half of Ruskin PhDs research in one or more of these areas.

 Three current and recently completed PhDs embed artistic projects in marginalised communities
 of contemporary Japan. Waite addresses ‘artist collectives contesting crisis in a precarious 21st
 century’. Soga creates ‘art as ethnography’ through a filmic examination of the Ainu fishermen in
 Hokkaido, Japan. Winter has created an eight-hour fiction film in collaboration with farmers in the
 Japanese countryside.

 Intersectional feminism’s embrace of technology as a tool for liberation is well represented in the
 PhD cohort: Benigson ‘performs the maternal’, including her own experiences of pregnancy and
 childbirth, through physical and virtual means, exploring her Jewish identity in the process.
 Corbett performs her own experiences as a black, lesbian woman with disabilities through the
 figure of the cyborg. Jones harnesses the potential of the internet to explode her queer, black
 identity through a contemporary form of Afro-futurism.

 The complex relationship between politics and aesthetics is also unpacked by PhD theorists in
 the School; although this strand might not on the surface appear to relate as strongly to issues of
 equality and diversity, in reality, the presence of this robust line of enquiry means that the Ruskin
 research community is alert to the potentials and pitfalls of ‘art as politics’ and, as a whole,
 creatively works through questions about representation, art and ideology, visual propaganda,
 and aesthetic difference. PhD researcher Carolin (in conjunction with the Imperial War Museum)
 works on representations of conflict in art. Bea Cartwright researches the post-socialist loss of
 utopia in contemporary British politics. Michalska researches class and politics in post-socialist
 Polish art. Troensegaard closely examines the meaning of public monuments.
 Post-colonial approaches to contemporary power relations are explored with sensitivity by
 several practice-led PhDs at the Ruskin. Andrew addresses Australian indigenous identity in his
 artwork. Toukan, a Jordanian Palestinian, unpicks art and visual journalism representing the
 conflicts in the Middle East. Soto upends expectations in depicting his home town of Juarez,
 Mexico, by presenting alternative histories of the city.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 Since 2014 the Ruskin has made 34 research applications by 23 colleagues and prospective
 postdoctoral researchers to external grant-making bodies, including 11 successful grants with
 the Arts and Humanities Research Council, Leverhulme Trust, Arts Council England, Wellcome
 Trust, and the European Commission. Total external research income during the census period
 is GBP901,973 not including recently awarded grants at the early stages of implementation
 (GBP106,039 Horizon Europe 2020).

                                External Research Funding (GBP)

  Funding
                2013/14    2014/15   2015/16   2016/17     2017/18     2018/19   2019/20     Total
  Type
  UK Charity
                £91,062    £48,164   £37,524   £134,046   £105,914     £34,835   £72,244    £523,790
  (QR)
  Research
                £46,028   £142,590    £2,119                                                £190,737
  Councils
  UK Public
                £22,236    £49,308    £2,725   £15,731                                      £90,000
  Sector

  RDEC                     £82,824     -£4        £0         £0                             £82,820

  UK Charity
                £18,750    £5,280                £475        £0          £0         £0      £24,505
  (no QR)
  EU
                           -£9,879                           £0          £0                 -£9,879
  Government

  Total        £178,076   £318,286   £42,364   £150,252   £105,914     £34,835   £72,244    £901,973


 External research funding has permitted the Ruskin to generate a large number of
 interdisciplinary collaborations and artists’ projects with knowledge transfer and public impact in
 the museum and gallery, arts commissioning and public arts funding sectors. The department
 attracts finance from the public arts funding system that often benefits other faculties,
 departments and divisions in Oxford while creating research opportunities for artists who would
 not otherwise come into contact with the University.

 The School has achieved success with the Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship scheme, with
 three awards (Taylor, Terracciano and Smith) being made over the census period (a 50%
 success rate). Both Kiaer and Sworn received a Philip Leverhulme Prize (in 2018-2019 and
 2015-16 respectively) and build on the School’s track record: Martin’s 2009 Leverhulme Prize
 was the first awarded to a fine artist.

 An important part of the Ruskin’s funding picture are small internal seed grants through the John
 Fell Fund and the Humanities Division’s REF Support Fund, Knowledge Exchange Fund and
 Heritage Seed Fund, which assist with pump-priming and bids for external funding. In the census
 period, these have provided GBP386,379 in seed funding for conferences, symposia, exhibitions
 and publications – a more than threefold increase since the last census period. This tripling of
 internal funding reflects our strategy to support researchers’ projects at an early stage, in
 conjunction with university resources.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                          Awarded funds by year and category (GBP)

                            Early      Knowledge
                                                        Major      REF
          Award           Career       Exchange                                     Total
                                                       Project    Support
                          Support       & Impact
     FY 13/14               5,500                      64,983                      70,483
     FY 14/15              60,358                                                  60,358
     FY 15/16              60,201                      6,000                       66,201
     FY 16/17                                          8,100       3,500           11,600
     FY 17/18                            13,620        7,000       10,000          30,620
     FY 18/19              70,620        5,200         5,000       5,000           85,820
     FY 19/20                            7,696         34,686      18,916          61,298
     Grand Total          196,679        26,516       125,769      37,416         386,379

 In addition, industrial commissions totalling GBP230K have supported large-scale projects
 during the census period, including a GBP20K commission from Whitechapel Gallery, a
 GBP50K commission from the Barbican Gallery, and a GBP60K commission from the
 Ashmolean Museum.


 Infrastructure
 Internally, the research of all staff, postgraduate students and visiting scholars is overseen by
 the school’s Research Committee, which meets termly, reports to the Ruskin (steering)
 Committee, and is chaired by the Ruskin’s Director of Research. The Director of Research sits
 on the Humanities Divisional Research Committee that meets challenges proactively, and
 responds strategically to a larger national and international research environment.

 The Ruskin draws upon the grant finding and administrative support of TORCH, whose mission
 is to stimulate and promote highest-level research activity that transcends disciplinary and
 institutional boundaries, and engages with wider audiences. The Humanities Research
 Facilitator matches research funding streams to research projects; edits and assists with
 research bids; and supports the Ruskin Director of Research to increase the quality and volume
 of research projects, collaborations, externally generated income, and fellowships. The
 Humanities Impact Officer helps enhance impact both in intention (at the application phase) and
 at delivery (the publication period). Some examples of artistic research directly supported by the
 Humanities Division include: Dramatising Kafka (a 2016 academic and performative workshop
 created by Martin in conjunction with Theatre O of London to explore embodiment and neuro-
 aesthetics); and Trauma, Resilience and Motherhood: a Practice-led Experiment in Theatre and
 Moving Image (a 2017-2018 KE Fellowship that continues Professor Martin’s engagement with
 Theatre O by exploring psychological coping mechanisms through artistic form and in
 collaboration with Oxford academics from the School of Oriental Studies, Psychology and Law).
 The Ruskin also forwards new research forums through The Institute of Visual Research (IVR),
 steered, among others by the Ruskin Committee chair, and postholders Gardner and Gaiger.
 The IVR lies at the intersection of an exceptional cluster of art-related institutions of the
 University of Oxford: the History of Art Department, the Ruskin School of Art, the School of
 Anthropology and Museum Ethnography, the Pitt Rivers Museum and the Ashmolean Museum
 of Art and Archaeology. It provides a framework for bringing together researchers studying visual
 imagery in the broadest sense of the term, including those working within other disciplines. Run

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by an interdisciplinary steering committee, the IVR provides a forum for visual research within
 the Humanities Division and beyond; it encourages collaboration between scholars,
 practitioners, curators, philosophers, and writers from across the Oxford community; it supports
 and encourages graduate student and early career fellow initiatives for interdisciplinary
 collaboration; and it fosters contact with other national and international research organisations.

 Facilities

 Library: The Ruskin Library, housed at the School’s High Street site, with a particular focus on
 twentieth-century and twenty-first century materials, complements the research collections of the
 Bodleian and Sackler libraries. We house more than 5,000 volumes between the lending and
 reference collections; 15,000 images are available on the digital archive and an extensive film
 collection. With 20 art journals and more than 2,000 art-related pamphlets, the library offers a
 valuable resource to students and researchers. It is fully integrated into the University’s
 electronic circulation system with access to other electronic resources including The Grove
 Dictionary of Art, ARTbibliographies, the ARTstor Digital Library, The Bibliography of the History
 of Art, The Design and Applied Arts Index, Art Abstracts, and e-Journals (including JStor).

 Artistic Research Facilities: The construction of the Ruskin’s Bullingdon Road site (completed in
 2015) has immeasurably improved the space and facilities available to the School, to support
 our expanding, and largely practice-led, doctoral research programme. This was a major capital
 investment by the Humanities Division and the University, with an overall cost of approximately
 GBP5m. Designed by Spratley Studios Architects, the new building houses purpose-built, state-
 of-the-art facilities (see learning resources, above) and studios, and won an RIBA South Award
 in 2016. Within Bullingdon Road, The Project Space is a large two-storey space measuring
 approximately 20m2, at the front of the building. It is used for student exhibitions, performances
 and film screenings. The building houses a printmaking studio; a media lab with equipment list
 sourced from the MIT FAB Lab inventory including a laser cutter, vinyl cutter, milling machine,
 3D printer, computers, including three edit suites, with Adobe Suite, max-map, Final-Cut Pro,
 Ableton Live, and Logic Pro, equipment including Canon 5D cameras, a Black Magic Cinema
 Camera, various microphones and audio hard disk recorders, as well as portable projectors, and
 an acoustically treated sound room with a 7.1 Genelec surround sound system; a casting room
 with bespoke wet and dry facility for mould-making and casting including life-casting in a range
 of mediums such as polyurethane and polyester resins, glass-reinforced plastics, silicone and
 polyurethane rubber and foams, cement fondu, Jesmonite and plaster; a metal shop providing
 for welding in mild, stainless steel and aluminium, provisions for cutting including cold cut saw,
 angle grinder, guillotine, band saw, hand-held plasma cutter or our state-of-the-art CNC plasma-
 cutting table, and provisions for shaping with the fly press, slip roller, finger break and an
 induction forge; and finally a wood workshop equipped with table saw, sliding mitre chop saw,
 pillar drill, bandsaw, disk and belt sanders and a 3.5 meter wall.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships, including relationships with key research
 users, beneficiaries or audiences

 Research at the Ruskin spans art, art history, politics, psychology and philosophy, and as a
 result, the Ruskin has created robust links beyond the school, Division and University, enriching
 these communities as much as learning from them. Several Ruskin-led TORCH events and
 activities, apart from Martin’s Kafka and Motherhood events (described above), have enabled
 forums for discussion and impact beyond the school: Art Out Of Time: Challenging Periodization
 (a 2014 symposium led by Gaiger in collaboration with the IVR, in which Ruskin staff, postdocs,
 and PhDs interacted with speakers from the Universities of Warwick, California Berkeley,
 Princeton, Queensland, McGill, University College London and the Courtauld Institute of Art);
 and Moving Performances (a 2016 symposium launched by a Ruskin PhD in collaboration with
 the Department of Music that explored the politics and spaces of voice and unruly emotions
 through performances by composers, artists and academics including cultural geographers).
 Building on Ashery’s relationship with the Wellcome Trust, we are in discussion with the Trust
 about the possibility of setting up a joint post-doctoral fellowship. Martin is discussing
 possibilities for research collaboration with Tate Modern. Other notable activities include:
 Martin’s 2014 Tate Modern symposium on mirror-touch synaesthesia and the arts, and Art in a
 Time of Catastrophe, a two-day conference hosted by the Ruskin in conjunction with Christ
 Church College, with keynote speaker Brian Kuan Wood, editor of eflux journal, highlighted
 Terracciano’s and Gardner’s address of the impact of global forces on art and vice versa (2019).
 The Ruskin’s research contributes to academia more broadly. Postholders and PhDs regularly
 contribute to panel discussions, conferences, and symposia; in the census period 22 keynotes
 across five continents have been delivered by our nine postholders. Postholders have organised
 many conferences, and Gaiger is standing co-director of the annual Dubrovnik Conference on
 the Philosophy of Art. Bull, Gaiger and Gardner have also enjoyed, collectively, seven visiting
 professorship stints during the REF period, including at Princeton University (Bull, 2016),
 Sichuan University (Gaiger, 2016), and Ecole Normale Supérieure, Paris, France (Gardner,
 2019).

 The Ruskin’s postholders are valued members of editorial boards for highly respected, peer-
 reviewed journals in the field: Gardner acts as editor, ARTMargins (MIT Press, from 2012) and
 ARTMargins Online (from 2014) and participates on editorial advisory boards for Art Monthly
 Australia (from 2015); The Journal of Biennales and Other Exhibitions (from 2018); emaj:
 Electronic Melbourne Art Journal (from 2013); ONjournal (from 2014). Bull participates on the
 editorial boards of Oxford Art Journal (from 2013) and New Left Review (from 2002). Gaiger
 participates on the editorial boards of Estetika: The Central European Journal of Aesthetics
 (from 2010); Art and the Public Sphere (from 2011); and Aesthetic Investigations (from 2014).
 Several postholders including Kiaer and Palmer also peer-review for journals and publishers.
 The Ruskin maintains collegiate exchanges with art schools in the UK and abroad, with most
 postholders giving talks across prominent art schools nationally and internationally. In addition,
 Gardner has participated in advisory boards for: MFA Piet Zwart Institute, Rotterdam,
 Netherlands (2016-18); and the South-South Circulations project, Ecole Normale Supérieure,
 Paris (2014-15). Five postholders (Kiaer, Gaiger Gardner, Palmer, Martin) have acted as
 external examiner for PhD candidates in other art schools.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Ruskin takes its reflections about art’s capacity to address politics to wider academia,
 shaping agendas. Gaiger participated in ‘Potentials and Politics of Pictures’ at the Department of
 Philosophy, Goethe University Frankfurt (2015). Postdoc Smith epitomises feminist positions in
 the school by carrying forward her work on ‘Women of Tomorrow – Dispelling the Myth of an All-
 Male Art World in the Postwar Period’. Art’s embrace of politics has been triangulated with other
 disciplines through initiatives such as Sworn’s participation in ‘Performance and Uncertainty
 Symposium’, Leeds Becket University (2017) and Martin’s contribution to a St John’s
 psychoanalysis seminar addressing the intersection of art and politics (2018).


 Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

 The Ruskin also generates research that reaches well beyond academia. Ruskin faculty and
 PhDs actively contribute to the art industry and Knowledge Exchange is an integral part of what
 we do. We are well embedded in the international art world, participating in seven international
 biennials in the last REF period (Kambalu: 2016 Dakar Biennale, Senegal; Liverpool Biennial,
 UK; 2015 Venice Biennale; Martin: 2014 14th Istanbul Biennial SALTWATER: A Theory of
 Thought Forms, Istanbul, Turkey; 2014 10th Shanghai Biennale, Shanghai, China; Sworn:
 Sydney Biennial 2014; Terracciano in conversation with Naiza Khan at the 2019 Venice
 Biennial). Gardner’s writing and thinking about such biennials has been widely welcomed in the
 art world, across keynotes that include art institutions. Current PhD candidate Andrew has been
 appointed Artistic Director of the 22nd edition of the Sydney Biennale.

 All Ruskin postholders have, in this REF period, exhibited their artwork in numerous public
 gallery group exhibitions nationally and internationally including these venues not already
 described within our selected outputs: CCA Glasgow; Haus der Kulturen Welt, Berlin; Arnolfini,
 UK; Spike Island, UK; Modern Art Oxford, UK; frac-île-de-france, Paris, France; Kunstsaele
 Berlin, Berlin; Hayward Gallery, London; De La Warr Pavilion, Bexhill on Sea; Tate Britain,
 London; Whitechapel Gallery, London; Museo de la Solidaridad Salvador Allende, Santiago,
 Chile; Seoul Museum of Art, South Korea; De Appel, Amsterdam; New Museum New York;
 Dundee Contemporary Arts; Turner Contemporary, Margate; FACT, Liverpool; Museum für
 Kunst und Kultur, Münster, Germany; Kunstverein Braunschweig, Brunswick, Germany; Tate
 Modern, London, Tate Modern, London; Henie Onstad Kunstsenter, Oslo, Norway; Kunsthalle
 Wien, Austria; and Moderna Museet Malmö, Sweden. Through each of these exhibitions, our
 artwork reaches audiences of thousands, ensuring impact internationally. Through our links to
 major public galleries, we indirectly contribute to the economy through those institutions’
 employment of staff and specialists.

 At the Ruskin we also make wider contributions to society through our far-reaching artistic
 projects. These include: Ashery’s collaborative public workshops, including ‘Death Cafés’ as
 places to discuss mortality including at the Center for Contemporary Arts, Warsaw, and
 discussions about current potentials for utopia at Vienna Secession and Tate Modern. Palmer
 has pushed the limits of artist’s writing, publishing two widely read artist’s novels by Book Works:
 End Matter (2015) and The Fabricator’s Tale (2014).

 The Ruskin’s rich concentration of artists working in moving image (and performance) means
 that we have enjoyed some ‘crossover’ events with the world of film. Sworn’s The Coat was
 commissioned by and shown in the Toronto Film Festival. Kambalu participated on the jury of the
 renowned 2018 Sheffield Doc/Fest, and was consultant, actor and translator for The Boy Who
 Harnessed the Wind, a BBC / Potboiler Productions film starring and directed by Chiwetel


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ejiofor (Netflix). Emeritus Professor Brian Catling (who retired in 2016 after being elected as a
 fellow of the Royal Academy, but who maintains a lively dialogue with researchers in the Ruskin)
 has optioned to a production company his cult-hit Vorhh trilogy for development into a TV series.
 Martin is currently developing a feature film that builds on her Barbican exhibition, shortlisted for
 the 2021 Sundance Development Lab and nominated for the inaugural Lynn Shelton ‘Of a
 Certain Age’ grant.

 The Ruskin actively seeks to enhance its intimate permanent faculty with lectures by visiting
 researchers whose impact is considerable in the art world, from Britain and around the globe.
 These visitors also make an important contribution as development opportunities for
 postholders. In recent years they have included artists of international standing such as Phyllida
 Barlow, Bonnie Camplin, Jacob Kierkegaard, Mark Leckey, Renzo Martens, Andrew Norman
 Wilson, Cornelia Parker, Barbara Steveni, Anne Tallentire. Museum curators and directors and
 their considerable industry knowledge provide an important contribution to research potential of
 The Ruskin: Iwona Blazwick, David Elliott, Mark Godfrey, Francesco Manacorda, and Stephanie
 Straine have visited, as have art writers and theorists Maria Fusco, Tamar Garb, Catherine
 Grant, Stewart Home, Laura U. Marks, and Adrian Rifkin.

 Our artworks’ impact does not end with the artworks, however. At the Ruskin we engage with
 communities, and specifically with the medical and scientific communities. Martin presented her
 research on transgenerational trauma transmission to the Tavistock Trauma Unit, where she
 discussed with clinicians the third generation’s capacity to put into images ‘unrepresentable’
 events. Martin also engaged with a Psychiatric Intensive Care Unit at Maudsley Mental hospital,
 where she took part in an evaluation of Hospital Rooms, an intervention to improve the
 experiences of patients. Ashery worked with GPs and other doctors in NHS who treat patients
 with life limiting conditions for her Revisiting Genesis series. This outreach is underpinned by
 research at the Ruskin that engages with science, and specifically neuroscience- for example by
 Gaiger and Smith.




                                                                                              Page 16
