Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 19: Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 A world leading institution in the field of politics and international relations

 Ever since its foundation in 1895, the London School of Economics “and Political Science” has
 had our disciplines at the core of its identity. The Departments of Government (GD) and
 International Relations (IRD) together represent one of the largest and most prestigious research
 communities in politics and international relations in Britain, Europe, and the World.

 With 79 research active staff in our two departments and affiliated units (including parts of the
 Methodology and Gender Departments) covering most areas and approaches in our disciplines,
 the LSE has been consistently placed in the top 5 in the world (and first outside of the US) for
 research in political science in the Shanghai and QS rankings.

 Our team proudly sits at the forefront of research leadership in politics and international
 relations. Over the period covered by the REF2021, our departments have published
 approximately 2,000 research outputs including over 40 books and nearly 900 journal articles.
 Together, we account for 9% of publications with a DOI in politics and international relations
 originating from the UK but 18% of all citations, and 32% of our outputs rank in the top 10% of
 most cited papers in their field worldwide. We have also obtained £18.5 million in external
 funding from the most prestigious research sponsors including AHRC, the British Academy, the
 European Commission, the European Research Council (ERC) and Economic and Social
 Research Council (ESRC), with over 40 grants above £100,000.

 In the 2014-20 period, our members have been editors of 15 of the leading journals in our
 disciplines including the American Political Science Review and Public Administration. They
 have sat on the most important grant funding panels in our disciplines including those of the
 ERC, the ESRC and leading science academies including the British Academy and the
 Academy of Social Sciences. They have held executive and Council positions for many of the
 most significant professional associations in the field including the American Political Science
 Association, the European Political Science Association, the International Political Science
 Association, and the Political Studies Association.

 A broad multi-level structure covering many critical fields in our disciplines

 The research activities of the UoA are organised around ten Research Clusters (see Figure 1)
 which thematically divide the subdisciplines represented in the departments. In addition, both
 GD and IRD host several semi-autonomous Research Units and interdisciplinary Research
 Centres, which have either a geographical (i.e., European Foreign Policy Unit; International
 Trade Policy Unit; The Middle East Centre; United States Centre; Global South Unit) or
 interdisciplinary foci (Electoral Psychology Observatory; Migration Studies Unit; Centre for
 International Studies). The clusters and research groups represent vehicles for attracting high-
 profile Political Science and International Relations academics to the Departments as visiting
 scholars, and a space for academics and research students to exchange ideas, debate and
 network. While focusing on interdisciplinary dialogue and research, a number of units bring
 together researchers from the two departments, such as the Kuwait Programme, a 15-year


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 multidisciplinary programme focusing on the repositioning of the Gulf States, the Middle East
 Centre and the Centre for Women, Peace and Security, launched in 2015 with the support of the
 UK Government.

 Figure 1: UoA Structure: Departments, Centres, Units and Clusters




 Across the clusters, centres and units, staff and research students draw on a diverse range of
 methodological approaches, both those traditionally found within political science and
 international relations, as well as methodologies drawn from media studies, arts and
 architecture, economics, history, sociology, gender studies, and psychology. Our academics
 cover a broad range of specialisms in theoretical and empirical scholarship, and our research
 covers all regions of the world, with a standing expertise in Europe, North America, the Middle
 East, East Asia and Russia, and a growing contribution to research on Latin America and South
 Asia, particularly reflected through the recent hires made in IRD.

 The heart of social science and beyond: a commitment to interdisciplinarity

 Cross-departmental activities, collaborations and training are central to the ethos of the UoA and
 the research clusters are crucial to realising this. The clusters contribute significantly to building
 research excellence at the level of the two departments and the School in that they bring in PhD
 students, in-house faculty and internationally leading external scholars to present cutting-edge
 empirical research. Together, our departments run 10 weekly (or bi-weekly) research seminars
 and workshops in some of the most exciting subfields of politics and international relations,
 including comparative politics, conflict research, international institutions, law and ethics, political
 behaviour, public administration, and security and foreign policy. They are co-organised and
 jointly run by PhD students and faculty members, and offer students the experience to
 coordinate events, to present their research in front of academic audiences and to network with
 leading scholars and colleagues in their fields. As such, research clusters play an important role
 in encouraging collaborative research, identifying faculty recruitment needs, attracting top

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research students to GD and IRD and more fully integrating visiting faculty, LSE fellows,
 research centres and postdoctoral fellows into the intellectual life of the two Departments. The
 clusters also provide anchor points for international collaborations. For example, the Political
 Science and Political Economy (PSPE) research cluster organises an annual LSE-NYU PSPE
 Conference jointly with the Politics Department at NYU and has a Visitors’ Programme which
 allows scholars to spend two weeks at LSE.

 Ensuring that our research impacts the world

 To ensure that our research is impactful and societally relevant sits at the heart of the research
 strategy across our departments and academic units. In fact, both IRD and GD give impact a
 central place in our latest research strategy. As a result, societal relevance is for instance noted
 as one of the 10 core principles guiding our research in the new GD research strategy, whilst
 “ensuring impact, relevance and social engagement” is one of the documents’ seven strategic
 objectives. The documents also consider all staff’s perceptions of our impact priorities with GD
 colleagues listing (in order) the democratic engagement, the public sector, the education sector,
 and arts and culture as the four key targets of our impact, and national governments, IGOs, and
 civil society organisations as our priority impact partners. In practice as part of the impact
 strategic priority, GD notably encourages research endeavours which involve users from the
 stage of inception and design, recognizes impact as a full contribution to research excellence
 (alongside publications, research funding, etc) and has also created a new research impact sub-
 committee since 2019. Conversely, IRD and its associate research centres and units are
 strategically focusing impact on specific regions and areas of research in which its staff
 specialize such as the Middle East, the US, and foreign policy. In short, we believe that
 innovative and cutting-edge research should have real-world relevance, and we aim to ensure
 that our work can benefit policy makers including Parliaments, Governments and administration,
 Electoral Commissions, European and international organisations and private users (including
 opinion companies, research practitioners, NGOs, civil society, and cultural actors).

 The effectiveness of this strategy in generating significant impacts is perhaps best exemplified
 by the UoA’s selection of submitted impact case studies. Research has informed the
 development of new quantitative text analysis tool Quanteda, which has been of use to the likes
 of Facebook (Benoit); reformed labour market and migration regulation in the Middle East
 (Hertog); supported policy reform in the Philippines (Sidel); promoted post conflict civil society
 reconciliation in the Balkans and UK foreign policy in the field (Kostovicova); shaped policies on
 the war on drugs in Ireland and the UN; and optimised voters’ experience from Europe to the
 Palestinian Territories, Australia, and South Africa, whilst also helping to develop new opinion
 company tools and scenarios for Hollywood fiction focusing on electoral contexts (Harrison,
 Bruter).

 The clusters, research centres, units and groups also serve as hubs of regional and inter-
 disciplinary expertise and public engagement, and vehicles for the UoA realising its research
 and impact objectives across the world. For example, the LSE Public Policy Group (PPG) has
 developed a Democratic Dashboard, and research on improving means of citizens’ redress,
 while the Migration Policy Unit has developed the online IMPALA database of comparative
 immigration policy and law. LSE IDEAS, a leading foreign policy hub, has been ranked as
 Europe's top university affiliated think tank by the ‘Global Go To Think Tank Index’ and during
 the REF census period has included leading public intellectuals and scholars as resident fellows
 (Anne Applebaum; Niall Ferguson; Timothy Snyder, among others). The Middle East Centre, the
 largest centre focused on the region in Europe, harnesses the LSE’s cross-disciplinary

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expertise, including that of IRD faculty (Bicchi; Dalacoura; Dodge; Gerges) and GD faculty
 (Chalcraft; Hertog) to promote innovative multidisciplinary research on the region. Among past
 and on-going successful research programmes (during the REF census period) are the
 Academic Collaboration with Arab Universities Programme which funds joint research between
 LSE faculty and regional universities.

 Putting openness, ethics, and transparency at the heart of our research

 As part of our research strategy to pursue transparent and world leading research, we have a
 renewed commitment towards open science. For example, since the last census period, the UoA
 has increased its open access publishing from 41% to 53%, a 12% increase. In addition, UoA
 Member Collins is Editor-in-Chief of Journal of Illicit Economies and Development, which is
 published fully Open Access via LSE Press. The UoA is not only committed to publishing open
 access, but to make research open and accessible. As such, staff in GD and IRD who have
 recently completed large research projects are engaging in open data management and
 archiving. Examples include Lodge’s TransCrisis Horizon 2020 projects which has archived
 project outputs in Zenodo, Lankina’s publicly available dataset on Russian Protest Events, and
 Bruter and Harrison are sharing data and resources through the new Electoral Psychology
 Observatory (EPO) website in particular through its interactive Almanac of Electoral Ergonomics
 used by practitioners and academics alike. Of notable value is also the open software developed
 by Benoit, available via Github and supported through an ERC grant. Another important example
 of open access publishing which targets not only other scholars but also the public, is the
 publication in 2018 of The UK’s Changing Democracy, the first Open Access book via LSE
 Press, edited by Dunleavy, Park and Taylor. The book has been downloaded over 18,000 times
 since being published. This commitment to transparent and open science is also evident in the
 Departments’ support for School-wide initiatives, notably LSE Press, the School’s new open
 access publishing platform for high-quality research in the social sciences, and – in line with
 LSE’s aim to lead in international, interdisciplinary, issue-oriented social science – it will support
 the launch and development of academic-led publications that are innovative in their format,
 content, and reach.

 The UoA is highly committed to research integrity, including ethical, legal and professional
 frameworks, obligations and standards and these commitments are built into the architecture of
 the research environment in the departments. GD and IRD staff, for instance the former IRD
 REF coordinator and Doctoral Programme Director, are members of the LSE’s Ethics, Grants
 and Donations Panel (EGDP) that scrutinises large grants and donations from the point of view
 of ethical considerations. Staff, fellows and PhD students are also bound by, and committed to,
 the LSE Research Ethics Policy and Code of Research Conduct, which form part of the School's
 over-arching Ethics Code. The Departments have also been volunteer participants in the
 School’s pilot for a new ethics review process which enhances transparency and open
 discussion of ethical challenges for research projects conducted within the School.

 Progression, trajectory and horizons

 At the end of the last REF exercise, the structure of our departments was largely ad hoc and
 often based on practicalities related to Masters level teaching. By the middle of the current
 period, however, both departments developed new research strategies that resulted in a
 research-based restructuring of our departments. What has remained consistent since the
 previous REF submission is our commitment to research strengths in terms of global reach, the
 depth and diversity of specialisms, and the extent of involvement with policy-makers and

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practitioners. These strengths continue to play a central role in our research strategies and were
 utilised in the development of new Research Strategies (in 2015 in IRD and in 2019 in GD).

 At the end of the REF 2014, the International Relations department had identified a number of
 key themes in the department’s research, but they had no bearing on the departmental
 organisation. In 2015 the department moved to restructure its approach to research, impact and
 PhD training. After extensive consultation with all levels of the faculty, focused on identifying
 strategic priorities, peer institutions and encouraging the diversity and excellence of research
 outputs, a new research strategy was drafted and approved by the whole department. The
 strategy created four new research clusters (partly but not fully based on the post-2013 themes):
 statecraft and security; institutions, law, and ethics; international political economy; and
 international theory. More importantly, these clusters have become the vehicle through which the
 Department strategically invests in developing its long-term research, defines its recruitment, its
 academic events, its intellectual identity and impact, and doctoral training. Alongside the
 clusters, the IRD’s outreach, interaction with practitioners and impact was further enhanced by
 the creation of several new research units: the Centre for Women, Peace and Security; the
 United States Centre; and the Global South Unit.

 Whilst GD already had a strong basis for excellent research based on research groups and high
 quality publications at the start of the period, the Department chose to launch an entirely
 reconceived Research Strategy in 2019 based on the largest ever consultation in the history of
 our department conducted in the Autumn of 2019. This was a comprehensive survey of all
 research-active colleagues’ substantive and methodological approaches, records and ambitions
 in publications, funding, professional leadership, and impact, what colleagues perceived as the
 identity, strengths and weaknesses of the Department and what they wished for the future. The
 study was completed by 96% of research-active members of the department and led to seven
 strategic statements (some new guiding principles, a new research-lead multi-level organisation
 with the emergence of the new clusters of excellence (as presented in Figure 1), a
 recommitment to supporting research funding, acknowledging the importance of time, risk, and
 intellectual space to enable people to engage in large high-risk/high-gain research
 breakthroughs, supporting excellent publications, internationally recognised research leadership,
 and ensuring impact, relevance and social engagement) and a new set of 10 guiding principles
 (excellence, leadership, rigour and honesty, innovation and creativity, diversity, social relevance,
 complementarity, support, solidarity and respect, and aspiration). All strategic objectives and
 agreed principles will now guide the development of GD in years to come. The report was
 adopted unanimously and GD are now progressively enacting initiatives that transform those
 seven strategic statements and ten guiding principles into a concrete reality starting with a new
 recruitment campaign for six positions designed to strengthen our clusters of excellence, new
 initiatives to increase research funding, new departmental small grants supporting knowledge
 exchange, impact, and research co-design in very early stages of research, and a new approach
 to intellectual time and space to think in order to support colleagues when they engage in high
 risk high gain research endeavours and trajectories. In addition to this, GD continues to pursue
 multilevel research by supporting the creation of new departmental research units including the
 Electoral Psychology Observatory, launched in 2020, and funded by several external grants from
 the ERC, the ESRC, and Research England.

 Common to both departmental research strategies are the objectives of building on excellence
 and diversity of research within each department to redefine, develop and strengthen
 interdisciplinary research clusters, and increase investment to support the development of
 departmental research activities, funding opportunities, open access publication and the

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promotion of collaborative scholarly research, as well as conducting research which is rigorous,
 outstanding, frontier-breaking, ethical, and relevant.

 2. People

 Helping our people to grow and fulfil their aspirations

 For academics, environments are first and foremost human and pertain to the stimulation we all
 get from working with colleagues who are world-leaders in their fields. Politics and International
 Relations is first and foremost a human community, bound together by a shared love of cutting-
 edge research and a shared desire to shape our discipline at all levels from academic and
 research staff to PhD and taught students. The UoA is composed of 79 permanent staff; 34
 Professors (compared to 28 in 2014), 25 Associate Professors (compared to 43 in 2014) and 20
 Assistant Professors/Assistant Professorial Research Fellows (compared to nine in 2014),
 including affiliated members in the Departments of Methodology and Gender Studies.

 We aim to be an inclusive and diverse community. This not only reflects the increasing equality
 and diversity of our staff but also to our commitment to support the rest of our community, which
 includes fixed-term staff, research staff and also 90 research students enrolled in our two
 departments as of October 2020. Both our departments have massively increased our
 investment in research students, which has increased by 20% between 2014-15 and 2019-20,
 and even more impressively more than doubled in terms of funding per head across the period
 to reach nearly £20,000 per research student as of 2019-20.

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Recruitment policy is central to the research strategy of both Departments. Appointments are
 made primarily based on research excellence, in addition to excellence in teaching and
 collegiality. If a new position is generated, the Departments decide on which parts of the
 Department need to be strengthened. A job advert is then issued as early, and circulated as
 widely, as possible, including on the US and European job markets. Typically, recent jobs
 advertised in the UoA have received over 100 applications. This testifies to the fact that the UoA
 attracts a broad number of candidates based on the perception of the School’s excellence.
 Applications are reviewed by a search committee based on the nature of the position, and a
 shortlist is drawn up, based on the CV, reading of candidates’ work, and wide consultation with
 colleagues in the Department. The appointment process includes extensive, individual and
 collective meetings with members of the Department for all short-listed candidates, as well as
 presentations. In Government, this process of Department-wide collective decision making has
 now replaced the system of interviews by a more limited committee for all positions at Assistant
 Professor level and above.

 Both departments have structures in place to support the career progression of both early and
 established staff, as well as short-term and long-term staff. For example, both established and
 early-career staff benefit from a comprehensive research leave system, with one term of leave
 for every eight terms of service. Enhanced leave is given following major LSE administrative jobs
 such as Head of Department (HOD); such posts are held on a rolling basis to prevent disruption
 of research careers. Pre-Major Review (MR) staff are appraised annually by the HOD under the
 Career Development Scheme. Early-career staff are also allocated a senior colleague working in
 a related area as a mentor, who acts as an informal source of information, advice and support.
 Mentors are required to alert the HOD if a junior member of staff is encountering difficulties. All

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 post-Major Review (MR) staff participate in the Career Development Scheme. This involves
 formal meetings, which monitor attainment of, and record future, research objectives, on an
 annual basis up to five years beyond MR or until promotion, and every two or three years
 thereafter.

 Research Staff, who are primarily fixed-term, receive a similar package of appraisal and
 mentoring as other academic staff and participate in a Career Development Scheme, with an
 annual Career Development Review. For example, the IRD has been hosting an ESRC funded
 post-doctoral fellow in 2019-2020 who is fully integrated into the research environment and
 benefits from mentoring, training, funding, opportunities to present at mock practice job talks,
 and attends and presents at research cluster seminars.

 As such, fixed-term staff receive the same package of appraisal and mentoring as permanent
 staff, and a right to apply for funding support to develop their research. Most fixed-term staff are
 in career development posts as LSE Fellows (up to three years) and their duties are confined to
 teaching only with no administrative requirements in order to facilitate development of their
 research. In addition, the School’s EDEN Centre for Educational Enhancement offers an
 orientation programme, followed by a year-round series of workshops designed to support early-
 career researchers in relation to communicating and managing their research, strengthening the
 impact of their research for academic and other audiences, and managing their career. The
 School has been monitoring the development of the revised Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers 2008 and has been taking a proactive approach to ensure that its
 policies and practices in relation to research staff are closely aligned with the key principles of
 the Concordat.

 The UoA is committed to showing flexibility in terms of logistically, as well as financially,
 supporting staff buy-outs, taking up of visiting research fellowships and professorships, short-
 term research trips and conference/ seminar attendance. For example, the right to sabbatical is
 equal for all of our academic staff, and buy-out time is allocated on an equal opportunity basis, to
 ensure all eligible staff have the possibility to prioritise research for a specified time.

 Supporting equality, diversity and fairness

 At the time of recruitment, all LSE-wide policies regarding equality and diversity are implemented
 under the guidance of the Human Resources Division. Upon joining the School, all new
 academic staff attend an Academic Induction Programme, which includes equality and diversity
 training. The School offers flexible working to all staff, including academic and research staff,
 who are returning to work from maternity leave or reducing their hours of work due to other
 reasons, such as carers’ responsibilities, disability, etc. Under the New Academic Career (NAC)
 structure, colleagues returning from parental leave are entitled to an additional term of research
 leave.

 In terms of procedural transparency and inclusiveness, we have engaged in a number of
 significant structural changes which have led us to move to department-wide decision-making in
 recruitment processes, improvements to gender equality in our departments with female
 colleagues now representing 29% (GD) and 35% (IR) of our staff and 32% (GD) and 21% (IR) of
 our professorial staff. The proportion of staff from BAME backgrounds is more difficult to assess
 as not all colleagues provide ethnic information. At least 10% of GD staff and 7% of IRD staff
 declare a BAME background, but in both cases, an additional 13% have unknown ethnic
 background. This is reflected in the balance of outputs submitted when it comes to equality,

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    diversity and inclusion (EDI) considerations. Both departments continuously monitor that
    scholars are not disadvantaged based on ethnicity, gender and seniority. This is followed up and
    discussed at research committee meetings and EDI meetings.

    EDI is central to decisions on staffing and student policies and wellbeing. Both departments
    have put in place an Equality and Diversity Committee during the current REF period, which
    scrutinises staffing, hiring and student policies with a view to EDI issues. Our staff have also
    actively shaped EDI policy at School level. Ainley served as member of the LSE Equity, Diversity
    and Inclusion Task Force Advisory Board, 2015-17; and has served as Co-Chair of the LSE
    Gender Equality Forum, and Millar has served as Gender Equality Forum Chair, LSE, from 2017
    onwards. Our faculty have prominently shaped School-wide policy in the context of the Covid-19
    pandemic, discussing and implementing responses that are sensitive to the variable caring
    needs of faculty, for instance by freezing the promotions/ review clock for junior faculty.
    Furthermore, Millar and Madhok have been researching policy-relevant issues of
    intersectionality, gender and politics and the ways in which the curriculum could be revised to
    reflect pressing concerns of equity and representation of a plurality of academic voices from
    across the global north and south.

    Over the past census period, IRD hired several outstanding young scholars at the Assistant
    Professor level. These new hires have helped significantly expand the diversity of our
    department which is a core component of our research strategy. The new faculty (Bayly,
    Getmansky, Lall, Lake, Naqvi, Squatrito, Kalyanpur1 and Paniagua) enhance the interdisciplinary
    and diverse profile of IRD and area expertise (Latin America; South Asia; Middle East; Africa),
    and represent a new generation of international scholars who are adding to the Department’s
    core strengths. Similarly, in the GD recent hires include Foos (field experiments), Ofosu
    (elections in Africa) and Brierley (democracy in Africa) and the GD has just engaged a new
    recruitment campaign for up to six new career-track positions including a focus on ethnic,
    gender, and racial politics with the aim to expand diversity within the department and disciplinary
    strengths.

    As part of our new research strategy we recognised that excellence in research and impact
    comes in different shapes, and we recognise the value of diverse publications. As such, our
    departments support and reward academics who are prolific contributors to journals as well as
    those who develop monographs. Staff research are recognised and rewarded via annual
    monitoring and progression. Across the UoA we invest more than £400k per annum to support
    research staff. All staff receive an annual individual staff research fund of £3,000 in GD, and
    £4,470 for Professors and Associate Professors, and £4,920 for Assistant Professors in IRD2.
    These funds are used by individual staff for research and/or conference activities. The UoA
    additionally spends £200k each year as part of Department Research Funding, which is
    competitive, and funds specific projects proposed by REF-eligible members of staff, as well as
    £20,000 (£10,000/department) for pilot KEI projects. We also provide a generous investment of
    £130k annually to support PhD students. Furthermore, it should be noted that to ensure
    inclusiveness, we also provide teaching fellows as well as education career track colleagues
    with a research allowance to ensure that they are able to develop their own research agenda
    and can develop their career trajectory in the direction of future research positions if they so
    wish, despite their contract being focused on teaching only.


1
 Start-date delayed due to Covid-19. Beginning in 2021.
2
 These figures are inclusive of £970 per annum for professors and associate professors and £1,420 for
assistant professors provided by the School. The remainder is funded by the Departments.

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Overall, we are trying to provide an ever-more supportive research environment to the people
 who, together, make up our community. The UoA recognises that exchanges between academia
 and business, industry, public or third sector bodies and secondments constitute an important
 component of our research environment. The departments have procedures in place recognising
 the importance of business/industry/policy secondments, which forms part of our strategy to
 encourage impact. Chwieroth was a beneficiary of the AXA Award from the AXA Research Fund
 (2016-2019), which contributes to societal progress by encouraging researchers to share their
 work with the larger public and by supporting projects in the areas of Health, Environment, New
 Tech and Socio-Economics. Other faculty (Cox) have been involved with the United Nations
 Business and Human Security Initiative, which aims to develop ideas on how business can
 protect and empower individuals and communities in areas affected by conflict and crisis. This
 initiative encourages collaboration between the private sector, the public sector, and civil society
 to address a wide range of security needs on the ground - working towards the UN’s Agenda
 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Falkner is also an affiliate of the
 Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment, established by LSE in
 2008 to create a world-leading centre for policy-relevant research and training on climate change
 and the environment, bringing together international expertise on economics, finance,
 geography, the environment, international development and political economy.

 Supporting our research students

 The UoA has a healthy and growing PhD programme, with 91 students currently enrolled in the
 doctoral programme (39 GD and 52 in IRD), which attracts over 300 applications per year. Both
 GD and IRD have made a strategic decision to focus on quality rather than quantity, and ensure
 that an annual student intake of roughly 8-12 students in each department are fully funded, have
 access to required training, and enjoy generous funding for conference attendance, fieldwork,
 and training in methods in-house and outside of the LSE. The UoA has one of the most
 generously funded PhD communities in the UK. Over the census period, UoA PhD students
 received over £8 million in studentship, scholarship, fieldwork travel and other awards, including
 ESRC and LSE full scholarships and funding. As a unit, our financial support to doctoral
 students has similarly increased from £1.2 million in 2014-15 to over £1.5 million in 2019-20, an
 increase of over 20% in the period.

 Figure 2: Total PhD Funding across census period




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 However, because we have chosen to nearly halve our PhD cohorts during the period in order to
 support our research students optimally, funding per research student actually more than
 doubled during the period, from below £9,415 per student in 2014/15 to nearly £19,771 in
 2019/20. Those figures include all registered students.

 Broadly similar procedures are in place in GD and IRD to select a small number of outstanding
 students out of a competitive pool of applicants. The process is committee-led and involves
 multiple stages of applicant assessment from the point of view of rigour, theoretical
 sophistication and originality of research proposal. Improvements to the selection process not
 only have resulted in cohorts that are diverse and gender-balanced but have also resulted in
 high rates of success in obtaining full funding in the form of ESRC and LSE studentships. Once
 part of the doctoral programme, student progress and supervision are monitored formally using
 PhD Logs, which include online records of mentoring meetings and are regularly checked by the
 Doctoral Programme Director to ensure continuous support for students.

 Figure 3: Funding per Research Student over census period


                Funding per Research Student (£)
                                                               19771
    20000                                            17663
    18000
                                           14825
    16000                        13868
    14000
    12000              10451
              9415
    10000
     8000
     6000
     4000
     2000
        0
            2014/15   2015/16   2016/17   2017/18   2018/19   2019/20



                                                                                        Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Figure 4: PhD completion rates within 4 years for census period


              % PhD completed within 4 years by cohort
  100
   90
   80
   70
   60
   50
   40
   30
   20
   10
    0
        2011/12 (2015/16)   2012/13 (2016-17)   2013/14 (2017/18)    2014/15 (2018/19)

                               Government          Intl. Relations



 Annual feedback is gathered from both students and supervisors on the programme and over
 the last census period, following extensive surveying of current and former PhD students,
 significant changes were introduced to the PhD programme to improve doctoral students’ ability
 to focus on their research and complete within four years. These include a restructuring to
 provide more rigorous and wide ranging methodological training in the first year of the PhD (as
 an MRes or MPhil), increased access to research funds including funding ringfenced for PhD
 students only, and increased availability and access to professional development services,
 including more career workshops, practice job talks and the appointment of job placement
 officers in both departments to facilitate placement in leading centres of academic excellences in
 Europe, North America and beyond. Our doctoral students have moved to some of the most
 prestigious universities in the world after completing their PhDs, including Stanford, Princeton,
 MIT, UCSD, Chicago, King’s College, UCL and University of Zurich, as well as in non-academic
 institutions such as Chatham House, the European Commission, the IMF and RAND
 Corporation.

 Our students have also published their theses with major university presses (Cambridge,
 Oxford), and have won prestigious disciplinary awards for excellence. These include book
 prizes; Ida Danewid (2017), winner of Edward Said prize for White innocence in the Black
 Mediterranean: hospitality and the erasure of history; Kai Monheim (2014), winner of
 ‘Meditations-Wissenschafts-Preis’ for Getting to Cooperation: The Impact of Process
 Management on Multilateral Negotiations, awards for best doctoral dissertations; Katerina
 Tertytchnaya (2019), UK Political Studies Association (PSA) Prize for the Best Dissertation in
 Elections, Electoral Systems and Representation in the UK and awards for best articles; Joanne
 Yao (2019) won the best article prize from the European Journal of International Relations for
 her article on international rivers.

 Progression, trajectory and horizons:

 Like many similar institutions across the country, we believe that we are not yet sufficiently
 diverse and inclusive in our recruitment. Much of our work in the past six years has been


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dedicated to slowly but consistently improving this situation whilst aiming for ever higher
 standards of recruitment at both academic and doctoral levels.

 There are only so many people an institution can recruit and promote in half a decade. We have
 notably improved our diversity through renewed EDI policies, but also by moving from
 recruitment controlled by small committees in closed interviews to department-wide recruitments
 based on presentations and discussions open to our entire staff base. We have significantly
 increased the amount of money available to all our staff – notably junior staff – in order to
 support their aspirations, and we have doubled the average funding per doctoral student during
 this period. We have notably moved from limited student funding to quasi systematic full funding
 thereby enabling gifted students from less socially favoured backgrounds to engage in doctoral
 studies without needing to work or worry about how they will pay their rent at the end of the
 month. In the process, we have also significantly improved doctoral completion from 41.7% in
 GD and 53.3% in IRD in 2014 to 100% in GD and 81.8% in IRD in 2019 and introduced new
 departmental earmarked pilot research support.

 Our objective in the coming years is to further these efforts. The GD has just engaged a new
 recruitment campaign for up to six new tenure-track positions including a focus on ethnic,
 gender, and racial politics, and now that our doctoral performance has improved, we have
 started to expand our recruitment again and therefore the number of full-funding scholarships we
 are offering each year compared to the initial launch of the programme.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Fast increasing prestigious grants

 To conduct cutting-edge research, our research community has been active in seeking research
 funding from the most prestigious sponsors of social science research available to British
 Universities – such as the European Research Council, the Economic and Social Research
 Council, the European Union Framework programmes, and the Arts and Humanities Research
 Council. Over the REF period, our two departments accumulated over £18.5 million (£6.5 million
 in GD, £3.6 million in IRD, £8.4 million for Research Centres) of research funding with annual
 income growing by 50% between the beginning and the end of the period. However, our fast
 progress in this area is evidenced by a total of £43.1 million of new grants obtained by our
 research community over the same period, with the annual total new grants obtained
 progressing from £1.5 million in 2013-14 to a record £15 million in the final year (2019-20) of this
 exercise thanks to a very pro-active new strategy to support colleagues in obtaining external
 financial support for their research.

 This rapid increase in external funding success is the result of a pro-active strategy followed by
 our two departments but also the consistently excellent track record of our staff when they
 responsibly use the grants that they achieve to break new research frontiers, make a leading
 mark in their fields, and generate impact. The funds we receive result in world leading research
 as we account for 9% of publications in the discipline in the country but 18% of citations and
 32% of our staff publications feature in the 10% most cited in their fields worldwide.

 A consistent and growing capacity to attract prestigious competitive income




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A key sign of a ground-breaking and impact-oriented approach to science is the ability to attract
 external research funding. The UoA has conducted grant-funded research from some of the
 most prestigious funding bodies, including:

 •   ERC: Bruter, €2.5 million, 2019-2024; Chinkin, €2 million, 2018-2022; Kostovicova, €2
     million, 2018-2023; Hobolt, €1.5 million, 2015-2021; Benoit, €1.3 million, 2011-16; Bruter,
     €1.2 million, 2009-2015
 •   ESRC: Boone, £810,000, 2018-2021; Harrison and Bruter, £570,000, 2018-2022; Hobolt and
     Leeper, £134,000, 2017-19; Hix, £103,000, 2015-16; Collins; £835,000, 2017-2021; Ainley,
     £151,000; 2017-2019
 •   AHRC: Chinkin; £13 million, 20182023; Chinkin; £724,000; 2019-2021; Kostovicova,
     £245,000, 2016-19
 •   Leverhulme Trust: Meseguer, £187,000, 2018-2022; Flikschuh, Valentini, Ypi, each for
     £100,000
 •   Joseph Rowntree: Dunleavy, £181,000, 2016-2020; Dunleavy, £140,000, 2014-2016
 •   The British Academy: Haber, £328,000, 2018-21; Bayly, £327,000, 2016-2019; Lankina,
     £132,000; 2015-2016
 •   Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO): Pomeranzev, £250,000, 2017-2018; Lodge,
     £234,000, 206-2017; Pomeranzev, £150,000, 2018-2020
 •   European Commission: Lodge, €2.3 million, 2015-2018; Adraoui, €252,000, 2017-2020;
     Benoit, €211,000, 2015-2018
 •   Open Society Foundation: Collins, £425,000, 2016-2018; Collins, £355,000, 2018-2020;
     Quah, £110,000, 2015-2016
 •   Kuwait Foundation For The Advancement Of Sciences: Dodge; £2.7 million, 2017-2022.
 •   Stiftung Mercator: Falkner, £930,000; 2014-2017
 •   United Nations: Muller, £313,500, 2019; Martin, £193,000, 2018-2020
 •   Department for International Development (DFID): Dodge, £722,000, 2017-2021; Chinkin,
     £541,000; 2015-2017; Jablonski, £292,000, 2018-2020

 The fact that the total of new grants obtained during the period is more than twice our research
 income during the period, and consistently increasing, illustrates the magnitude of the
 progression of our staff in managing to secure large and prestigious external funding throughout
 the period. Beyond major grant-giving bodies, we have also been able to further our income by
 collecting over £4.3 million of funds from consulting activities (not included in our new grants
 figures above), which, apart from using our research expertise to support the work of leading
 institutions and practitioners enables us to contribute to a financially autonomous research
 environment.

 Figure 5: Progression of annual research income and new grants awarded




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                LSE Politics and International Relations -
                            Annual research income and new grants awarded


    16000000

    14000000

    12000000

    10000000

     8000000

     6000000

     4000000

     2000000

           0
                          Annual research income                 New grants awarded

                2013-14      2014-15     2015-16   2016-17   2017-18   2018-19    2019-20



 Using external funding to break research borders

 Research funded by external grants has led to an impressive amount of high-quality output.
 Together, our academics have published in a wide range of venues, including over 400 journals.
 Our publications have been downloaded over 1.6 million times from the School’s institutional
 repository LSE Research Online. Our academic publications have an average of 12.4 citations
 each. While predominantly cited by other scholars in political science and international relations,
 the research of the UoA permeates interdisciplinary boundaries, with 1,607 papers cited in
 psychology, health, education, organizational and management studies and linguistics. In fact,
 nearly a third of the papers published by our scholars feature in the top 10% of most cited
 worldwide in their field, a proportion significantly higher than the national average and which
 emphasises the intellectual influence of our research community.

 Strong links between research supported by major grant-giving bodies (ESRC, British Academy,
 EU) and impact are evidenced in the Impact Case Studies (ICS) submitted by the UoA. Beyond
 our ICSs, Woolcock leverages his research into EU trade policy to pursue a number of
 engagement activities, which have supported research-based input to policy-makers (and the
 Department of International Trade and DEXEU specifically); private sector organisations; and
 the public/media (on Brexit). Lankina’s British Academy and LSE funded research into Russian
 popular protest, foreign policy in Ukraine, and media manipulation has underpinned the provision
 of expert advice on Russian policy in the post-communist region to policy communities in the UK
 (the House of Lords), Europe (EU) and America. This has informed understanding of ‘what
 works’ in terms of Western policies relevant to Russia. The work has particularly helped to
 address a gap in understanding of the ways in which Russia’s media manipulation and
 propaganda tactics both bolster and provide insights into her foreign policy making. It has also
 helped to identify and promote more effective ways of improving democratic processes in
 Russia.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 6: LSE proportion of total politics and international relations DOI publications and citations
 in the UK




 Figure 7: Citations of UoA compared to UK disciplinary average3


              Citations of LSE politics and IR publications
                 compared to disciplinary UK average


         35
         30
         25
         20                                                        31.6
         15                                              22.8
         10                     12.4
          5             6.4
          0
                 Average citation per           Proportion of publications in
                     publication                    top 10% most cited

                   UK Politics and IR average       LSE Politics and IR average



 During the period, our academics have notably published between 10 and 18 articles in each of
 the following journals:

     ▪   American Political Science Review
     ▪   American Journal of Political Science
     ▪   Journal of Politics
     ▪   British Journal of Political Science
     ▪   International Affairs
     ▪   International Studies Quarterly
     ▪   Political Science Research and Methods

 As well as between eight and 21 research monographs published with:

     ▪   Cambridge University Press
     ▪   Oxford University Press
     ▪   Routledge


3 Note: information is based on all publications with a DOI, not just those selected for inclusion in the REF

assessment


                                                                                                   Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ▪   Palgrave
    ▪   Princeton University Press

 A strategy to foster external funding success

 The significant increase in new grants obtained that we have witnessed throughout the period is
 a direct consequence of two things: our track record at demonstrating to sponsors that our
 colleagues use external funding to contribute outstanding leadership and outputs to our
 profession as just shown, but also a new support strategy that we have built throughout the
 period and which aims to help our colleagues be in the best possible position to apply for funding
 when they identify a new research venture which requires such grants. The UoA provides
 finance support for staff preparing these significant bids for large, external research grants and
 funds aimed at increasing collaborative activities and successful dissemination. In addition to
 individual staff allocations (as mentioned in Section 2) the UoA also has a variety of funding
 available for individual and joint pilot projects, preparation of external grant applications, public
 events, seminar series, workshops as well as a book launch budget.

 Indeed, over the period, both departments have focused their research strategy on reforming
 and improving research funding. Thus, in IRD the five-year plan that was launched in 2015 calls
 for investing more than £150K in developing ‘research incubators’ aimed at supporting new
 innovative projects. This is in addition to the £200k currently spent annually to support faculty
 research and publication, graduate student training and development, and related research and
 training activities. In GD, a first step of the new research strategy, adopted in 2019, was to
 reform Departmental Research Funds, ring-fencing £100,000 per annum for individual and group
 seed grants (which must result in either an external grant application or a REF-eligible
 publication), new initiatives on ensuring that our research innovation translates to our teaching
 and lastly an initiative aimed at supporting the integration of users early in research as co-
 designers of projects. The GD’s ambitious strategy defines the department’s future priorities and
 research principles. Furthermore, we give ourselves the means to support our ambitions by
 engaging in activities which generate income for both departments – such as the LSE summer
 schools (which could not occur in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic) and executive
 educations. Those activities are rewarded by funds to the Departments which are then used to
 increase our support for research.

 In terms of departmental research funds, a number of new schemes for internal support for
 research have been created. The specifics of the funds vary slightly between the two
 departments but follow similar structures, with internal grants notably available for: 1) individual
 pilot projects, 2) group seed research, 3) workshops. The funds are specifically earmarked for
 projects which will lead to an external funding application, world-leading publications, or to
 achieve impact. Applications up to £7,000 are awarded, and priority is normally given to junior
 colleagues (assistant professorial level). Both departments also provide funds aimed at
 supporting Knowledge Exchange and Impact events organised by staff. In addition to funds
 aimed at supporting an innovative and world-leading research community, the UoA has during
 the REF period also utilised new Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KEI) grants of £10,000 per
 department, aimed at dissemination activities and increasing the impact of both small- and large-
 scale projects. For example, in 2018-19 GD used its funds to support a particular research
 project on electoral ergonomics, hosting two events in Australia during their latest elections,
 engaging with key members of the Australian electoral commission, giving new exposure to the
 research and receiving a preliminary agreement to circulate a questionnaire to polling station


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 managers. IRD used 2018-2019 funding to support a number of individual projects including a
 digital engagement platform to build awareness of imbalances in the gender make-up of authors
 in reading lists, bibliographies and similar textual artefacts used in higher education; the hosting
 of an event about protest and social inequalities; and a discussion on UK-EU foreign, security,
 and defence co-operation post-Brexit with policy-makers.

 IRD has participated in a number of LSE KEI Initiatives, notably the LSE Festival, an annual
 public engagement event designed to stimulate thought and debate and engage a wide public
 audience in the research and character of LSE. IRD faculty member Callahan was a member of
 Steering Group for the Festival from 2018-2020.LSE Festival programmes
 have included activities for children, exhibitions, film screenings, a theatre performance, campus
 history tours, sustainable food and drink pop-up stalls, a hip-hop and spoken word night, and
 talks and debates with speakers drawn from across the LSE community, including several IRD
 faculty, as well as from other academic institutions around the world, government, civil society
 and the media.

 Some award-winning facilities and infrastructures

 Beyond a dynamic community when it comes to research income, one of the things that makes
 the LSE so special is its world class facilities at the heart of central London. Since 2019, our two
 departments are collocated in the LSE’s 17,500 square metres award-winning Centre
 Building, the University’s newest building at the heart of campus. This architecturally, socially,
 and environmentally innovative building, has attracted significant attention from both
 architectural publications and the mass media and obtained the 2020 BREEAM public sector
 construction award, the British Construction Industry 2020 Social Infrastructure Award, and the
 2020 Education Estates Award for the LSE. It offers our research community and students
 unprecedented levels of public space, including a large common room for
 undergraduate and Masters students, and dedicated study areas for doctoral students, meeting
 and conference rooms reserved for our two departments, and ample landscaped interactive
 space. Some of the building’s terraces lend themselves perfectly for research dissemination
 events such as book launches and receptions. In addition, the LSE provides departments with
 multiple venues for hosting public lecture events, workshops and conferences which have been
 used extensively by the UoA during the REF period, to host over 100 events. The LSE also
 provides the UoA access to the LSE Behavioural Lab, which includes facilities for conducting
 experimental research and offers access to a large pool of diverse participants.

 Moving to this state-of-the-art building has meant that both Departments enjoy greater
 opportunities for enhanced collaboration and greater integration as a whole research
 community: for instance, this is the first time that all IRD staff, PhDs and Fellows are housed
 in the same building and it has contributed to developing a stronger sense of community. Each
 faculty member in IRD and GD has their own office which includes a meeting space. Amongst
 the faculty offices, PhD students have six spacious study areas with a dedicated workstation for
 each doctoral student and frequent, informal access to faculty colleagues. Staff and PhD
 students benefit from kitchen areas and common rooms with incredible views over the city and
 Lincoln’s Inn Fields where the Departments, their research units and centres can socialise and
 share ideas. IRD space is also shared with the Centre for International Studies
 and Millennium (the prestigious student run journal) and this too fosters collegiality and
 collaboration.



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There are also dedicated open-plan hot-desking spaces to accommodate academic visitors and
 research staff (those associated with external grant-funded projects, research centres or units) in
 the centre of the Departmental spaces, which encourages their integration with the Departments’
 faculty and students and leads to networking, the exchange of ideas and collaborative
 projects. Our new meeting rooms are equipped with state-of-the-art video conferencing
 facilities which has enabled us to host research seminars and workshops in hybrid mode (even
 prior to the Covid-19 pandemic) and this facility has largely increased local and
 international engagement with our research, especially during the pandemic.

 Another crucial resource available to departments is the LSE Library, which consists of over four
 million separate items, including rare books, archives, photographs, posters and pamphlets as
 well as extensive electronic research collections, including provision of access to 50,000 e-
 journal titles and over 200 datasets. Our Departments have a specifically assigned Academic
 Support Librarian who ensures that exceptional publications, data, and primary resources
 relevant to the research area of the UoA are available to our researchers and students.

 Progression, trajectory and horizons

 Whilst our planned building inauguration, originally scheduled in April 2020 has been delayed
 due to the coronavirus crisis, over the REF period, the politics and international relations
 research field at the LSE has moved from being separated into a multitude of separate outlets to
 all being co-located together (with the exception of one research centre) into the newest and
 most impressive award-winning building on the LSE campus, alongside the School’s Directorate.

 We have also managed to significantly improve our research funding over the period. Whilst our
 research income has increased by 47% between the first two years and the last two years of the
 period, our new grants figure was multiplied by 10 between the start and end of the period, with
 a record £15 million of new grants in 2019-20. The fact that at over £43 million, (including over
 £30 million in the last three years alone), our new funding is nearly 2.5x higher than our income
 over the period emphasises the substantial and continuous increase in our grant success.

 This consistent upwards trajectory is part of a coherent and pro-active strategy to internally
 support seed research within our two departments to encourage colleagues to apply for external
 funding in the best possible conditions, and a consistent track record at producing frontier-
 breaking findings, and highly cited outputs published with the most influential publishers and the
 best journals to ensure that we use external funds responsibly to lead research in our
 disciplines.

 Furthermore, far from contenting ourselves with those improvements, we are continuing to
 implement the new policies that we have designed as part of our research strategy to further
 strengthen our research income position in coming years by supporting academic and research
 colleagues to be ever more effective in their endeavour to find research funding in support of
 their innovative projects. Despite the coronavirus situation delaying the start of some of our
 initiatives, in 2021, we will begin a new series of support sessions for junior members of the
 academic and research staff eager to apply for external funding.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Being leaders in our disciplines and our contribution to society and the world


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our community prides itself in being leaders in the discipline, fulfilling some of the most
 important positions which help us to influence the future directions which international politics
 and international relations academia will follow. We also play our part in ensuring that our
 research will foster progress in society, policy, economy and culture by working with the most
 important and influential stakeholders locally, nationally, within Europe, and internationally.

 Over the period, our academics have sat on grant award panels for all the major research
 sponsors in social sciences including the European Research Council, the Economic and Social
 Research Council, and multiple national research councils and science foundations. They have
 held executive positions on professional organisations including the American Political Science
 Association (APSA), the European Political Science Association (EPSA), the Political Studies
 Association (PSA), the European Election Studies (EES) Association and the International
 Studies Association (ISA) and been members of learned societies such as the Academy of
 Social Sciences and the British Academy.

 However, beyond our contribution to the profession, it is change in policy, the economy, and
 society which our community contributes to and supports through research leadership. Our
 academics and research staff have worked with Governments (including Kuwait, Ireland and the
 UK) and Parliaments (not only Westminster and the European Parliament but also the Estonian
 Parliament). For example, Hix’s research led to the development of a Voting Advice Application
 used by hundreds of thousands of voters in recent European Parliament elections to help them
 make up their minds, and in the process, also helping journalists and analysts improve their
 predictive models across many EU Member States for those elections as part of Poll Watch. Our
 scholars also work with leading organisations including the European Commission, Committee
 of the Regions, IMF, and the World Bank, as well as with business, and with the cultural world
 (from Hollywood writers’ rooms to theatre production companies). Notably, forming part of one of
 our ICSs, Bruter served as one of the leading expert witnesses in cases tried by the Irish High
 Court and Supreme Court and pertaining to the country’s referendum on children’s rights where
 Courts had to assess the potential impact of problematic leaflets sent to voters during the
 campaign. He also advised a Hollywood writing room on the scenario of a proposed TV thriller
 series with Brie Larson in a scenario related to elections, although the project has been
 interrupted by the coronavirus crisis.

 We give those who want to improve society and the lives of citizens through research-led
 change access to the most rigorous, innovative, and relevant research in the fields of politics
 and international relations.

 Shaping the future of our disciplines: professional leadership

 In the census period, our academics have maintained a strong presence and contribution to the
 LSE’s main events calendar, having organised over 100 public lectures on topics such as
 Brexit, human rights, post-conflict peace-building, labour markets and welfare, populism, the
 far-right and political economy. They have also been involved in organising nearly 50 major
 international conferences, seminars, workshops and conference panels and have given
 keynotes at over 150 events across the world, including at prestigious universities such as
 Cambridge, Columbia, Harvard, Oxford and Yale and non-academic institutions such as
 Chatham House, the EU-Canada Forum, the Hague and UK Houses of Parliament. Invitations
 to give keynote talks is an important indicator of GD and IRD staff esteem and wider
 contributions to the dissemination of knowledge.



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to academic events, our staff are also highly engaged in editorial work. Staff in our
 departments have been editors of several journals in the profession including:

    ▪   American Political Science Review
    ▪   Public Administration
    ▪   Review of International Studies

 More broadly, the editorial board memberships of our staff reflect the breadth of the research
 covered, the inter-disciplinary nature of expertise, regional and global esteem and impact. Our
 faculty have served as lead editors, co-editors, international advisory members or editorial
 board members of the LSE International Studies Series at Cambridge University Press and
 have during the REF period been on the editorial board of journals including: American Political
 Science Review, Comparative Political Studies, International Organization, International
 Studies Quarterly and Journal of Political Philosophy. The journal Millennium is run by the UOA
 and the editorial board is uniquely composed of doctoral and postgraduate students from IRD.
 The journal, which publishes three issues per year and hosts an annual conference every year
 in October, has since the previous REF gained further recognition by experts in the field.
 Similarly, the GD hosts one of the leading undergraduate journals in the field, the LSE
 Undergraduate Political Review. Both offer students editorial experience and exposure to
 academic publishing practices.

 Our academics have served as editors of regarded book series as well, including Cambridge
 Studies in Law and Society (Meiehenrich), Routledge Series on Foreign Policy Analysis (Alden),
 Cambridge Studies in Comparative Politics (Boone), Palgrave Executive Politics and
 Governance (Lodge) and Palgrave China in Transformation (Lin).

 Several of our members are fellows of leading learned societies such as the Academy of Social
 Sciences (Lodge, Dunleavy, Phillips) and the British Academy (Page, Dunleavy, Flikschuh,
 Phillips, Hix, Hobolt, Schonhardt-Bailey, Soskice)

 Similarly, members of our departments have also served as panel members for the most
 prestigious grant funding institutions in the field. As an example, during the period, Bruter has
 sat on or chaired grant assessment panels for the European Research Council, the Economic
 and Social Research Council, and multiple national science foundations and councils (Finland,
 Spain, Portugal, Cyprus, etc).

 Another important part of the UoA’s engagement with the academic community is to allow for
 exchange and the building of partnerships through visiting programmes. Central to this in IRD is
 the David Davies of Llandinam (Dinam) Research Fellowship. Since 2008, this had funded a
 Visiting Fellow to join the department for a year, with the express aim of utilising international
 relations scholarship to improve foreign policy decision-making. Fellows have come from the UK
 Foreign Office, the EU and UN, working on UN sustainable development goals, conflict in central
 Africa and Islamic radicalism. During the REF period, among the visitors to the Departments or
 research centres were Professor Marie Thorsten (Visiting Fellow, Centre for International
 Studies, 2016-2017) from Doshisha University, Japan; Professor Stephan Haggard (Susan
 Strange Chair, 2018-2019) from UC San Diego, USA, Professor Kaare Strom from UC San
 Diego, USA, Etel L. Solingen (Susan Strange Chair, 2019-2020) from UC Irvine, USA and Sir
 Richard Mottram.




                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our scholars have received some of the most prestigious awards in their field including multiple
 awards from the International Studies Association and the American Political Science
 Association for research papers, books and fieldwork. Bayly’s first book Taming the Imperial
 Imagination: Colonial Knowledge, International Relations and the Anglo-Afghan Encounter,
 1808-1878 was the winner of the International Studies Association’s 2018 Francesco Prize for
 Best Book (a prize won by IRD staff for the last three years: 2019 by Barkawi and in 2017 by
 Buzan & Lawson). Lake’s book Strong NGOs and Weak States: Pursuing Gender Justice in the
 Democratic Republic of Congo and South Africa was awarded the inaugural Lee Ann Fujii Award
 by the International Studies Association in 2020, whilst further awards included the APSA
 Migration and Citizenship section Best paper award as well as Lee Wilson paper award for
 Emeriau, Market Research Society shortlist and award for Best International Research for
 Harrison and Bruter. In 2016, Phillips received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Political
 Science Association, and in 2018 Ypi received a Leverhulme Prize for Outstanding Research
 Achievement.

 Our contribution to the field extends beyond academic outputs and collaborations and also
 include the development of innovative methodological tools, such as Quanteda, an R package
 for the Quantitative Analysis of Textual Data developed by Benoit and colleagues, developed as
 part of an ERC Proof-of-Concept Grant.

 Engaging with society: shaping public debate and sharing research findings through the media

 UoA colleagues have over the census period been prolific in ensuring funding to engage in
 knowledge exchange and impact. Over the REF period, 13 KEI projects have received funding
 from LSE’s Higher Education Impact Fund (HEIF), amounting to over £450,000. Examples
 include the Development of an Almanac of Electoral Ergonomics (Bruter, £108,000), an
 interactive tool for both electoral practitioners and researchers which includes a database of
 electoral ergonomics and arrangements across democracies accessible through the Research
 Unit’s website, and KEI funding for the development and running of a Brexit Vote Blog
 (Dunleavy, £65,000), a blog with over 3.7 million unique visits and the fourth most popular blog
 hosted by LSE.

 The School helps staff achieve maximum impact by showcasing research for a wider audience
 in the form of podcasts, blogs, social media messages, and by funding activities that would help
 promote the work to wider audiences. At IRD, for instance, a weekly Newswire showcases staff
 achievements, blogs, podcasts and research which are widely distributed, including via Twitter
 feed and Facebook. Blogs and social media are an important tool for disseminating research to
 the public and the LSE provides outstanding support to develop media engagement skills. All
 new staff are encouraged to attend professional media training workshops which help develop
 confidence and skills in media presentations and interviews.

 During the REF census period, the UoA staff produced a large number of blogs or videos made
 publicly available on the website, directly relating to research outputs and made available in a
 more accessible format for the public. For example, the LSE Public Policy Group (PPG) hosts
 the British Politics and Policy blog, one the most widely reaching political blogs in the UK, and
 the most visited blog of the LSE, with over 5 million unique visitors to date. In addition, the LSE
 Women, Peace and Security project webpage, which has over 100 posts, has attracted
 3,751,289 visitors. Altogether, over the census period and as of Spring 2020, the UoA’s various
 centres and online initiatives had produced over 10,000 posts and attracted over 16 million
 unique visitors. UoA scholars are also invited to hold blogs beyond the LSE, such as the

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Electoral Psychology Observatory blog on the Psychology Today website, which has the most
 influential blog presence in psychology in the world.

 The GD and IRD staff also regularly provide expert commentary on major global news outlets.
 Staff have given interviews or have written policy and opinion pieces for many of the world’s
 leading media and news outlets including ABC, CNN, BBC, PBS, CBS, NPR, CBC, Channel 4,
 Sky News, Al Jazeera, CNBC, Financial Times, The Economist, The Wall Street Journal, Le
 Monde, The Times, The New York Times, The Independent, The Daily Telegraph, The
 Guardian, Reuters, Associated Press.

 Using research to contribution to policy, economy and society

 Beyond public and media engagement, the UoA also ensures that its research is shared with
 diverse communities and publics. This includes taking part of the LSE’s Widening Participation
 Programme, which brings students from sixth-form colleges to attend lectures held by LSE staff
 and which the two departments alternate hosting annual conferences for, as well as working with
 alumni networks to run regional events. The Middle East Centre runs a very successful public
 lecture series, which regularly attracts a large public audience of over a hundred people,
 comprised of journalists, regional specialists and those with a more general interest. Similarly,
 the US Centre runs a popular public events programme and an award-winning blog series. It
 also provides a “State of the States” website offering users free critical information about US
 States, and offers the popular “The Ballpark”, a series of podcasts and video explainers on US
 politics.

 A crucial way in which we ensure that our research contributes in meaningful ways to public
 debates, policy-making and societal understanding of current affairs is through our research
 centres and units. To provide some examples, IDEAS hosts interdisciplinary research projects,
 produces working papers and reports, holds public and off-the-record events, and delivers
 cutting-edge executive training programmes for government, business and third-sector
 organisations. Affiliates include several IRD academic staff members who contribute teaching to
 the highly successful Executive Masters Programme aimed at decision-makers and designed to
 enhance strategic thinking and diplomatic negotiation skills (Cox; Dalacoura; Dodge; Trubowitz;
 Lankina). Similarly, in the GD, the most recent research unit, the Electoral Psychology
 Observatory (Bruter and Harrison) focuses on research in the fields of electoral psychology and
 electoral ergonomics, working in collaboration with international Electoral Commissions (UK, LA
 County, Australia, South Africa, Georgia, Palestinian Territories, etc) or EU institutions. EPO
 includes frontier-breaking initiatives such as a new collaboration with architects and designers
 on designing the ideal polling station. The EPO has partnerships with leading scholars in
 universities such as Stanford, Columbia, McGill, the Australian National University, and more,
 and new cross-disciplinary international visibility.

 GD and IRD recognise that visiting faculty appointments as well as exchanges between
 academia and business, industry, public or third sector bodies and secondments constitute an
 important component of our research environment. During the census period, staff have held
 visiting positions at University of Vienna (Foos); the National Taiwan University (Jenco),
 Australian National University (Harrison, Bruter, Phillips), MIT (Rickard), University of Toronto
 (Falkner), Institute of Southeast Asian Studies (Haacke) and Harvard (Meiehenrich).

 The world class research of UoA staff, funded by leading UK and external academic and policy
 bodies, has significant impact in the context of contemporary debates on key areas of policy,

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including British domestic and foreign policy (Hobolt; Smith), EU policy and elections (Hix),
 policies on drugs (Collins), climate change, housing (Scanlon), transitional justice (Ainley, Lake)
 peace-building (Collins) and electoral procedures (Bruter, Harrison) and civic engagement
 (Jablonski; Ofosu). Our staff have been influential in shaping understandings of economic
 diplomacy (Woolcock), the political economy of countries of the Global South (Alden; Naqvi;
 Lall); the rise of political Islam (Dalacoura; Gerges; Sidel) and the dynamics of protest and the
 rise of contentious politics in the XXI century (Lawson; Lankina).

 During the census period, there are multiple examples of how the work of our scholars has had
 important civic, and political, impact. For example, Jablonski partnered with a leading civic
 education organization in Uganda (Twaweza) to test sharing information via SMS about public
 services to citizens prior to the election. The organization implemented the SMS intervention tool
 as part of their ongoing outreach efforts, effectively providing support for how to create more
 public engagement with democratic institutions and practices. McDoom has advised Washington
 DC-based NGO Project Over Zero on how to strategically support societies in the US to resist
 divides along identity lines and strengthen resilience to violence; Harrison has advised multiple
 Electoral Commissions including Georgia, South Africa, and the Palestinian Territories,
 organising training workshops for staff, helping to enhance the design and organisation of polling
 stations, improve access for under-represented voter categories as well as first time voters, and
 Wehner has provided written and oral evidence on legislative budget processes for finance
 committees and budget committees in Estonia, Germany and the UK. Similarly, Brierley has
 presented her work for the Ministry of Finance in Ghana. Furthermore, Schonhardt-Bailey’s work
 has been used by the Bank of England to consider their strategy on deliberation and
 transparency in internal processes as evidenced by their internal report and a briefing paper to
 the House of Commons, and Lodge’s work on risk and regulation has helped shape the
 regulation of logistic infrastructure in Brazil, with proposals stemming from his research
 ultimately translated into law.

 Using a three-year grant from the UK Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office, Dodge
 has built a team of ten researchers based at LSE and three Iraqi universities to study the drivers
 of conflict in that country and inform UK government policy. This project has repeatedly briefed
 the UK, US and European governments, the EU, the UN and multinational companies operating
 in Iraq. It has published 15 research papers with another ten forthcoming. Both Sedelmeier and
 Smith, using EU and European Commission (FP7 and EUNNET Jean Monnet) funding, have ran
 research consortia on both maximising the EU’s integration capacity, between 2013-2016, and
 EU-UN relations, 2016-2019, and UN Multilateralism, whilst Lodge leads the Horizon 2020
 Transcrisis consortium. Ainley and Kirby, using a £17.5 million grant have built a research
 network of 42 institutional and project partners working on the overlap of Sustainable
 Development Goal 5 on gender equality, Goal 16 on peace, justice and strong institutions, and
 the implementation of the Women, Peace and Security agenda. Lake joined the hub to set up a
 multinational project on women’s rights after war, focusing on Afghanistan, Bosnia, DR Congo,
 Iraq, Liberia, Nepal, Rwanda, Sri Lanka and Uganda. Koenig-Archibugi has used Agence
 Française de Développement funds to build a multi-university research network to work on
 complex social networks in global health policy and the allocation of global health aid.

 In addition to ensuring that the UoA’s research is external-facing, the clusters and units also
 elevate the profile of the departments by hosting events with leading officials, policy-makers
 and public figures, including Nancy Pelosi (Speaker of the US House of Representatives), Boris
 Johnson (UK Prime Minister) and Nicola Sturgeon (First Minister of Scotland) as well as leading


                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 social scientists such as Theda Skocpol (Harvard), Baron Anthony Giddens (LSE), Professor
 Amartya Sen (Harvard) and Torben Iversen (Harvard).

 Progression, trajectory and horizons

 Whilst our colleagues have always tried to play their part in our service to the politics and
 international relations research profession, we believe that over the past six years, our research
 community has become more influential in our profession than ever before. For the first time,
 some of our colleagues became editors of the American Political Science Review, arguably the
 profession’s most prestigious journal. Never before have we had members of our academic and
 research staff sitting on panels of all leading sponsors that support social science research in
 British universities. Never have our members managed to obtain so many prestigious awards
 recognising the best and most influential research in the field.

 At the same time, our people have made more effort than ever to ensure that their research
 would impact political systems and societies in Britain, Europe, and the world. We have worked
 with all leading EU institutions, numerous Governments, Parliaments, integrational
 organisations, national administrations, Electoral Commissions, local Governments, companies,
 regulators, and also leading actors from the business and cultural worlds from Hollywood
 producers to large multi-national companies.

 Our plan for the future is not just about doing more to be leaders in our profession, but mostly to
 do it better, and in particular, to enable every single member of our academic and research staff
 to shine in their research in their own way. We do not believe that a research community of our
 ambition and breadth could, nor should, support a “one-size-fits-all” vision of research
 excellence in research. Some of our colleagues will care about publishing great books and
 others great articles, some will aim to take prominent positions in professional associations,
 while others will want to edit the best journals or book series in the profession and others to sit
 on the most influential grant award panels. Some members of our departments will break new
 frontiers in their research by getting prestigious grants whilst others will do so by making their
 research the most impactful with the most important stakeholders. Our contribution to society,
 the economy and culture, in short, will be all the greater for our differences, all the richer from
 our diversity. Most importantly, it will be fulfilling for all the people who make our scientific family
 if we help them achieve the contribution which they feel will make them great scholars in the way
 which is most meaningful to them, ways which we will be unapologetically supportive and proud
 of.




                                                                                                 Page 24
