Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: 20 - Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction

 1.1.1 This submission represents the Department of Social Work and Social Care (SWSC),
 within the School of Education and Social Work (ESW). An outward-looking unit, comprised of
 30 (22.14 fte) staff, including 15 (full-time) CAT A, we are internationally regarded as trusted
 experts, pioneers and influencers in our interdisciplinary research, policy and practice fields.

 1.1.2 Our core research areas are (i) Professional practice, innovation and effectiveness;
 (ii) Wellbeing; (iii) Childhood and Youth. Our research (formative and commissioned), is
 highly policy and practice relevant. It engages with grand challenges faced by local and global
 communities – among them child and adult safeguarding, social and health inequalities
 (including Covid-related), migration, ‘datafication’ and social innovation. Our research focus is
 strategically aligned with priorities for European Social Challenges and Global Sustainability and
 with the UKRI emphasis on interdisciplinary, and challenge-led research to produce knowledge
 for social good.

 1.1.3 We have systematically developed a high functioning, responsive and collaborative
 research environment, distinctively fostering:
   • Critical conceptual development: spanning vital areas including governance, resistance
      and everyday life; care; wellbeing; generation; risk; inequality and innovation.
   • Methodological inventiveness: from pioneering qualitative and mixed longitudinal
      methods, to multi-method evaluations, psychosocial, participatory, archival and digital
      approaches.
   • Creative influence: scaffolding and animating connections with interdisciplinary and
      practice fields, shaping new research agendas and informing policy and practice
      development.

 We ensure that our research and teaching cross-fertilise, underpinning our reputation for
 developing resourceful researchers, research-minded professionals, and future leaders.

 1.2 Unit context and structure

 1.2.1 A School-wide Research Strategy provides coherence to the operational and resource
 environment, encouraging porous boundaries between Departments and disciplines. The SWSC
 Research Lead works closely with the School Research Director, Doctoral Studies, Impact and
 Research Centre Leads, and Research Ethics Officers. They report to the School Leadership
 Team, Research and Doctoral Committees, onwards to University research management and
 governance.

 1.2.2 Three interdisciplinary research centres provide supportive intellectual communities,
 public interfaces and extensive local, national and international reach for our core research
 areas:
  • The Centre for Innovation and Research in Childhood and Youth (CIRCY; Director
      Lefevre): one of ten University Research Centres, co-hosted with the Department of
      Education, its membership spans social sciences, humanities and Brighton & Sussex
      Medical School (BSMS);
  • The Centre for Innovation and Research in Wellbeing (CIRW, Director Watters pioneers
      research into wellbeing, migration, social and health inequalities; includes members in
      psychology, migration, development and global studies and BSMS;
  • The Centre for Social Work Research (C-SWIR, Director Ruch): focuses on innovation and

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       evaluation in policy and professional practice, with strong engagement from practice
       partners.
 All research-active staff and postgraduate researchers (PGRs) belong to at least one centre,
 with co-membership encouraged.

 1.2.3 SWSC is also a founding partner in two University strategic research investments
 (3.2.1):
   • The Andrew and Virginia Rudd Centre for Adoption Research and Practice (now Rudd
      Partnership with University of Cambridge);
   • The Sussex Humanities Lab (see Institutional-level Environment Template)

 1.3 Research objectives

 1.3.1 Our aim set at REF 2014 was:
    ‘to conduct research of the highest international quality that enables theory development and
    policy/practice innovation, reduces threats to personal well-being and social participation
    across the life course, and facilitates change locally, nationally and internationally’.

 1.3.2 REF 2014 objectives have been elaborated through two successive Department/School-
 wide Research Strategy consultations, and align with the University’s 2025 Research with
 Impact Strategy, aiming to:
     A. Enhance interdisciplinary research excellence, making internationally leading, innovative
        contributions to core areas of: Professional practice, innovation and effectiveness;
        Wellbeing; and Childhood and youth.
     B. Extend local, national and global research impact, influencing social work and related
        policy and practice, benefiting vulnerable or disadvantaged people and promoting
        wellbeing in everyday life.
     C. Promote highest standards of research conduct, integrity, and openness.
     D. Grow research capacity, vitality and sustainability within an inclusive research culture.
     E. Increase and diversify research income, to secure resilience and sustainability.
     F. Extend national and international research collaborations to enhance research
        excellence and impact.

 1.4 Summary of achievement of strategic objectives

 Our approach to and achievement of these objectives is discussed throughout this
 document.

 To summarise: Our interdisciplinary research excellence (A) is much strengthened,
 underpinned by strong leadership, strategic appointments and the success of research centres
 as interdisciplinary hubs. The policy, practice and public impact of our research (B) has been
 extended through resource investment, prioritizing impact in planning and workloads, and
 nurturing ‘impact ownership’. High standards of research integrity, governance and open
 research (C) are extended above and beyond compliance. Research capacity and inclusivity (D)
 have been strengthened with increased attention to: researcher development at all, especially
 early, career stages; enhanced mentoring, supervision and internal peer review; monitoring and
 review of PGR progression; and promoting equality, diversity and inclusivity through transparent
 research management. With an average a 44% bidding success rate, our research income has
 quadrupled, including large strategic awards within a wider funding portfolio (E). These
 achievements are enabled by expanded local, national and international collaborations with
 academic and research user partners (F).

 Note: All supporting data cited refer to the current REF period, unless otherwise stated.




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5 Enhancing interdisciplinary excellence (Objective A)


 1.5.1. Excellence in interdisciplinarity has become the norm in our research culture,
 resulting in research awards and top tier journal outputs in social work, social policy and
 multiple related fields. Noteworthy are our:
     • Capacity to build teams with complementary skills and perspectives within and
         beyond Sussex: exemplified by Lefevre’s collaboration with academic (sociologists,
         psychologists, economists) and stakeholder partners (University of Bedfordshire;
         Innovation Unit; Become) on the ESRC Innovate Project exploring social care
         innovations to safeguard young people at complex risk. Also: work with education,
         psychology, sociology, economics and with stakeholders (e.g. Research in Practice)
         on five DfE Children’s Social Care Innovation evaluations and on the What Works
         Centre for Children’s Social Care (WWCCSC) Evaluator Panel; and with development,
         urban and migration studies, history and education on Displacement, placemaking and
         wellbeing in the city among migrants and refugees in Europe and India (Watters,
         ESRC EqUIP).
     • Addressing contemporary challenges transcending disciplinary boundaries,
         including: health and social care (e.g. Bécares’ Inequalities in relation to Covid-19;
         Maglajlic’s Madness after war; Orr and Watters’ contributions to Global mental health);
         social care interfaces with technology (e.g. Chen’s Connected and intelligent care
         homes; Berriman’s ‘Datafication’ of children’s social care); and spiritual care (Marrable
         on End of life; Whiting on Breath in social work).
     • Forging methods that connect disciplinary and practice fields including: Thomson
         and Hickle’s collaborations with artists and performers articulating service users’ voices
         on: Reanimating data; Sounds of sexology; Art of attachment; Imagining Resistance);
         and Sharland’s work with public health and social statisticians on Assembling life history
         narratives from quantitative longitudinal data on children and families using social work.

 1.5.2. Interdisciplinary strength is underpinned by our:
  • Staffing strategy (2.1), securing a rich mix of disciplinary and professional
      backgrounds (social work, social policy, sociology, anthropology, psychology,
      psychotherapy, social epidemiology).
  • Research centres (1.2.2), fostering interdisciplinary dialogue, networking,
      methodological development and creation of strategic bidding platforms. CIRCY
      illustrates this well: collaborative studies established the interdisciplinary concept of
      ‘childhood publics’, generating awards including Thomson & Berriman’s (UKRI) Everyday
      Childhoods project, book and multi-media archive; Nolas’s Connectors international
      study of children’s everyday practices of participation in social action (ERC); and the
      multi-disciplinary E-nurture network (UKRI, led by Rudd) promoting children’s mental
      health in the digital world.

 1.5.3 SWSC makes significant contributions to interdisciplinary training of next generation
 researchers within the South East Network for Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership
 (SeNSS) (2.5.1), and more widely through the ESRC National Centre for Research Methods
 (NCRM) and postgraduate networks, relating to research ethics, qualitative longitudinal
 research, psychosocial methods, digital and archival research practices. SWSC staff have co-
 supervised 22 PGRs registered in other Sussex Departments, on topics including school
 counselling (education), kinship care for dementia (anthropology) and road culture among urban
 youth (sociology).

 1.6 Enabling impact achievement (Objective B)

 1.6.1 We foster an inclusive, sustainable culture of ‘impact ownership’, delivering our REF
 2014 goals by:

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Establishing an enduring infrastructure to support research impact: investing in
        dedicated resources and people, and prioritizing impact in staff development, workloads,
        recognition and rewards (2.3; 2.4; 2.5.5; 3.2.2iii).
    •   Nurturing trusted and new stakeholder collaborations: fostering participatory
        knowledge production and exchange (4.1.5-4.1.7; 4.2) with local, national and
        international stakeholders,
        to forge and sustain instrumental and conceptual impact pathways.
    •   Mainstreaming impact facilitation: embedding costed impact into projects; providing
        consultancy, face-to-face and online training and materials; contributions to impact
        showcasing events and community festivals; and effective use of digital and social media
        (2.3; 2.5.5; 3.2.2iii).

 1.6.2 Our two impact case studies exemplify the effectiveness of this approach, enabling us
 to build on and extend stakeholder partnerships, scaling up and sustaining impact. Both received
 infrastructure support including: sponsorship from the University’s ESRC Impact Acceleration
 Account and Higher Education Innovation Fund, dedicated impact consultant input,
 administrative support, and workload relief. The Talking and listening to children project began
 developing impact collaboratively with trusted and new local and regional agency partners,
 facilitating impact through bespoke digital and play resources and practice development
 workshops. This extended to national and international engagement through the project website,
 and proactive partnership and social media campaigning with the British Association of Social
 Work BASW). The Self neglect and adult safeguarding project demonstrates impact across
 improved frontline practice and practice standards, local and national policies and statutory
 guidance. This was achieved through developing practice tools, online guides and briefings, and
 amplified through engagement in consultations, presentations and workshops with professional
 and public stakeholders nationwide.

 1.7 Openness and integrity (Objective C)

 1.7.1 The University has fully embraced open access initiatives, introducing internal policies,
 training and resources (including Figshare and Box). Deposit within the institutional repository of
 all journal articles and conference proceedings with ISSN is mandatory since April 2016.

 1.7.2 SWSC is working proactively towards 100% compliance with the 2019 Concordat on
 Open Research Data. We strongly encourage staff and PGRs to produce open access and
 creative commons resources, and sponsor these where appropriate.

 1.7.3 We go beyond compliance, modelling innovative practice in co-producing open
 access data. Our role within the Sussex Humanities Lab significantly enhances our skills and
 capacity in this area, allowing SWSC to pioneer ethically robust approaches to creation,
 curation and re-use of open access data. Examples include the Everyday Childhoods
 collection within the Mass Observation Archive which invited children and families into the
 archive, co-producing good practice guidelines with researchers, participants and archivists.
 The Reanimating data project extends this learning, developing a new open access digital
 archive as a starting point for collaboration and new research, juxtaposing teenage sexual
 cultures over a thirty-year period.

 1.7.4 Robust governance frameworks assure we adhere to highest standards of research
 ethics and integrity. All empirical research must be approved by the Social Sciences Cluster
 Research Ethics Committee (CREC), with support provided through mentoring and supervision.
 Staff and PGRs are inducted to the University’s Code of Practice for Research, provided with
 regularly updated web-based ethics guidance and resources, and mandatory training in data
 privacy. Sharland helped design the Sussex research ethics and governance standards and
 procedures and Chairs the University’s Research Ethics Integrity Committee. She is also
 Trustee with lead responsibility for research ethics for the What Works Centre for Children’s
 Social Care. Orr (2019) led the underpinning research for development of the UK Collaborative

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for International Development Research (UKCDR) guidance on safeguarding in research. Our
 commitment to integrity also embraces transparency and openness in research management,
 including REF preparation (2.6.5).

 1.8 Future objectives

 1.8.1 Looking forward, our strategy will be to sustain a distinctive research culture and enhance
 our position as a centre of interdisciplinary research excellence, making far-reaching
 contributions to knowledge and practice in our fields. Ambitious yet realistic plans ensure
 resilience in light of an uncertain environment that includes Covid 19 and wider (e.g. Brexit and
 climate-related) precarities for HE, research funding and social work education.

 1.8.2 We will uphold all existing objectives (1.3.2) and make the following commitments, mapped
 to the pillars of the Sussex 2025 Strategy:
     • Capacity and profile: To drive sector-wide recovery and sustainability, through our
         national and international leadership and collaborative relationships; shaping and
         engaging with UK and international challenge agendas, particularly in relation to
         heightened (post-Covid) precarities for children and adults’ wellbeing, social inequalities
         and social care.
     • Culture: To further evolve our environment, with enhanced attention to equalities and
         diversity, research staff support, technological sophistication and climate change
         resilience.
     • Challenges: To nurture, hold and attract research talent in priority areas (for example
         evaluation research), strengthening our capacity for investigator-driven and
         policy/practice-driven/tendered research, through close alignment of research, teaching
         and staffing priorities in appointments and succession planning.
     • Excellence: To enable high quality, strategic research trajectories, underpinned by
         excellent research mentoring, internal peer review and transparent research
         management.
     • Diversification: To further diversify our funding portfolio, valuing a mix of national and
         international research councils, government, third and private sector funders, and
         nurturing strategic relationships with non-HEI collaborators.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 2.1.1 Staffing profile: CAT A staff have increased from 12.4 to 15 fte, currently comprising 1
 ECR (Damman), 3 other lecturers, 5 senior lecturers and 6 professors, all on permanent full-time
 contracts. Six (2.5 fte; non-independent) research staff are on fixed term contracts.

 2.1.2 Our recruitment strategy has prioritized vitality and sustainability, extending
 interdisciplinary expertise in core research and teaching areas, enabling strong research
 leadership and succession. Appointments have been: Bécares (senior lecturer) bringing
 advanced quantitative expertise in health and wellbeing inequalities; Hickle, Damman and Cane
 (lecturers) with diverse expertise in professional practice; and Berriman (lecturer) in digital
 childhoods. We have also welcomed Becker (appointed University Provost in 2017), a world-
 leading researcher on young carers. Associate researchers are inclusively engaged (2.3.5)
 affording additional capacity and agility to respond to research opportunities.

 2.1.3 There have been 2 professorial retirements (Braye, Taylor), 1 early retirement on health
 grounds (Meleyal) and 1 ongoing phased retirement (Luckock, 0.1 fte). One colleague (Nolas)
 moved to an equivalent post nearer home; 2 others left for personal reasons (Lambley, Turner).




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Progression and review

 2.2.1 All new non-professorial staff are probationary; all probationary reviews have been
 successful. There have been 4 promotions from lecturer to senior lecturer (Hickle, Orr,
 Marrable, Whiting) and 1 to Chair (Lefevre). Berriman was appointed to a permanent (from a
 fixed term) lectureship. Research staff career progression includes: Whittington and Wheeler
 respectively to permanent lectureships at Manchester Metropolitan and Regents College
 Universities, and Jaynes and McGeeney to research officer roles at 5Rights and Brook charities.

 2.2.2 Annual appraisal is conducted with all staff; appraisers are trained in an enabling
 approach, recognizing all aspects of performance, identifying development needs and support
 for colleagues to achieve their goals and career progression aspirations.

 2.3 Staff development

 Expansion and consolidation of staff development mechanisms has enriched our research,
 impact and environment. Noteworthy developments are:

 2.3.1 Individual research plans (IRPs) and mentoring: All research active staff meet termly
 with a research mentor to discuss research plans, fostering a responsive and dynamic approach
 to support. As live documents, IRPs encompass bidding, outputs, impact, obstacles and
 enabling factors, development needs and career aspirations. Reviewed annually, they also
 inform strategic research planning for the Department and School.

 2.3.2 A refreshed study leave policy has improved transparency and equity. Research
 active staff are encouraged to apply for study leave (normally 1 term per 3-year cycle),
 subject to a research plan assessed by committee against clear criteria. Short periods of
 ‘exceptional study leave’ may be awarded (e.g., enabling bidding, writing or impact activity to
 deadlines). To date, all eligible CAT A staff have received study leave within cycle, achieving
 tangible outcomes contributing to this submission. Four more recently appointed colleagues
 are due to apply within cycle.

 2.3.3 Enhanced support for bidding, writing and impact planning is provided by mentors,
 senior research centre colleagues, School Directors of Research and impact specialists, with
 demonstrable success (e.g. 3.1.1) Internal peer review is mandatory for all bids, and (following
 positive experience in REF preparation, 2.6.5) is now standard for outputs too. All CAT A staff
 are entitled to 40% fte research time, within which 10% fte is ringfenced bidding and writing time.

 2.3.4 Colleagues benefit from a wide array of research training and development
 opportunities, some mandatory (e.g. equalities and diversity; research supervision), many
 optional, including workshops (e.g., writing, bidding, mentoring), group and one-to-one peer
 support. External training is funded as appropriate. Up to £500 p.a. is available to all research-
 active staff for conference participation, with ECRs prioritized; additional funds can be accessed
 through research centres.

 2.3.5 Staff development is comprehensive across career stages:
     • Research staff: We work proactively to the Concordat to Support the Career
        Development of Researchers. The University Research Staff Office co-ordinates training
        and development and provides one-to-one coaching. ESW research staff have dedicated
        induction, webpage, handbook, and mentor support for writing and career development.
        They are represented on the School Research Committee, and, along with associate
        researchers, are encouraged to participate in research centre events, including a ‘new
        researcher showcase’ to promote visibility.
     • ECRs: have protected teaching loads for 1 year and are encouraged to apply for internal
        pump-priming, network development and impact funds (3.2.1; 3.2.2iii). Mentoring and
        collaboration with experienced colleagues scaffolds progression from Co-I to PI,

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        supervision of doctoral research and uptake of leadership roles. For example: ECR
        Damman collaborates on Lefevre’s ESRC Innovate Project and, as Co-I with Ruch, on
        evaluations of Family Drug and Alcohol Court peer mentoring (WWCSC) and Parental
        conflict reduction (Department of Work and Pensions). Training in research supervision is
        provided centrally and through 50/50% supervision split with experienced lead
        supervisors.
    •   Mid-career staff: are supported through centres, mentoring, peer review, study leave
        and internal funding to become established PIs, internationalise their work and take
        leadership roles. For example: Bécares, supported by CIRW and flexible working
        arrangements, has consolidated existing collaborations, progressed to PI with awards
        from the Nuffield and Health Foundations, and become Co-Director of CIRW. Maglajlic
        and Orr have likewise progressed into PI roles, whilst Cane, Chen and Marrable, all
        currently Co-Is, are being supported to lead grant applications, take leadership roles
        (Chen now Co-Directs CSWIR), and extend international networks.
    •   Senior staff: investment in training/coaching has supported staff moving into senior
        leadership roles (Lefevre, Ruch, Sharland). Experienced colleagues are also supported
        through centre networks, internal peer review, mentoring, seedcorn funding and study
        leave allocation, enabling substantial individual, collaborative and strategic grant capture
        and major publications.

 2.3.6 Illustrating the trajectories these supports can launch: Hickle, whilst ECR, was Co-I on
 several DfE and OCC projects, and supported to became PI on 4 small projects. She has since
 been promoted to senior lecturer, appointed School Lead for Impact, and won a 3-year AHRC
 award to combine social work with arts-based enquiry in Imagining Resistance through
 Participatory Photography.

 2.4 Recognising research and impact achievement

 Research and impact achievement are criteria for promotion and discretionary pay awards. PIs
 are allocated 10% of research contribution income for flexible use to support research.
 Individual and collective research and impact achievements are highlighted in research centres’
 dissemination (e.g., annual reports), reported to Senate and the University, publicised and
 celebrated locally. Distinctive impact achievements are recognized through University Impact
 Awards, with Orr shortlisted in 2018.

 2.5 Research students


 We have sustained a vibrant, inclusive doctoral research community, consolidating our national
 and international profile for excellent postgraduate research and supervision in our core
 interdisciplinary areas.

 2.5.1 Our PhD programme, managed by the Sussex Doctoral School, is delivered through
 the SeNSS DTP (established 2016), with interdisciplinary pathways in Social Work and Social
 Policy (led by Watters) including specialisms in Wellbeing and Childhood and Youth. One of 14
 ESRC-recognised DTPs, SeNSS offers highest quality +3 and 1+3 PhD training (full- or part-
 time), for practising professionals as well as traditional students. Modules led by SWSC (e.g.
 Researching childhood & youth) reach across the University, providing state of the art training
 linked to our methodological innovations. Recruitment to our professional Doctor of Social Work
 (DSW) programme was suspended in 2015/16, in favour of the PhD - a decision guided by
 School-wide imperatives to consolidate quality with cost-effectiveness, rather than grow quantity.

 2.5.2 Overall PGR student registrations have remained constant: 32 PGRs (23 PhD, 9 DSW)
 have newly registered in SWSC since REF 2014, compared with 33 (11 PhD, 22 DSW)
 previously. Almost half of new PhD registrations have been part-time – confirming continued
 accessibility to practising professionals. We have supervised a total 65 PGRs registered in

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SWSC and co-supervised 22 in other Departments (1.5.3). Our strategic focus on
 internationalization and quality has borne fruit. Among PGRs registering since REF 2014: 5 are
 international and 4 overseas visitors; 11 have been awarded ESRC/SeNSS studentships, and 4
 others collaborative (e.g. NHS Trust) or other prestigious awards (including 1 University
 Chancellor’s Award).

 2.5.3 Completion rates within maximum registration period have increased to 6/8 over the last
 2 years.
 Completions have been:

  Award     2013-14    2014-15    2015-16    2016-17   2017-18    2018-19    2019-20   Total
  PhD       4          1          1          3         2          4          1         16
  DSW       1          1          2          3         5          4          1         17
  Total     5          2          3          6         7          8          2         33

 2.5.4 We are proud of our PGR career progression: 16 completing during this period have
 attained permanent posts in UK/EU universities (including: Rawles, Head of Social Work, Open
 University; Dugmore, Associate Dean, Tavistock and Portman NHS Trust), with 7 awarded
 research posts/fellowships in HEIs, independent research organisations or national government
 (e.g. Bennett, NatCen; Rana, Ministry of Defence). Others progressing to senior
 professional/leadership roles include: Hare (Head of referral and assessment, Lewisham
 Council); Evans (Team manager, Surrey targeted youth service; and Sims (CoramBAAF
 Development consultant).

 2.5.5 Our inclusive environment fosters PGRs’ intellectual curiosity, skills, professional
 development and wellbeing. In addition to provisions standard to a research-intensive
 environment (e.g. induction, handbooks, dedicated offices, online learning portal) we focus on:
    •   Community: Each student belongs to at least one research centre and is encouraged to
        participate fully in events and activities. PGRs also present at regular Research in
        Progress seminars. Remote participation facilities have sustained community during the
        pandemic. With School funding for peer-led initiatives, PGRs have established reading,
        writing and support groups and have won Doctoral School funding to run interdisciplinary
        awaydays.
    •   Personal, professional and research development, including regular Training Needs
        Analysis. Skills and professional training opportunities are provided through the SeNSS
        DTP and Doctoral School, and dedicated funding for external training (e.g. NCRM) and
        conference participation. PGRs are supported towards research impact through
        dedicated workshops and office hours. They are encouraged to undertake the HEA
        accredited Start to Teach (PGCertHE) and ensured fair access to opportunities for paid
        research and teaching.
    •   We support PGRs to publish their research, including (in 8 cases) through co-
        authorship with supervisors.

 2.5.6 Significant improvements in processes and quality of support for PGR supervision,
 monitoring and review include:
     • dedicated support for studentship applications – with demonstrated success (2.5.2);
     • a questionnaire completed/agreed at supervision outset, then updated as necessary, to
        establish shared understandings of roles and responsibilities;
     • minimum monthly recording of meetings and progress;
     • robust annual progression and review processes, and monitoring of student experience;
     • training and supervision for research supervisors (2 staff members are currently
        qualifying by second supervising to completion);
     • regular supervisor meetings/workshops, to exchange best practice and agree collective
        actions.


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.5.7 Wider support includes dedicated Library space and Student Life Centre support for
 wellbeing, financial and learning needs. Students’ wellbeing is of paramount importance, with
 University initiatives including Understanding the mental health of doctoral researchers (2018-
 20).

 2.5.8 Our excellent results in the most recent (2019) Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey span a range of indicators, including highest at Sussex for research culture.

 2.6 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) (Objective D)

 2.6.1 We are determined to ensure that SWSC attracts staff and students from diverse
 backgrounds and circumstances, and that all can flourish here. This reflects our core social
 work values, aligning with the University’s Inclusive Sussex Strategy 2025 (including
 initiatives to renew institutional Athena Swan bronze award, attain Race Equality Charter
 Bronze award, and Disability Confident Leader status, and inclusion among Stonewall Top
 100 Employers).

 2.6.2 Increasing diversity among staff and PGRs: We actively encourage applicants from
 diverse backgrounds and with protected characteristics. Among our 15 (full-time) CAT A staff, 7
 are aged over and 8 under 50 years; the majority (11), including 4/6 professors, are women; 4
 are non-UK citizens; 3 self-identify as LGBTQ+; 2 are from minoritized ethnic groups; 1 has a
 declared disability. Two-thirds (11) have significant caring responsibilities, with 5 periods of
 maternity/parental leave. The wider staff group (30, including non-CAT A) has a similar diversity
 profile, though 56% work part-time. Five out of 15 currently registered PGRs are international, 5
 are from minoritized ethnic groups; 4 are part-time and 9 are ‘non-traditional’ students with
 professional practice experience.

 2.6.3 We are enhancing structures and embedding culture that ensure inclusive and
 equitable practice. Since 2017 we have established:
     • School EDI Committee, currently developing: a comprehensive EDI Strategy, including
        application for School-level Athena Swan bronze award; and projects on bullying and
        harassment and tackling the awarding gap for students of minoritized ethnicity. EDI
        Committee members sit on all key School committees and promotion panels, act as EDI,
        Dignity and Respect champions and contribute to University Working Groups.
     • School Wellbeing Advisory Group engages widely to enable wellbeing, awareness
        and zero tolerance of bullying and harassment.

 2.6.4 In addition to specific EDI-oriented practices relating to staff/PGR development at
 each career stage (2.3; 2.5), and making reasonable adjustments for all staff/PGRs with
 disabilities, the University and School:
     • proactively support maternity/parental leave, including ‘keeping in touch’ days and
          return planning;
     • offer phased return from sick leave, with calibrated workload and mentor support;
     • encourage and support remote work (before/during/after Covid); flexible working for
          colleagues with caring responsibilities; and discourage out-of-hours emails;
     • offer on-site childcare;
     • provide bespoke staff training, both mandatory (EDI law; dignity at work) and
          encouraged (e.g. disability awareness, bullying and harassment, unconscious bias);
     • encourage participation in staff networks (LGBT+; trans/non-binary; BAME; and
          disability networks) and women’s action learning sets;
     • attend to EDI in appraisals, IRPs, study leave and promotion applications, and
          explicitly addressed EDI issues in planning response to Covid impact;
     • celebrate diversity in communications and dedicated events (e.g. One World Week,
          LGBTQ+/Black History Months).


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.6.5 Our attention to ensuring all REF-related processes have been transparent,
 inclusive and equitable exceeds DORA and Sussex REF Code of Practice requirements:
     • All staff on standard teaching and research contracts are considered to hold
        significant responsibility for research; no research staff are independent researchers.
        Two contractual changes from CAT A eligible to non-eligible were mutually agreed, for
        phased retirement (Luckock) and personal career choice (Whiting).
     • Mentoring, individual research planning and study leave have maximized each
        individual’s contribution to our collective submission, taking a rounded, respectful
        approach to individual circumstances (formally declared by 1 colleague) and profiles.
     • Everyone in REF decision-making roles has undergone EDI and unconscious bias
        training. Review/selection processes were fully explained to all staff; individual-level
        information was shared on a ‘need to know’ only basis.
     • An internal output review group (IRG) comprised all professors/centre
        directors/mentors; rotating membership of all other CAT A colleagues encouraged
        shared understanding and ownership of REF processes and minimized unconscious
        bias. Output benchmarking and author self-rating were followed by 2 independent
        internal reviews, full IRG discussion and external review. Explanatory and formative
        feedback on each output was provided through mentors.
     • Case studies were developed and selected through extensive consultation and
        formative feedback between lead authors, the University Research Quality and Impact
        (RQI) Team, external advisors and a School Impact Advisory Group.
     • Final scrutiny of our submission by the IRG and EDI Lead confirmed equitable and
        inclusive representation, proportionate to distribution of protected characteristics and
        career stages among CAT A staff, whilst giving pointers for future EDI priorities.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Enhancing and diversifying income (Objective E)

 Growing and diversifying grant capture has been a strategic objective to ensure vitality and
 sustainability within a competitive funding environment.

 3.1.1 Our success has significantly exceeded expectations:
     • Total research income over the current REF period has quadrupled to £2.9M
        (previously £723K), with new awards (including projected income) totalling £5.18M
        to Sussex.
     • Our portfolio now includes major international and national consortium awards,
        alongside a diverse array of national and local funders.
     • Our success rate is exceptional, currently highest in the University, with median 44% of
        bids awarded over the period.

 3.1.2 Specifically, we have:
     • Led or partnered in scaled-up, consortium bids/awards for challenge-led research:
        Nationally Lefevre leads the multi-partner ESRC Innovate project (£1.9M); Ruch co-led
        the runner-up consortium bid for WWCSC Research Partner (£3.5M). Internationally,
        Watters leads UK strands of Refugee Well Schools (Horizon 2020) and Displacement,
        placemaking and wellbeing in India, Finland, Norway and UK (ESRC EqUIP); Becker is
        Co-I for the 6-country ‘ME-WE’ Psychosocial support for adolescent carers project
        (Horizon 2020).
     • Consolidated and extended established success with national funders: This
        includes a total 6 DfE commissioned projects/evaluations and 2 for the Office of the
        Children’s Commissioner (OCC). Thomson (Reanimating data) and Ruch
        (Communicating with vulnerable children and Social work supervision) brought further
        formative research funding success with the ESRC, as did Bécares (Ethnic inequalities in
        later life) and Sharland (Outcomes for children and families using social work) with the


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Nuffield Foundation. Continued funding has also come from national third sector partners
        CoramBAAF and Brook.
    •   Successfully bid to new international and national funders across sectors:
        Successful internationalisation includes first-time awards from the European Research
        Council (Nolas, Connectors), Danish Council for Independent Research (Thomson,
        Open-ended transitions), and the Independent Social Research Foundation (Maglajlic,
        Madness after war). UK research council funders new to us are the AHRC (Thomson and
        Berriman, Curating childhoods; Hickle Imagining resistance) and NERC (Watters, Thai
        coastal vulnerability and resilience). Public/government research commissions now
        extend to DWP (Ruch), NIHR (Chen; Luckock), WWCSC (Ruch), Child Exploitation and
        Online Protection (Thomson) and UKCDR (Orr). New charity funders include the Health
        Foundation (Bécares), Mankind UK and Esmée Fairbairn Foundation (Hickle), and
        Jacobs Foundation (Nolas).
    •   Extended our range of regional and local funders: Reflecting our multi-disciplinary
        stakeholder collaborations, funders (in addition to local authorities) now include Sussex
        Police, London Authority, YMCA Downslink, Roberts Foundation and Tavistock and
        Portman NHS Trust.

 3.2 Infrastructure supporting a vital and sustainable research environment (All
 Objectives)

 A robust, inclusive and enabling infrastructure underpins achievement of our strategic
 objectives.

 3.2.1 Organisational infrastructure:
     • SWSC has benefitted from a £3M University strategic investment in the Sussex
        Humanities Lab and a £3M alumnus endowment for the Andrew and Virginia Rudd
        Centre for Adoption Research and Practice. These have provided two SWSC posts,
        generated interdisciplinary collaborations in core research areas, led to prestigious
        awards (ESRC, AHRC, DfE) and co-authored outputs.
     • Sussex Research administers the University’s Research Development Fund (awards
        up to £30K) for pump priming activities leading to substantive external research
        proposals and the Research Opportunities Fund (awards up to £1.5K) to stimulate new
        collaborative interdisciplinary synergies. Successes include Chen’s pilot (with BSMS) for
        a successful bid to NIHR on Improving quality of care delivered by care home staff, and
        Sharland & Ruch’s pilot on Children’s data and voice leading to a currently shortlisted
        consortium bid to the Nuffield Strategic Fund.
     • The SeNSS DTP consortium supports excellence in PGR training (2.5.1).

 3.2.2 Operational and scholarly infrastructure:

 Infrastructure to ensure research integrity (1.7.4), support staff and PGR development and
 productivity (2.3-2.5) and embed EDI (2.6) has been discussed. Further highlights are:

 i) Core funding for research centres (1.2.2) a budget of £150 k per annum, provides vital
 supporting architecture for our interdisciplinary research environment. School funds sponsor
 centre directors’ time (0.2fte), dedicated research assistance, events and widely disseminated
 annual reports. Across their many functions, centres help spark ideas, enliven community, and
 forge academic and stakeholder connections. Activities range from CIRW’s annual symposia
 (themes include Nature, Spirituality and Wellbeing; Migration and Wellbeing) to CIRCY’s and
 CSWIR’s regular seminars, ‘Researching professional practice’ and ‘Ideas in action’ workshops
 (recent topics include Children ‘making a noise’, Virtual psychosocial research methodologies,
 and Using Mass Observation archives), ‘work-in-progress’ and ‘coffee and collaboration’
 sessions, and Practice Research Hub (4.1.7). We are committed to environmental sustainability,
 with remote/online complementing (and, under Covid, replacing) in-person participation.


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ii) Mainstream operational and scholarly infrastructure includes:
      • ESW’s Research Support Team, led by the Research and Enterprise Co-ordinator,
         providing professional support for all aspects of research and impact activity and project
         management.
      • Central pre- and post-award support led by University Research & Enterprise
         Services, providing: targeted funding alerts (including Research Professional); support
         and costings for bids; training (e.g., on costing); and cross-disciplinary events for
         strategic funding opportunities.
      • University website and external communications service, complemented by
         School Communications Officer, including dedicated research communications
         strands.
      • The Research Dashboard provides up-to-date research management information on
         bids and awards, doctoral research, and links to the Sussex Elements institutional
         repository for outputs (hosted by the Library).
      • The Library offers 24-hour opening, comprehensive online resources and dedicated
         bibliographic assistance. Its Research Hive offers regular training events, PGR space
         and a Research Data Management Librarian who supports planning, digital archiving and
         data sharing.
      • IT support and training are provided through ESW, the Doctoral School and University
         IT Services. An extensive range of research software is available.

 iii) Infrastructure supporting research impact is now much enhanced:
       • Central University support, led by the University RQI team and Research Impact
          Officer, includes online Research Impact Toolkit/resources, training, one-to-one
          guidance, and an annual Impact Day. This resource is utilised in drafting impact
          pathways, embedding and tracking impact throughout and beyond projects lifetimes.
       • ESRC Impact Acceleration Account awards have benefitted case studies and 5 other
          initiatives, including: development of e-learning materials on Safeguarding children at risk
          of sexual exploitation (Hickle) and Sexual consent and pleasure education (Thomson);
          and Chen’s (with BSMS, Business School and Informatics) pioneering work with
          technology/industry partners and health/social/residential care providers to Co-create
          connected, intelligent care homes for people with dementia.
       • The School Academic Lead for Impact, assisted by an Impact Officer, leads on
          developing and implementing our Impact Strategy, with an Impact Advisory
          Committee comprised of academic and research user members. ESW hosts an impact
          webpage with links to proprietary resources, bespoke training (in stakeholder mapping,
          infographics, social media), weekly media relations surgeries, monthly impact newsletter.
          Periodic impact workshops/conferences provide opportunities for presenting, gaining
          feedback and sharing good practice.
       • Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) funds have targeted impact consultancy,
          case studies and competitively awarded initiatives including: research-based stakeholder
          training events (e.g. Cane, HIV awareness; Damman, Parents’ peer support (4.3.2));
          media resources (e.g. Maglajlic’s web-video: Organisation of social services during and
          after disasters); and other resources (e.g. Ruch using Kitbags to promote children’s
          mental health in context of Covid). HEIF funds also align impact activity with the
          Knowledge Exchange Framework.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration with academic and non-academic partners (Objectives A, F)

 4.1.1 Nurturing existing and new relationships with academic and non-academic partners is core
 to SWSC ethos and success, and to Sussex 2025 Research with Impact and Engage for
 Change Strategies. Scaffolding research connections across institutions, disciplines and
 professional fields affords critical mass and capacity, giving rise to interdisciplinary synergies,


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 access to research opportunities and participants, credibility and voice in fields we seek to
 influence.

 4.1.2 Demonstrating this:
     • We have collaborated with Sussex colleagues in other disciplines on 21 (42%) of
        our funded projects and co-authored with them 78 (31%) of all staff/PGR research
        outputs.
     • 38 (76%) of our research awards are collaborative with other HEIs, 9 (18%) are
        international; 144 (57%) of our outputs have been co-authored with external academics,
        including 72 (33%) international.
     • 26 (52%) of our externally funded projects involve stakeholder co-
        investigators/collaborators, in 4 cases international; we have co-authored 13 outputs
        with research users.

 4.1.3. This collaborative approach is enabled by:
     • Outward-facing research centres with authoritative public profiles communicating our
         values and expertise to collaborators and research users.
     • Internal pump-priming funds providing opportunities for networking towards
         collaborative bid development (3.2.1)
     • University Research and Enterprise networking initiatives to stimulate multi-
         partner bids in response to strategic initiatives, e.g. successful UKRI multi-
         disciplinary E-nurture network led by Rudd; Watters’ ESRC Equip award on
         Displacement, placemaking and wellbeing; and a shortlisted Leverhulme Centre bid on
         Future of the archive (SHL initiative, in partnership with British Library, National Archives
         and 3 Universities).
     • Nurturing collborative synergies between Education and Social Work within
         shared School research environment, e.g. with Boddy on Children’s social care
         innovations (DfE); and with Gazeley and Boddy on School exclusion (OCC) and
         WWCSC Evaluator Panel).
     • Visiting opportunities from and to other institutions enrich our environment,
         stimulate and consolidate collaborations. Among 29 international and 2 UK Visitors to
         SWSC, examples include: Jette Kofoed (Aarhus) led workshops on Ethical hesitation and
         Psychosocial methods: visual matrix, contributed to 2 joint publications, a PhD student
         exchange and a shortlisted EC Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (EC-MSCA) bid. Visits
         from Julie McLeod (Melbourne), Ilse Julkunen (Helsinki) and Kristin Yarris (Oregon) all
         resulted in joint publications. International visiting appointments of 5 SWSC
         colleagues have also borne fruit (e.g. Thomson, at VIVE Copenhagen, funded
         collaboration on Young people’s transitions (Danish Council for Independent Research)
         and a journal Special Issue; Sharland, at University of Newcastle, Australia, 2
         publications and a shortlisted Australian Research Council bid).

 4.1.4 Collaborations with HEIs leading in their fields include 12 Russell Group and 40+
 overseas universities. Illustrations are:
     • Hickle and Lefevre with University of Bedfordshire’s International Centre on Researching
        Child Exploitation, Violence and Trafficking;
     • Ruch with Universities of Edinburgh, Cardiff and Queen’s Belfast on Talking and listening
        to children;
     • Bécares with University College London and Universities of Manchester, Michigan,
        Otago, Auckland and Massey University on Social determinants of health and wellbeing
        inequalities, including a new UKRI award on Social, cultural and economic impacts of the
        pandemic on BAME groups in Britain;
     • Becker and Watters (both Horizon 2020) respectively with 6 European HEIs, (led by
        Linnaeus University) examining Young carers’ wellbeing, and with 5 European HEIs (led
        by University of Ghent) on Refugees well schools.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1.5 We work closely with non-academic partners, in particular Research in Practice, OpCit
 and NatCen (with whom Sussex has a strategic partnership) to ensure our research has
 meaning and value for evidence-informed practice and to deliver the constellation of skills
 and specialist experience necessary for complex evaluations and trials.

 4.1.6 One-third (18) of our funded research projects have been commissioned by
 government, policy makers or service providers (3.1.2); trusted relationships ensure our
 research responds to and shapes their priorities.

 4.1.7 Extensive professional networks ensure close collaboration with beneficiaries to
 generate new knowledge:
     • Collaborations with longstanding local partners (e.g. ESCC Safer relationships
          perpetrator programme) are complemented by newer ones with South East Police (Child
          sexual exploitation/ trafficking), and NHS Foundation Trusts (e.g. Tavistock & Portman,
          Family Nurse Partnership).
     • The South Coast Regional Centre Teaching Partnership Practice Research Hub
          (hosted by CSWIR, in partnership with University of Brighton, ESCC and B&HCC) has
          driven collaborative working on practitioner research projects (e.g. on Impact of specialist
          family service assessments), directly informing local professional practice and policy.
     • We enjoy strong locally embedded, national and international links with community,
          service user and charity organisations, on: youth work (Allsorts; The Proud Trust;
          Brighton & Newhaven Youth Clubs); sexual and emotional health (Brook; Rise);
          vulnerable/at risk children (Safer London; National Children’s Bureau; Become; YMCA;
          USA Birth Parent Network; Eurocarers); children’s datafication (Mumsnet; NSPCC);
          mental health, wellbeing and inequalities (Sussex Community Development Association;
          Brighton Oasis; Vincent Dance, Runnymede Trust; Fenix (Bosnia & Herzegovina);
          Myanmar Migration Network). We also work with activist organisations (Queer in
          Brighton; Brighton Unemployed Centre, Brighton Women’s Centre; Feminist Webs) and
          industry partners on care technologies (British Telecom, Huawei, Vodafone, SwiftCare).
 These relationships enrich our research and our environment, including through
 practitioner/stakeholder participation in our research centres, CPD and doctoral programmes
 (2.5.2).

 4.2 Engagement with key research users/beneficiaries (Objective F)

 4.2.1 Further engagement with research users and beneficiaries makes it possible to
 scale and extend the significance and reach of our work, through:
     • Delivering research-based training, workshops, masterclasses and webinars to
         social work and other (police, health, education, arts) practitioners and managers locally,
         regionally and nationally (e.g. on communication with children; relationship-based
         practice; trauma-informed practice; HIV awareness; child sexual exploitation);
     • Producing and disseminating training materials and resources, including: practice
         guidance on Access to social care for adults with autism (Marrable, SCIE); training video
         and e-learning materials on Child sexual exploitation (Hickle, OCC);
     • Shaping public narratives through: 27 keynotes and multiple invited presentations
         at regional, national and international stakeholder conferences/symposia, including:
         BASW; Carers’ Trust; Cumberland Lodge; Independent Enquiry into Child Sexual
         Abuse; International Association of Social Workers; and public engagement such as
         Berriman’s participatory design events with coders, archivists and communities for
         Curating childhoods; contributions from Thomson and Bécares to Sick! Festival (2015 &
         2019), Lewis to Young Carers Festival, Hampshire (2019); and CIRW’s Singing for
         Wellbeing event (2019);
     • Hosting national symposia e.g. Local Safeguarding Children Boards (May 2017);
     • Providing written and in-person policy briefings, for example to: local authorities; OCC;
         DfE; Ofsted; European Parliament;
     • Maintaining active digital and social media profiles, through regular contributions to

                                                                                              Page 14
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             centre, project and network websites, blogs, podcasts, @Twitter and Facebook.

     4.2.2 We act as consultants/advisers to stakeholder organisations in our areas of expertise.
     Locally/regionally to: B&HCC (on digital ‘Futures’ (Berriman) and ‘Practice innovation’
     (Luckock)); Sussex Local Nature Partnership (Watters); Sussex Family Justice Circle (Lefevre);
     Child Sexual Exploitation Regional Threat Group (Hickle). National advisory group
     memberships/contributions include to: DfE on ‘Rethinking Social Work’ and CoramBAAF
     (Luckock); BASW 80-20 Campaign (Ruch) and BASW Children and Families Policy and Practice
     Group (Lefevre); NHS Race and Health Observatory (Bécares); and Overseas Development
     Institute Independent Advisory Group for the 10 year project ‘Gender, Adolescence and Global
     Evidence’ (Thomson).

     4.3 Wider contributions to society (Objective B)

▪    4.3.1 Beyond impacts discussed in case studies, we have a strong track record of making a
     difference to society. Our instrumental and conceptual impacts span micro-level
     professional practice to defining new legal and policy territory with national and international
     governments. The following exemplify pathways, significance and reach:
▪
     4.3.2 ECR Damman, with voluntary organisation Recovery Partners, hosted a HEIF-funded
     event (June 2018) drawing on her doctoral research on innovative USA Parent-Partner
     Programs, involving birth parents with previous child protection service experience as peer
     mentors to parents currently involved with the system. Event participants included birth parents,
     public and voluntary sector managers and practitioners, UK and USA researchers. This
     catalysed development and implementation of a peer mentoring/parent advocacy service in
     B&HCC and ESCC, and establishment of links between USA and UK birth parent
     representatives for information exchange and learning.

     4.3.3 Thomson’s collaboration with Brook on sexuality education includes the production of
     online open access modules, based on 2 collaboratively funded PhD projects exploring young
     people’s understandings of sexual pleasure and consent (McGeeney; Whittington). Aimed at
     educators and hosted online via BrookLearn, uptake has been strong, with 4121 unique users to
     date and 93% rating the content good or excellent.

     4.3.4 Luckock’s Wave 1 DfE Children’s Social Care Evaluation of CoramBAAF’s Permanence
     Improvement project generated new insights concerning the timing of decision-making in
     planning placements. It led to significant DfE investment in further project roll-out and Wave 2
     Innovation Programme evaluation.

     4.3.5 Lefevre’s (2005-6) work for SCIE provided novel conceptualization of key capabilities for
     Teaching, learning and assessment of communication skills with children. The resulting e-
     learning resource for practitioners (SCIE 2008) remains in use. The Chief Social Worker for
     Children and Families in England confirmed (2015) 'Michelle's work has had a significant impact
     on the social work education reform agenda and has helped inform my thinking in my role’.
     Lefevre’s contribution to social work education was recognised with a National Teaching
     Fellowship (2015).

     4.3.6 Becker’s research on young carers has underpinned a global campaign to recognise the
     rights and respond to needs of this neglected group, including development of dedicated
     services, school and university-based schemes. Progress has been achieved through
     collaborations with UK and international researchers, governments, policy makers (including
     European Parliament), practitioners, carers’ networks and media. Appointed UK Carers Trust
     Ambassador in 2020, Becker was named by Universities UK (2019) as one of the ‘Nation’s
     Lifesavers’, and by Access HE (2020) as a ‘role model’ whose pioneering research has ‘put
     young carers at the heart of many Universities’ widening participation plans’.



                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline and interdisciplinary field (Objective A)

 4.4.1 We continue to be an internationally recognised centre of excellence in social work
 research. Our contribution to the discipline was recognised in 2020 by the inclusion of papers
 by Lefevre et.al. and by Ruch among the 50 most influential ever published in the British Journal
 of Social Work. Lefevre was also awarded the BJSW Kay McDougall Prize (2017), and Sims
 (PhD) the Claire Winnicott National Essay Prize (2018).

 4.4.2 Sharland’s prominent leadership in strengthening the social work research community
 and capacity nationally and internationally includes serving as Co-Chair of the Joint
 Universities Social Work Education Research Committee (2011-15). She Co-founded (2014) and
 Chaired (2017-19) the European Social Work Research Association, which has grown to 700+
 members from 40+ countries, establishing a collective home for the European social work
 research community.

 4.5 Wider (inter)disciplinary influence and contributions (Objective A)

 4.5.1 In recognition of their outstanding contributions to their disciplines, Becker, Sharland
 and Thomson have been elected Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences; Becker is also
 Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. Sharland is Honorary Professor, Hong Kong University, and
 Watters was awarded the Global Oregon Collaboration Scholarship for ‘top scholars from the
 world’s most prestigious institutions’.

 4.5.2 We make significant contributions to national and international grant awarding bodies.
 As Trustee of WWCCSC (2019-), Sharland influences the Centre’s evaluation and funding
 priorities, following its transition from DfE auspices to independent charity. Bécares, Becker,
 Ruch, Sharland and Thomson are ESRC Peer Review College members. Committee
 memberships for specific Research Council funding calls/streams have included: Newton Fund
 International Researcher Links, Institutional Links, and Postgraduate Scholarships (Bécares,
 Orr); GCRF Culture and Mental Health, and ESRC UK-Colombia Mental Health (Orr); and
 MRC/ESRC Secondary Data Analysis (Thomson). International
 awarding committee memberships have included: EC-MSCA (Maglajlic); Swedish and
 Norwegian Research Councils, and Canada Council for the Arts (Watters); Irish Research
 Council (Orr); Academy of Finland (Sharland); Portuguese Foundation for Science and
 Technology and Austrian Science Fund (Thomson).

 4.5.3 We act in key roles for leading peer review journals across several fields. Editors/Co-
 editors have been: Watters, International Journal of Migration, Health and Social Care (2005-);
 (Thomson (2012-17) then Berriman (2020-) Children and Society; Ruch, Journal of Social Work
 Practice (2013-20); Lefevre, Child and Family Social Work (2014-18); Maglajlic, British Journal
 of Social Work (2020-); Bécares, Frontiers in Sociology: Race and Ethnicity (2020) and Assistant
 Editor Ethnicity and Health (2010-2016). Thomson co-edited two Special Issues of International
 Journal of Social Research Methodology (2015; 2020). Nine staff have been Editorial Board
 members, including for the European Journal of Social Work, Journal of Youth Studies, and
 Time and Society.

 4.5.4 We are sought-after advisory board members for national and international research
 institutes/networks, including: NIHR School for Social Care Research (Sharland); Cathie
 Marsh Institute (Bécares); University of Newcastle Social Science Research Institute
 (Thomson); and Nordic Research Network on Refugee Children (Watters). In addition to other
 Visiting roles (4.1.3) Sharland and Ruch hold advisory appointments respectively with Hong
 Kong University and VID Specialised University, Norway; Thomson is consultant mentor to the
 Danish National Centre for Social Research. We also act as expert advisors for specific research
 projects/programmes, funded, for example, by the Nuffield Foundation, Wellcome Trust,
 Australian Research Council and World Health Organisation.


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.5.5 We take prominent leadership roles in national and international research
 associations. Ruch is Co-Chair (2019-) of the Association of Professors of Social Work; Lefevre
 and Ruch co-convene ESWRA’s Special Interest Group on Child and family social work across
 Europe (2016-); Berriman co-convenes the British Sociological Association’s Childhood study
 group (2016-); Whiting advises to the Social History Network; and Bécares is newsletter editor
 for the Society for Social Medicine.

 4.5.6 We are regularly invited to showcase our work on prestigious national and
 international academic platforms. We have delivered 19 national and 14 international
 academic keynotes, 62 national and 33 international invited presentations, at fora ranging from
 the International Social Work and Society Academy to the Royal Statistical Society and
 Academia de Letras de Brasilia.




                                                                                          Page 17
