Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: UoA15 Archaeology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research structure
 Cambridge Archaeology has been radically reconfigured and expanded since REF2014, centred
 on the foundation in 2017 of a newly independent Department of Archaeology within the School
 of Humanities and Social Sciences (SHSS). We have seized this strategic opportunity to create
 an exceptionally broad interdisciplinary nexus exploring the global human past and enabling
 impact in the present. The Department continues to nurture its established core excellence in
 world archaeology, theory, method, archaeological science, and Mesopotamian and Egyptian
 culture and languages. In addition, it has incorporated world-class strength in human
 evolutionary studies and wider biological anthropology, and decisively built upon its pioneering
 role in heritage studies. The Department’s UoA comprises 47.13 submitted FTEs, representing
 52 people: 32 permanent research and teaching staff (mainly University Teaching Officers –
 UTOs); two archaeology curators (one permanent, one fixed term) in the Museum of
 Archaeology and Anthropology (MAA); one Director of Research (professorial equivalent) shared
 with the Needham Research Institute (NRI); and 17 research-independent postdoctoral research
 fellows (PDRFs, including three Senior Project Officers of the Cambridge Archaeological Unit).
 Our academics are supported by 23 administrative and technical staff. This integrated
 community aspires to be one of the widest-ranging and most dynamically successful centres for
 archaeology, broadly defined, across the UK and internationally.

 Alongside growth, we have achieved major rejuvenation, embracing a new generation of
 scholarship adapted to the widening intellectual demands of the future, from ethics to digital.
 Within the REF cycle, 14 long-term academic staff appointments have been made (including one
 in MAA), with three additional permanent posts under appointment at census. This expansion
 has been achieved through fresh initiatives, including two funded Chairs. Our research-led
 teaching has also been comprehensively revised, including a new undergraduate degree in
 Archaeology and redesigned Masters degrees (Heritage, Archaeological Science) that reflect
 our evolving research and feed into a thriving PhD programme. The size, range, diversity,
 aspirations, vitality and sustainability of Cambridge Archaeology have never been higher.

 Within the Department are the McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research, Cambridge
 Archaeological Unit (CAU), Duckworth Laboratory (one of the UK’s largest collections of human
 and primate remains), and an extensive suite of refurbished laboratories serving material
 science, bioarchaeology, environmental archaeology and biological anthropology. The
 Department is also co-founder and home since 2017 of the inter-departmental Cambridge
 Heritage Research Centre (CHRC). It has excellent relations with the MAA (two curators in this
 UoA), Fitzwilliam Museum, Institute of Continuing Education (ICE, one staff member returned),
 and Needham Research Institute (the Director of which is returned). The McDonald Institute
 retains its roles as a: (1) generator, base, financial source and logistical enabler for strategic
 research initiatives; (2) support centre for all relevant Cambridge PDRFs; and (3) hub for
 bringing together the strength of the wider community of Cambridge-based archaeologists.
 McDonald membership draws in archaeologists from Classics (UoA29), Earth Sciences (one
 staff member returned) and Geography (UoA14). Our long-term academics are embedded in
 eighteen Cambridge Colleges. Research activity is organised around six strategic themes,
 facilitating synergies between permanent staff, PDRFs and PhD students:

 • Environment, Landscapes and Settlement
 • Science, Technology and Innovation
 • Human Evolutionary Studies
 • Material Culture
 • Rethinking Complexity
 • Heritage.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Each is supported by one or more seminar series funded by the McDonald Institute. They
 provide focus and structure for our research activity, whilst being deliberately permeable and
 interdisciplinary.

 Research goals
 Cambridge Archaeology has achieved its REF2014 ambitions, realised fresh goals and set its
 agenda for the coming decade. Key 2014 aims were (1) expanded global coverage across the
 methodological spectrum, and (2) greater focus on sustainability, palaeoecology and food
 security.

 (1) Global coverage across the methodological spectrum. We are now engaged on almost every
 continent (including Antarctica), usually combining fieldwork and interpretative research. In
 Africa, we have become a leading UK centre and aim at a transformative and partnering role;
 emblematic is our Ward Oppenheimer Chair (Lane) and hosting of the Director of the British
 Institute in Eastern Africa (BIEA, Humphris), along with research by Broodbank, Chaudhary,
 Foley, French, Koops, Mirazón Lahr, Papazian, Said Mohamed, Spence and PDRFs Loftus and
 Sulas. African research includes 12 field projects ranging from hominin palaeontology and
 primate technology, via landscape archaeology and historical ecology to contemporary heritage
 and health. High-profile projects likewise extend our engagement in South Asia (Petrie), East
 Asia (Crema, Janik, Martinón-Torres, Mei; PDRF Gjesfjeld), Southeast Asia (Jacobs), the
 Americas (DeMarrais, French, Martinón-Torres; PDRFs Marín-Aguilera, Ting), the Pacific
 (Alderson) and polar regions (Barrett, Evans; PDRF Brittain). We retain prominence in Egypt and
 Mesopotamia (Bunbury, McMahon, Papazian, Spence, Worthington; PDRFs Loktionov,
 Tsouparopoulou), and in Europe and the Mediterranean (Barrett, Broodbank, Evans, French,
 Hakenbeck, Joy, Miracle, Nigst, Robb, Sørensen, Stoddart; PDRFs Boyd, Brittain, Cessford,
 Knight). Study of the latter is enhanced by synergies with Galanakis, Launaro and Millett
 (UoA29). Inclusion of human evolutionary studies has hugely boosted strength in
 Pleistocene/Palaeolithic research across Africa and Eurasia (Miracle and Nigst, now joined by
 Foley, Jacobs, Koops, Mirazón Lahr and Pomeroy; also Barker [retired October 2014] at
 Shanidar). At the other end of the chronological spectrum, we are active in medieval and later
 periods (Alderson, Barrett, Carr, DeMarrais, Hakenbeck, Lane; PDRFs Cessford, Marín-
 Aguilera, Parkinson, Ting). Methodological breadth has expanded through appointments in
 materials science (Martinón-Torres; PDRF Ting), computational analysis (Crema), proteomics
 (Collins), genetics and bioinformatics (Jacobs), osteology (Pomeroy) and health (Said
 Mohamed), while maintaining strengths in environmental archaeology (Barrett, French, Miracle;
 PDRFs Ballantyne, Hunt, Nicolaides Ramsey, Sulas; one permanent post under appointment at
 census), isotopic approaches to palaeoecology (O’Connell; PDRF Loftus), landscape analysis
 (French; Petrie, Stoddart) and field methods (Evans, Petrie). Textual and linguistic analyses are
 advanced by Papazian, Worthington and PDRF Loktionov.

 (2) Sustainability, palaeoecology and food security. Our enhanced focus is exemplified by:
 Barrett on marine historical ecology (e.g. Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network
 SeaChanges); Collins on ancient proteins (e.g. ERC Beasts to Craft: Parchment as a Biological
 Archive); French on Mediterranean, East African and South American farming landscapes;
 Jones (retired 2018) and Hunt on food globalisation (ERC Food Globalisation in Prehistory and
 Leverhulme Crops, Pollinators and People); Koops on primate behaviour and ecology; Lane on
 resilience in African environments; Loftus on coastal adaptations (Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowship); McMahon on long-term urbanism in Mesopotamia; O’Connell on stable isotope
 ecology; Petrie on prehistoric and current farming resilience in South Asia (e.g. ERC TwoRains
 and GCRF TIGR2ESS); Said Mohamed on childhood health; Sørensen and Evans on
 sustainable heritage in Cape Verde; and Viejo Rose on reparations for destruction of heritage.
 The reach and significance of our sustainability research is exemplified by our Food Security
 impact case study (ICS). Work in this area is actively supported by Departmental impact and
 research priming funding (e.g. Cape Verde, India), provision of research leave (e.g. McMahon,
 Petrie) and major investments by the McDonald Institute in laboratory infrastructure and staff
 (e.g. Collins, appointed McDonald Chair in Palaeoproteomics).

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 New objectives initiated and achieved within the REF2021 cycle are:

 (1) Integration and boosting of strength in human evolutionary studies and biological
 anthropology, and pursuit of greater synergies with Palaeolithic archaeology and archaeological
 science. Foley and Mirazón Lahr at senior level have been joined by new-blood appointments
 (Chaudhary, Crema, Jacobs, Koops and Said Mohamed), supported by a new post of
 Collections Manager of the Duckworth (Biers).

 (2) Strategic investment in next-generation archaeological science, achieved through the
 appointment of Martinón-Torres (Pitt-Rivers Chair; material science; theory of archaeological
 science), Jacobs and Collins, and by refurbishment and enhanced integration of our laboratories
 (see below). Contrary to the normal subdivision between organics and inorganics, we aim to
 encourage combined approaches, philosophies and methodologies.

 (3) Enhancing intellectually driven and applied heritage research, as pioneered at Cambridge by
 Sørensen. This is underscored by our first dedicated post (Viejo Rose), a second post under
 appointment at census and further strengthening of heritage research by Carr and Janik. It is
 strongly reinforced by the co-founding/funding of CHRC, plus community heritage projects in the
 Channel Islands (Carr), East Anglia (CAU), Italy (Stoddart), Egypt (Spence), Cape Verde
 (Sørensen, Evans), East Africa (Lane) and the US (DeMarrais), as well as two new (awarded
 2019 for an autumn 2020 start) Arcadia-funded Cambridge-led collaborative programmes of
 endangered heritage mapping in Africa and South Asia (Arcadia total awards £5.1m). Our ICS
 Improving our Understanding of the Victims of Nazism in the Channel Islands exemplifies the
 significance and reach of one of many heritage initiatives.

 (4) Enhanced collaborative research by CAU in regional archaeology, primarily in Cambridge
 and Fenland, the latter one of Europe’s outstanding preservation contexts. The West/North West
 Cambridge (Evans, Brittain) and Must Farm (Knight, Ballantyne) excavations exemplify the
 achievements of this priority, as summarised in the CAU ICS – as does the Wellcome-funded
 After the Plague project, based on CAU research at St John’s Hospital Cemetery, Cambridge
 (Robb, O’Connell, Cessford, Mitchell).

 Cambridge Archaeology has undergone its most radical transformation in decades, and our next
 mission is partly to embed and grow the gains, within and across existing and emerging
 research themes. All the objectives identified during the current cycle merit enhanced
 development, and several initiatives will reach fruition in the next (e.g. Heritage). Yet we also
 intend to develop fresh challenges over the coming decade, specifically (1) realising archaeology
 and biological anthropology as global deep history, critically framed and relevant today, and (2)
 fulfilling the potential of integrated social and scientific approaches to material culture. At a more
 holistic level, we aspire to a larger, integrated and interdisciplinary exploration of the global deep
 and recent human past and its relevance in the present. We will measure success through a
 combination of our own exacting expectations, external formal yardsticks and attracting many
 among the most interesting new generation and established researchers to work with us, with a
 strong emphasis on widening diversity. We will seek, by stimulating debates, collaborations and
 primary research, to lead ambitious new discourse and discoveries, for the benefit of the
 discipline and wider society.

 Enabling impact
 The Department has achieved impact by working directly with diverse stakeholders and enabling
 organisations, many having requested our assistance. Examples include grass-roots
 communities (e.g. descendants of victims of Nazism), corporations (e.g. Forterra Building
 Products at Must Farm), national agencies (e.g. Historic England and the British Academy’s
 priority area ‘Conflict, Stability & Security’), regional and national governments (e.g. Government
 of Punjab regarding Indian food security, Egypt’s Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities on the
 future of Amarna’s heritage), international organisations (e.g. UNESCO, International Criminal


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Court) and international NGOs (e.g. ICOMOS, Heritage for Peace) (see Engaging with
 Recipients, below).

 Two full-time professional staff (Outreach Officer [Bonner] and Research Facilitator [Boyle]) plus
 an Academic Champion (Barrett) have supported our impact agenda. Research funding
 newsletters, including impact opportunities, are produced monthly, and one-to-one impact
 development meetings nurture nascent ideas. Departmental funding for impact is provided by
 the McDonald Institute and in this REF cycle has supported initiatives as diverse as impact-led
 fieldwork (e.g. Sørensen and Evans – Cape Verde’s World Heritage Site management) and
 public art inspired by CAU research (at Cambridge’s new Eddington community – see ICS). The
 CHRC has also already proved a dynamic force, with active interventions on heritage in post-
 conflict contexts and engagement with international NGOs (Carr, Sørensen, Viejo Rose).

 Our research grants team (see Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact, below),
 embedded within the McDonald Institute, assists in impact-oriented applications for projects
 such as Petrie’s ERC-funded TwoRains (studying the implications of climate change and
 resilience in prehistoric India) and participation in TIGR2ESS (a cross-departmental GCRF
 award to support cutting-edge research addressing food security in developing countries). The
 University’s Arts and Humanities Impact Fund (AHIF) offers awards of £5,000 to £10,000, which
 we have employed for projects ranging from an educational computer game on medieval health
 (Robb) to rock art exhibitions/installations in Poland designed for Downs and autistic individuals
 (Janik), experimental archaeology (Stoddart) and a bilingual (English/Arabic) children’s book on
 the Egyptian city of Amarna (Spence). The University also offers an annual GCRF scheme, with
 grants of up to £80,000 for research addressing the problems of developing countries; presently
 it supports Lane’s Community Heritage and Education for Sustainable Development in Tanzania
 project. The collegiate organisation of Cambridge offers further support for impact, with an
 influential short film, The Poor Man of Nippur, delivered in Babylonian with subtitles in 19
 languages, viewed >85,000 times on YouTube, financed with AHIF and College support
 (Worthington).

 The Department considers impact linked to research excellence in its appointments strategy. For
 example, Lane brings extensive experience of GCRF projects and Collins successful links with
 industry. Said Mohamed brings collaborations with global health initiatives, and Chaudhary is
 applying behavioural ecology to understand community cohesion and crime rates across urban
 environments. Such new colleagues enhance the vitality and long-term sustainability of the
 Department’s impact agenda.

 The Department’s impact case studies, which all benefit from the above-mentioned support,
 represent the intersection of strategic research priorities with user-community engagement. One
 (Archaeology, Development and the Public in the East of England: The Cambridge
 Archaeological Unit) is based on CAU’s commitment to the social, cultural and economic impact
 of field archaeology in the local region. It responds to user needs expressed by developers,
 urban planners, heritage managers (including museums and galleries) and artists.
 Archaeological Contributions to Sustainable Farming and Food Security in China and India
 derives from our engagement with global sustainability, responding to user needs from farmers,
 government and NGOs. Improving our Understanding of the Victims of Nazism in the Channel
 Islands is rooted in our heritage research priority, especially that focusing on post-conflict
 reconciliation. It responds to user needs from victims’ descendants, both local and national
 government and NGOs. Finally, Developing Sustainable Heritage at Tell el-Amarna, Egypt,
 combines our priorities in heritage and Egyptian/Mesopotamian research, responding to the
 needs of local residents, heritage managers, tourism, national government and UNESCO.

 Interdisciplinary research
 With research ranging from heritage and ancient languages to aDNA, via social archaeology,
 archaeological science, palaeoecology, human biology and evolution, the Department has
 exceptional intellectual and applied breadth. A major priority of the REF2021 cycle has been the
 generation of a suite of ground-breaking interdisciplinary, impact-rich flagship projects.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Examples such as Beast to Craft (Collins, ERC Advanced), Encounter (Crema, ERC Starter),
 TwoRains and TIGR2ESS (Petrie, ERC Consolidator and GCRF), Yangshao Culture (Sørensen,
 Shanghai Academy of Guyewang Studies) and After the Plague (Wellcome Trust) bring
 excitingly unfamiliar clusters of staff and research students together, across our research
 themes, and showcase next-generation innovative, interpretive, open-data archaeology at its
 broadest.

 This interdisciplinarity is nurtured via seminars, away days and targeted grant support (e.g. an
 annual £10,000 interdisciplinary conference fund). It is also reflected in the academic profiles of
 recently appointed staff, especially those engaged with bioarchaeology and human cultural and
 biological evolution, who comfortably straddle traditionally distinct disciplines (e.g. Collins,
 Crema, Jacobs, Koops, Pomeroy and many PDRFs).

 Our UoA has strong relations with Classics, Earth Sciences, Geography, History, Plant Sciences
 and Zoology – for example aDNA analysis with Willerslev (Zoology), South Asian farming
 dynamics (TIGR2ESS) with Plant Sciences, and whaling/sealing research (Barrett SeaChanges,
 Brittain South Georgia Archaeological Project) with the Scott Polar Research Institute. We take a
 leading role in Cambridge’s Material Culture Forum, which draws together Archaeology,
 Classics, History, History of Art and Cambridge museums. We are active in three University
 Interdisciplinary Research Centres: Language Sciences (Foley), Data-driven Discovery (Crema),
 and Global Food Security (Petrie, PDRFs Hunt, Lister, Sulas). We play the lead role in CHRC.
 As our archaeology is inherently interdisciplinary, only publications that clearly speak
 innovatively to disciplines outside an inclusive definition of the subject are flagged as such in our
 outputs return.

 Open research and data sharing
 Archaeology at Cambridge is leading open research and data sharing, in line with the
 University’s Position Statement (https://osc.cam.ac.uk/open-research/open-research-position-
 statement). It is a focus of our Computational and Digital Archaeology Lab (CDAL) and is
 broadly supported across the UoA. Crema has co-authored a manifesto on Open Science in
 Archaeology (SAA Archaeological Record, 17 April 2017), Collins has presented on open
 research priorities to Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) officers in Brussels, O’Connell is
 an adviser to the NSF-funded IsoBank initiative, and Ting is Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of
 Open Archaeology Data. In 2018, the McDonald Institute moved to Open Access (CC BY-NC-
 ND) publishing of its monographs. Examples of open access research initiatives include
 MedAfrica’s database of all radiocarbon dates across North Africa (Broodbank), the Southern
 African Radiocarbon Database (Loftus) and the rcarbon R package (Crema), the last
 downloaded >14,000 times since 2017.

 Ethical research and research Integrity
 The stringent research ethics and integrity promoted and adhered to across the UoA are
 especially pertinent because we work globally, and with human tissues through to human
 subjects in heritage research. PhD students receive formal ethics training and all staff access
 ethics guidance. Beyond compliance and engagement with University bodies (e.g. University
 Research Ethics Committee, Human Remains Advisory Panel) and academic best practice (e.g.
 the Vancouver Protocol, DORA, the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers), we have our own Departmental Ethics Committee with a termly internal process
 for review and guidance of research by staff and students. The Duckworth Collections Manager
 has responsibility for ensuring sensitive handling of human remains; guided by the Director
 (Mirazón Lahr), she has implemented protocols for handling and sampling, and for working with
 indigenous communities, as evidenced by the recent highly successful return of Hawaiian
 kūpuna. Philanthropic research funding is also subject to ethical scrutiny, by the University’s
 Committee on Benefactions and External and Legal Affairs.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development (i) staff development strategy
 The opportunities provided by restructuring and rejuvenation have encouraged strongly
 proactive approaches to staff development. Our permanent research and teaching staff at
 census comprise nine Professors, one Director of Research (a professorial-equivalent role, held
 by Evans as Executive Director of the CAU), five Readers, six Senior Lecturers, nine Lecturers,
 one Assistant Director of Research (lecturer equivalent) and one College Teaching Officer
 (Bunbury). This team is strengthened by two MAA curators, the Director of the Needham
 Research Institute (employed by the Department of Archaeology at 0.2 FTE as a Director of
 Research) and 17 research-independent PDRFs (including three research-independent Senior
 Project Officers at CAU). Retirements since REF2014 comprise three from Archaeology (Barker,
 Hills, Jones), one from ICE (Oosthuizen), and two from former Biological Anthropology
 (Marlowe, Mascie-Taylor). Three UTOs from Biological Anthropology (Kivisild, Stock, Walsh)
 plus one MAA curator (Wingfield) have left for other positions. Retired staff remain closely
 connected, via University-level arrangements if grant-holding (e.g. Barker, Jones, Postgate,
 Renfrew) and as Senior Fellows of the McDonald Institute. We have been actively promoting a
 good gender balance through recruitment practices that focus on equality and diversity (see
 below). Female to male numbers at census are: core academics 14:21; REF-eligible PDRFs 9:8;
 PhD students over cycle 86:42. Each category is international in composition.

 Promotion has been overwhelmingly successful, encouraged through appraisal and discussion
 with the Head of Department (HoD). In this REF cycle, there have been four promotions to
 Professorships (Mirazón Lahr, Oosthuizen, Robb, Sørensen; three female), four to Readerships
 (McMahon, O’Connell, Petrie, Stock; two female), five to Senior Lecturer (Hakenbeck;
 O’Connell, Papazian, Spence, Worthington; three female), and one to Director of Research
 (Evans, male), totalling eight female and six male promotions. Two additional promotions to
 Senior Lecturer are confirmed at census for October 2020 (Crema and Viejo Rose, maintaining
 gender balance).

 New research and teaching staff join the University’s induction course; those below professorial
 level have a probation period with benchmarks, and are assigned a mentor (the latter available
 to incoming professors). Probation has been passed, when due, by all such staff in this cycle,
 and in several cases accelerated. All UTOs have regular appraisals, usually biennial
 (probationary staff are reviewed annually), to discuss progress, careers and problematic issues.
 PDRFs are likewise assigned a mentor and have regular training through McDonald Institute and
 University schemes. All staff have a line manager, and are encouraged to use the University’s
 programme of staff development offerings; Archaeology has good uptake. PDRFs are in addition
 supported by the University’s Postdoc Academy (https://www.postdocacademy.cam.ac.uk/) and
 PostDocs of Cambridge Society (https://www.pdoc.cam.ac.uk/). The Department arranges and
 funds additional dedicated training at all levels from PhD student to permanent academic staff on
 important topics, such as first aid and prevention of sexual harassment in the field.

 Staffing strategy and staff development (ii) effectiveness of staffing and recruitment strategy
 The new Department has achieved sharp growth in core research and teaching staff numbers,
 from 22 to 34 (excluding fixed-term Mei), our largest in any REF cycle. New appointments are, in
 order: 2014: Broodbank, Joy; 2016: Crema, Viejo Rose (latter with the aid of University incentive
 funds); 2018: Chaudhary, Collins (0.4 FTE), Lane, Martinón-Torres; 2019: Pomeroy, Said
 Mohamed; 2020: Jacobs, Koops. We have recruited four Professors (Broodbank as Disney,
 Lane as the newly endowed Ward Oppenheimer, Martinón-Torres to the previously endowed
 Pitt-Rivers, and Collins to a McDonald Chair in Palaeoproteomics), and eight entry-level
 positions, the latter in pursuit of our rejuvenation strategy. Three upcoming posts (replacing
 Foley [retires 2020; human origins] and proleptically French [environmental archaeology] and
 Sørensen [heritage]) were successfully confirmed despite the current pandemic, with interviews
 in June/July 2020 for start dates in the 2020/21 academic year. We have further enhanced our
 strength with targeted sharing of leaders in key fields (Humphris, 0.23 FTE, also Director of
 BIEA; Mei, 0.2 FTE, also Director of NRI and expert in ancient Chinese technology). Collins’ dual

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 posts at Cambridge and Copenhagen complement this strategy. Our success in recruiting
 PDRFs as both independent researchers and participants in larger projects has been
 outstanding, with (excluding CAU staff) 117 hosted over this REF cycle (107 employed through
 the University or its Colleges and 10 directly paid by their funding body). We avoid reliance on
 fixed-term or part-time teaching staff. When temporary staff are employed to cover brief gaps
 during leave or hiatuses in appointments, they are fully supported (see below).

 Staffing strategy and staff development (iii) support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 ECRs represent a crucial component of our staff, and a cherished asset for the field’s future, as
 we bet on youth to embrace new methodologies, ideas, numeracy and interdisciplinarity. At
 census, three of 34 core research and teaching staff and nine of 17 research-independent
 PDRFs are ECRs as defined by REF2021. All new staff, permanent or PDRF, have an induction
 and are paired with a mentor for pastoral advice (additional to their line manager or PI); our
 probationary system is tailored to their role and length of contract. New permanent research and
 teaching staff receive a £10,000 start-up grant from SHSS, and like all Departmental UTOs can
 draw upon an allocated £1000 p.a. for research support, travel, etc. ECRs, including PDRFs,
 can apply for up to £5000 p.a. in seed-corn funding from the McDonald’s in-house grants
 scheme, which is open to all academic staff on an externally reviewed competitive basis. The
 University’s Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH) offers
 an early career supplementary research leave scheme, taken up by five Archaeology staff in this
 REF cycle.

 Extensive support is offered to PDRFs, be they research-independent postdocs or those
 employed on projects led by others, irrespective of ECR criteria. Many of the 117 PDRFs hosted
 over the REF2021 cycle have been supported by projects led by permanent staff, funded, for
 example, by the ERC (30), Wellcome [five] and Leverhulme (five). Others have held independent
 fellowships funded, for example, by H2020 MSCA-IF (23), the McDonald Institute (nine),
 Leverhulme (four) and Cambridge University Colleges (11). The McDonald’s annual funding of a
 three-year Renfrew Fellowship, held jointly with a College, has proven to be a sought-after ECR
 post internationally, with typically 80–130 applications per year.

 The McDonald acts as the primary base for all PDRFs. Thus two central responsibilities of the
 Institute’s Director and Deputy Director are to advise on and support their progression, via
 individual meetings to review progress and plans, and to comment (along with our Research
 Facilitator) on grant and job applications. The McDonald runs a termly Postdoc Forum to discuss
 matters of shared concern and hosts integrative social events. All PDRFs are members of at
 least one research theme and seminar group, and there is funding to run seminars and
 conferences. Teaching experience for PDRFs is coordinated by the McDonald Institute and
 Departmental Teaching Committee, recently reorganised as a bespoke opt-in teaching
 mentoring scheme. The McDonald Institute liaises regularly over PDRF policy with the
 University’s Postdoc Academy.

 The quality of PDRFs attracted to our environment, and the effectiveness of our development
 strategy, is demonstrated by the high proportion proceeding to long-term posts at prestigious
 universities and research institutions. Of 88 leavers over the REF2021 period, 38 have gained
 such positions, with another 25 moving to fixed-term academic posts and seven to commercial
 archaeology or heritage posts (in aggregate 80% of all leavers). Examples of leaver destinations
 include lectureships at Bologna, Cambridge, the Cyprus Institute, Dartmouth, Edinburgh, Emory,
 Florida State, Graz, Haifa, La Sapienza, Leicester, Liverpool John Moores, Loughborough,
 Macquarie, NYU, Nottingham, QUB, Tarragona, Tübingen, UCL, Washington St Louis and
 Zurich. Three of our few fixed-term temporary lecturers over this cycle, plus one temporary MAA
 Curator, have gained long-term posts at Cambridge, Bournemouth, Leicester and the Getty
 Research Institute. Our ECR investment and success contributes significantly to the
 sustainability of the field, while increasing the long-term national and international research
 networks of Cambridge-based archaeology.



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Staffing strategy and staff development (iv) leave policy
 UTOs receive a statutory one term of sabbatical in seven. Archaeology has an additional local
 scheme to incentivise longer leave for ambitious research and impact, by removing all duties for
 the third term if two sabbatical terms are taken consecutively within a year – in effect one year
 every fifth. The Department actively encourages applications for competitive buyout schemes, in
 which it has been highly successful, e.g. Barrett’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship;
 Crema’s Philip Leverhulme Prize; Hakenbeck’s Visiting Scholarship at Princeton’s IAS; Joy’s
 Headley Fellowship; McMahon’s Visiting Professorships at La Sapienza and Paris I; Petrie’s
 British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship; Robb’s Wellcome Trust grant; Worthington’s NYU
 ISAW Fellowship. Impact responsibilities are also incorporated into the Department’s workload
 evaluations. Fixed-term staff (almost all PDRFs) do not have sabbaticals but are actively guided
 by their line managers/PIs and mentors to use their employment to maximum research and
 career advantage.

 Staffing strategy and staff development (v) recognition and reward for impact and knowledge
 exchange
 Impact and knowledge exchange are fully embedded in recruiting, recognising and rewarding
 staff. The Department seeks to appoint colleagues with portfolios including direct evidence of
 major real-world significance, either central to their work (e.g. Lane, Said Mohamed, Viejo Rose)
 or through seizing opportunities presented by important spin-offs (e.g. Collins and food
 forensics). Impact-achieving research by existing staff is recognised through direct financial
 support (including research assistance – see Enabling Impact, below), inclusion of research
 impact in the University’s senior promotions process, and the prestigious Vice-Chancellor’s
 Research Impact and Engagement Awards. Archaeology staff are encouraged and supported in
 applying for this recognition: in 2016 Carr won the Vice-Chancellor's Impact Award for her
 heritage-based work on victims of Nazism in the Channel Islands (see ICS). Key Departmental
 roles, such as REF Impact Champion and case-study leads, are acknowledged via the allocation
 of Departmental workload. Both impact and knowledge exchange are rewarded by the
 McDonald Institute’s Field Archaeologist in Residence programme, which embeds a leading
 commercial archaeologist for one term; an outstanding recent example is Sadie Watson, since
 winner of a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship at MOLA, and whose residence has accelerated
 collaboration between MOLA, CAU and the Department. Professional staff with responsibility for
 impact generation are likewise supported, with Research Facilitator Boyle shortlisted in 2018 for
 a University Professional Services Recognition Scheme award.

 Research students: recruitment, support mechanisms, skills development and employment
 preparation
 A high-quality international PhD community is a key strength of our environment. In the
 REF2021 cycle, 128 students from 35 countries completed their PhDs (N.B. we do not offer
 separate professional doctorates). Selection and funding are highly competitive, based on
 outstanding prior performance, a well-developed original project, references, fit with the intended
 supervisor and interview. Archaeology is a member of AHRC and NERC DTPs, which are
 complemented by additional highly competitive studentships (e.g. Gates, Cambridge
 Commonwealth Trust) offered through the University and its Colleges. Grant-funded PhDs (e.g.
 After the Plague; SeaChanges) bring benefits of participation in research teams. Of the
 REF2021 PhD cohorts, 66% of students were funded: 28 by UK research councils (AHRC,
 NERC, BBSRC), five by Gates studentships, 46 by other University and College studentships,
 and six by overseas funders including H2020.

 Students are supported by at least one supervisor, plus an academically complementary second
 advisor and a College tutor. Progress is guided by the University’s Code of Practice for research
 students, signed by student and supervisor (https://www.cambridgestudents.cam.ac.uk/grad-
 code-of-practice). All students participate in research skills workshops, covering topics such as
 research design, ethics, fieldwork planning, publication, etc. Additionally, they are provided with
 tailored training. Many take offerings in computing, data science, GIS and/or the SHSS ESRC-
 validated course in Social Science Research Methods. All students defend progress reports

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 before expert panels halfway through year 1 and submit a major pilot study at the transition to
 year 2, followed by further checks in year 3.

 In addition, PhD students are embedded in the Department’s research culture through
 participation in meetings, seminars, projects and laboratory groups. They regularly contribute
 presentations alongside UTOs, PDRFs and external speakers. They edit the student-run peer-
 reviewed Archaeological Review from Cambridge and representatives participate in
 Departmental committees, including Research Committee (RC). Generous funding for
 conference presentations, fieldwork and training is provided by University, College and
 Department, and students are strongly advised to take full advantage of this; many publish in
 journals/edited volumes before submission. Teaching opportunities are available, as TAs and
 tutorial supervisors. PhD students are encouraged to take advantage of Cambridge’s formidable
 wider opportunities for research development (from the University’s comprehensive programme
 of transferable skills training to opportunities for workshop organisation in CRASSH and
 Colleges), and to compete for its awards. One student won the Inclusive Teaching Award in the
 2017 Cambridge Student Union competition; in 2019, two more won an Outstanding Student
 Contribution to Education Award for innovative MAA tours. The combination of high entry
 standards and highly effective training makes for a community of new-generation researchers of
 formidable ability and energy.

 A key measure of success is career progression. Of the REF2021 total of 128, 49 have
 progressed to fixed-term post-doctoral research posts, 21 have obtained long-term academic
 posts (principally lectureships), 10 work in museums, five in other heritage posts, four in
 commercial CRM, and nine in academic or related administration (in aggregate 77% of the total).
 The remaining minority have pursued successful careers in, for example, publishing, teaching,
 IT, business, government and medicine. One was president of the University’s Graduate Union
 between 2019 and 2020.

 Equality and diversity (i) career pathways, study leave, flexible working, travel, fieldwork, support
 and well-being
 We highly prioritise Equality and Diversity (E&D) issues. The University fosters an environment
 valuing diversity and promoting inclusive culture, reflected in its Silver Athena Swan status and
 commitments to promoting gender equality, closing the gender pay gap, ensuring balanced
 professorial promotion and signing up to the Race Equality Charter. Staff and student diversity
 networks provide discussion fora; a Returning Carers Scheme supports careers impacted by
 leave; and the Breaking the Silence campaign supports those affected by sexual misconduct –
 building a culture of zero tolerance. Job advertisements encourage applications from
 diverse/non-traditional backgrounds. Archaeology values its welcoming and supportive
 environment and gender balance is considered in all major research leadership roles, including
 membership of the Research (five female, six male) and REF (four female, five male)
 Committees.

 The Department has prioritised E&D and established new initiatives. Starting with recruitment,
 strenuous efforts have been made to select the best applicants transparently and in accordance
 with E&D best practice. Priorities for long-term posts relative to Departmental need and strategy
 are debated among staff, and advertisements drafted by gender-balanced appointment
 committees trained in E&D and unconscious bias; they initially rank male and female applicants
 separately to ensure balanced shortlists. Presentations to staff and students (with feedback) are
 given by shortlisted candidates prior to interview. That the permanent research and teaching
 staff appointed in this cycle have been almost entirely our first-choice candidates, from high-
 quality pools, affirms our attractiveness as a place to work. Among these, four have gone to
 women and seven to men; new appointments underway at census include a further two women
 and one man. Our new colleagues are from a diversity of ethnic backgrounds. PDRF applicants
 are assessed following the same principles. In our 2020 Departmental survey (an initiative of our
 new Athena Swan/E&D Committee, with responsibility for guiding Departmental policies and
 practices), 86% believed that their recruitment was not affected by gender bias and only 2%
 stated the opposite.

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Department has placed particular emphasis on timely career progression for female staff
 (see Staffing Strategy and Staff Development, above). Almost every female UTO beyond
 probation has been promoted or received an exceptional pay rise during this cycle: three
 Professorships, two Readerships and three Senior Lectureships (a fourth is confirmed, effective
 from 2020–21). This career progression and resulting female leadership within the Department
 creates role models for younger staff (reinforced by a newly commissioned portrait of Dorothy
 Garrod, Cambridge’s first female professor) and reflects our determined support for equal
 promotion, including access to University-level experienced advisors for female applicants.

 Appraisals provide the opportunity to encourage promotion and funding applications, across staff
 of all genders and protected characteristics, including those hesitating to put themselves
 forward. External funding applications are universally supported by a dedicated team of
 Research Facilitator and Grants Administrator (one female, one male). Internal pump-priming
 funds are available to all UTOs and PDRFs through the McDonald Institute.

 In line with our committed investment in long-term staff, we have few fixed-term appointments
 beyond our PDRFs (see Support for Early Career Researchers, above). Temporary staff, mainly
 those covering leave, receive mentoring, access to infrastructure and financial research support
 (including £1000 p.a.). Likewise, we have few part-time staff (beyond those on advantageous job
 shares); their workload is proportionately adjusted and they too receive full mentoring and other
 support. Professional staff are also regularly appraised and encouraged, if appropriate, to apply
 for career-enhancing training schemes, additional financial contributions and/or re-grading.

 Study leave is statutory for permanent teaching and research staff. Timing is scrutinised by the
 HoD and Teaching Committee, for equity and flexibility relative to need, with scope for
 adjustment to fit requirements. The Department and University are committed to flexible
 (including remote) working, implemented on request for staff with childcare responsibilities; this
 system was in place well before being comprehensively applied during COVID-19 lockdown.

 We have made full use of the University’s Returning Carers Scheme to allow both core and
 PDRF staff to maintain external conference and fieldwork presence under early maternity
 conditions. Departmental space is available for childcare as needed and we have adjusted late
 afternoon timetables to facilitate attendance by those with childcare responsibilities. The
 University has generous maternity/paternity/adoption leave provision and offers a graduated
 return plan and flexible working arrangements. Those with disabilities receive support in terms of
 specialist equipment and ease of access, strong appreciation of which is demonstrated by our
 2020 E&D survey. The Department has appointed two Responsible Officers and an LGBT+
 champion to provide confidential guidance as needed and has introduced mandatory training for
 all staff and students relating to harassment, especially during fieldwork. Evaluation of diversity-
 related issues is integrated in our mandatory travel and fieldwork risk assessment procedures for
 Departmental projects.

 Our workload model for teaching and administration aims to adjust responsibilities equitably,
 taking account of protected characteristics and special circumstances. Regular appraisal and
 promotion encourage personal well-being. Physical or mental health matters are addressed
 promptly and supported directly by the HoD, line manager or Responsible Officer, or directed to
 the University’s Occupational Health Service and sick leave arrangements. We aim, by
 maintaining a community scale compatible with face-to-face interaction, regular informal
 subsidised social events, plus clear line-management and appraisal systems, to foster a positive
 culture of mutual support, vertically and laterally, between all staff categories. In the context of
 COVID-19 lockdown, this was achieved by dedicated social networking channels and regular
 online events for all.

 Equality and diversity (ii) outputs
 Selecting outputs for REF submission has entailed careful attention to E&D issues, including
 unconscious bias. The UoA worked iteratively with the University’s REF office to agree a Code

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Practice regarding key procedures. These included the principle of self-nomination (all current
 REF-eligible staff were invited to propose and score their best outputs for consideration) and
 independent review (internal and/or external experts then scored the suggested works).
 Archaeology’s outputs were chosen when scored highly by both authors and independent
 readers. Readers were of two genders (external: four female, two male; internal: six female,
 seven male). The Chair of the REF Committee moderated outputs to ensure consistency of
 scoring. Publications by leavers were evaluated by nomination of the UoA’s REF Committee
 (often in consultation with the authors), followed by independent peer review. Of our REF2021
 outputs, 37% (adjusted for double weighting) are contributed by women, who comprise 47%
 (adjusted by FTE) of our census staff. The four ICS leads are two women and two men.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Funding strategies
 Funding applications are a major Departmental priority, to enable research and impact at scales
 ranging from individual scholarship to major collaborations, both supporting existing staff and
 attracting new excellence. Close attention is given to the fit between Departmental strategy (as
 led by RC), project aims and financial means, in order to maximise successful project
 management, academic outputs and value for money. We emphasise support in areas
 consonant with our major research themes, projects developing new local, national or wider
 collaborations, and ones that will make a difference, whether in terms of academic and public
 understanding, capacity building or impact. Our funding remit engages most types of relevant
 grant-giving bodies, and our planning extends to strategically targeted philanthropy. Concerns
 over future access to EU funding have driven active scoping of alternative national (e.g.
 Wellcome) and global (e.g. German and Chinese) possibilities. The commercial and research-
 grant funding of CAU operates within the Departmental framework, with both delegated decision-
 making autonomy and oversight by RC (of which the CAU’s Executive Director is an ex officio
 member) and the CAU’s own Managing Committee.

 Research expenditure has risen from an already high level of £15.46m in REF2014 to £34.78M
 in the present cycle. Of the 90 new externally reviewed grants received during this REF cycle,
 the following £million+ projects stand out: Adapt (ERC Consolidator; £1.3m; Stock), After the
 Plague (Wellcome Trust; £1.3m; Robb), Encounter (ERC Starter; £1.2m; Crema), TwoRains
 (ERC Consolidator; £1.5m; Petrie), Yangshao Culture (Shanghai Academy of Guyewang
 Studies; £1.2m; Sørensen), and two recent grants for research into endangered heritage in
 Africa and South Asia (Arcadia; £3.3m and £1.8m to Lane and Petrie respectively); a further
 ERC Advanced Grant (Ancestors; £1.9m; Robb) starts in October 2020. Three further ERC
 grants (two Advanced, one Consolidator) ran into the current REF cycle (Jones, Kivisild, Mirazón
 Lahr); and one ERC Starter moved to us (Procon; PI Gleba). We are beneficiaries within two
 additional ERC Advanced grants (Beast to Craft, Collins; FRAGSUS, Stoddart). Examples of
 other noteworthy grants include partnership in two Horizon 2020 Spreading Excellence
 (Twinning) projects, with Zagreb/Pisa (MendTheGap; Miracle) and the Cyprus Institute/Leuven
 (Promised; Broodbank) – as well as the MSCA-ITN SeaChanges (Barrett). We have hosted 23
 MSCA-IFs since 2014. Moreover, the commercial research expenditure of CAU over this REF
 cycle currently stands at c. £13.1M including major funding for fieldwork at the high-profile
 wetland sites of Must Farm and Flag Fen. Grant overhead returns are split equally between the
 McDonald’s infrastructural budget, the Department (for strategic investments), and the PI (for
 incentivisation and pump-priming).

 A recent success is the development of philanthropy to significantly advance research, aided by
 Cambridge University Development and Alumni Relations. Archaeology raised £2.5m for its
 endowed Ward Oppenheimer Chair in the Deep History and Archaeology of Africa; £350,000 for
 (a) joint research into human origins with Witwatersrand and (b) PhD and field research on
 Cyprus; £210,000 for a three-year Leventis PDRF in African Archaeology; and £58,000 for an
 MPhil and PhD on Southeast Asian archaeology. The University’s Isaac Newton Trust co-funds
 our Leverhulme ECFs and also supports strategic initiatives on a competitive basis.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This REF cycle has further witnessed large-scale internal financial investment by the McDonald
 Institute, from its endowment and grant-overhead income, in research priority areas (in addition
 to funding several other programmes discussed herein – from impact pump-priming to
 publications):

 • Co-funding of £133,000 over five years, matching £207,000 from SHSS, to set up and run the
     CHRC
 • Funding of £90,500 (alongside £451,700 from University and research grant sources) to re-
     equip and refurbish our archaeological science laboratories, plus £128,700 in technician
     salary
 • Funding (0.4 FTE) Collins as McDonald Chair in Palaeoproteomics
 • Funding (0.23 FTE) Humphris in partnership with BIEA
 • Funding (0.2 FTE) Mei in partnership with NRI.

 Organisational infrastructure
 Research activity is coordinated by the Department’s RC and logistically supported by the
 McDonald Institute. We combine strategic direction with enabling bottom-up initiatives,
 supporting solo scholarly excellence and group endeavour alike. The RC is our key forum for
 discussing priorities, informed by regular away days for academic staff to debate collective
 thinking on matters of strategic direction, and to enhance community cohesion and collaboration.
 The McDonald Institute, beyond generating major initiatives of its own, funds numerous
 Departmental programmes and provides support for grant acquisition, project management and
 realisation of impact potential.

 Our research infrastructure allows different networks and foci to flourish in an organised, and yet
 also deliberately open-ended and creative fashion. As described in Section 1, six research
 themes structure our regular research activities and provide opportunities for staff and students
 to engage with each other. These have been collectively agreed to emphasise current priorities
 as well as historical and emergent foci, and to foster links across periods, regions, methods and
 theoretical approaches in ways that both strengthen the cohesion of our research community
 and foster its richness and diversity; they are elective, and not mutually exclusive. Associated
 with each is at least one seminar series (e.g. Human Evolutionary Studies benefits from
 Biological Anthropology’s flagship seminar, plus the inter-departmental Pal/Meso group). We are
 keen that these themes neither silo our research, nor stifle crucial deep regional expertise. Many
 initiatives cross between research themes in innovative interdisciplinary ways (e.g. After the
 Plague). Overall, our UoA runs 15 flourishing weekly/fortnightly seminar series. Above these sits
 our flagship Garrod Seminar, used flexibly to address topics of current excitement. In total, in a
 COVID-free year, Archaeology hosts c. 150 internal academic events, involving permanent
 academic staff, PDRFs and visiting scholars, as well as PhD, MPhil and undergraduate
 students.

 Cambridge Archaeology is also a major centre for conferences and workshops; 54 have been
 hosted since 2014, including large-scale McDonald-funded conferences (e.g. 2018 – Social
 Inequality before Farming, 2019 – Big Data in Archaeology). We have explored new
 collaborations, including with the DAAD’s Cambridge hub, and the recently published Evolution
 of Fragility conference (https://www.repository.cam.ac.uk/handle/1810/293556) co-sponsored
 with the Getty Research Institute. Investment in the next generation of researchers is
 demonstrated by our funding of the Cambridge Annual Student Archaeology Conference.
 Complementing these rich offerings, the McDonald hosts a series of keynote speakers each
 year. Recent McDonald Annual Lectures have been delivered by Yoffee, Willerslev, Hublin,
 Gilchrist and Chirikure, with a growing emphasis on commitment to diversity. McDonald
 Distinguished Visiting Lectureships invite and embed a key thinker with us for a week, with a
 recent priority on building links to leading archaeologists in and of the Americas (Pauketat,
 Houston, Prentiss and Pillsbury).




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Cambridge Archaeology has invested heavily in infrastructure for expanding research activities.
 We have a dedicated grants team consisting of an experienced Research Facilitator (Boyle),
 plus a Grants Administrator (Ward), as well as a Departmental Outreach/Comms Officer
 (Bonner). Boyle proactively scopes, collates and circulates information on upcoming grants,
 matching these to need/strength, and advises both academic staff and prospective external
 applicants. This team complements University finance and HR to guarantee effective
 management support for PIs.

 The Department runs an extensive suite of ten laboratories plus associated facilities, covering
 over 677m2, providing for materials analysis (metals, ceramics, lithics and glass),
 archaeobotany, geoarchaeology, zooarchaeology, advanced microscopy, stable isotopes,
 aDNA, proteomics, palaeoanthropology (including 3-D scanning) and high-performance
 computational archaeology, supported by six technicians and two computing officers. The
 Duckworth Laboratory (195m2), with its new Collections Manager, is a further centre of research
 and teaching in Biological Anthropology; it is an international resource accessed by c. 50
 researchers p.a., and with a large-scale digitisation programme. Our laboratories are undergoing
 major refit for the coming decade, driven by the twin strategies of (1) pioneering integration of
 biological and materials science approaches, to maximise efficiency and encourage
 interdisciplinarity, and (2) updating equipment, especially regarding new, less invasive methods
 (e.g. ZooMs). Equipment acquired in this REF cycle includes state-of-the-art optical and digital
 microscopes, a new SEM EDS system, FTIR, 3-D scanners, a second pXRF and new stations
 for manufacturing thin sections and polished blocks.

 Five large rooms house our major team-based projects, and another five our additional PDRF
 community. The Department also accommodates the CHRC and a highly active Material Culture
 research hub – both giving precedence to research within theoretically informed humanities and
 social science frameworks. Each of these last is strongly supported, with a paid administrator
 and funded flagship seminar series.

 Our research benefits from the formidable strengths of the University libraries (including the local
 Haddon) and world-class museums (MAA and Fitzwilliam, where our investments in materials
 science and proteomics have facilitated new collaborations). Two MAA curators are embedded
 within Archaeology, leading to strong collaborations in research, teaching and public exhibitions.
 MAA is in the process of rehousing and re-recording its collections (a £8.7m University
 investment), as a preliminary to rolling upgrade and ambitious development of its archaeological
 displays, having already developed an online research portal (Designation Development Fund).

 The McDonald’s renowned in-house publication programme continues to thrive and evolve. The
 peer-reviewed Cambridge Archaeological Journal (editors DeMarrais and Robb) is published
 four times per year, with increasing high-quality submissions and expanding global authorship.
 The flagship peer-reviewed monograph series, edited by Barrett, has been restructured and
 made open access, offering routes to publication for both McDonald conferences and major
 Cambridge-led field projects (e.g. Niah Cave, Keros, Grand Arcade, Bradley Fen, Malta). Over
 20 McDonald monographs have been published since 2014.

 Infrastructure: equality and diversity
 Our generous research support and infrastructural provision ensures full access conditions for all
 within our community. We are especially proud of investment, via our Research Facilitator, in
 supporting applications from a diversity of ECRs, as reflected in the successes of our PDRFs
 and achievements of new UTOs. Many McDonald-funded initiatives support diversity: e.g.
 increased interaction with African scholars, invitation of female keynote speakers, supporting the
 female-led CHRC and a requirement for gender balance in funded events. We regularly waive
 bench fees for visiting scholars from developing countries. Biers’ role as Duckworth Collections
 Manager has enhanced respectful engagement with indigenous communities over human


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 remains issues (mirroring that of MAA’s curators). Our estate has high levels of accessibility for
 those with disabilities.

 Infrastructure: impact activities
 As outlined in Section 1, impact activities are supported by our academic Impact Champion
 (Barrett), Research Facilitator (Boyle) and Outreach Officer (Bonner), with strategic input from
 RC (in which Barrett and Boyle participate). The CHRC also provides intellectual leadership and
 logistical support for impact. Pump-priming is provided by a rapid-response McDonald Institute
 scheme (up to £10,000 p.a.), the University’s AHIF (£5,000 to £10,000) and a GCRF fund
 (awards up to £80,000) for research regarding solutions to problems affecting developing
 countries. Our impact activities have benefited from all of the above and also, where relevant
 (e.g. food security research), our excellent laboratories.

 Collaborative use of research infrastructure and benefits in kind
 We share infrastructure in the interests of collaborative synergies and collective economy.
 Nationally, we use the NERC Oxford OSL and radiocarbon laboratories, 14CHRONO Centre
 (Belfast) and SUERC (Glasgow), as well as OSL/TL facilities at Durham, St Andrews and
 Gloucester. Internationally, our geoarchaeologists use Tübingen’s Institute for Archaeological
 Sciences (micro-FTIR) and Ghent’s EMI magnetometry survey facility, while Collins and
 Willerslev (Zoology) facilitate cooperation between aDNA labs in Cambridge Archaeology and
 Zoology with those of the Copenhagen Globe Institute. Our Horizon 2020 Twinning grants
 involve lab-based partners (MendTheGap with Zagreb, Promised with the Cyprus Institute and
 Leuven). We also collaborate on laboratory access with directorial staff of two leading British
 International Research Institutes organisations: BIEA (via Humphris) and the British School at
 Athens (via Broodbank). Successful international laboratory collaborations also facilitate major
 research projects that would otherwise be impractical, such as Martinón-Torres’ research at the
 Terracotta Army site in China and the Gold Museum in Bogotá. Shared benefits in kind are
 utilised whenever practicable: e.g. from the NERC Life Sciences Mass Spectrometry Facility
 (O’Connell, £46,000), the ISIS Neutron and Muon Source (Martinón-Torres, c. £100,000) and
 the NERC Radiocarbon Facility.

 Within Cambridge, many cross-departmental facilities and linkages are used effectively:
 palynology facilities and aerial photographic collections (Geography); mass spectrometer
 facilities for light and heavy isotope analyses of organic and inorganic materials (Earth
 Sciences); scanning and transmission electron microscopy (Multi-Imaging Centre, Materials
 Science & Metallurgy); (LA)-ICP-MS/OES for trace elemental analysis (Earth Sciences,
 Geography); DNA extraction (Biochemistry) and genotyping (National Institute for Agricultural
 Botany); MALDI-ToF (Chemistry and Fitzwilliam); proteomics (Chemistry), UV-Vis-NIR
 (Fitzwilliam Museum); and advanced research computing infrastructure. The University’s Micro-
 CT facility is shared with Zoology. Beyond science applications, we have excellent connections
 with the Centre of African Studies (shared PDRFs and facilities access) and Scott Polar
 Research Institute (whaling/sealing research). Archaeologists in Classics, integrated through the
 McDonald Institute, further augment our research environment.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations
 Our research strategy conceives of both a ‘core’ Cambridge Archaeology and a ‘distributed’ one
 in which we constitute a key node, central or contributory, within national and global networks.
 This is reflected in our pursuit of shared posts (Collins, Humphris, Mei, and Mitchell, the last
 primarily employed as an NHS surgeon) and Barrett’s 0.2 FTE visiting professorship at NTNU
 Trondheim. Consonant with this model, and reflecting archaeology’s interdisciplinarity, virtually
 all our research staff are engaged in collaboration. The aggregate scope is global. Moreover, our
 major institutional collaborations are driven by deeper strategic purpose, including areas of
 research priority, high impact and scope for exchange of ideas. Our archaeological
 engagements in Africa, for example, are structured around shared support of the BIEA
 Directorship and close links to the Turkana Basin Institute (Foley, Mirazón Lahr), Kyoto

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University Primate Research Institute Nimba Field Station (Koops) and Egyptian Ministry of
 Tourism and Antiquities (Spence). Our Arcadia-funded African endangered heritage project
 (Lane, awarded 2019 with a COVID-delayed start in September 2020) is led by Cambridge,
 engaging with Uppsala University, three African (BIEA, Wits, Dakar) and three UK (Exeter, UCL,
 York) institutional collaborators, plus national heritage authorities in Botswana, Ethiopia, Kenya,
 Mali, Senegal, Sudan, Tanzania and Zimbabwe. Additional examples are African research and
 community projects funded by the GRCF (Lane), Swedish Research Council (Lane) and
 International Atomic Energy Agency Division of Human Health (Said Mohamed). Our
 engagement in South Asia is similarly ambitious, led by Petrie through TwoRains, TIGR2ESS
 (13 partners in India) and our second Arcadia project (Petrie, awarded 2019 with a COVID-
 delayed start in October 2020) works directly with government departments and universities in
 Pakistan and India. In China, Martinón-Torres’ CHC-funded research is linked with the University
 of Science and Technology Beijing (USTB). Our Twinning grants with Croatia and Cyprus
 enhance Balkan and East Mediterranean connections. Laboratory-based collaboration in
 biomolecular archaeology is demonstrated by Cambridge-Copenhagen Globe Institute initiatives
 in evolutionary genomics and proteomics, led by world-class scholars embedded in both
 institutions (Collins and [in UoA5] Willerslev), and by Foley and Mirazón Lahr as visiting
 Professors in Copenhagen. Initial outcomes include a DNRF-funded internship programme and
 collaboration in the biomolecular archaeology of beeswax (involving 14 UK County Archives, as
 well as Chinese and Jordanian scholars). The SeaChanges MSCA-ITN integrates Cambridge
 with Copenhagen and five other European institutions focused on marine historical ecology.
 Martinón-Torres has helped to establish archaeological materials science laboratories at Incipit-
 CSIC (Spain) and USTB (China). These connections, and many others, promote exchange and
 debate across areas of mutual or complementary strength. The McDonald Institute actively
 supports the human framework for collaboration, for example through its Visiting Scholars
 scheme (welcoming over a hundred academics from 29 countries in the REF2021 cycle) and its
 new Honorary Research Associate scheme for distinguished external collaborators.

 Engaging with recipients of research and wider impact
 The Department achieves impact by working directly with a wide diversity of stakeholders and
 enabling organisations, many of whom have requested assistance. Examples include grass-
 roots communities, museums, corporations, national organisations, governments and
 international NGOs.

 Grass-roots Communities. Cambridge Archaeology reaches out to and empowers communities
 through educational initiatives, sustainability research, community building and post-conflict
 resolution. Our educational work includes summer schools, archaeology-themed children’s
 books, and research-led programmes delivered within schools. Partnering with Cambridge
 Colleges, the Department delivers archaeology summer schools for students entering Year 13,
 the feedback from which is consistently excellent. Educational children’s books have been
 produced regarding urban life in ancient Egypt (Spence) and iron-working in Africa (Humphris).
 Additional learning programmes for schools draw on research regarding ancient Egypt (see
 ICS), coastal Tanzania, and medieval England (After the Plague). Sustainability and capacity
 building in local communities is integral to the methodology of many Departmental research
 projects. Key examples include Petrie’s contributions to TIGR2ESS (noted above), Lane’s GCRF
 work on Community Heritage and Education for Sustainable Development in Tanzania, and
 Humphris’ award-winning community engagement and capacity building in Sudan. The priority is
 always positive relationships with local collaborators and co-production of knowledge.

 Community building and post-conflict resolution is another major area of grass-roots
 involvement. Examples span the Department’s thematic interests, from DNA to Heritage; they
 include Carr’s research on victims of Nazism in the Channel Islands (see ICS), Scheib’s (PDRF
 leaver 2016–17) ESRC Impact Acceleration project (Building Dialogue between
 Archaeogeneticists and Native American Tribal Communities) and McMahon’s research on
 looting and the antiquities trade in Mesopotamia. The work of Sørensen and Viejo Rose on
 Heritage and post-conflict resolution is equally highly engaged at the grass-roots level. In
 recognition of her exceptional contributions, Sørensen received the European Association of

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Archaeologists Heritage Prize in 2014. Carr was selected for the 2020 Heritage Prize in July of
 this year.

 Museums. Archaeologists at Cambridge actively develop relationships with key research users
 and audiences by working with museums, as curators/consultants for exhibitions and associated
 pathways to impact. Cambridge-based exhibitions include those at the MAA regarding childhood
 in prehistory and the archaeology of Star Carr (Joy), at the Cambridge Central Library regarding
 destruction of historic sites and objects (Viejo Rose), at the Fitzwilliam regarding the Eddington
 excavations (Evans), and at Kettle’s Yard regarding archaeology-inspired art (see CAU ICS).
 Examples of major contributions to national or international exhibitions include The Celts at the
 British Museum (Joy), Rock Art of the White Sea at the Ulsan Petroglyph Museum, South Korea
 (Janik), the new Kouphonisi Museum and Keros exhibition at the Museum of Cycladic Art,
 Greece (Boyd), and a reconstruction of Guernica in the town’s Peace Museum (Viejo Rose), as
 well as Gateway to a New World at Brown University (Marín-Aguilera), the travelling exhibition
 Getting Closer on resilience in East African landscapes, showing in Cologne, Ghent, York and
 Oxford (Lane), a forthcoming Unseen Museum exhibition at the National Archaeological
 Museum, Greece (Tsouparopoulou) and exhibitions on Nazi occupation of the Channel Islands
 in London, Guernsey and Jersey (Carr, see ICS). Cambridge academics have taken other key
 advisory roles in regional, national and international museums. Examples include Peterborough
 Museum, involving the City Council and other stakeholders securing a permanent home for the
 Must Farm finds (Evans, Broodbank), the World Museum Liverpool (Pomeroy), British Museum
 (Joy), Science Museum of the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (Barrett),
 Natural History Museum of Denmark (Collins), Terracotta Army Museum, China, Gold Museum,
 Colombia, and Museu de Arte de São Paulo, Brazil (Martinón-Torres), and Ngaren and National
 Museums of Kenya (Mirazón Lahr).

 Corporations. Cambridge Archaeology is actively engaged in creative, constructive
 collaborations with industry. The research- and impact-led rescue archaeology of CAU is a
 success because of strong relationships with clients such as Forterra Building Products.
 Through this relationship, Forterra’s executive has been fully persuaded regarding the
 importance of archaeological sites, such as Must Farm, located within their quarries and their
 working practices modified accordingly (see ICS). More broadly, CAU influences developer
 practice by participating in the Cambridge Construction Forum (Evans). The diversity of our
 commercial collaborations can be encapsulated by two examples: Collins’ work with FERA
 Science (formerly the Food and Environment Research Agency) on the application of proteomics
 to food authenticity verification, and Worthington’s work with Warner Bros to provide the
 Babylonian language of the soundtrack to the feature film Godzilla: King of the Monsters.

 National Organisations, Governments and NGOs. Many staff work closely with national heritage
 agencies, such as Historic England (Evans produced the Late Iron Age and Roman section of
 Historic England’s Research Framework for the Eastern Counties), the Iraqi State Board of
 Antiquities and Heritage (McMahon), the Egyptian Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities (Spence)
 and the Cape Verdean Ministry of Culture (Evans, Sørensen). Others advise national scholarly
 trusts and organisations, such as the Ancient India and Iran Trust (Petrie), British Academy
 (Viejo Rose), UK Heritage Alliance (Janik, Sørensen), Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre
 (Carr) and Spain’s Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (Martinón-Torres). Several
 have been invited to advise government at all levels. Examples include Petrie’s briefings on
 Indian heritage and food security to the Government of Punjab, Collins’ coordination of a
 meeting of MEPs in Brussels to discuss the impact of Brexit on UK archaeology and Boyle’s
 consultation by the British Academy’s international team on visa eligibility for MSCA Fellows.
 The Department’s engagement with NGOs is equally deep, with three examples indicative: Carr
 is a UK government appointee to the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance; Said
 Mohamed works with UNICEF South Africa and the DG Murray Trust on campaigns for health in
 early childhood; and Viejo Rose is a member of the International Council on Monuments and
 Sites (ICOMOS), has advised UNESCO, the International Criminal Court and the Trust Fund for
 Victims, and is a board member of Heritage for Peace.


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sustainability
 Cambridge Archaeology is committed to the sustainability of the discipline, from educating future
 leading academics and heritage/public leaders to ensuring relevance by advancing solutions to
 national and international priorities. It is a major provider of high-quality PhD students while
 promoting a large PDRF community (many in both categories gaining long-term posts that
 advance the field globally), operates as an international focus of research and discourse, serves
 as a hub of interdisciplinary collaborative research, and includes one of the most enduringly
 successful research-intensive commercial field units in the UK; the McDonald Institute also
 enables a rare degree of ambitious initiative-taking and long-term planning. Cambridge also
 provides high-quality research training through AHRC and NERC DTPs, and through the
 SeaChanges MSCA-ITN, as well as contributing to EU Smart Specialisation Strategy
 implementation through H2020 Widening Participation projects in Croatia (MendTheGap) and
 Cyprus (Promised). In broad terms, Cambridge Archaeology is committed to using knowledge of
 the past to better navigate the present towards a more sustainable common future. Paramount
 global challenges that we address include (1) environmental change and food security and (2)
 the constructive potential of cultural heritage among communities riven by hostilities (see ICSs).

 Wider influence
 Cambridge Archaeology is extremely influential nationally and internationally, and recognised as
 such. The following indices are necessarily selective, and supplement those previously
 mentioned. Six staff in post during this REF cycle hold FBAs, two previously (Foley, Barker,
 retired 2014) and four newly (Broodbank, Collins, Evans, Jones, retired 2018); 11 staff are
 FSAs, three FSASc and one FRHistS. Sørensen was elected Corresponding Fellow of the
 Deutsche Archäologische Institut and to the Kongelige Norske Videnskabers Selskab; Foley has
 been awarded a Turing Fellowship; Barker (retired 2014) received a CBE for services to
 archaeology. Staff have received a total of 15 major prizes within this cycle: Boyd with Renfrew
 (Shanghai Archaeological Forum for field discoveries on Keros); Broodbank (Wolfson History,
 Nonino); Crema (Philip Leverhulme); Evans (Baguley Prehistoric Society); Foley (Frassetto,
 Accademia dei Lincei), Jones (Shanghai Archaeological Forum), Knight, Ballantyne et al.
 (Antiquity best article), Lane (SAfA book prize); Martinón-Torres (Cuban Academy of Sciences,
 British Archaeology Best Public Presentation, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Technology
 Pineapple Award); Sørensen (European Archaeology Heritage, Felix Neubergh, Holst-
 Knudsens). Evans has served as Vice-President of the Prehistoric Society; Foley is President of
 the Society for Libyan Studies and Vice President of the Royal Anthropological Institute;
 Martinón-Torres is President of the Society for Archaeological Sciences. Our census-date staff
 have delivered more than 70 major named/keynote/plenary lectures over the REF cycle;
 highlights include those by Broodbank (Dean’s, Leiden; Munro, Edinburgh; Rickman, BSR;
 Rostovtzeff, Yale), DeMarrais (Jane Powell Dwyer, Brown), Foley (Société d’Anthropologie de
 Paris), Martinón-Torres (inaugural for the Cyprus Institute) and Mirazón Lahr (Darwin, Bergen).
 Members of staff have lead-edited seven journals, illustrating the range of our stewardship and
 engagement: Cambridge Archaeological Journal (DeMarrais, Robb), Iraq (McMahon), Iran
 (Petrie), Journal of Archaeological Science (Martinón-Torres), Journal of Open Archaeology
 Data (Ting), Memory, Heritage and Conflict (Carr) and issue editorships for World Archaeology
 (DeMarrais, Lane). They serve as associate/advisory or equivalent editors for 32 additional peer-
 reviewed international journals, with subject coverage from the humanities to the sciences. They
 have refereed for over 200 journals since 2014. Foley and Lane are series editors for Cambridge
 University Press and Routledge respectively, and Broodbank has served as Advisory Editor for
 Thames & Hudson.

 In the REF2021 cycle, our staff have reviewed for more than 65 grant-giving bodies, conducted
 over 60 external senior promotion and probation/tenure reviews, and externally examined more
 than 90 PhDs, globally. They are widely engaged on Research Councils, advisory boards and
 comparable committees. Examples include: AHRC Peer Review College (Barrett, Martinón-
 Torres, Papazian, Stoddart), NERC Peer Review College (Collins, O’Connell), National
 Environmental Isotope Facility Strategy Board (O’Connell), Max Planck Society (Collins), ERC
 Advanced (Jones), MSCA (Barker, Boyle, Papazian), Icelandic Research Fund (Barrett,


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Martinón-Torres), Swedish Research Council (Sørensen), Institute for Aegean Prehistory
 (Broodbank) and NWO (Dutch Research Council) (Boyle, Martinón-Torres).

 Overall, Cambridge Archaeology is enjoying a dynamic new phase in its long life as a research
 hub of global significance, openness, vitality, impact and sustainability, through which it seeks to
 make a substantial difference to the field and wider humanity.




                                                                                              Page 18
