Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow

 Unit of Assessment: 27

 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

 Vision:
 English at Glasgow is one of the UK’s largest, most diverse, and dynamic units of its kind, with
 sustained and distinctive commitments to Scottish literature and language in a global context,
 place-based, data-driven and corpus-based research, and innovation in linguistic, critical,
 and digital methodologies. New strategic developments since 2014 include interdisciplinary
 research on material cultures and collections (involving partnerships with Glasgow
 University's Hunterian Museum and Art Gallery, and our Library Special Collections), fantasy,
 environmental humanities, postcolonialism, and applied linguistics. We have also built on
 our established reputation as a leading centre for innovative textual criticism and editing,
 including leadership in the cross-university Cambridge Edition of Virginia Woolf, and hosting the
 Editing Robert Burns for the Twenty-First Century project and British Academy-sponsored
 editing of Anglo-Saxon charters. We are internationally recognised as leaders in digital
 innovation, e.g. the Cullen and Bess of Hardwick letters, and as advisers on national and
 international digital projects (EU-funded Europeana and DARIAH).

 We are distinguished by our commitment to major long-term research programmes: e.g.
 Robert Burns Studies; the Historical Thesaurus of English and associated projects, initiated in
 1964 and awarded the prestigious Queen's Anniversary Prize in 2019; and also in Creative
 Writing, and Literature, Theology and the Arts. Crucial here have been institutional structures
 supportive of cross-disciplinary research (centres, networks, labs, clusters), flexible recruitment
 strategy, and large-scale grants totalling c. £7.287m since 2014. These successes have driven
 significant growth in our researcher cohort, from undergraduate interns through to funded
 doctoral candidates, research assistants, postdoctoral research fellows, and tenured posts. Our
 scalable approach to grant-capture incentivizes initial smaller bids as pathways to medium and
 large-scale applications.

 Structure:
 The unit has expanded since the 2014 cycle from 56 to 68 Category A REF-eligible staff (HC),
 with a gender balance of 57% female, 43% male. This translates into 64 FTE. Glasgow’s unit
 encompasses English Language and Linguistics, English Literature, Creative Writing, and
 Scottish Literature, the last being the only self-standing programme of its kind in the world.
 These subjects, with Theology and Religious Studies (TRS), which at Glasgow has a
 distinctive focus on literature and theology) form the School of Critical Studies (SCS), one of the
 College of Arts’s four Schools. SCS's close alignment with UoA27 allows us to develop a
 coherent research strategy. Synergies across our programmes, as well as with colleagues
 whose research engages with literature, language and material culture in Information Studies,
 and the Dumfries School for Interdisciplinary Studies, underpin our distinctive research
 strengths, playing to our location in one of Scotland’s ancient civic universities.

 Centres and Labs:
 Much of the unit's research energy is generated by the unit's two centres established before
 REF2014: the Centre for Robert Burns Studies (CRBS) and the Medical Humanities
 Research Centre (MHRC): a third, the Centre for Fantasy and the Fantastic, was inaugurated
 in 2020. These Centres are significant sources of PGR recruitment, grant income, and
 KE/impact activities (see below). Our staff also lead or are integral to cross-college research
 centres: the Andrew Hook Centre for American Studies, the Centre for Scottish and Celtic
 Studies, and the Digital Humanities Network. Research clusters established or expanded
 since 2014 - medieval and early modern, creative writing, fantasy, environmental
 humanities, postcolonialism, queer studies, sociolinguistics and phonetics, corpus
 studies, textual cultures -- have enhanced our traditional research strengths in language and


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 literature. Support from Arts Lab, the College’s research institute, underpins our highly
 successful programme of grant-capture, KE and Impact, and researcher development (see
 Sections 2 and 3). Arts Lab funds the establishment of interdisciplinary research groups called
 ‘Themes', which can develop into 'Labs’, with longer term support. Among those in which unit
 staff play leading roles are 'Textual Editing', 'Reading and Writing Death and Dying', 'Digital
 Departures', 'Digital Cultural Heritage', 'Collections', 'Decolonize Glasgow', 'Energy and Ecology',
 and 'Discourses of Sustainability'. These groups run seminars and symposia, host collaborative
 projects, and support grant capture and recruitment of RAs or doctoral students.

 Recent activity is exemplified by the ongoing series of interdisciplinary events run by the
 Collections Lab, co-directed by staff in UoA27 and established in 2017. Events bring together
 staff and research students with Hunterian and Library curators, to discuss the wide range of
 work currently being conducted using historic collections. For instance, Lightning Talks sessions,
 featuring 35 three-minute presentations by Glasgow staff, including many from the unit, are
 designed to make ‘research introductions’ among colleagues. Public-facing sessions have
 featured plenary sessions from distinguished curators (e.g. Kim Sloane, British Museum; Jane
 Pickering, Harvard Museums).

 Objectives and progress:
 Three areas were identified for strategic development in REF2014: Creative Writing, Textual
 Cultures, and data-led research in English Language and Linguistics. All three have seen
 substantial investment and expansion, with 11 new appointments, major prizes (the Queen's
 Anniversary Prize for the Historical Thesaurus of English, and the 2019 Philip Leverhulme Prize
 awarded to Alexander, whose research draws on the Thesaurus, cognitive linguistics, and our
 recognised strengths in digital scholarship) and nearly £5m of new external funding (out of the
 unit's total of £7.287m) since 2014. These areas have contributed substantially to the expansion
 in PGR and PGT numbers (see below). This has been in no small measure due to significant
 investment in new staff, e.g. three new appointments in Applied Linguistics, associated with
 new PGT/PGR programmes.

 Additionally, responding to international disciplinary developments embedded in Scottish literary
 culture, the unit has invested in Fantasy, Environmental Humanities, and Postcolonialism. A
 further three new appointments have greatly strengthened our expertise in Fantasy, enabling
 major impact-related initiatives, e.g. the AHRC/VisitScotland-funded 'Fantasy Night at the
 Museum' (2017: over 800 visitors), international collaboration (e.g. Attebery, Idaho State, as
 Leverhulme Visiting Professorship, 2018-19) and a dedicated blog containing both critical and
 creative contributions The City of Lost Books (2015-). Our PGT in Fantasy, launched in 2016,
 has already seen major recruitment (c.80 students since launch), 10 of whom are now part of
 our PGR cohort. These successes contributed to the formal establishment of the Centre for
 Fantasy and the Fantastic in 2020.

 The unit has seen substantial growth in PGR students in line with our strategic objectives in
 REF 2014. Our current headcount is 176 (up from 154 in 2014), with196 doctoral degrees
 awarded since 2014 (HESA). As well as home students, our PGRs come from 45 different
 countries, the result of extensive investment in international recruitment. We have also seen a
 156% increase in PGT numbers in the same period, serving as a feeder to PGR. Since the last
 cycle, holders of postdoctoral fellowships have increased from three to five, funded by the
 British Academy (2), Wellcome (1), and the GU-funded Lord Kelvin/Adam Smith (LKAS)
 Fellowship (2) (a further LKAS award on Language Policy is currently on hold due to COVID).

 Impact Strategy:
 Our overall strategy is to embed impact in all stages of the research process, with impact a
 key element in all colleagues’ annual performance objectives. The unit’s staff work with
 numerous partners, from large-scale governmental, commercial, cultural, and educational
 organisations, from the Scottish Government, through Oxford English Dictionaries, to Small and
 Medium Enterprises (SMEs): e.g. Microphonics, Giglets, Linguisticator, Edify: Project Mobius
 (see Section 4). Although our partnerships operate across the UK, we have made a strategic

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 decision to concentrate much of our effort on the special advantages deriving from our location
 in Scotland’s largest city, with all that implies for our national position. Three of our Impact Case
 Studies (Challenging conventions in opera, Raising Scottish literature’s profile, Robert Burns,)
 are linked to that decision, but capture only a part of this strategic focus. For instance, we are
 committed to engaging in key national debates, e.g. surrounding the 2014 Scottish Referendum
 with the Carnegie-funded Literature and Union symposia/publication (2013-2018) and Pittock's
 The Road to Independence (rev ed 2014).

 Our impact strategy nurtures KE/impact projects through targeted funding, accompanied by
 support from a dedicated College KE/Impact Manager and a School Public Engagement
 Activities Administrator, and from Arts Lab. In this cycle, 12 projects have been awarded funding
 from the College KE/Impact Fund (total £33,813), ranging from 'The Generation Born in 1819'
 (£1,986) to 'Writing on the Edge: Decoding Antonine's Wall' (£5,400). Dedicated funding streams
 have developed impact more generally across the unit's research portfolio, including both current
 and pipeline ICSs. Three among many examples are Connective Language Learning App
 (£12,338), Scots Linguistic Toolkit in the Classroom (£1,881); and GIFCon Fantasy Conferences
 (£7k).

 Public engagement is seen as a crucial pathway to impact, and the unit has taken full advantage
 of new opportunities, such as the university's Kelvin Hall redevelopment (see 3 below), now
 housing The Hunterian Museum. Glasgow University's Strategic Partnership (2018) with the
 Smithsonian Institution (SI), the world’s largest museum/education/research complex, offers
 staff/student exchanges, including an early-career mobility scheme, and co-bids for funding. The
 unit participated in the Smithsonian Showcase Week (2019), leading three sessions designed to
 engage visiting staff from the SI with Glasgow's expertise and collections. Staff have contributed, in
 line with REF 2014’s plan, to the Hunterian Museum and Art Gallery's ongoing tercentenary
 celebrations, including co-curating Hunterian exhibitions e.g. William Hunter and the Anatomy of
 the Modern Museum (2019).

 Research culture and research integrity:
 A collegial, supportive and open research culture is a unit priority, enhanced during the
 review period by key initiatives (see also Section 2). In line with UoG research policy (as a
 signatory of the 2018 Concordat on Open Access), we encourage our staff to provide freely
 accessible outputs wherever possible. We have achieved an increase in OA articles from just
 18% in 2014 to 75% in 2020. 96% staff have an ORCID identifier. The Library supports staff in
 OA compliance, as do our specialists in Digital Humanities, whose research reflects explicitly on
 access issues in relation to digital resources at national level, e.g. Prescott, Ministerial Task
 Force on Open Research Data (reported 2017). OA Compliance is facilitated by Enlighten, our
 bespoke digital Library-based repository for managing research publications and data: the
 Library is resourced to manage all OA requirements via a simple email. Unit staff have 100%
 Enlighten compliance, maximising output availability. In addition to our OA articles, in 2019,
 100% of conference-proceedings published by unit staff were open-access, as well as major
 digital outputs like the Historical Thesaurus, Scots Syntax Project, SPeech across Dialects of
 English (SPADE), and Romantic National Song Network. In addition, the 'Seeing Speech'
 resource was primarily developed in order to make information about speech production freely
 accessible to a much wider audience than is usually possible, given restricted access to
 datasets and software (see ICS).

 Cross-unit Research Integrity and Ethics policy is steered by the College Research Integrity
 Champion (a member of the unit) supported by a dedicated adviser in each subject area.
 Glasgow leads the UK in developing a policy in line with UUK’s 2019 Concordat on Research
 Integrity, making this mandatory training for new staff and postdoctoral research associates
 (PDRAs) on the Early Career Development Programme (see 2 below) as well as all new PGRs.
 RI resources and training, bespoke for Arts and Humanities researchers, focus on issues such
 as copyright, open access, joint authorship/collaboration, data-management, and handling
 misconduct. Training is delivered through Arts Lab, with refresher RI training also available


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 online. 86% of PGRs in the College agree that 'their understanding of Research Integrity had
 developed during their programmes' (PRES 2017).

 To support our research culture and improve its visibility, we have undertaken a thorough
 redesign of the School’s research webpages. The new pages better enable external audiences
 to understand and access our research, facilitating the establishment of new partnerships.
 Internal-facing pages enable colleagues to access information about the research opportunities
 and support available to them. Our research is widely promoted on social media (see Section
 4), and social media use is expected to conform to the same standards of Research Integrity
 applying to traditional publication.

 Future strategy:
 The most important element in our future strategy will be investment in people and
 increasing diversity in research staffing to underwrite our dynamic research culture. Our
 strategies for supporting colleagues in advancing their individual and collaborative research
 agendas are outlined in Section 2. Here, we identify some themes and projects in which we are
 investing in pursuance of our research strategy.

 We will develop new high-impact research themes building on recent appointments: Fantasy
 (Centre status 2020, British Library exhibition 2023); Postcolonialism (Carnegie/RSE funded
 collaboration on colonial famines with Tagore Centre, Edinburgh Napier, and Indian HEIs);
 Environmental Humanities (new lecturer in Eco-poetics started August 2020). In applied
 linguistics, we are developing systemic functional approaches and intercultural studies,
 supported by three new appointments with expertise in professional discourse,
 internationalisation and multilingualism. In phonetics, we will capitalise on new appointments
 and recent substantial infrastructure investment in GULP (Glasgow University Laboratory of
 Phonetics), extending our already substantial expertise in quantitative linguistic analysis to
 include latest trends in psycholinguistics, such as eye-tracking.

 We will develop our reputation and achievements as an international centre of excellence
 for the study of Scottish language, literature and culture, including ongoing outputs from
 the multi-volume editions of Robert Burns (OUP) and Allan Ramsay (EUP); projects on Four
 Nations Romantic Song Culture, manuscript authentication, and Scottish radical culture 1790-
 1830; and a major new bid (Nov 2020) to AHRC 'Towards a National Collection' on Scottish
 heritage/travel writing. Planned research in lexical semantics include a new Historical Thesaurus
 of Scots, drawing on established links with the Dictionary of the Scots Language and colleagues
 in Celtic and Gaelic, underlining our position as the international hub for research on the
 languages of Scotland. Major externally-funded projects such as the Scots Syntax Atlas have
 significant implications for future sociolinguistic research.

 We will develop cross-School and cross-College synergies in book history and textual
 editing, encouraged by our co-leadership of the 'Textual Editing Lab', hosted by Arts Lab.
 Among our numerous upcoming projects are a major edition of the works of Jack London, the
 Mary Queen of Scots letters project, and digital editing of medieval manuscripts.

 Through our location as a centre for digital transformations, we will expand impact-focused
 collaborations with non-HEI institutions e.g. Scottish Heritage Partnership's 'Immersive
 Technologies' (in collaboration with the National Trust for Scotland (NTS), National Library of
 Scotland (NLS) modelling a visualisation tool for the heritage industry, as well as developing VR
 teaching Apps (e.g. 'Virtual Codicology', 'Burns Beyond Text') in collaboration with Project
 Mobius: Edify, funded by Innovate UK. We are involved in digitally linking the AHRC-funded
 Cullen Project database to the Royal College of Physicians (RCP)'s Diagnostic of Andrew
 Duncan (in collaboration with the NLS). We will develop our research into electronic corpora
 (e.g. through Semantic EEBO, a corpus-tool derived from Early English Books Online), drawing
 on two new appointments, and exploiting our national and international links (Dictionary of the
 Scots Language, Oxford English Dictionary, Brigham Young University).


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. PEOPLE

 Staffing strategy:
 This is closely aligned with our research strategy, supporting research-led teaching and actively
 promoting equality, diversity and inclusion, in line with the 2018 Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. Our goal of sustaining and developing a world-leading
 portfolio of research with impact is only achievable by academic staff and students working
 together in a supportive environment. In this REF cycle staffing policy has seen investment in
 emerging research areas and building on established strengths, aiming to make the unit a
 cohesive and collegial place for all (e.g. see Athena SWAN Bronze Award, under Equality and
 Diversity below). Strategic appointments have led to a growth in staff numbers from 49 in 2007,
 42.5 in 2013, to 64 (FTE) in 2020. Performance and Development Review (PDR) mentoring
 and annual promotion workshops led by the Head of School and College HR manager
 encourage internal career-advancement, in line with the University’s Code of Practice for
 Managing Research Staff.

 SCS’s structure has enabled us to develop a flexible hiring policy, balancing retirements and
 other staff losses with recruitment in strategically valuable areas. Since 2014, appointments
 have been made in fields including: Fantasy; Environmental Humanities; Postcolonial Studies;
 Modern Scottish Literature; Romanticism, Historical Thesaurus; Scots Language; Digital
 Humanities; Phonetics. These are all areas with high potential for impactful research, and which
 generate high demand from potential PGR and postdoctoral researchers. Our grant capture has
 enabled us to invest in a new generation by appointing a cohort of post-doctoral research
 fellows, as well as securing five funded Postdoctoral Fellows in the current REF period. Early-
 career researchers (ECRs) currently constitute 12% of REF-eligible staff. At the other end of the
 career ladder, three senior colleagues are on fractional contracts, pursuing valuable research
 and mentoring activities with reduced teaching and administrative loads.

 Promotion. From 53 applications for promotion since 2014, 44 (83%) have succeeded (success
 rate 85% F, 79% M). Promotions and new appointments in period are spread across our
 programmes: three new professors and three lecturers (English Language and Linguistics); four
 new professors, three new senior lecturers and ten new lecturers (English Literature and
 Creative Writing); one new professor and three new lecturers (Scottish Literature). These
 developments have helped create a balanced staff profile: of REF eligible staff (FTE), 18.3
 (29%) are professors, 25.6 (40%) Grade 9, 12 (19%) Grade 8, and 8.1 (13%) Grade 7. We are
 especially proud of an improved gender balance at senior level: currently, 55% of professors are
 female (for more on gender balance, see below). 100% of REF-eligible staff are employed on
 open-ended contracts. Gender and equality issues, especially relating to promotion, are
 addressed by staff involvement in Athena SWAN, and the AURORA Programme (see below).

 In the annual PDR staff complete a self-evaluation form and meet one-to-one with a senior
 colleague to discuss progress towards current objectives, objective-setting for the coming year,
 career-planning (including promotion), work/life balance, and training/development needs and
 opportunities, aligned with the School Strategic Plan. Members of the unit filing (or preparing to
 fill) key roles have won places in competitive Leadership training programmes: e.g. 6 Aurora
 participants and 12 places across programmes (10 participants). A Strategic Leadership
 Programme is required for Heads of Schools and Deans, while the Emerging Leaders
 Programme benefits Heads of Subject, school conveners, or other cognate roles.

 Central to our staff policy is the university-wide Early Career Development Programme
 (ECDP), currently directed by a member of the Unit. It was launched in 2013 to support
 academics appointed at grades 7 to achieve promotion to grade 8 within 3 years of appointment,
 and grade 9 within a further 5 years. ECDP involves a phased teaching allocation with a 50%-
 load starting point. Early-career colleagues are assigned mentors who work with them
 throughout the programme, assisting line-managers in setting annual objectives (support is
 available to mentors via induction sessions). Participants attend training in Research and
 Scholarship, Knowledge Exchange and Impact, Learning & Teaching (leading to the

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCAP), Leadership & Management, and
 Esteem. The Head of School is currently College of Arts’ ECDP Champion, and 13 unit staff act
 as programme mentors. During the current cycle, up to 18 colleagues have been enrolled on the
 ECDP in any given year. Embedding ECDP staff in the unit includes offering them PGR
 supervising experience (as secondary supervisor), including them as Co-investigators on larger
 grant applications and supporting applications for smaller grants and developing REF
 publication-profiles.

 Seven early-career staff have successfully applied to join the Glasgow Crucible Programme
 (GCP), in a competitive process run across all academic areas. The 4-day GCP includes a
 residential trip, with external speakers, workshops, facilitated sessions, and interactions with
 representatives from Scottish industry and government. One participant from our unit reports:
 'Crucible helped embed myself within my School, but also make fruitful links - including someone
 from another college with whom I am now a Co-Investigator on a large funded project,
 supporting early career women in STEM disciplines.'

 Post-doctoral Research Assistants (PDRAs) are fully integrated into the unit's research
 culture, with clear involvement in the production and dissemination of research and extensive
 engagement activities. Principal Investigators (PIs) actively promote the career development of
 PDRAs by helping them to set career goals and to select appropriate training activities, through
 co-authorship of papers and conference talks, and by supporting them in gaining teaching
 experience. Evidence of effective support is offered by our PDRAs' success in securing
 academic and library posts: e.g. NYU, QMUL, Stirling, Konstanz and the NLS.

 Mentoring extends to all career grades, and ECRs are encouraged to gain experience as
 mentors. To encourage collegial planning, and in the interests of both functionality and
 transparency, staff are invited to regular subject-area, School and College meetings to discuss
 and implement policy; annual awaydays permit more extensive strategic discussion. To support
 team-building, administrative staff participate in meetings.

 Within SCS, each Subject Area allocates workload based on a CoA calculation of hours per
 role. Heads of Subject are responsible for ensuring the fair distribution of roles. Administrative
 responsibilities at College, School and Subject level rotate to allow for research leave and career
 development opportunities. School and College roles are advertised, and normally undertaken
 for 3-4 years. Heads of School and Subject are awarded a year’s research leave on completion
 of their term of office; and staff with substantial management responsibilities receive buyout for
 some teaching and marking, releasing time for research. In recognition of the commitment
 involved in managing REF in such a large unit, the current REF champion (formerly Head of
 School 2010-13) is supported by a deputy, two Impact champions, and an output Scoring Panel
 of eleven colleagues.

 In conformity with university policy, research leave is targeted to support particular projects,
 impact-related activities, career development for staff with personal circumstances requiring
 additional research time, or who have carried heavy adminstrative burdens. We recognise that
 extended time is particularly important for generating potentially double-weighted 4* outputs.
 Staff are encouraged (via PDR or mentoring meetings) to apply for leave, and can seek an
 extension to the customary allowance of one semester in every seven by making an external
 funding bid. Leave-applications and post-leave reports are scrutinised at School level, and feed
 into the PDR process, ensuring that staff are supported in their research. 64 staff have been
 granted research leave of one or two semesters since 2014, some supported by external
 funding.

 The School encourages staff to apply for funding available through SCS and College of Arts for
 participation in (inter)national conferences and research-related events. Seed-corn funding
 enables staff to forge external partnerships and develop larger collaborative projects. The unit
 has hosted 52 international conferences and workshops since 2014 (see section 4), permitting
 ECRs to interact with senior figures in their fields and across disciplines, present their research,

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and showcase Glasgow's academic culture.

 Launched in 2010, the CoA's research institute, Arts Lab, is currently directed by a member of
 the Unit. Developing and promoting research and interdisciplinary collaboration within and
 beyond the College, Arts Lab is an invaluable asset to our research culture (see also Section 3).
 It supports researchers through personal advice, workshops and mentoring, helping them
 develop outputs, grant applications and academic collaboration. Established in 2014, the
 Application Development Service (ADS) offers each applicant two peer reviews from
 experienced PIs. Feedback is presented via a meeting with one of the Arts Lab directors, and
 applications needing further work can go through the process more than once. Some workshops
 focus on particular funders or types of grant; others on topics such as 'Understanding 4*
 Research', and 'How to have impact with your research'. Workshops are open to all, and for
 colleagues on the ECDP, each one is indexed to particular elements in that programme (e.g.
 'developing your leadership style', 'building effective collaborations').

 A team of seven staff in the College Research Office offer specialist guidance with developing
 grant bids, ranging from initial planning through to costing. The impact team assist with the
 design stage, embedding impact at an early stage in new projects. The Head of Research and
 Operations Strategy assists colleagues to put together teams that can respond to calls for larger
 grants.

 An example of the use of College of Arts support is the Medical Humanities Research Centre’s
 successful bid for Strategic College funding, a 3-year plan (initiated 16/17) for development via
 workshops and activities that focus particularly on ECRs, KE partnerships (e.g. with Glasgow
 Life) facilitated by the College KE Office, and building external synergies. This will underpin a
 planned submission for Wellcome funding to facilitate collaboration across all Glasgow's HEI's.

 Research seminars for staff and PG students are held across the unit, with a wealth of
 contributions from distinguished external speakers as well as researchers at all levels from staff
 to advanced undergraduates. ECRs interact with senior scholars in a collegial atmosphere of
 intellectual inquiry, enabling all members of the Unit to extend their intellectual horizons and
 networks, with benefit to REF outputs, partnerships and funding bids. Regular research seminar
 series are held in English Literature, English Language and Linguistics, Literature and Theology,
 Energy and Ecology, Transatlantic Women's Writing, Medical Humanities, American Studies and
 Postcolonialism. The long-established GULP Lab Lunch provides an informal setting for
 colleagues across the university to discuss research in phonetics and sociolinguistics, and for
 visiting scholars to present their work. Our staff also contribute to the Gender History seminar,
 War Studies seminar, Highland History seminar, and Scottish and Celtic Studies seminar. Many
 of our research events engage audiences beyond the university. For example, the annual
 Tannahill lectures, supported by a bequest to Scottish Literature and held at the NLS and
 Glasgow's Aye Write! Festival, showcase contemporary Scottish studies (recent lecturers
 include Kathleen Jamie, Andrew McNeillie, Neil MacGregor).

 With the transition to online events, offering unexpected advantages for research, our guest
 speaker audiences have grown: we promote them on scholarly association mailing lists, and
 now welcome scholars from universities around the world. Online meetings have the advantage
 of flattening research hierarchies and giving all attendees equal voices. In addition Research
 Clusters hold regular sessions providing peer feedback on work in progress, involving staff at all
 levels as well as PGRs. Current reading groups include Medical Humanities, Literature and
 Theology, Piers Plowman, Romanticism, Postcolonial, Finnegans Wake, Adorno. These have all
 moved online during the Covid lockdown attracting international participation (e.g new
 collaboration with international Piers Plowman online reading group, with up to 189 participants).
 Research awaydays explore collaboration, innovation and interdisciplinarity as well as specific
 research themes. In May 2020 the Research Convener hosted a virtual symposium to discuss
 responses to the challenges of Covid-19 for humanities research, in which 34 staff participated,
 allowing colleagues to share difficulties (and opportunities) encountered early in the pandemic,
 helping build a more resilient research culture.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduates:
 We have increased an already flourishing cohort of doctoral degree students from 126 in 2014 to
 a current level of 148 (176 including Masters by Research HESA HC). This has been achieved
 by high reputational standing, developed through national and international staff profiles, and
 projecting Glasgow’s research culture in publications, conferences and workshops. It has also
 been supported by the appointment of a dedicated PG administrator and a CoA PG recruitment
 manager with a focus on international students. 196 doctoral degrees have been awarded since
 2014, 64% to UK students, 23% to overseas students (OS), and 13% to EU. A 156% increase in
 PGT numbers has also acted as a feeder for PGR recruitment.

 We attract and retain research students by offering scholarships, internships and prizes at UoG,
 CoA and School levels. 24 of our current PGR cohort (13 fees funded, 11 stipends) are
 supported by external funding bodies (AHRC, ESRC, Carnegie Trust, Wellcome - HESA).
 Funded studentships are also available from the College of Arts and from private donations (e.g.
 two ‘Shaw Scholars’ in the Centre for Robert Burns Studies £35K). In addition, the UoA has
 secured studentships competitively via the University's flagship Lord Kelvin Adam Smith
 interdisciplinary doctoral programme. We enable these funding successes through intensive
 mentoring of applicants, not only by their prospective supervisors but also by School and
 College PGR convenors, and by putting them in touch with successful applicants from previous
 years. The College of Arts has also been highly successful in the Scottish Graduate School for
 Arts & Humanities (SGSAH) and Social Sciences (SGSSS) DTP competition – the unit both
 benefits from and contributes to this collaborative cross-disciplinary success in the Scotland-
 wide DTP consortium context.

 At PGR level, staff in the unit help to shape policy and practice through their leading roles with
 the national graduate schools and funding bodies. Colleagues serve or served as panellists,
 assessing PhD scholarship applications, at Carnegie Trust, SGSAH and SGSSS. Both the
 Literature and Linguistics Discipline+ Catalysts at SGSAH, which deliver training events from
 academic, industry and third sector experts, include staff from our unit in their leadership group,
 and the unit has hosted SGSAH-funded conferences such as Quadrivium, for students of
 medieval English textual cultures. Our unit is distinctive, in the context of English Language and
 Literature, in making an equally strong contribution to the ESRC-funded SGSSS.

 Sustaining a mean average of 28 headcount doctoral degrees awarded annually since 2014 in
 challenging circumstances reflects the high quality of applications, as well as an enhanced focus
 on supervisory policy and bespoke training at University and College level and within the unit. All
 PGR students are allocated at least two supervisors (usually 50/50% or 75/25%), and attend
 mandatory School and College training-seminars throughout their periods of study, recorded in
 researcher development logs, annually reviewed as part of the progress review (see below). The
 PGR Skills Development Programme is coordinated by the College’s Graduate School,
 covering a range of personal, professional and career development areas (including guidance on
 potential careers beyond academia), aligned to the Researcher Development Framework.
 Features include competitions (‘3-minute thesis’, ‘Impact in 60 seconds’), a PGR-led blog and
 other community-building initiatives, as well as annually-run employability-training courses
 (seminars include ‘Job Hunting and Job Applications’, ‘Graduate Attributes’, ‘Transferring from
 PhD to Industry’). Our PG students also develop public engagement skills via workshops offered
 by SCS’s Graduate Attributes and Work-Based Learning Tutor, and all new PGRs undertake
 mandatory research integrity training.

 Our students have in addition access to the SGSAH (and SGSSS) national provision of doctoral
 training, particularly through the Discipline + Catalysts in Literature and in Linguistics, training
 panels aimed at all PGR students in these disciplines across Scotland. SGSAH KE Hubs
 connects PGRs with cultural heritage and creative industries partners, in addition offering
 internships/artist in residence opportunities. PGR experience is enhanced through joint
 networking/training initiatives with other HEIs supported by College Graduate School, and by
 SGSAH, which runs an annual summer school in Glasgow for students from its 19 participating
 HEIs, providing a distinctively Scottish research environment.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within the unit, we have reflected on ways of further embedding employability within our
 postgraduate research environment. There are several student-run initiatives for which academic
 staff provide support and mentoring: for instance, eSharp, an international peer-reviewed journal
 publishing research in the Arts and Humanities, is edited by PG students in our unit and aims to
 provide a critical but supportive entry into the realm of academic publishing. We have
 encouraged students to take up development opportunities relating to non-academic careers.
 The Hunterian Associates programme provides internships on a competitive basis to PGRs to
 work directly with curators (one student is currently curating a virtual exhibition on the
 Hunterian's Native American collection to add an interdisciplinary dimension to her Ph.D. on
 Canadian literature.) Close links with Glasgow Life, a charity that delivers cultural sporting and
 learning activities, as well as with the city’s museums, art galleries, performance and music
 venues, international festivals and creative industry organisations, offer additional opportunities
 for internships and collaborations which enhance the workplace-related skills of our PGRs.

 96% of PGRs felt that their supervisors had 'the skills and subject knowledge to support their
 research', and 93% were satisfied with feedback (PRES 2017). As part of their professional
 development, PGRs can apply for Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) opportunities in their
 second and third years, supported by robust selection/training programmes, including detailed
 student feedback on their performance.

 Ongoing mentoring support for recent PhD graduates has resulted in many finding full time
 employment in a wide range of fields: both permanent university lecturing posts (e.g. Glasgow;
 Kent; Plymouth; Dundee), and appointments outwith academia such as Adult Literacy Worker at
 Glasgow Women's Library; Data Analyst with Amazon Tech (US); Senior Research and
 Dissemination Officer with the Scottish Qualifications Authority; Senior Policy Officer at Social
 Care Alliance Scotland.

 Improved submission rates for PGRs are also underwritten by Annual Progress Reviews
 (APR) held each April/May, in which work is assessed by independent reviewers as a condition
 of progressing. The APR system has been greatly enhanced and streamlined since 2014. It
 offers students an opportunity to discuss their work with specialists other than their supervisors,
 and a rehearsal for viva examinations.

 Mandatory staff attendance at PGR Supervisor Development seminars (organised by College
 Graduate School) at least every four years enables them to keep up to date with the fast-
 changing landscape of doctoral research. Potential supervisors and sponsors for students
 applying for AHRC funding via SGSAH must attend dedicated supervisor workshops
 organised at national level by the SGSAH DTP.

 Via the College Graduate School, we run University PG Open Days, School/Subject Open
 Evenings,welcome events for new PGRs, and online chats to promote student community and
 wellbeing; we also support Facebook, Twitter feeds and a College blog that contains information
 on research and impact, as well as student projects and peer-to-peer advice on how to secure
 funding. All these activities have flourished online during Covid-19.

 Equality and diversity:
 Our research culture flourishes in an environment free from discrimination and unfair treatment,
 in which the importance of a good life/work balance is emphasised and protected characteristics
 are respected, in line with Glasgow’s Equality and Diversity policy. We are dedicated to
 improving gender balance across all grades of seniority. Compared to the UofG student cohort
 of SCS (70-75% female), academic staffing (2019-20) shows a good FTE gender balance with
 56.41% females and 43.59% male. 66% of PGR students are female and 61% of doctoral
 degrees awarded since 2014 are to women students (HESA). At senior level, 55% FTE of
 professors are now women, representing excellent progress from 2013/14, when the figure was
 37.5%: an achievement made possible through targeted mentoring of mid-career staff, a major
 School strategic priority. For instance, female colleagues have been actively encouraged to
 apply for internal and external leadership roles, and supported in doing so through workload

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 adjustment in other areas. Promotion applications from female colleagues have also been
 actively encouraged through annual review and in informal mentoring contexts. Across the unit,
 in English Language and Linguistics 11 out of 13 women are Grade 9 or above, in Scottish
 Literature 2 out of 3 women are Grade 9 or above, and in English Literature 13 out of 17 women
 are Grade 9 or above. Seven women sit on the Unit's 11-strong REF Scoring Panel, which is
 charged with selecting outputs for submission. The Head of School and two Subject Heads are
 currently women, as are three out of four School conveners, while female members of the unit
 also hold important University and College leadership roles (Anderson, Dick, Hammill, Randall,
 McCue). We have robust policies in relation to maternity, paternity, parental and adoption leave,
 including ‘Enhanced Maternity Leave’ for eligible staff, exceeding statutory provision and
 allowing full or half-pay for up to one year. Extensive and clear checklists guide staff before,
 during and after taking maternity leave.

 Also key to the ongoing improvement of gender balance in the unit are the following initiatives:

 Athena SWAN: In May 2020 SCS achieved an Athena SWAN Bronze Award; the School's
 newly established Equality and Diversity Team are now working on delivering the action plan.
 This Award recognises the unit's ‘clear commitment to advancing gender equality and enhancing
 workplace culture for all’ and the improvement in the gender balance of the professoriate in the
 past five years. The award builds on a series of long-term initiatives, and the Action Plan will
 continue to strengthen Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity across all our future research
 practice in working towards a Silver Award. Through focused training/support and positive
 development reviews across all staff-grades, and through strategic appointments and
 promotions, we seek to incentivise and embed research output and impact plans for both
 individuals and research clusters, spreading the culture of grant capture more equitably.

 AURORA Programme for Women Leaders: all parts of the Unit have benefitted, with 4 having
 taken up school or college leadership roles following the programme.

 Academic returners (post-parental leave): as part of the University’s commitment to improving
 gender equality, and specifically growing the number of women in senior academic roles, the
 University supports academic returners to maintain a successful research career. Funding (up to
 £10k per person) supports female academics returning from maternity leave. The Returners
 programme supports staff returning from maternity/paternity leave: for example, one colleague
 was funded to travel to the USA to develop an AHRC collaborative grant-application and plan a
 co-edited volume; another has used returner funding to hire an RA to assist with her current
 editorial project. 100% of staff have returned to post after taking maternity or paternity leave.

 The unit is committed to improving diversity via international collaborations, expanding
 international staff and student recruitment, and forwarding research on the global south.
 Existing strengths in postcolonial studies have been enhanced by the appointment of a new
 lecturer in South Asian studies, recently awarded an RSE network collaboration on
 subcontinental colonial famines with Manipal University and IIIT Guwahati, India. Intellectual
 engagement with postcolonial and BAME issues is embedded in our research and pedagogy at
 every level: our staff and PG students have been involved in Decolonize Glasgow, and other
 activities leading to Glasgow's award of THES 'University of the Year' 2020 for its widely
 publicized 'Report into Slavery' and reparation programme. In line with University policies, we
 are committed to supporting LGBTQ, Disabilities, and other protected characteristics both in
 research and pedagogy and institutionally: a Queer Studies research cluster is active in the
 unit. Staff Survey Results (covering workloads, promotion, retention, staff morale, etc.) have
 led to School actions plans, resulting inter alia in a more flexible approach to FTE reduction to
 enhance life/work balance.

 Online training in ‘Equality and Diversity Essentials’ is mandatory for all staff and GTAs.
 ‘Understanding Unconscious Bias’ is available to all staff and required for those serving on
 recruitment panels or similar. 100% of SCS academic staff have completed Equality and


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Diversity training. Additional courses on GDPR and sensitive data management are mandatory
 for line managers.

 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

 The unit's aim of incentivizing grant capture is balanced by workload management and
 strategic QR-funded research-leave allocation to safeguard staff research-time, enabling the
 production of 4* REF-graded outputs and the development of large projects leading to
 monographs, scholarly editions and major digital resources, the latter often funded through
 competitively-awarded grants. The unit's notable success in winning external funding is in part
 the result of a strategic focus on scalable outcomes, i.e. encouraging smaller bids that can be
 developed into larger projects, while underlining the benefits of larger FEC-bearing awards for
 the unit's research culture and the recruitment of early career staff.

 Annual research income has remained healthy, rising from just under £1 million in 2014-15 to
 £1.151 million in 2018, with a dip in 2020 (£780K), as a number of large projects came to an
 end, although successful large-scale bids planned for the coming year will bring us back over the
 £1 million p/a line. 85% of total income is derived from BEIS Research Councils, BA and RSE,
 and 12.9% from UK based charities. Human Resources benchmarking tables show grant
 capture for English at £19K per head, compared to a Russell Group Upper Quartile £14.96K.
 Notwithstanding excellent progress made since 2014, the fact that 55% of awards are made to
 males and 45% to females demonstrates the need further to extend and diversify the culture of
 grant capture. We are therefore committed to increasing the ratio of successful women
 applicants as well as supporting applications by mid-career colleagues. Formal support through
 ECDP/PDR, Aurora, etc., and informal through mentoring, are rolled out across the School to
 enable career progression and to help us achieve our aims in relation to diversity. Recent
 initiatives include (e.g.) a dedicated English Literature grant support group: monthly meetings
 since 2017 bring together colleagues at all career stages for peer-support on projects under
 development. Successful bids to date – using smaller awards to seed larger grants -- include a
 Carnegie Research Incentive Grant, a Wellcome Small Grant, and two RSE workshop grants;
 larger awards, including a major Leverhulme fellowship, have subsequently resulted. Similar
 groups are now being set up across the College. This initiative’s success led to Hammill, its
 initiator, receiving one of the University’s four inaugural Research Culture Awards (2019).

 A key infrastructural development has been Arts Lab, established in the previous REF cycle (for
 Application Development Service, see Section 2). The unit enables the establishment of new
 research Themes and Labs with strong potential for grant capture and impact. Synergies are
 identified for future interdisciplinary bids, especially via Research Centres and Networks. For
 example, in 2018, Arts Lab ran 5 cross-College workshops for staff/PGRs on ‘Scholarly Editions
 and Textual Editing’, drawing on the unit’s research and funding strength in this area. It included
 talks from senior editors from Oxford and Edinburgh University Press, and a session on digital
 editions, to encourage new editorial projects; these events led to the founding of a dedicated and
 active 'Textual Editing Lab', and the award of an AHRC Network grant for 'New Modernist
 Editing'. Moving forwards: two groups established in 2019-20 are 'Energy and Ecology' and
 'Discourses of Sustainability', developing new collaborative pathways between environmental
 humanities, sociolinguistics, and STEM subjects. (On other Themes/Labs, see Section 1.)

 Over the last two REF cycles the unit has built up a mature and sustainable portfolio of
 externally-funded grant projects across a very wide range of specialisations, giving us a
 recognised national and international lead in the fields of Scottish and English language and
 literature, Medical Humanities, Digital Humanities and Collections, with £4.814 million worth of
 funding out of our total income of £7.296 million.

 Outcomes from such awards, and consequent effects for the unit’s overall research trajectory,
 are illustrated by the follow-through from our two major consecutive AHRC grants for Editing
 Robert Burns for the Twenty-First Century. These fund the ongoing 10-volume Oxford Edition
 of the Works of Robert Burns (2014-23). This project draws upon scholarly expertise from across

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the unit, employing 8 PDRAs since 2011. Published outputs from phase 1 (2011-16) include
 Commonplace Books, Tours, Journals and Miscellaneous Prose, The Scots Musical Museum
 and Songs for George Thomson. Phase 2 (2018-22) will see Burns's Correspondence and
 Poetry, The Complete Poetry (and Oxford Handbook to Robert Burns). In addition to the 3
 PDRAs appointed to Phase 2, the university supported the project with an additional
 postdoctoral Fellowship and a dedicated PGR. Research is showcased at the annual public-
 facing Robert Burns Conference, run collaboratively by the CRBS/NTS at the Alloway Birthplace
 Museum, Ayrshire (see Section 4).

 This core external funding has spun out a range of related, collaborative projects, such as
 Eighteenth-Century Scottish Bawdry (Carnegie Trust, with a concurrent university Chancellor’s
 Fund award); The People's Voice: Scottish Political Poetry and Song 1832-1918 (Carnegie
 Trust); Romantic National Song Network (Royal Conservatoire of Scotland: Royal Society of
 Edinburgh (RSE); and Before Blackwood's: Scottish Journalism in the Age of Enlightenment
 (drawing on a RSE-funded symposium in 2010). Synergies between expertise in eighteenth-
 century Scottish literature and medical humanities – the latter represented by the AHRC-funded
 Diagnostic Letters of William Cullen (with Royal College of Physicians) – produced The Medical
 Blackwoodians: Literature and Science in Romantic Scotland (2012-16: Wellcome Trust), with
 an associated monograph, Literature and Medicine in the Nineteenth-Century Periodical Press
 (Coyer 2016).

 The Burns project provided the launch-pad for two subsequent large-scale editorial projects
 attracting significant AHRC awards: Collected Works of Allan Ramsay (2018-23), a multi-
 volume edition including innovative research on Ramsay's songs, as well as his poetry and
 drama, and ‘Curious Travellers': Thomas Pennant and the Scottish and Welsh Tour 1760-
 1820 (2014-18, with the University of Wales), a digital edition of correspondence and manuscript
 tours employing 5 PDRAs and collaboration with the NLS, NLW, the Bodleian, and Oxford’s
 Early Modern Letters Online (EMLO). Collaborative research on eighteenth-century Scottish
 libraries was an important element of the Institutions of Literature 1700-1900 Research Network
 (British Academy, 2017), and Libraries, Reading Communities and Cultural Formation in the
 Eighteenth-Century Atlantic (AHRC, 2019-22). These led to an AHRC award for Books and
 Borrowing 1750-1830, a 3-year collaboration with Stirling University, the first-ever systematic
 survey of Scottish library borrowing-records from the period, with Glasgow Co-I and RA. (For
 KE/impact see Section 4).

 Other highlights are the AHRC-funded Semantic Annotation and Mark-Up for Enhancing
 Lexical Searches (2014-15), Linguistic DNA (with Sheffield, 2015-18), and Mapping
 Metaphor with the Historical Thesaurus (2012-15, plus follow-on funding). The success of
 these bids depended on our strategic investment in data-driven, corpus-based research, and
 long-term commitment to the Historical Thesaurus of English. The funding portfolio in English
 Language and Linguistics also exemplifies our commitment to working on English and related
 languages in both their local and their international contexts: for instance, projects in
 sociolinguistics and phonetics include SPeech Across Dialects of English (2017-20, funded
 under the Transatlantic Digging into Data initiative), the AHRC-funded projects Scots Syntax
 Atlas (2015-19) and ESRC-funded One Speaker, Two Dialects (2013-16), while
 interdisciplinary research in onomastics has most recently centred on the project Recovering
 the Earliest English Language in Scotland (Leverhulme Trust 2016-19).

 Jewish Lives, Scottish Spaces (AHRC, 2015-17) has recuperated, from extensive archival
 analysis, the material culture of Jewish religious communities in Scotland since the late
 nineteenth century, builing on earlier research funded by Rothschild Hanadiv foundation and
 Carnegie Trust. Similarly focused on material culture are Archives and Writing Lives (2017-
 2019, in collaboration with the Folger Shakespeare Library and the Bodleian).

 Medical humanities funding success has resulted from our commitment to collaborating across
 the university and in the wider civic context, as well as from our contribution to shaping the
 research agendas of external agencies and funders. The Wellcome Trust funded: the Other

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Psychotherapies conference, addressing cross-cultural psychotherapy from a range of
 perspectives; Galenic Psychotherapy (whose PI has since been appointed to a lectureship in
 Classics); and Glasgow Medical Humanities Network (2019-22) (see section 4). Seed-funding
 for Science Fiction and the Medical Humanities (Wellcome, 2015-16) produced partnerships
 with Creative Writing, helping secure a BA Postdoctoral Fellowship on science fiction and
 pregnancy.

 Many of the projects highlighted above intersect with an exceptional record of grant capture in
 digital humanities, where Glasgow is a leading centre of excellence. Our electronic ‘big data’
 resources, such as the Historical Thesaurus of English (and associated output Mapping
 Metaphor), as well as Semantic EEBO, the Hansard Project, Letters of Bess of Hardwick and
 major sociophonetics datasets) make major contributions to research in the unit. These
 initiatives, alongside four new appointments building on existing strengths, have secured the
 unit’s expertise in this area. New initiatives include major EU-funded DESIR: DARIAH ERIC
 Sustainability Refined (2017-19) and three AHRC-funded projects: Digital Library Futures (2017-
 19), Living Legacies 1914-18 Engagement Centre (2014-19), and Listening and British Culture:
 listeners responses to music in Britain, 1700-2018 (2016-19), based on social media analysis in
 collaboration with musicologists and computer scientists.

 The unit's success in sustaining external funding and producing world-leading research is
 supported and enabled by excellent infrastructure and facilities. Staff occupy individual office
 space suitable for research as well as small-group teaching, while new collaborative facilities will
 be available in the university's Advanced Research Centre (including space for immersive
 technologies), and refurbished seminar rooms. GULP has a main lab (with specialist speech
 processing machines) and two recording studios, ultrasound tongue imaging and eye-tracking
 facilities, within SCS. GULP is home to phonetics and sociolinguistics PG and visiting
 researchers. Further digital expertise and specialist space is available via the Software for
 Teaching English Language and Literature (STELLA) Lab. As well as developing software for
 face-to-face, online and blended teaching, STELLA hosts six discrete research projects.
 Glasgow University Library is one of the UK’s largest research libraries, with major holdings
 deployed in the unit's research, including all major online resources/databases. Its Special
 Collections offers an invaluable resource supporting individual research, as well as collaborative
 projects like the Collections and Textual Editing Labs. PG seminars are frequently scheduled in
 the Library's Henry Heaney room, allowing students physical access to rare book and
 manuscript collections. The unit has research collaborations including the following: NLS;
 Glasgow's Mitchell Library; the Glasgow Women's Library; the Alloway Burns Birthplace
 Museum archive; Sir Walter Scott's Abbotsford Library; the Scottish Jewish Archives Centre; and
 the library of Glasgow's Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons. Resources for creative
 writers include the Edwin Morgan Writing Room, a learning resource centre with a dedicated
 library.

 The unit's engagement with museums and collections is enabled by Glasgow's role as a
 national leader in university-based museum initiatives, notably the £35 million Kelvin Hall
 redevelopment, opened by First Minister Sturgeon in 2016. Kelvin Hall Phase I (2013-17) has
 brought together the collections of The Hunterian, plus part of the collections of Glasgow
 Museums and the NLS’s Moving Image Archive, alongside a new bespoke Study Centre. Kelvin
 Hall is one of six global Anchor Institution case studies for Universitas 21 (in 2017, 12 shortlists
 or awards, 1 million visitors in Year 1).


 4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND
 SOCIETY

 Partnerships and support:
 The unit's dynamic and wide-ranging research collaborations, networks and partnerships draw
 distinctively on our location in Scotland’s largest city, engaging staff at all career stages.
 This section describes how staff from the unit and its incorporated research centres play a

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 subject-defining role both nationally and internationally, via membership of subject
 associations, learned societies, research councils and other funding bodies, editorships,
 research collaborations, and the hosting of major conferences, as well as contributing economic
 and societal benefit to Scotland and beyond. Project partners include: Scottish Government,
 Oxford English Dictionaries and Dictionary of the Scots Language, NTS, National Galleries of
 Scotland, Scottish Opera, Burns Scotland, Abbotsford/Faculty of Advocates Joint Advisory
 Committee, Education Scotland, Glasgow Life, Oxford’s Bodleian Library, BL, NLS, NLW, Royal
 Literary Fund, Visit Scotland, the Royal Bank of Scotland and SMEs (e.g. Micro-phonics, Giglets,
 Linguisticator, Nile Design). In developing partnerships and engaging with external audiences,
 staff benefit from consultation and collaboration with the College’s Knowledge Exchange and
 Impact Manager, the College's Cultural Activities Co-ordinator, and the university's Public and
 Community Engagement Advisor, as well as generous institutional seed-funding.

 Public engagement and outreach:
 In the present cycle, staff showcased research (including creative writing) by engaging with
 diverse audiences at national and international festivals, including: Glasgow's 'Aye Write', St
 Mungo's Festival, Glasgow Science Festival, Being Human Festival, Dundee Literary Festival,
 Cheltenham Festival, Ledbury Poetry Festival, Scottish Borders Heritage Festival, Borders
 History Gathering, Edinburgh International, Ullapool, Wigtown, and Dunedin (New Zealand) book
 festivals. Staff appear frequently on national media, especially BBC and STV radio and
 television, discussing their research for the benefit of a non-specialist audience (e.g. In Our
 Time, Scotland Tonight etc). The unit is proactive in using social media to expand and diversify
 audiences and to exchange knowledge with communities beyond academia. Our profile is
 exemplified by the Centre for Fantasy's blog The City of Lost Books (1000 hits/month) and the
 Fantasy at Glasgow Facebook group (500+ members) and Twitter account (over 4000 followers;
 Fimi 7000 ). Other areas with high staff Twitter profiles include Creative Writing (Welsh:
 @UofGWriting 8500), ELL (Green: @codicologist 6000) and Digital Humanities (Prescott:
 @Ajprescott 7000).

 The Night at the Museum initiative has stimulated some of the unit's most innovative
 engagement events. For example, in 2016, 2018, and 2020, the Hunterian Museum celebrated
 Burns Night with public-facing evenings of film, music, poetry and performance in the main
 museum site. Informed by discoveries from CRBS, the 2018 event was attended by c.800
 members of the public and Scottish Government culture secretary Fiona Hyslop. The 2020
 event, focused on the UNESCO Year of Coasts and Waters presented readings from Burns's
 Highland Tour and correspondence with live fiddle performances and Gaelic song. In 2017, a
 Fantasy Night at the Museum (part of Being Human festival hub) celebrated Scotland’s fantasy
 heritage from Peter Pan and Harry Potter to Outlander. These events were supported by the
 Winter Festival, a programme of events managed by EventScotland (VisitScotland).

 Creative Writing at Glasgow currently focuses its outreach activities around two themes:
 Spearheading New Forms and Health and Wellbeing (the latter with MHRC). The former
 focuses on research leading to award-winning performances, productions and publications in
 new music, opera and genre-bending essays. The Saltire Society awarded its 2018 Most
 Inspiring First Book prize to Welsh for her 2002 novel The Cutting Room, and Scottish Opera’s
 Anthropocene – composed by Stuart MacRae with Welsh’s libretto (see ICS) – was awarded the
 Large Scale New Work category at the 2020 Scottish Awards for New Music. The Health and
 Wellbeing strand included projects such as the cultural legacy of the 2017 Homeless World Cup,
 Writing for Recovery, and Writing Motherhood (see ICS). The British Academy-funded project
 Creative Writing for Young People in Recovery from Mental Illness involved a series of
 workshops featuring leading creative writers, public health experts and policy makers from
 Europe and North America. International collaboration is exemplified by Strachan's involvement
 in the GCRF Sustainable Futures in Africa Network, including the 2020 Participatory Futures
 project with multiple African partners: PGR student Shehzar Doja ran workshops in Bangladesh
 and co-edited an anthology of work by the refugee Rohingya community launched at Ledbury
 Poetry Festival 2019. In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, Jess-Cooke founded (with Paper
 Nation) the free online 'Stay at Home! Literary Festival' took place shortly after the first UK

                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 lockdown began in April 2020, involving 220 writers of all genres (including 7 Writing
 Residencies, with £250 bursary per residency), running workshops, readings, panels and Q&A
 sessions, supported by volunteers and CW PG students. Inclusivity was a priority for this free
 event, exploiting the possibilities of the digital platform to enable participation and engagement
 by different audience groups. An estimated 14,689 people from all over the world participated.
 All these concerns (inclusivity, wellbeing, and formal experimentation) are showcased in
 Creative Conversations, a free, regular public-facing series held in the university chapel, and
 now via Zoom, hosting distinguished contemporary writers. Funded by the university's Ferguson
 Bequest, recent speakers have included Homi Bhabha, Malika Booker, John Burnside,
 Bernadine Evaristo, Lorna Goodison, Alasdair Gray, A.L. Kennedy, Abir Mukherjee, Ian Rankin,
 Anuradha Roy and Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o. In collaboration with The Herald newspaper, the McCash
 Poetry Prize is awarded annually for poetry in the Scots language (Judges: Riach, Strachan).

 Outreach and collaboration through Research Groups and Centres:
 The unit's research centres and groups, as well as its longer-term research programmes, are
 oriented towards external engagement, collaborative relationships, and the generation of impact.
 The examples below illustrate our approach and identify some of our key partnerships.

 The Centre for Robert Burns Studies (CRBS) has sustained commitment to collaboration and
 public-facing activities: strong links with the national and international Burns community permits
 public dissemination of new research throughout Scotland and beyond, and develops effective
 partnerships with cognate organisations. CRBS is part of Cultural and Creative Economies, one
 of Glasgow’s six Research Beacons launched in 2017 to raise the institution’s profile with key
 audiences. Beacons provide a framework enabling coherent messaging/promotion that
 complements CRBS’s research strategy research strategy, and successfully promotes our
 research. Activities include the annual Burns Conference at the Robert Burns Birthplace
 Museum (in association with the NTS) and a series of major impact-related initiatives, e.g. the
 recent report Robert Burns in the Scottish Economy (see ICS). Carruthers (Co-Director) is
 Convener (2014-) of the museum-accredited National Burns Collection, a partnership between
 the university, 3 national associations and 7 local authorities. CRBS’s expertise has been
 leveraged to include work on forgeries and support for wider research in Scottish Literature, e.g.
 Carruthers’s service on the Joint Advisory Committee for Sir Walter Scott's House at Abbotsford
 (Faculty of Advocates), which inter alia has been responsible for producing a Carnegie Trust-
 funded online catalogue of the best-preserved writer's library in Britain. Two related AHRC-
 funded projects, the Allan Ramsay edition and Curious Travellers have strong outreach
 elements: the annual Allan Ramsay Festival at Carlops, and Pennant and Dr Johnson on Tour
 exhibition, Johnson House Museum, London, coinciding with the launch of 'Curious Travellers'
 digital editions at the Linnaean Society in Nov 2018. Societal engagement from the 18th-century
 Scotland theme is also exemplified by the Thomas Muir 250 project, commemorating the 1790's
 Scottish radical martyr transported to Botany Bay in 1795 (with the ‘Friends of Thomas Muir’
 Trust and East Dunbartonshire Council). Annual meetings are hosted by East Dunbartonshire
 secondary schools, including papers and performances by sixth-form History and English
 students. The first Glasgow Thomas Muir Lecture was delivered by Sir Tom Devine (2018).

 The Medical Humanities Research Centre (MHRC) is a founding member of the Northern
 Network for Medical Humanities, which facilitates interchange of people, ideas, and best
 practice at national level, including through its participation in the AHRC/Wellcome New
 Generations ECR training-project, with an emphasis on digital research. A College-funded
 strategic enhancement programme for medical humanities included an annual city-wide
 symposium. Strategic conversations at the latter contributed to the current 36-month Wellcome-
 funded Glasgow Medical Humanities Network (2019-22), promoting city-wide co-ordination
 and integration of medical humanities across all Glasgow’s HEIs and relevant collections.
 Directed by a cross-institutional steering group, the network focusses on early career
 development, with training workshops, collections enhancement events, and a yearly small grant
 scheme (£7K p.a.) dedicated to ECRs/PGRs for research and KE projects. MHRC regularly
 hosts visiting researchers (e.g. Columbia, Umea), including scholars supported by the Wellcome


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Small Grants and Bursaries scheme. Topics addressed include Mindfulness research, R.D.
 Laing and literature, Hunter’s Anatomy, and LSD therapy.

 The unit's new Centre for Fantasy and the Fantastic was launched with a public event online
 featuring a keynote by award-winning fantasy author Ellen Kushner, and a distinguished panel of
 academics and creative practitioners. The 500 webinar tickets sold out in 3 days, necessitating
 setting up a YouTube live-stream to allow more participants to attend. The YouTube recording
 has already over 1,200 views and is growing daily. The Centre launch attracted attention from
 the press, radio, and TV, with news pieces featured in The Herald,The National, the I Paper, and
 a report on STV News.

 The AHRC-funded New Modernist Editing Network (2016-17) ran workshops and exhibitions
 exploring modernist scholarship, textual editing and publication practices. Follow-on funding was
 awarded 2019-20, and Covid extension is awaited to reschedule the October 2020 exhibition.
 Involving editors of major new modernist editions, it reaches beyond the academy by including
 publishers, archivists, and book artists. Also AHRC-funded was the Decadence and
 Translation Network (2018-20) involving international partners, with KE events in London, and
 outputs including a digital edition of Mallarmé manuscripts.

 The Historical Thesaurus of English (HTE) is at the heart of one of our major research
 programmes, and one with a particularly wide international reach. The first historical thesaurus in
 any language, it is now linked to the Oxford English Dictionary (OED) online, but also exists as a
 distinct research resource. The result of 44 years’ research, HTE contains over 800,000
 meanings spanning 4,500 pages over two volumes. In 2017 HTE was awarded the prestigious
 Queen's Prize for Higher Education for world-class research into the English language. The
 HTE website lists 145 academic articles and books known to be primarily focused on its data.
 The integrated Oxford English Dictionary website, which has sub-licensed HTE, has over 6
 million visits per year, and HTE data is tightly integrated into each results-page delivered. As
 well as significant collaboration with Scottish Language Dictionaries, 41 research contracts have
 also been issued by the project since 2014, including psychologists in California, literary
 scholars in Montréal, Buddhist translators in the US and worldwide, Norman French scholars in
 Wales, and historians of science in Helsinki. The project team has acted as consultants to
 projects elsewhere which are seeking to replicate HTE for their own languages, most recently
 meeting with the Institute for Dutch Lexicology and Lexicography. Royalties from HTE sales fund
 further research in the field, notably through prizes and scholarships.

 The Scottish Romanticism Research Group co-sponsored an RSE-funded seminar series the
 on constitutional ramifications of the 1707 Union and 2014 Scottish Independence Referendum.
 Papers given at the 2015 symposium were the springboard for an edited collection, Cultures of
 Improvement in Scottish Romanticism, with contributions by 6 members of the unit, exemplies
 productive links between conferences, seminars series, and REF submissions. Members of the
 research group were also active in the AHRC-funded Institutions of Literature, 1700-1900
 research network (2017),with three workshops held in Glasgow, London, and York in 2017. The
 unit also hosted the RSE-funded network Contested Identities: Cultural Dialogues between
 Small Nations (2016-17).

 Conferences and Internationalization:
 The unit has hosted 52 major international conferences and workshops in the present cycle,
 especially on topics that reflect its world-leading status. Prominent examples include: World
 Congress of Scottish Literatures (2014); Cultures of Improvement in Scottish Romanticism
 Symposium, University of Glasgow, 2015; International Society of Anglo-Saxonists 2015; 18th
 International Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS2015); Society for Renaissance Studies 7th
 Biennial Conference, 18-20 July 2016; International Society for Religion, Literature and Culture
 Biennial Conference (2016); Fifteenth Triennial International Conference on Scottish Medieval
 and Renaissance Literature and Language (2017); Transatlantic Literary Women Symposium
 (2017); Muriel Spark Centenary Symposium (2018); 31st Annual Conference of the Eighteenth-
 Century Scottish Studies Society, Networks of Enlightenment (2018), The 1820's: Innovation and

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Diffusion (2019). Two conferences planned for summer 2020 are postponed for a year because
 of the COVID emergency: the International Conference on Middle English, and an international
 conference on the cultural impact and legacy of the Outlander books and TV series (plenary
 Diane Gabaldon).

 The Unit has strong international connections and strategic partnerships with Alberta,
 Alcala, Athens, Baylor, Bern, Columbia, Copenhagen, Delhi, Denver, University College Dublin,
 Folger Shakespeare Library, Fudan (Shanghai), Georgia, Gothenburg, Groningen, Helsinki,
 Kyoto, NYU, McGill, Otago, Paris III, Pierpoint Morgan Library (NY), Prague, Simon Fraser
 (Vancouver), North and South Carolina, Split, Stanford, Stavanger, Toronto, Uppsala, Verona,
 Virginia, Waterloo (Canda), Wyoming, and foresee developing further links with Erasmus
 Mundus, Universitas 21 and IRUN partners. Research visits to the unit by overseas scholars
 are funded by the university’s International Partnership Development Fund (IPDF), the Library
 Visiting Fellowship Scheme, the SCS Visiting Scholars programme, and Commonwealth
 Fellowships. In 2017 the Tannahill Fund supported a visit by the V-C of Bankura University, who
 directs India's only Scottish studies programme: and in 2021 Leverhulme is funding a 6-month
 visiting professor from Waterloo (Szeman) in Energy Humanities. Further exemplifying
 international activities was the BA-funded network Second Cities of Empire (2014-17) in
 partnership with Calcutta's Centre for Studies in Social Sciences (CSSS), including international
 conferences held in Glasgow (2015 and 2017) and Kolkata (2016). A Leverhulme-funded PGR
 student attached to the project spent 3 months as a research fellow at CSSS in 2018. 2020 saw
 unit participation in the BA-funded UK-China Knowledge Frontiers Symposium 'Cities in
 Literature' project in Shangai.

 Research Leadership:
 As well as supporting the vitality of the discipline through their research, members of the unit
 make a leading contribution to policy-making in the UK research and heritage sectors: for
 example, Pittock is a member of the national academic cultural strategy group and official
 university respondent on Scottish Government draft cultural strategy, as well as a Board
 Member of the NTS. He also devised and organised the Glasgow and Dublin: Creative Cities
 summit (Dublin 2019) hosted by British Embassy. Prescott made significant policy contributions
 as a member of the Ministerial Task Force on Open Research Data established by the Minister
 of State for Universities and Science (reported: 2017). As part of an RSE-funded workshop
 series on Irish and Scottish studies, Dick has engaged at a high level with politicians and
 diplomats, including the Heads of the Irish Consul and of the Scottish Government's Dublin Hub.
 Outcomes have included an official submission to the Ireland-Scotland Bilateral Review, and the
 securing of routes for academic participation in this unfolding review. Dick, as a result, was
 elected to the RSE's Young Academy of Scotland (YAS).

 Alexander (2018-) and J.J.Smith (2013-2018) served as Conveners of the Board of Trustees for
 Scottish Language Dictionaries. J.J.Smith, Stuart-Smith, Hammill, Maley and Pittock are
 members of national REF panels, while Leask and J.J.Smith are on the RSE's C1 (Language,
 Literature and History) Fellowship Committee: Smith also serves on the grant-awarding and
 outreach committees. Leask is a cross-member of the British Academy H5 and H6 sections, and
 as a member of H5 Standing Committee adjudicates fellowship and conference applications: he
 is also a judge of the BA's Rose Crawshay Prize, assessor to the BA's Covid-19 call, and a Vice-
 President of the Association for Scottish Literary Studies. Hughes is Chair of the Europeana
 Research Advisory Board, leading research on digital cultural heritage within the Europeana
 ecosystem (aggregated from Gallery, Library, Museum and Archive - GLAM - organisations
 across Europe) for cross-/interdisciplinary scholarship.

 Members of the unit play a key role in developing the agendas of external funders in strategic
 areas such as open research. For instance, Prescott (AHRC Theme Leader Fellow for Digital
 Transformations, 2012-2019) contributed to strategic priorities, drafting calls and advising panels
 on over 100 projects for digital scholarship in the arts and humanities, including international
 funding programmes in areas of open research data and heritage. Glasgow hosted the final
 project-conference for Round 3 of the US-European open research-data collaboration, Digging

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 into Data (2016). Prescott led a working group at the planning meeting hosted by the National
 Endowment for the Humanities (USA) for the multi-national Digging into Data Round 4.

 Almost all the unit’s staff serve on journal editorial boards, with senior colleagues on up to
 eight. Scholarly journals edited from the unit include Scottish Literary Review, Translation and
 Literature, Symbiosis: A Journal of Anglo-American Literary Relations, Literature and Theology,
 The Burns Chronicle. Senior staff have been elected to prestigious learned societies enabling
 input to national-level research policy: FBA (1); FRSE (6); FEA (5); MAE (1); FRSL (1); RSE
 YAS (3). Our research staff are also members of the steering committees, (vice)presidents, or
 honorary fellows of national /international subject associations (ASLS, MLA, BAAP, LabPhon,
 BARS, NASSR, BAVS, BSECS, ECSSS, BSLS, EA etc).




                                                                                           Page 18
