Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Winchester

 Unit of Assessment: 23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 The Education unit at the University of Winchester has rapidly expanded and developed from
 REF2014, having more than tripled in size from an FTE of 7.13 to 21.43 (headcount: 11 to 25).
 The unit now draws the majority of its membership from four departments: the Department of
 Education Studies and Liberal Arts (14 members), the Institute of Education (3), the School of
 Sport, Health and Community (2), and the Department of Interprofessional Studies (1). The unit
 also includes members from non-departmental entities at the University: the Centre for Real-
 World Learning (3); the Institute for Value Studies (1); and the Research and Knowledge
 Exchange (RKE) Centre (1).

 The largest proportion of the unit’s research is conducted within and in association with its three
 research centres: the Centre for Philosophy of Education (CPE), the Centre for the History of
 Women’s Education (CHWE), and the Centre for Real-World Learning (CRL). Concomitant with
 the responsibilities of the centres, the work of the unit is distributed in three primary categories:
 philosophical, historical, and impact-oriented research. The CPE and CHWE are located within
 the Faculty of Education, while CRL is located in the RKE Centre. The Faculty of Education,
 which hosts 17 members (68%) of the unit, has integrated the aims and goals of the unit into its
 own Faculty RKE strategies (2015-2020 and 2020-2030), and coordinates and undertakes the
 majority of the postgraduate research (PGR) supervision for the unit.

 1.2 During the assessment period

 The UoA’s strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period have focussed
 on:

    1) Increasing the size of the unit alongside the volume and quality of research outputs
       produced

 This aim has been accomplished by allocating QR funds to: a) support study leave for research
 and writing for publication based on QR funding applications; b) improve the tracking and
 encouragement of individual and centre research plans, relating directly to outputs, impact and
 the research environment, inform the Individual Review and Development Scheme; c) increase
 the number and efficacy of research collaborations with external partners; d) ensure that staff
 members studying towards a PGR degree are mentored in the process of producing their first
 outputs, considering how their research can be directed towards impact, and how they contribute
 to the research environment.

 The success of these measures is indicated by the majority of staff (17 of 25) comprising the unit
 for REF2021 being submitted to REF for the first time in their careers. The unit leads and the
 unit’s senior researchers have worked closely, on an individual basis, to ensure staff at earlier
 stages of their research career have been mentored and supported in developing their profiles.
 Staff with an emerging research profile have also been prioritised for the allocation of funding
 and workload accommodation (including time for writing up theses, where relevant).

    2) Enhancing areas where impact is most effectively and demonstrably achieved

 The unit’s most successful impact in REF2014 was located in the work of the CRL. During the
 assessment period for REF2021, CRL continued to build on this success, further concentrating
 efforts on developing measurable impact in two main areas (as evidenced by the two submitted


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact case studies), as well as the means for underpinning and facilitating impact, through
 external funding capture and research output generation. By continuing to afford CRL relative
 autonomy and designating the centre as the primary impact-oriented component of the unit, it
 has been able to double its contribution to the submission, through the submission of two impact
 case studies.

 The unit also focused on increasing awareness of, and enhanced capacity for, research impact
 more broadly by running workshops on identifying and evidencing impact, and its relevance and
 significance to all staff and on dissemination of research to non-HEI audiences, especially policy
 makers. This, as well as targeted internal funding for impact case study development, supporting
 impact-oriented research in the Institute of Education, led to the development and submission of
 the unit’s third impact case study on Physical Education policy (Randall).

    3) The development of a vibrant and sustainable research environment

 By dramatically increasing the membership of the unit, the scope and reach of its environment
 has also been enhanced. The work of the CRL and CHWE, both extant during the previous
 assessment period, has been complemented by the founding of the CPE in 2016. The unit has
 successfully grown activity and built capacity by encouraging, supporting, and facilitating: a)
 research seminars; b) reading and discussion groups; c) and development workshops for writing
 publications and funding applications; d) national and international collaborations with academic
 and non-academic partners.


 1.3 Following the assessment period

 The unit’s future strategic aims and goals for research and impact are tightly integrated with the
 Faculty of Education’s RKE Strategy and Operational Plan for 2020-30, which itself is grounded
 in the University’s Strategic Vision 2020-2030 and the University RKE Strategy (see REF5a 1.1,
 2.1). Through regular reviewing and monitoring, the quality of all aspects of our research
 infrastructure, including research integrity and ethics, are directed towards supporting staff and
 student researchers at all levels of their careers.
 The unit’s overarching strategic aim for research and impact is to continue to facilitate and
 enhance the growth, depth, and quality of research and impact, with a special focus on growing
 the profiles of early career researchers (within 5 years post-doctorate) and further developing
 profiles and capacities of mid-career researchers. The unit will accomplish this aim through
 strategic and equitable distribution of available funding resources, providing support and
 mentoring for external grant applications and the production of high-quality research outputs,
 and increasing the amount of external collaborations of research centres. The unit aims to
 continue to develop researchers’ ability to think and work globally by supporting high-quality
 work and developing (and potentially expanding the portfolio of) the unit’s research centres’
 profiles as resources of national and international expertise and collaboration. The unit will target
 internal funding towards impact to build a sustainable infrastructure for planning, developing and
 creating impact of all types and enabling staff and student researchers to develop and apply
 social innovations that influence public policy, institutional practices and thinking.
 This primary aim informs 3 sub-aims:

    1) Increase the amount and quality of our research outputs and impact by embedding an
       impact component into different types of research through enhanced training and
       developing long-term plans at Faculty and UoA level to increase the quality and reach of
       impact-oriented research. The unit will conduct an action-oriented review informed by
       UoA 23 Education REF2021 results and feedback, focusing on growing and developing
       areas of strength through existing research centres, and areas that can be aligned with
       the Strategic Vision (with an additional focus on climate change) and UKRI’s Global
       Research Challenges Fund (GCRF), benefitting communities in countries in receipt of
       Official Development Assistance (ODA). This aim will also be achieved by extending the

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       unit’s consultancy offer, drawing on existing areas of expertise in Teacher Education and
       developing other areas such as Refugee Education, Holocaust Education, Climate
       Education, Physical Education, and Digital Education.
    2) Facilitating the increase of external income from a range of sources, with higher numbers
       of unit members attracting recognition for their expertise through grants, consultancy,
       contract research and other income streams. Continuing to work in collaboration with the
       RKE Centre’s funding manager, the unit will facilitate workshops on career development
       related to external funding, drawing on applications or expertise from successful internal
       applicants across the university, as well as external consultants.
    3) Increase the number of PGR students supervised and reaching completion by unit
       members by engaging with the RKE Centre’s consultative review of the University’s PGR
       offer and revising accordingly to ensure high quality student experience throughout the
       doctoral journey. The unit will also further develop mentoring and support for supervisors
       to maximise the student experience and research quality.
 2. People

 The unit has a vibrant and growing community of PGR students undertaking PhD and EdD
 routes. The Doctor of Education (EdD), a professional doctorate, has been established within the
 Faculty of Education for a decade. Students on this route are mainly experienced, senior
 professionals working in a variety of educational settings (for example, there are several
 Headteachers who are current students). They follow a structure of modules to develop their
 research skills and expertise, towards the formulation of a practice-based thesis project. There is
 an emphasis on collaborative work and guided peer-mentoring in the research training modules
 – students are encouraged to work together, and several assignments involve the sharing of
 work, to support each other’s learning.

 The PGR student community benefits from the research culture within the Faculty and enhances
 it. Students contribute to teaching on undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, working on
 collaborative projects with members of staff, or engaging in KE activities. The majority of the
 research being undertaken by the students (particularly on the EdD route) is practically focused.
 They are encouraged to undertake projects and assignments that have a specific impact within
 their professional contexts, or wider professional fields. In these ways our students have a profile
 beyond the University – as active change-makers within their wider working spheres. As
 students on the EdD route progress to the thesis stage, their experiences align with the PhD
 students more closely. At this point, they are supported by a university wide programme of
 research training and opportunities. These include workshops on (for example) ethical research,
 well-being, and practical skills such as preparation for viva, and working towards publications.

  Academic year           No. of PhDs             No. of Professional
                          awarded                 doctorates
                                                  awarded
  2013-14                                  3.00                  1.00
  2014-15                                  2.00                  0.00
  2015-16                                  1.25                  1.00
  2016-17                                  1.00                  2.00
  2017-18                                  2.00                  2.00
  2018-19                                  2.33                  2.00
  2019-20                                  2.33                  3.00

 (Total 24.91)

 PGR students are supported by an enthusiastic and knowledgeable group of supervisors, with
 several teams being enhanced by expertise from other departments across the University to
 build a collaborative, interdisciplinary supervision where appropriate for the student (for example,
 the programme currently draws supervisory team members from the departments of Psychology,
 Nursing and Sport). Students have a strong voice within the Faculty through their student

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 representative on a variety of Faculty and university-wide committees, as well as a dedicated
 personal tutor (the Faculty PGR Lead, Richardson). The breadth of PGR research across the
 Faculty illustrates the vibrant culture the unit has created with its students; from philosophical
 and theoretical research, to research with children and young people of all ages and in all
 settings in education, as well as in other aspects of social care (such as social work and medical
 education).

 The unit’s centres hosted within the Faculty of Education (CRL will be discussed more fully in the
 following section), CPE and CHWE, focus on: 1) the publication of academic research that leads
 the field nationally and internationally through single and joint authored books, journal articles
 and edited special editions 2) The development of undergraduate and postgraduate students,
 and early career academics, through the provision of mentoring and networking opportunities,
 supported by university funding for conference attendance and academic time 3) the
 development of community outreach programmes (for CHWE, women graduates not in
 academic employment; for CPE, non-HE based educators). CHWE and CPE provide regular
 research seminars, which have led to joint authored publications and a vibrant research culture
 that includes teacher professionals, retired graduates, postgraduates and undergraduates. The
 CHWE PGR students organises the history of education postgraduate network and hosted the
 annual PGR conference in 2019. With the advent of Covid-19, CHWE seminars are taking place
 online and have attracted participants from Europe, USA, and South America, while CPE have
 used social media to host online seminars and hosted a postgraduate conference online in
 September 2020.

 Unit mentoring contributed to two successful applications to the History of Education Society’s
 highly competitive, international PGR summer school, and two successful applications to the
 Philosophy of Education Society’s equivalent scheme. Mentoring and networking opportunities
 and participation in the national and international History of Education and Philosophy of
 Education communities is further facilitated through the close association of CHWE with the
 History of Education Society, with several members having held leadership positions within the
 society (S. Spencer, Goodman, Anderson-Faithful), and of CPE with the Philosophy of
 Education Society of Great Britain’s (PESGB) South Coast Branch (chaired by Bojesen).

 The interdisciplinary nature of the Centres draws upon the expertise and specialisms across the
 University and contributes to and enriches interdisciplinary research through a variety of means
 including: collaboration with psychology to help secure its/the university’s selection by the OECD
 for participation in an OECD-led research project into creativity in HE
 (https://www.oecd.org/education/ceri/innovation-strategy-for-education-and-training-call-for-
 participation.htm), doctoral supervisory teams including: teacher education, psychology,
 literature, film and history. CPE extended its remit in 2019-20 to support Early Childhood
 specialist colleagues with the development of an Early Years cluster within the Centre. This has
 enabled colleagues and PGR students to further enhance and develop a research environment
 in the Early Years and to widen the research environment with an increasing number of
 research-oriented UG And PG students.

 The unit is led by 5 Professors (Adams, Goodman, Lucas, S. Spencer, Tubbs) and 2 Readers
 (Bojesen, Veck). Adams, Bojesen, S. Spencer, and Veck were promoted to these positions
 during this assessment period, having all been supported by unit funding for conference
 presentations involving attendance and teaching buyout for output and impact production. The
 unit is supported by two administrators, located in CRL (1.0 FTE) and in the Faculty of Education
 (0.6FTE), who are responsible for activities including funding and event administration, minute-
 taking, and audit processes.

 The unit is committed to equality and diversity, the unit lead and previous lead (Bojesen, S.
 Spencer) having served on the Athena Swan working group, which resulted in a Bronze award
 being granted. Adams and Bojesen also accounted for 2 of the 3 members of the university
 interviewed by the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2020, and retained the award. All unit
 working group members have also taken research-specific equality and diversity and

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 unconscious bias training, led by the HR Department and the Director of Equalities and Staff
 Development, and all unit members have undertaken university level training. Several members
 of the unit (inc. Adams, Bojesen, Goodman, Morgan, S. Spencer) regularly take part in
 interview panels, where attention to equality and diversity is an integral part of the process. A
 substantial research focus of the unit is in areas relating to inclusion, and seminars and other
 events related to this topic are frequently hosted and attended by unit members. To avoid
 identifying staff with Protected Characteristics within a relatively small unit, specific data has
 been omitted from this statement.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 The Centre for Real-World Learning (CRL) at the University of Winchester is entirely funded
 from external sources. Its strategy is to develop long-term funding relationships. The centre has
 raised £395,176 throughout the assessment period, from sources including City & Guilds,
 OECD, Royal Academy of Engineering, Scottish and Welsh governments. Of particular note are
 six successive research contracts from the Royal Academy of Engineering, and the centre’s
 reframing of engineering as five engineering habits of mind singled out as one of the big ideas of
 the decade by the Institute of Mechanical Engineers
 (https://www.raeng.org.uk/publications/reports/imeche-big-ideas-report).

 A charitable body, the Comino Foundation, has provided core grant funds to CRL over the past
 seven years (£195,000) to enable CRL’s research and knowledge exchange work in the areas of
 expansive education, with a particular focus on creative and practical learning. This funding has
 enabled the research and writing of a series of three evidence-based guides for schools: Lucas
 and E. Spencer, (2020) Zest for Learning: Developing curious learners who relish real-world
 challenges; (2018) Developing Tenacity: Creating learners who persevere in the face of
 difficulty; (2017) Teaching Creative Thinking: Developing learners who generate ideas and can
 think critically. Comino’s funding also underpins a community of several hundred teacher action
 researchers in schools in the Expansive Education
 Network, http://www.expansiveeducation.net/. The Network also offers training in action
 research which raises money to fund its coordination.

 By focusing on some distinct areas of policy and practice in the areas of creativity, engineering,
 practical and vocational learning and developing an international reputation for the quality of its
 research, CRL has been commissioned by bodies in the UK and across the world to advise it or
 develop resources – Scottish Government (a global evidence scan of competence frameworks),
 Welsh Government (a review of its professional standards for teachers), Department of
 Education, Victoria, Australia (resources to embed critical and creative thinking) and OECD
 (advising on the 2021 PISA test of Creative Thinking). Whether answering an open call for
 research or proactively seeking funds, CRL takes a strategic view of the journey from idea to
 impact, typically involving initial idea-generation/synthesising to evidence scanning to
 prototyping/trialling, community of practice building leading to policy and practice change. The
 most significant example of this process in action was achieving funding from Creativity, Culture
 and Education to fund a literature research into the assessment of creativity in schools,
 developing a model of creativity and its assessment in schools, running a field trial, publishing
 findings in both journals and as an OECD Working paper, finding a delivery partner to implement
 approaches in 20+ countries and, finally, persuading the OECD to make creative thinking the
 focus of a new PISA test in 2021.

 The Realising Engagement through Active Culture Transformation (REACT) project (£312,777)
 was designed by the unit to make a significant impact on student engagement and the student
 experience in the Higher Education (HE) sector in England and Wales over a two-year period,
 from July 2015 to July 2017 (http://www.studentengagement.ac.uk/newsite/). The focus was on
 the engagement of students designated as ‘hard to reach’, and the programme included:

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 investigation into the term hard to reach and a consideration of which students are characterised
 in this way; a formal research project looking at links between student engagement, retention
 and attainment; and a development programme as a collaboration between fifteen UK
 universities. Outcomes from each of these were disseminated at a final conference at the
 University of Winchester in May 2017, where practice and findings from the programme were
 shared. The programme also included the creation of a website of case studies and tools for use
 by the sector. The programme was funded by the Higher Education Funding Council for England
 (HEFCE) and was formally evaluated by an external team from GuildHE. In general, REACT has
 been about collecting ideas and practices, narrowing the lens on student engagement by
 focusing on a single theme at the same time as opening out the discussion to all who want to be
 involved. It has been a starting point, allowing us to enter discussion better prepared and better
 informed, with both qualitative and quantitative evidence as backing, and enabling movement
 towards a critical mass of practitioners and universities engaging with this field. Throughout the
 programme, REACT has been producing a set of tools, including activities, models, brief
 institutional case studies, evaluation tools and ‘how-to’ user-guides, designed to support student
 engagement.

 Funding (£47,924) was granted to the unit by the MOD Education Support Fund to deliver three
 key projects. Firstly, research was conducted into the factors impacting on Service children’s
 educational progression. The report generated was one of the first substantial pieces of
 research into Service children’s progression to higher education in the UK. The findings led to
 the identification by the Office for Fair Access of Service children as an under-represented group
 for the purposes of HE access and participation work. The research also led to the
 establishment of the Service Children’s Progression Alliance, a nationwide initiative which works
 with stakeholders across education, the public sector and the third sector in order to identify and
 disseminate good practice in supporting Service children. Secondly, the grant enabled the
 delivery of two Creative Forces campus visits for schools in Hampshire. These were delivered in
 collaboration with Hampshire County Council. The events had an immediate impact on the
 aspirations and awareness of service children from Hampshire schools. The event format has
 subsequently been delivered by four other universities (Bath Spa University, the University of
 York, York St John University and Abertay University). Thirdly, the grant funded a national
 innovation conference to engage with practitioners, researchers and policy-makers in supporting
 Service children in education. This included the launch of a suite of videos and associated
 resources aimed at informing practitioners of the key issues pertaining to Service children.

 The unit was granted funds for two Erasmus+ projects, Improving teaching to improve refugee
 education and Hanging OUT! Outdoor education as a way to enhance the quality of early
 childhood education and care and to promote active citizenship. The consortium on Refugee
 education is made up of 5 partners from 5 different countries and includes both countries in
 Central Europe (Vienna University, Austria) and Northern Europe (Aarhus University, Denmark;
 University of Akureyi, Iceland; and, UiT The Arctic University of Norway). UoW has taken the
 lead in developing a Self-Assessment Tool for schools, to enable them to map refugee
 education learning and participation needs, and connect them to pertinent examples of the Bank
 of Good Practices in Refugee Education teaching developed by the consortium. Moreover, UoW
 organised and ran an online multiplier event, attracting both academics from across the world
 and practitioners from NGOs working with and for refugees. Hanging OUT! involves European
 partners in Belgium, Denmark, Portugal and Lithuania, who all specialise in teacher education.
 The aim is to develop a range of materials (app, online platform, videos, etc.) for teachers and
 parents to support young children’s engagement with the outdoor environment. Each University
 also works in partnership with a local school which also receives funding for the project. There
 are also a range of funded opportunities for students and teachers from each of the countries to
 collaborate at a number of international weeks over the three years of the project.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The Faculty based research management team comprises the Faculty Head of Research and
 Knowledge Exchange (FHoRKE), Unit lead, PGR lead, two Ethics leads, one KE lead and a

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Administrator. The Faculty RKE Committee, chaired by the FHoRKE, manages
 applications for internal research funding, unit and centre activity monitoring, Ethics and PGR
 oversight, and strategy. The work of the committee also feeds into the university research
 committee structure, Senate RKE, University Grants Committee, REF Management Group, and
 REF Working Group (all attended by the FHoRKE, REF WG also attended by Unit lead),
 Research Degree Quality Committee (PGR lead), and Ethics Committee (attended by the Ethics
 leads). The University RKE Centre provides the administrative centre for PGR students and
 organises locations for viva and upgrade, as well as administrating the University level research
 committees.

 The unit benefits from the support of the two main University internal funding streams, Fast-track
 (for individual amounts up to £750) and, for projects which exceed this amount, UoA funding,
 which is allocated based on the size of the UoA (see REF5a, 4.1). UoA funds supported the
 launch of the CPE with internal allocation of REF funding in 2016, to run the Holocaust
 Education symposium and the Critical Pedagogies and Philosophies of Education International
 Conference in 2017, which was also supported by funding from PESGB. The conference led to
 current and previous convenors of the centre (Morgan, Bojesen) editing a special issue of the
 proceedings on ‘Critical Pedagogies and Philosophies of Education’ in Policy Futures in
 Education Volume 16 Issue 8, November 2018. With university support, CHWE convened the
 international History of Education conference in 2017.

 Fast-track and UoA funding streams have enabled strong presences at the international
 conferences, and have helped previously less research active staff to develop high quality
 research projects and outputs, in line with the unit strategy to develop the volume and quality of
 research outputs and opportunities for impact. Examples of where funding has led to career-
 development and output production include support for research leave for three members of
 staff, resulting in the publication of five monographs (Best, Gibbs, Tubbs), submitted to REF.
 Time allocated to staff undertaking doctorates (Batten, Anderson-Faithful, Hall), has resulted
 in substantial development to their profiles, including the production of a monograph (Anderson-
 Faithful).

 The unit runs book launch events (organized by Veck), as well as a series of seminars to
 celebrate successfully completed doctorates and Food for Thought seminars, where colleagues
 introduce educational theorists. Veck also invited world-leading educational researchers to
 contribute a programme of seminars that relate to the theme, ‘Putting theory into practice and
 practice into theory in teaching and teacher education’, including Professors Stephen Ball,
 Andrew Pollard, and Michael Fielding.

 The development of Richardson and Anderson-Faithful’s research profiles are two examples of
 how support for PGR students and ECRs in the unit, has resulted in significant outcomes.
 Anderson-Faithful was awarded her PhD, which had been supported by research hours
 allocated for its completion. This, and mentoring from within the unit (S. Spencer, Goodman), led
 to the publication of her book, Mary Sumner, Mission, Education and Motherhood: Thinking a
 Life with Bourdieu, which led to public talks and leading local history walks for Winchester
 Heritage Open Days, faculty members, the British Federation of Women Graduates and
 Winchester Cathedral education outreach programme. Anderson-Faithful was on the CHWE
 organising committee for hosting History of Education Society Annual Conference 2017 and is
 an Executive Committee Member of the History of Education Society. With Goodman, she
 edited the Women’s History Review special issue on ‘Turns and Twists in Histories of Women’s
 Education’ (2019), and is joint editor of the History of Education Society’s journal History of
 Education Researcher.

 Research on Holocaust Education (Richardson) was funded by a £10,000 University ECR
 Fellowship, for a project mapping emotional learning at the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum.
 Further research has focused on PSHE, Citizenship, national narratives in museums, and RE.
 Published work following from this research includes research-informed recommendations for
 teaching practice. This research has led to the production of educational resources for the

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Holocaust Memorial Day Trust (2014 & 2019). Richardson’s Lessons from Auschwitz
 programme has been fed back through various workshops to Holocaust Educational Trust (HET)
 staff and other educators, and invitations to write a module for HET’s online programme for
 launch in 2021, speak at an online symposium for the Association of Jewish Refugees, run two
 workshops for volunteers leading Holocaust Memorial Day sessions in north London, and to
 speak at various HET events for teachers (residentials in February and November, for example).
 The project recently received an £8,000 grant from the Association of Jewish Refugees (for
 2021+).

 The unit has hosted the Sybil Campbell Library Collection since 2006, managed by CHWE, and
 enabling the building of links with the British and International Federations of Women Graduates.
 It was formerly housed at Crosby Hall in London, the headquarters of the British Federation of
 Women Graduates (BFWG). This collection includes the reports and other material of the
 International Federation of University Women (IFUW), its national federations and other national
 and international organisations which has provided the starting point for much of CHWEs
 research (S. Spencer, Goodman). Goodman was appointed as an Honorary Trustee of the
 Sybil Campbell Library in recognition of her research on the BFWG and the IFUW. CHWE has
 been important in the development of this research because of the links it has fostered with the
 BFUW and the Winchester Women Graduates Association, with whom there are fortnightly
 CHWE Sybil Campbell seminars. The unit’s work in this area attracts interest and collaboration
 with school archivists, Winchester Historical Society, Winchester Cathedral outreach.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations – interdisciplinary and international

 A large proportion of the work of the unit is undertaken collaboratively and in interdisciplinary
 contexts, with educational research frequently conjoining with research in history (e.g. Spencer,
 Goodman, Anderson-Faithful, Bojesen), philosophy (Morgan, Bojesen, Gibbs, Stockman),
 feminism (Spencer, Goodman), film studies (Gibbs), sociology (Best), technology (Stockman),
 and engineering (Lucas, Hanson). Several of the senior members of the unit have developed
 strong relationships with external partners that influence and inform the mentoring they provide
 to other members of the unit, as well as often involving them and supporting them in developing
 their own relationships. Social justice research and collaboration, especially in the areas of
 refugee education, women’s education, holocaust education, climate education, physical
 education, and service children’s education, is central to the ongoing work of the unit. The
 majority of these strands of research and collaboration have been developed as new initiatives
 in this assessment period, and set a foundation for the future orientation of the unit.

 Research on refugees, forced migration and education (led by Veck) has led to securing
 Erasmus+ funding (detailed in previous section), gaining funding for European Educational
 Research Association, to host a seminar, Forced Migration and The Global Education 2030
 Agenda: From educational research to policy and practice, and a role as co-investigator on the
 Rwanda Diaspora Youth Partnership Programme, funded by the Global Challenges Research
 Fund. The Rwanda Diaspora Youth Partnership Programme one-year project explores
 how young second-generation Rwandans in the UK might support young people in Rwanda to
 generate social enterprise and help build a better future for Rwanda. This includes mentoring in
 English for Speakers of Kinyarwanda. Eleven Rwandan adults signed up to follow an English
 language course that commenced in 2020. This research has also led to the editing of a special
 issue of International Journal of Inclusive Education (2019), ‘Refugees and inclusive education’,
 and the co-editing of a special issue of Frontiers in Education on ‘Forced migration, education,
 and disability’. Five collaborative and impact oriented events have been hosted, as this research
 trajectory has developed: 2014, one day conference on Inclusive Education at the University of
 Winchester, which included papers from academics from across the Faculty and was attended
 by teachers and SEN Coordinators from throughout Hampshire; 2018, ‘Boundary crossing: An
 international, interdisciplinary conference on immigration and social justice’. Co-organised, with

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Comenius Association (an international network of European HEIs specialised in Teacher
 Training and Social Education), an international conference entitled, Values and Education;
 2020, Webinar, ‘Coronavirus pandemic and the education of children vulnerable to exclusion:
 Critical lessons for practice and policy in an altered world’, the seminar consisted of 21 papers,
 presented by leading researchers from across the globe. Over 70 academics and practitioners
 participated in this seminar, to share crucial ideas and knowledge (proposal for edited collection
 based on this seminar under review with Bloomsbury Academic).

 The unit has established a collaborative relationship with CERLIS (Centre de recherche sur les
 liens sociaux) in Paris (http://www.cerlis.eu/team-view/goodman-joyce/) and The Albert M.
 Greenfield Digital Centre for the History of Women’s Education at Bryn Mawr College,
 Pennsylvania, USA (see http://greenfield.brynmawr.edu/joyce-goodman) (both led by Goodman,
 who is Research Associate and member of the Advisory Board, respectively). CERLIS is a
 collaboration between the University of Paris and the French National Centre for Scientific
 Research, and from January 2017 was an international collaborator on a two-year project funded
 by the Swiss National Research Council examining the educational internationalism developed
 at the International Bureau of Education in Geneva (founded in 1925 & headed for over 40 years
 by Jean Piaget and now under the umbrella of UNESCO).

 The unit has also established collaborative relationships with the Mitchell Institute, Victoria
 University Melbourne (https://theconversation.com/profiles/bill-lucas-265204) and the THIS
 Institute, Cambridge University (https://www.thisinstitute.cam.ac.uk/about/people/bill-lucas/) (led
 by Lucas, who is International Advisor and Director of Fellowship Learning, respectively); the
 University of Manchester's research project Progressing to be an Engineer, 2020-21 (where
 Hanson is academic advisor); the University of Liverpool (where Hanson is thesis supervisor for
 the online EdD); and, the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, Cultural Studies department,
 University of Leuven Belgium (where Stockman was made Research Fellow in 2016).
 Stockman has also, since 2019, been on the Conference Committee and a reviewer for ECIAIR
 (European Conference on the Impact of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics).

 Research on international women’s organisations, education and peace (Goodman), through
 publications (2017; 2018; 2019) and presentations (including to the British Federation of Women
 Graduates BFWG) was picked up by Graduate Women International (GWI, formerly the
 International Federation of University Women, IFUW) via the (then) chair of University Women of
 Europe, who is a member of BFWG. As a result, Goodman was invited to speak about GWI’s
 history to a plenary session at GWI’s centenary conference in Geneva on the topic “Looking to
 the Past: Shaping GWI Peacebuilding and GWIs Future with IFUW’s History”. The GWI address
 led in turn to an invitation from the vice-president of AFFDU, the French Federation of University
 Women to their Paris office located in Reid Hall (now owned by Columbia University and used
 as their International Centre), where Goodman also met with the Director of Reid Hall, who
 invited her to contribute copy for Reid Hall’s centenary website. Goodman was invited by the
 BFWG (formerly BFUW) to act as academic advisor to the BFUW archive when it was deposited
 at the Women’s Library (LSE). Mentoring by Goodman led to S. Spencer’s appointment as
 trustee of BFWG Scholarships charity and chair of BFWG scholarship panel, that awards prizes
 for excellence to enhance careers of women PGR students. S. Spencer was promoted to
 Professor in this assessment cycle and has held several key positions within the History of
 Education Society: President (2017-19) Vice President (2015-2017) Secretary (2005-2015)
 Steering committee member Committee Women’s History Network (2015-2018); and has
 convened two of their annual conferences. S. Spencer successfully bid for 2 university funded
 PhD students, who she currently supervises.

 Research on Holocaust Education (led by Richardson), and used as an example of the positive
 outcomes of early career support in the previous section) has led to membership of the
 Education Consultative Group for the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust, invitations to run sessions /
 give talks in various schools (particularly for Holocaust Memorial Day), Fellowship of the RSA for
 work in Holocaust Education, and editing a special edition of the Holocaust Studies: A Journal of
 History & Culture (for 2021 publication), focusing on teachers as researchers.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research on understanding the educational experiences of Service children and the implications
 these have for practitioners (led by Hall) has led to the establishment of the Service Children’s
 Progression Alliance (a MOD-funded network of stakeholder supporting Service children), and to
 the Office for Students recognising them as an under-represented group countable via
 institutions’ Access and Participation Plans. This resulted in the publication of the report, Service
 Children’s Progression Alliance: Listening to Learn – the voices of Service children, in 2020 and
 organised a launch event on 14 May 2020, which was preceded by the convening of that Service
 Children’s Progression Alliance Research Seminar at University of Winchester, 24 July 2019.

 Research on climate education (led by Boxley) has resulted in several invitations to speak to
 non-academic audiences, such as teachers and environmental activists at a large NEU-
 sponsored conference (Education for the Future: Climate Emergency Conference, Regents High
 School, Camden, 12 October, 2019), and at an event organised for trade union members (Green
 Trade Unions in the Workplace and on the Street: Unions and Workers as Environmental
 Climate Actors, University of Warwick, 19 February, 2020). In collaboration with Brockwood
 School, an international conference, ‘Another Learning is Possible’ at the University of
 Winchester, was convened on 5-6 June, 2015.

 Research on physical education (led by Randall) has led to membership of a Department for
 Education formed Physical Education Expert Subject Advisory Group, the European Primary
 Physical Education Network, the Primary Physical Education Teacher Educator Network and the
 All Party Parliamentary Group on a Fit and Healthy Childhood. Initially asked to speak at the
 APPG, Randall subsequently led the unit’s contribution to a new APPG report which was cited
 in the House of Commons Research Briefing Paper for Physical Education and School Sport.

 A novel approach to interdisciplinary practice-as-research (led by Bojesen), is being developed
 out of a relationship between philosophy of education and music/sound studies, leading to three
 research-informed sound releases on international record labels in 2020 (Geräuschmanufaktur
 [Osnabück, Germany], LINE [L.A., U.S.A], Outsider Art [Brighton]), and a contribution to an
 international remote collaboration, as a response to lockdown conditions, MultiTraction
 Orchestra, covered and played on BBC Radio 3 (https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m000j849).
 Bojesen also edited 5 special issues of journals with international contributors in this
 assessment period, and an interdisciplinary book, Against Value in the Arts and Education
 (Rowman & Littlefield 2016), with Sam Ladkin (University of Sussex) and Bob Mckay (University
 of Sheffield), based on an AHRC funded project (https://againstvalue.weebly.com). With Ansgar
 Allen (University of Sheffield), Bojesen is co-director of a forthcoming book series for the
 international open access publisher, Punctum Books, titled, Risking Education.


 4.2 Contribution to research agendas

 Through this assessment cycle, the unit has substantially increased its size, volume of outputs,
 collaborations, and impact-oriented research. The unit has produced several reasonably high-
 profile book publications, including S. Spencer’s book with Nancy Rosoff, British and American
 School Stories 1910-1960: Fiction, Femininity, and Friendship (Palgrave 2019), which won the
 History of Education Society triennial Bloomfield book prize for the best book published in
 English on history of education in 2020. Her book with Andrea Jacobs and Camilla Leach,
 Alumni Voices: The Changing Experience of Higher Education (WUP 2015) was also shortlisted
 for this prize in 2017. A special issue on Lucas’s book, Educating Ruby (Crown House
 2015), with Guy Claxton, was published by the British Psychological Society, and Bojesen’s
 book, Forms of Education: Rethinking Educational Experience Against and Outside the
 Humanist Legacy (Routledge 2020), resulted in the first ever author interview of the leading
 journal, Educational Philosophy and Theory, as well as interviews in the Journal of Philosophy of
 Education, a review in the same publication and in the British Journal of Education Studies.
 Bojesen was invited to discuss the book for an entire episode of the Ed. Space Podcast
 (https://anchor.fm/oliver-belas/episodes/Ed--Space-Episode-4-Emile-Bojesen--Forms-of-


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Education-egbgdi). A symposium on the book is also forthcoming in Discourse: Studies in the
 cultural politics of education.

 Expertise within the unit led to an invitation for Goodman to contribute a series of four
 methodological articles in consecutive issues of the International Journal for the Historiography
 of Education. Goodman was also invited to speak in Japan on trends in histories of women’s
 education and transnational histories and these addresses were subsequently published in peer
 reviewed article form. Goodman was also awarded Honorary Membership of EERA Network 17
 (the first woman to be given Honorary Membership of Network 17) and Honorary Life
 Membership of the International Standing Conference for the History of Education (ISCHE) (the
 second woman to be given Honorary Life Membership). S. Spencer has given talks to Sutton
 High School and Surrey Mothers’ Union on history of women’s education, as well as
 international conference papers for ISCHE and ECER and ANZHES, invited seminars to
 Portsmouth history department, Sheffield University, International Centre for History of
 Education UCL, the international doctoral programme for history of education based in Sweden
 on ‘Applied History’, and three keynote addresses: Australia and New Zealand History of
 Education Society Keynote 2015 ‘Learning the rules: reflections on writing and researching
 school stories in history of education’; Presidential keynote History of Education Society 2019
 ‘Out of the classroom; ‘informal’ education and histories of education’. Lucas has been the
 keynote or invited speaker at more than 30 high profile national and international events during
 the assessment period, including: Invited speaker for first annual lecture, Mercers Company,
 London, 2019; Innovative Leadership, invited keynote, Bedales/Times Education Supplement,
 2016; Invited keynote, Politics in Education Summit, The Royal Society, London, 2015.
 Bojesen’s philosophical research into conversation in education was the subject of Fordham
 University’s (NY, USA) Francophone Philosophy Reading Group Spring Term 2019, and
 included an invitation to Fordham to discuss the work in a seminar at the end of the term.
 Bojesen has been invited and supported by hosting institutions/organisations to give papers or
 keynote addresses at 14 other events during the assessment period, including at the Knowledge
 and Education conference (2019), KCL; two Philosophy of Education seminars at UCL (2016
 and 2019), and the Gender Studies department at the Central European University in Budapest
 in 2020. He was also supported by internal funding give 15 conference papers, including at
 ACLA at Georgetown, Washington D.C. (2019), PESA in Rotorua (2018) and Melbourne (2015),
 Derrida Today at Concordia, Montreal, MSA at the University of Amsterdam, and PESGB at the
 University of Oxford.

 Gibbs, who has been pioneering interdisciplinary work at the intersection of philosophy of
 education and film studies, hosted the ‘Film as Education’ Seminar at the university in 2015 and
 has been an invited speaker at four national and international events: “Politically devastating
 passions”: romance and realism in cinema's aesthetics of democracy. Democracy to Education
 Seminar organised by University of Sorbonne. Paris, France. (2020); 'Compulsion and Student
 Freedom'. Society for Research into Higher Education seminar: The implications of the student
 engagement agenda for student freedom. London, UK. (2018); ‘Iranian Cinema’s Re-education
 in Childhood’. Comparative and International Education Society Conference 2017. Atlanta, USA.
 (2017); "What makes my image of him into an image of him?": Philosophers on film and the
 question of meaning. Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain Conference, PESGB@50
 Special Edition: 'Orientations Towards Wittgenstein'. Gregynog, Wales (2015).

 Best won the inaugural Irish Journal of Sociology distinguished article prize in 2014: Agency and
 structure in Zygmunt Bauman’s Modernity and the Holocaust. Irish Journal of Sociology, 22. (1).
 67–87. He also gave an invited presentation on Medical and Social Models of Disability to the
 HIAS (Hampshire Inspection and Advisory Service) Children's Services Department, produced a
 video presentation on British Values for Massolit, and a podcast for Sage on Bauman’s
 Modernity and the Holocaust. Murray guest lectured at the Institute of Education, UCL, for the
 Early Years Masters students every year since 2018, and was invited to give a keynote lecture
 at the Early Education (The British Association for Early Childhood Education) conference on
 ‘Children’s Interests’ (2020). Norman is a member of the APPG Fit and Healthy Childhood and
 contributed to four Reports on Mental health and Childhood: Well-being and Nurture: Physical

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Emotional security in Childhood (2020); Mental Health in Childhood (2018); Mental Health:
 Interventions, Strategies and Support (2019); Mental Health and Movement (2019). She has
 also been a senior Research Associate at Portsmouth University since 2019.

 Adams’ research has a practical application for primary schools and has led to invitations to
 speak to teachers at various Diocesan conferences. Adams was an invited member of RSA
 expert working party on Spiritual, Moral, Social and Cultural Development in schools (2013-
 2014). She has held several leading roles within the International Association for Children's
 Spirituality (Co-Chair 2016-2020; Vice-Chair 2014-2016; Member of the Executive 2012-2020)
 and was the UK representative for the International Association for the Study of Dreams (2008-
 2017). In 2017 she edited a special issue on ‘Spirituality and the whole child: interdisciplinary
 approaches’ for the International Journal of Children's Spirituality (22: 1). Adams was previously
 the editorial consultant for Professional REflection – the Journal for the National Association of
 Teachers of Religious Education (2014-2018).

 During the assessment period, members of the unit have reviewed research funding applications
 for: Global Challenges Research Fund (Adams), Froebel Trust (Norman), Carnegie Trust
 (Richardson), Polish National Science Centre (Hanson), American Academy in Berlin
 (Nørgaard), ESRC (S. Spencer, Adams, Bojesen), Leverhulme (S. Spencer), British Academy
 (Goodman), UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Bojesen).

 Members of the unit have edited special issues of: Journal of Educational Administration and
 History (S. Spencer), Studies in Philosophy and Education x 2 (Bojesen), Policy Futures in
 Education x 2 (Bojesen, once with Morgan), International Journal of Children's Spirituality
 (Adams), Women’s History Review (S. Spencer), Research in Education (Bojesen), History of
 Education x 2 (S. Spencer), International Journal of Inclusive Education (Veck), Frontiers in
 Education (Veck), Journal of Educational Administration and History (Veck).

 Members of the unit are on the editorial boards for: Frontiers in Education Technology
 (Stockman), Journal of Critical Education Policy Studies (Boxley), Journal of Educational
 Administration and History (S. Spencer), British Journal of Educational Studies (S. Spencer),
 Women’s History Review (S. Spencer), History of Education (S. Spencer), History of Education
 Researcher (S. Spencer, Anderson-Faithful), International Journal of Inclusive Education
 (Veck), History of Education Review (Goodman), Historia y Memoria de la Educación
 (Goodman), History of Education and Children's Literature (Goodman), Studies in Philosophy
 and Education (Bojesen), Policy Futures in Education (Bojesen), International Journal of
 Children's Spirituality (Adams), Journal of Religious Education (Adams).

 Members of the unit have peer reviewed for more than 100 journals during the assessment
 period, including (as a representative sample):

 British Educational Research Journal, History of Education, Gender and Education, Sociology,
 Cambridge Journal of Education, Journal of Philosophy of Education, and Educational
 Philosophy and Theory.

 And for book publishers, such as:

 Ashgate, Berghahn, Bloomsbury, Bristol University Press, Emerald Books, Hong Kong
 University Press, Open University Press, Palgrave Macmillan, Pearson, Peter Lang, Routledge,
 Rowman and Littlefield, Royal Historical Society, Sage, Springer, UCL Press, Winchester
 University Press.


 4.3 Contribution to economy and society




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit’s work on creativity in education led to the decision by PISA to make creativity the focus
 of a new test in 2021 and Lucas has been appointed co-chair of the strategic advisory group for
 the PISA 2021 Test of Creative Thinking (https://www.oecd.org/pisa/publications/PISA-2021-
 creative-thinking-framework.pdf). In REF 2014 the unit was praised for CRL’s impact case study
 as having ‘very considerable impact at school and policy levels - nationally and internationally'.
 This impact has been built upon during this assessment period, enabling the centre to continue
 to understand more about the dispositions for learning likely to bring success at school/in
 life. This has involved research into teaching/assessing creativity in schools, how engineering
 might be reframed to engage more students, better understanding of practical and vocation
 education and into ways of reinjecting zest for learning into education. These efforts have
 resulted in Lucas becoming a member of the scientific board of OECD-CERI research into
 creativity (http://www.oecd.org/education/fostering-students-creativity-and-critical-thinking-
 62212c37-en.htm), UWINAT trustee; chair and lead author on Welsh Review of Standards on
 FE (https://hwb.gov.wales/api/storage/460a740a-7bf1-4c7b-b4ae-348ae380879b/professional-
 standards-further-education-teachers-work-based-learning-practitioners-wales.pdf); and invited
 expert and co-author of report by Durham Commission on Creativity and Education, with the
 CRL model featured as national exemplar (https://www.artscouncil.org.uk/publication/durham-
 commission-creativity-and-education). Lucas’s work on the Durham Commission to the decision
 by Arts Council England, supported by the Freelands Foundation, to invest more than
 £1.5million in a number of new Creativity Collaboratives. Arts Council England has also invested
 in a new online platform for teachers, Creativity Exchange,
 https://www.creativityexchange.org.uk/, launched in February 2021, which Lucas is curating.
 The platform specifically seeks to foster creativity and wellbeing in pupils during Lockdown.

 According to the Director of Engineering and Education at the Royal Academy of Engineering,
 Lucas and Hanson’s reframing of engineering as a series of engineering habits of mind (EHoM)
 has had a major impact’ in addressing the shortage of engineers and lack of diversity in young
 people choosing it as a career. London’s Science Museum, in collaboration with RAEng,
 adopted EHoM to underpin a major interactive exhibition Engineer your future, designed to help
 young teens find out more about the ‘engineering brain’ to interest them in a career in
 engineering. The exhibition, opened by HRH The Prince of Wales in 2015, is still running and by
 2018 had attracted 45,003 student visitors and 5,389 teachers/accompanying adults,
 https://www.sciencemuseum.org.uk/see-and-do/engineer-your-future. A similar themed
 exhibition showcasing CRL’s six EHoM called Future Engineers was launched by the London
 Transport Museum in 2018. It has attracted over 20,000 pupils and 1,600 teachers,
 https://www.ltmuseum.co.uk/visit/museum-guide/future-engineers.

 E. Spencer led a review of evidence and current practices in relation to Christian leadership in
 schools for The Church of England Foundation for Educational Leadership; developing
 conceptual thinking and framing the findings as 25 questions for CEFEL to consider. This work
 and its questions have been used by CEFEL as a foundational tool in thinking and planning for
 their leadership training programmes. Lucas has been appointed as lead academic adviser to
 CEFEL. For RSA, E. Spencer led work on a review of evidence related to the creative self-
 efficacy concept. The CRL bid for this work was successful because of the international interest
 in their model of creativity. The report was featured on LBC radio and Crown House has
 published three of their books in the Pedagogy for a Changing World book series between 2017-
 2020. This series has garnered international sales and attention, with Developing Tenacity
 named as a finalist in the Education category of the 2018 Foreword INDIES Awards. E. Spencer
 and Lucas presented this work to a diverse audience at the book launch for Zest for Learning,
 held at the University of Winchester in March 2020. For City & Guilds, the third in CRL’s series of
 literature synthesis and concept development pieces is a practical guide to craftsmanship; a key
 desirable outcome of vocational education identified in prior conceptual work. TES editorial
 described CRL’s work on craftsmanship as ‘a vision of apprenticeships worth getting behind’.

 A prominent theme within the unit is research on Liberal Arts and Liberal Education (Nørgaard,
 Tubbs, Howes). Nørgaard is the Director of the Institute for Value Studies, and his research
 and research-informed practice on liberal education has led to invitations to speak and/or run

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workshops at more than 20 events over the assessment period, including: 2019 Values and Value
 Studies – Theory and Practice. Invited Lecture and Workshop - Leuphana University of Lüneburg;
 2016 The Idea of Value Studies. Invited Lecture - The Jubilee Centre for Character and Virtues,
 University of Birmingham; 2014 Rethinking Liberal Education. Invited Lecture – Colloquium on
 “Rethinking Liberal Learning”, Copenhagen Business School. In 2016 Nørgaard also organised a
 symposium on Zoopolis by Will Kymlicka and Sue Donaldson, with the authors, and a panel
 discussion about “Higher Education: Price and Purpose” with John Denham, Richard Hersh and
 Roger Brown. Tubbs was keynote speaker at the 1st European Liberal Arts and Sciences
 Conference 2015 (Amsterdam). Tubbs was also invited to edit a special edition of Educational
 Theory and Practice and a Special section on Liberal Arts for the Encyclopaedia of Educational
 Philosophy and Theory. Howes, mentored by Tubbs, received unit funding for ‘Liberal arts for
 Teachers’ project 2017-18, which advanced a liberal arts approach and curriculum to the
 teaching and learning of 5-16 year olds in partnership with two schools in London. Part of the
 objective was to explore a ‘core texts’ or ‘core ideas’ approach to learning in these schools which
 is a distinctive approach to liberal arts education in the UK. A paper on the project was given at
 the Association of Core Texts and Courses Conference (ACTC) in America in 2018. Howes was
 also co-convener of 1st (Amsterdam) and 3rd European (Spain) Liberal Arts and Sciences
 conference and convener of the 2nd European Liberal Arts and Sciences conference held at
 Winchester in September 2017, with support from ACTC in America.

 Other examples of social and economic contribution include the work of Brown, Batten, and
 Johnston. In 2013, Brown was a researcher on a funded study into the factors that cause
 ethnic minority academics to leave the UK, this led to the organisation of the ‘Progressing race in
 HE: inclusion, diversity and inequality’ conference at the University of Southampton (2014),
 where she was also a Visiting Research Fellow (2015-2018). Brown has also been an Honorary
 thesis supervisor for University of Liverpool, since 2014). Batten’s research examines
 interpersonal interactions in higher education, with a focus on the formation and possible
 consequences of expectancies in student-lecturer interactions. As a result of this research, the
 University made the decision to move towards non-anonymous marking, with a focus on
 personalised feedback, in-line with the values of the institution. Batten’s work was also used to
 shape the revised Academic Regulations (Section C: Moderation and Marking Processes) and
 inform the development of the Personalised Marking Policy at the University. Batten is also a
 Visiting Research Fellow at Oxford Brookes University. Johnston is co-chair of the Association
 of Working-class Academics (International) and organised the Social Justice and Education
 seminar Series 2018: Guest speakers: Steven Ball (UCL) 13th November 2018, and Diane Reay
 (Cambridge University) 2nd October 2018. He also worked in partnership with Brunel University
 on the ‘Evaluating Playwork in Schools’ project (2016). He is the online editor for the Journal of
 Class and Culture.




                                                                                            Page 14
