Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Central Lancashire

 Unit of Assessment: 30 Philosophy

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy




1.1 Unit Overview and Structure
Research in UoA30 is highly interdisciplinary, with international reach and impact through world-wide
collaborations, as evidenced in our Impact Case Studies. UoA30 is small and diffuse, spread across
three faculties, three schools and four research centres (see Figure 1). Our work is often applied and
interdisciplinary, focusing on contemporary issues in, for example, global justice, emerging
technologies, and mental healthcare, but rooted in mainstream research traditions in Philosophy
including metaphysics, Philosophy of science, Philosophy of mind and ethics. This vibrant mix has
enabled UoA30 staff to secure research funding of over £2.5 million during this REF period.
One of the most high-profile and effective outcomes of our externally-funded research has been the
development of a new international research ethics code, the Global Code of Conduct for Research
in Resource-Poor Settings (GCC). Following its publication in 2018, the GCC was adopted by the
European Commission and is now applied in more than 44 low- and middle-income countries around
the world.
There is a long history of philosophical research at UCLan but prior to REF2021 all philosophers
were returned in the units that they supported with their specialist expertise (e.g. UoA3 Allied Health).
In 2018, to maximise the strategic impact of Philosophy across UCLan, the decision was made to
bring together Philosophy researchers as a collaborative whole, whilst retaining their reach across
several Faculties, and to submit to UoA30 for the first time.
Uniting the strands of UoA30 research is a shared belief in the importance of clear, analytical thinking
to address real-world issues. The different local research environments and cultures enable the
innovative use of philosophical methods in other empirical disciplines and the cross-fertilisation of
joint research efforts. Complementing and balancing these differences are overlaps of research
interest within the UoA. For example, Chatfield and Schroeder work on global justice and Rosebury
works on the political contexts of justice. Lucas’s work on self-interpretation and professional
relationships finds echoes in Thornton’s and Ayob’s work in the Philosophy of mental health, and
these researchers have co-authored papers - Schroeder, Chatfield, Chennells and Herissone-Kelly
are all co-authors of the 2019 open access book, Equitable Research Partnerships: A Global Code
of Conduct to Counter Ethics Dumping.
In addition to various interdisciplinary research seminars and forums relevant to Philosophy, there is
also a monthly Philosophy research meeting and bimonthly Philosophy research seminar drawing
the philosophers together to discuss work in progress. During Covid-19 this moved to virtual
discussion using Microsoft Teams. Close links are also maintained through co-supervision, research
degree tutoring and assessment of PhD students between members of the group, across School
and Faculty boundaries.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 1: UoA Structure


                                                          UoA30 Philosophy



                                                                         Faculty of Culture and Creative      Centre for
     Faculty of Allied Health and
                                          Faculty of Health and Care                Industries               Collaborative
              Wellbeing
                                               (Thornton, Ayob)          (Lucas, Cornell, Herissone-Kelly,     Learning
        (Schroeder, Chatfield)
                                                                                    Rosebury)                  (Davies)




     School of Sport and Health                                             School of Humanities,
                                              School of Nursing
             Sciences                                                    Language and Global Studies




       Centre for                                                                  Academy for Arts          Research Centre
      Professional             C4GLOBE                   THRIVE Centre              and Humanities            for Digital Life
      Ethics (CPE)                                                                    Research
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.2 Unit Context
UoA30 research is driven by the institutional Research Strategy (see 1.3.1) which is structured
around six research themes. Despite its size, the Philosophy unit contributes to four of the six
institutional research themes (see Figure 2). The formation of University Research Institutes and
Centres during REF2021 facilitates interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary dialogue, and research
collaborations across hierarchical divisions. Four of the nine philosophers in this submission have
leading roles in UCLan Research Centres (Table 1), placing Philosophy at the heart of two of the
new Centres: Research Centre for Global Development (C4Globe) and Transdisciplinary Health
Research for Thriving in Early Years (THRIVE). Philosophers in the School of Humanities, Language
and Global Studies have joined the newly formed Academy for Arts and Humanities Research,
(AAHR) which was founded in summer 2020.

Table 1: Philosopher Roles in UCLan Research Centres
 Name                      Research Centre Role
 Schroeder                 Director, Centre for Professional Ethics and,
                           Ethics Lead, C4Globe Research Centre for Global Development
 Chatfield                 Deputy Director, C4Globe Research Centre for Global
                           Development
 Davies                    Deputy Director, Research Centre for Digital life
 Thornton                  Philosophy Lead, THRIVE Research Centre



Figure 2 shows four of the six UCLan central research themes and the relationship to these four
research centres.
C4Globe brings together 53 members from research teams from diverse disciplines to develop
robust, equitable research partnerships that address major societal challenges. The Centre’s vision
is closely aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals which are embodied
within UN Agenda 2030.
THRIVE carries out programmatic research to describe and analyse the interaction between factors
and mechanisms that influence human survival, flourishing, and transformation in the early years
(first 1000 days) of life, and to implement and evaluate resulting innovations.
The CPE, led by Schroeder, is one of the oldest ethics research centres in Europe, having been
founded in 1993 with the majority of staff being returned to all previous UCLan RAE and REF
exercises.
The Academy for Arts and Humanities Research aims to provide a structure to support existing
interdisciplinary research within the Faculty of Culture and Creative Industries and expand the
research base to include those from other backgrounds, such as Philosophy. This will provide
philosophers with the opportunity to collaborate with and complement with Arts and Humanities
researchers working on real-world topics such as deaf studies, migration and diaspora, and creative
writing within the grieving process. In a similar vein, the Research Centre for Digital Life aims to bring
together colleagues across UCLan and beyond to answer questions around how to design, create
and use digital technologies for the benefit of people. These latter two research bodies were founded
in 2020 and are still in their infancy.




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Figure 2: UoA30 Institutional Context
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.3 Unit Research and Impact Strategy
UoA30’s vision is to maximise benefit for society by focusing philosophical intellect and clarity on
real-world issues, working in collaboration with other disciplines. All of our external income is focused
on pressing 21st century ethics and justice issues, and three-quarters of our outputs (returned and
not returned) are within the fields of Philosophy and mental health and ethics.

1.3.1 Research Strategy
The University-wide Research Strategy (2018-20) provides the main strategic impulse for our
research across faculty and disciplinary boundaries. The strategy’s six objectives are listed below
together with details of how UoA30 is contributing to each.
OBJECTIVE 1: Provide appropriate support to academics and research students in their research
endeavour, relevant to their career stage.
   UoA30 provides a range of research student, ECR and MCR initiatives such as support groups,
   mentoring, writing for publication, face-to-face and on-line training. For example, in their role as
   Research Degree Tutors (RDTs), Thornton, Chatfield and Davies organise and deliver mentoring
   support and training for postgraduate research students; Chatfield and Lucas deliver in-person
   research ethics training for staff; and Cornell leads the monthly Philosophy research meeting and
   the bimonthly Philosophy research seminars for staff and research students. All members of UoA
   30 provide support for staff in their research endeavours, particularly through mentoring and PhD
   supervision. For example, a key element of Davies's role is to support academic staff in
   developing practice-oriented research projects. Senior staff also receive support for career and
   research development through appraisal systems, funding-support, and the peer-led College of
   Professors and Readers - see Section 2.
OBJECTIVE 2: Deploy internal resources to support areas of research and encourage collaboration
and development of inter-, multi- and transdisciplinary research.
   UoA30 benefits from four University Research Centres. These offer support for interdisciplinary
   and transdisciplinary collaborations in a variety of ways:
   • They incorporate philosophical expertise, skills and knowledge into wider disciplinary areas,
     thereby enhancing the philosophical and ethical underpinning of research across the
     University. For example, Thornton’s Philosophy-based chapters in five nursing and medical
     textbooks over the REF period, his role as the Philosophy Lead in the THRIVE Centre, and
     Davies’s roles as Higher Education Research and Development Lead, and in the Research
     Centre for Digital Life.
   • They provide access to diverse methodological expertise via methodology hubs within the
     research centres which encourage interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary working. For
     example, bringing together social scientists and ethicists to create new forms of empirical
     ethics. This type of approach was essential for developing the GCC which is based on the
     empirical analysis of 88 identified risks of exploitation in collaborative international research.
   • They are provided with central University funds for small-scale projects and initiatives, which
     have encouraged and enabled new collaborations between philosophers and researchers from
     other disciplines.
   • Going forwards it is also expected that the AAHR will provide support, both financially and via
     mentorship, for collaboration between philosophy and other humanities disciplines.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
OBJECTIVE 3: Increase the external profile of the University as a research provider and a place of
research for academics and students.
   By focusing on cutting-edge research areas, for instance “ethics dumping”1, mental health and
   Philosophy, or benefit sharing, we have been able to increase the external profile of the University
   significantly. For example, articles by UoA30 researchers have appeared in UK press (see
   Section 4); researchers have been interviewed on UK and German radio and invited to the Vatican
   (see Impact Case Study 1).
OBJECTIVE 4: Build and promote successful collaborations, internally and externally with business
and community organisations, as well as other HEIs.
   Since 2014, externally funded research addressing global issues has significantly increased in
   UoA30, with all awards involving international collaborations or partners. For example, TRUST
   has partners across the globe, including Europe, India and Africa (see Section 3).
   Much of this work is compatible with UN Sustainable Development Goals of good health and well-
   being and reducing inequalities. For example, Schroeder and Chatfield work to reduce
   exploitation of vulnerable groups, while Thornton and Ayob (via THRIVE) collaborate on research
   to support “flourishing” within the first 1000 days of life.
   Senior researchers have been supported to accept visiting fellowships (e.g. Schroeder at Sapporo
   University and the University of Oxford and Thornton at the University of Durham). Davies is
   Branch Secretary of the Preston Branch of the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain,
   which funds up to six research seminars at the University each year. These open seminars have
   addressed a range of topics of educational significance from a range of philosophical perspectives
   and traditions, and to support wider engagement have also been webcast.
   An activity which illustrates quick-spirited collaboration and support in the community began in
   the first phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, March 2020. Chatfield worked with representatives from
   across health and social care in Lancashire (hospitals, GPs, hospices, care homes etc.) to
   develop a Clinical Ethics Committee (CEC) for services in Lancashire. The CEC provides a forum
   for the confidential, multidisciplinary discussion and analysis of ethical dilemmas that arise in
   health and/or social care. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, the CEC has provided much
   needed moral support for clinicians and care givers charged with taking extremely complex and
   sensitive operational decisions. The University continues to support Chatfield to provide ethics
   expertise and training for this Committee as well as the newly formed Patient Representatives
   Group. Schroeder and Chatfield also translated German Covid-19 triage advice, which was later
   published in English by Springer (open access) as “Decisions on the allocation of intensive care
   resources in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic”.
OBJECTIVE 5: Provide a leading contribution to developments in the area of policy, practice,
technology and services as a civic and anchor institution.
   UoA30 has made a significant contribution to global policy and practice, demonstrated, for
   example, by Schroeder’s lead authorship of the GCC, its launch in the European Parliament and
   adoption by the European Commission as a mandatory reference document for research funded
   under the Horizon 2020 programme and the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials
   Partnership. Since then, the University of Cape Town, UCLan, the Dutch Research Council
   (NWO), the UK Abaseen Foundation and the Swiss Global Values Alliance adopted the code in
   addition to individual projects. Schroeder has provided expert input to a WHO Expert Advisory
   Committee and the Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences, and is also a
   member of the UK Collaborative on Development Research Safeguarding Advisory Group,
   contributing to the development of policy and practice guidance - see Section 4.

1 The “off-shoring” of research that would be prohibited or severely restricted in a high-income region to a

lower-income region.

                                                                                                      Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
OBJECTIVE 6: Provide the development and support for our research environment to enable the
University to meet external benchmarks at a high-quality level.
     UoA 30 makes a significant contribution to the UCLan research environment via its ongoing
     support for the development of an ethical research environment and culture at UCLan. This is
     described in more details under 1.5 Ethical Research.


The UoA30 future strategy will concentrate on enhancing areas of applied and pure Philosophy,
including interdisciplinary work, which have international reach while maintaining a research culture
in mainstream Philosophy. In line with UCLan’s Strategy, relevant Centre plans, and the aims of the
newly formed Arts and Humanities Research Academy, objectives for the future focus on maximising
the strengths and interdisciplinary role of Philosophy across UCLan, further developing high quality,
internationally excellent research in tandem with activity that makes an impact beyond academia.
Elements of this include:
 •    Enhancing the research environment further through forums and workshops to support
      increased staff collaboration and PGR activity
 •    Increasing the number and diversity of research grant applications through development of
      individual and collaborative bidding capacity, expanding the range of researchers involved
 •    Further increasing the role of Philosophy in achieving societal impact through wider
      interdisciplinary and civic engagement activity (building on skills, knowledge and experience of
      colleagues)
 •    Continuing to promote applied philosophical and Philosophy-based interdisciplinary research
 •    Consolidating and building internationally excellent Philosophy research as a focus itself,
      including pure philosophical research such as in metaphysics
 •    Ensuring the sustainability of Philosophy research, through appropriate recruitment, staff
      development and retention

1.3.2 Impact Strategy
UoA30 has agreed an ethically-grounded approach to impact to drive its research, which was first
made public in a keynote by Schroeder at the University of Oslo in 2011. The UoA30 impact strategy
consists of four elements, which together ensure that research leads to impact beyond academia
and that research involving the vulnerable is not extractive or exploitative:

Element 1: Collaborate extensively with other disciplines
Philosophy staff collaborate with and / or are embedded within a range of disciplinary areas, both
internally and externally, including law, nursing and allied health professions, medicine, biomedicine,
social work, and education. This approach enables philosophical insight and knowledge to engage
with and impact upon a range of disciplines and real-world scenarios. Interdisciplinary collaboration
also takes place through staff engagement with UCLan Research Centres and Groups (THRIVE,
CPE, C4Globe, and Centre for Digital Life), which also provides the opportunity to collaborate
globally. The benefits of this element of the impact strategy are demonstrated in successes including:
 •    Close collaboration with the Law School of The University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg,
      SA, for the development of the GCC.
 •    Leadership of a successful EU-funded project (TRUST 2015-2018), which brought together
      medicine, economics, ethics, bioethics, law, social psychology, sociology, psychology, gender
      studies, chemistry, social sciences, psychiatry, biology, zoology, veterinary medicine, political
      science and management.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   A Wellcome Trust PhD studentship for a South African lawyer who had enjoyed a distinguished
     law career with human rights awards from the US, the UK and South Africa, who wanted to
     focus future work on the intersection between law and ethics.

Element 2: Always meet your research users in person ahead of any research
The engagement with and involvement of research users is essential in ensuring utilisation of
research and impact. Examples of UoA30 staff employing these principles include:
 •   Pre-Covid-19 – Eight workshops/ meetings with research users/ beneficiaries in Kenya and
     South Africa supported by external funding, feeding directly into the work described in the two
     Impact Case Studies.
 •   Post-Covid-19 – UCLan funding through C4Globe enabled a meeting of the South African San
     Council (a group of indigenous leaders from the Kalahari spread across a terrain of around 250
     miles) with Schroeder and Chennells to agree the most urgent research needs of the
     community. The meeting was organised with protective Covid-19 measures and the outcomes
     will inform future research of the CPE and C4Globe.

Element 3: Always ensure that research users benefit from the research
The commitment of relevant UoA30 staff to this element of the impact strategy is particularly strong.
Various activities were undertaken to ensure that research users / beneficiaries benefitted directly
from our research, including:
 •   Drawing on 15 years of work to assist the San in being the first indigenous community in South
     Africa to develop their own research ethics code.
 •   Creating an 84-page, professionally designed booklet of the journey the San took to defend
     themselves against exploitative research, which acts as an additional defence mechanism
     against exploitation through its use in awareness raising.
 •   Assisting in the establishment of a micro-credit scheme for Nairobi sex workers, who contributed
     to our research, to provide opportunities for leaving sex work.

Element 4. Use novel means of dissemination and never disseminate about vulnerable populations
without them
This element guides activities towards impact beyond academia. Successful examples include:
 •   Research sharing / dissemination (e.g. benefit sharing) at the Kalahari festival. This popular
     festival focuses on celebrating traditional knowledge, song and dance.
 •   A final report about project achievements for the European Commission which was picture-
     rather than text-based. This led to the nomination of the project for presentation to the EC
     Directorate-General for Research and Innovation Board as a ‘major success story’.

1.4 Open Research
Open research, readily accessible to international academics and wider society, is central to UoA30’s
approach to research and impact. In line with UCLan policy, staff outputs are uploaded to the
University’s repository, Central Lancashire online Knowledge (CLoK) within three months of journal
acceptance.
Accessible, open research is enhanced across UoA30 by, for example:
 •   Chatfield is Editor in Chief of Research Ethics (SAGE), which publishes on ethical issues in the
     conduct and regulation of research across all disciplines, the procedures and process of ethical
     review, and broader ethical issues related to research such as scientific integrity and the end
     uses of research. All articles in Research Ethics are published open access. There are no
                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     submission or article processing charges and no direct charges to authors or readers.
 •   Funding requests to external bodies incorporate gold open access for major publications. For
     example, Ethics Dumping Case Studies from North-South Research Collaborations, published
     by Springer, has been downloaded 137,000 times since publication in 2018.
 •   The agenda-setting Oxford Textbook of Philosophy and Psychiatry, co-authored by Thornton
     and described as ‘ground-breaking’ in the British Journal of Psychiatry, is freely available at the
     Collaborating Centre for Values-Based Practice website.
 •   A    website   with     open    access    materials     was     created   for   the  GCC
     (www.globalcodeofconduct.org), including a recorded Nature Masterclass, which Schroeder
     obtained permission from Nature to make available for broader, non-paying audiences.
 •   UCLan supported the free dissemination of the GCC, funding the translation of the code into
     seven languages (an additional translation, Portuguese, was funded by an external source).

1.5 Research Integrity and Research Ethics
UoA30 staff have been a driving force in research ethics across UCLan and beyond. The University
is a member of the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) and recognises its responsibility to
researchers and the wider community to ensure that the highest standards of integrity and
professionalism are observed in the conduct of research, supporting the commitments under the
Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity.
UCLan operates a robust e-Ethics Committee, including external and service user representation, to
which all research projects must be submitted for review. This enhances ethical and scientific quality;
safeguards participants and investigators in research; monitors practice and performance; promotes
good practice; and ensures lessons are learned.
All reviewers and Chairs of the three central Research Ethics Committees (RECs) at UCLan are
trained in application of the GCC, which is compulsory for all UCLan research sited in low- and
middle-income countries (LMICs). Training in application of the GCC is also provided for researchers
whose work has a potential for impact in LMICs. Lucas and Chatfield provide training in general
research ethics for REC members. Lucas, Chatfield and Thornton regularly provide research ethics
training at postgraduate and ECR level across the University via Graduate School training
programmes. Ayob serves on the Health REC; Chatfield chairs the Health REC; Davies is Deputy
Chair of the ethics committee for Business, Arts, Humanities and Social Science and Lucas and
Herissone-Kelly have chaired this committee during this REF period.
Schroeder and Chatfield are members of the University Committee for Ethics and Integrity, the body
responsible for developing and implementing ethical policy and procedure, Schroeder as
representative for all professors and Chatfield as Chair of a REC.
The two online Epigeum (Oxford University Press) courses in research ethics: Becoming an Ethical
Researcher and Research Ethics in Practice were authored by Chatfield and Schroeder. These
courses are essential for all academic staff and research students at UCLan and are promoted by
Oxford University Press across the UK, Ireland and Australia. Within six months of release, the
training had been booked by 35 universities.
The University is currently funding Schroeder and Chatfield to develop further online courses in both
ethics and research ethics.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

The Philosophy group at UCLan includes nine people (7.8 FTEs), as shown in Table 2.

Table 2: Philosophy Staff Overview

  Name                      Title                                                    FTE
  Ayob                      Senior Lecturer in Philosophy and Mental Health         1.0
  Chatfield                 Senior Research Fellow in Ethics                        1.0
  Cornell                   Lecturer in Philosophy                                  0.7
  Davies                    Higher Education Research and Development Lead          1.0
  Herissone-Kelly           Senior Lecturer in Philosophy                           1.0
  Lucas                     Principal Lecturer in Philosophy                        1.0
  Rosebury                  Senior Lecturer in Politics                             0.25
  Schroeder                 Professor of Moral Philosophy                           0.85
  Thornton                  Professor of Philosophy and Mental Health               1.0


2.1 Attracting and Retaining Staff
Development and support of our people is central to UoA30’s vitality, sustainability and international
excellence in research. From induction, through training and mentoring, to funded sabbaticals,
international conferences and research collaborations, development is tailored to the individual’s
career stage and research journey to ensure we nurture, develop and retain highly skilled research
staff.
UCLan’s ‘grow your own’ strategy for producing world class researchers is also important for our
UoA. For instance, Chatfield’s PhD in bioethics from UCLan (awarded 2016) launched a new
research-only career in ethics with her former PhD supervisor Schroeder, helping to ensure the
sustainability of this research area.
Recruitment is managed via a transparent process with due attention to the principles of Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion (EDI). EDI and implicit bias training are both mandatory training modules for
all staff.
Over the assessment period there has been continuity in employment among Philosophy
researchers with the exception of the appointment of the ECR Cornell (0.5 FTE) in the School of
Language and Global Studies and Davies in the Centre for Collaborative Learning. Brexit has,
however, had some impact within the CPE, with the number of international staff affiliated to the
centre reducing from seven to two over the REF period. An infrastructure to support remote flexible
working has sought to address this, and a focus on post-Brexit recruitment and retention will seek to
sustain and develop the diversity and vitality of UoA30 research.
All staff are employed on open-ended contracts and are supported to work flexibly. One third of the
staff within the UoA work part-time and the geographical spread of locations where staff are based
means that extensive use is made of digital technology to enable integration and collaboration, even
prior to the Covid-19 pandemic.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2 Staff development
On commencement of their post, all staff complete an individualised induction programme that has
been developed and recognised as a standard for good practice in Quality Reviews and Investors in
People awards. The induction programme is facilitated by a named mentor who seeks to determine
any specific learning needs of the appointee.
New research active staff are encouraged to complete a Postgraduate Certificate in Research
Degree Supervision, which also confers ‘Standard Descriptor 2’ (Fellow) of the Higher Education
Academy on successful completion. In addition to the formal training offered, staff are mentored in
research degree supervision whilst acting either as main or second supervisor, supported by more
experienced co-supervisors. For example, Chatfield having successfully completed her own PhD in
2016 undertook supervision training and is currently supervising four students.
UCLan is firmly committed to providing a clear pathway for career development by supporting and
implementing the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
In line with this commitment, the University’s annual appraisal system is the primary way in which
research aims and targets are agreed, training needs identified and future career plans developed.
The University is currently revising its KPIs for research-active staff to produce more measurable
indicators.
Complementing formal appraisals, Professors within UoA30 (Schroeder and Thornton) present their
team’s research plans to their Faculty Deans, Directors of Research and Heads of Department at an
annual ‘Shaping the Future’ event. Professors receive feedback and advice, and face friendly
challenges from their Executive Teams. These meetings ensure alignment with, and inform future
development of, Faculty research strategy and also facilitate research connections across
disciplines.
Early-, mid-career and senior researchers are supported through a range of University and Faculty
systems. UoA30 researchers utilise the Epigeum Research Skills Master programme and the
Researcher Toolkit for early- to mid-career staff, which includes critical analysis skills, bid writing,
writing for publication, time- and project-management. Vitae membership has enabled staff to
participate in the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and staff are actively encouraged to
undertake Continuous Professional Development (CPD). Senior UoA30 researchers also participate
in the peer-led College of Professors and Readers, which provides mutual support and input into
wider University research strategic developments. Monthly Philosophy research meetings and
bimonthly seminars draw philosophers together from across UCLan to share research in progress
and explore/further collaboration opportunities.
Research active staff are encouraged to apply to Faculty staff development budgets for activities
that will support their research development. When external funding has not been available,
Thornton, for example, has been supported to attend conferences in Düsseldorf, Utrecht and Naples.
In addition to the standard allocation of 400 hours per year ring-fenced for research, the University’s
sabbatical scheme (and latterly Faculty-level schemes) supports time and resources to undertake
training or study. Several UoA30 researchers have benefitted from this:
   •   Thornton was supported in spending three months as an Institute for Advanced Studies
       International Fellow at the University of Durham, yielding three publications at the start of the
       REF period.
   •   Chatfield (an ECR at the time) was supported for three months in 2015 to complete her PhD,
       which was submitted in September 2015.
   •   Herissone-Kelly has been awarded a sabbatical to write a book on emotional
       pharmacological intervention in 2021.



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.3 Research Students
                                                     2
Within the REF period, there have been 10.25 Philosophy PhD completions carrying out pure,
applied and/or interdisciplinary research. Seven of these completions were supervised by
philosophers associated with Health and 3.25 by philosophers associated with the Humanities.
PhD students are seen as active members of the research community. UoA30 provides a
supportive but academically challenging environment for research students to thrive and ensure
timely completions. Research student supervision is provided by a team of supervisors with collective
experience of successful completions of previous doctoral students. Given the interdisciplinary
nature of some of our Philosophy PhD students’ research, teams sometimes include empirical social
scientists and, during the REF period, PhDs were co-supervised with colleagues across UoAs 17,
24, 26 and 27. For example, Thornton acted as main supervisor of a successful (2019) PhD thesis
on Psychiatry as a colonising force, with Professors in English and in Nursing acting as second
supervisors.
Progression through the research degree programme is closely monitored through procedures
administered by the central Research Student Registry. Students submit a developed research
proposal for Research Programme Approval, which is reviewed by an academic external to the
team as well as a Research Degree Tutor (RDT). Every year there is an assessment of progress
by the supervisory team and an RDT. Thornton, Chatfield and Davies have roles as RDTs within
their Schools. The majority of the University’s PhD students are part-time, studying alongside
busy careers and/or caring duties - the University’s processes and RDTs are supportive around
interruptions and returns to study, and other contingencies.
Within Health Faculties, specific needs of Philosophy-based research students are met by careful
selection of RDTs to provide broad supervisory support. For example, Thornton – with 10 years’
experience as an RDT – has acted as RDT for Schroeder’s PhD students while his own students are
guided by the School of Nursing’s very experienced research and innovation lead.
Philosophers act as transfer referees and internal examiners for other philosophers located in
different faculties. For instance, Lucas and Herissone-Kelly from the School of Humanities,
Language and Global Studies have acted as transfer referees and internal examiners for some of
Ayob’s and Thornton’s PhD students; Ayob from the Faculty of Health and Care has acted as referee
for Chatfield’s and Schroeder’s students in the Faculty of Allied Health and Wellbeing.
Research students have access to base rooms that are well equipped with computer terminals,
lockable storage facilities and space for the exchange of ideas, questions and debate. The University
has invested heavily in the development of the campus including two social spaces, much used by
research students. Students have access to a Library and Information Services account that provides
access to the suite of researchers’ tools such as bibliographic management systems, electronic
databases, inter-library loans and data analysis software for both quantitative and qualitative
analysis.
Research students have their own University Society (‘ProgresS’) and members of the postgraduate
research community have a voice on a number of University committees such as University and
Faculty Research and Innovation Committees and Ethics and Integrity Committees.
Research students within UoA30 make full use of the University’s comprehensive training
programme as described in the institutional environment statement, including a broad range of
research methods modules, workshops and seminars to support their research, For instance, Ujewe
was awarded a Postgraduate Certificate for Teaching in Higher Education whilst doing his PhD in
this REF period.



2 12 PhD completions, fractional values denote full completions with supervision shared across other UoAs


                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research degree students are encouraged to make an oral presentation of their work annually and
research conferences for staff and students provide opportunities for students to present their work
in a supportive yet challenging environment. Students are also encouraged to present their findings
at appropriate external conferences, with those supported by UCLan studentships having a budget
to undertake this activity. They are also encouraged to enter the University and national ‘Three
Minute Thesis’ competition.
UoA30 nurtures students into promising careers:
    •   Nigerian Samuel Ujewe came to UCLan on a competitive PhD stipend to the CPE. He now
        holds a permanent post as Senior Research Ethics Advisor at the Canadian Institutes of
        Health Research.
    •   Australian Dr Sally Dalton-Brown came to UCLan on a competitive PhD stipend to CPE.
        She is now Dean at Queen’s College Melbourne, University of Melbourne.
    •   Barry Guihen from Ireland came to UCLan on a competitive MPhil stipend to CPE. He now
        works in the Consulate General of Ireland to Los Angeles.
    •   South African Roger Chennells obtained a Wellcome Trust PhD stipend to CPE. Whilst he
        continues his work as a barrister in South Africa, he is now also the prime government
        advisor on benefit sharing.

2.4 Equality and Diversity
The University has a robust Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy with all staff required to
complete and update training and assessment regularly. The six strands of the Equality and Diversity
legislation (age, gender, sexual orientation, race, faith and disability) are embraced in the strategy
and all policies and practices are subject to equality impact assessments that are documented and
reviewed. Oversight of the EDI Strategy is maintained by a sub-committee of the Academic Board.
Staff recruitment and selection is aligned to this strategy.
UCLan holds an Athena SWAN Bronze award which recognises the efforts of Higher Education
Institutions to create an inclusive work culture for both men and women in academic, professional
and support roles. The award also looks to provide equal opportunities for study, promotion and
career development for everyone, including trans staff and students. To earn the award the
University has taken a number of important steps in the last five years to increase its commitment to
gender equality. For example, the scheduling of business meetings within the University is sensitive
to child- and other care duties, and to school holidays. Even prior to Covid-19, there had been a
cultural shift towards enabling virtual attendance at meetings via Microsoft Teams and other online
platforms. In addition to supporting flexible working, this contributes to UCLan’s ambitions to reduce
environmental damage. Schroeder, for example, was an early adopter of remote technology for her
multi-national projects and one of her PhD students pioneered the use of the remote viva, saving the
student, based in Melbourne, an intercontinental trip.
The commitment to equality and diversity in Philosophy is fundamental. The four moral values upon
which the GCC is founded: fairness, respect, care and honesty, are also foundational for the work of
C4Globe. These four values were identified as essential for ethical research. Alignment with these
values, as well as legal and professional requirements, helps to ensure that ethical considerations
are at the heart of all our activities. The four values approach has been used in Epigeum training
developed by Schroeder and Chatfield for Oxford University Press and will now be used to train
incoming PhD students on ethics and research integrity. We also have research interests in the
nature of discrimination and ethics and values more generally: for example, the CPE work focused
on the potential exploitation by researchers of sex workers from the informal settlements around
Nairobi and the San indigenous peoples from the Kalahari. Ayob worked on the concept of personal
autonomy in the context of psychopathology, with the aim of critically examining the basis of

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
paternalistic interventions under the rubric of the Mental Health Act (1983/2007), whilst Davies
worked on projects to identify the basis of the BAME (Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic) attainment
gap in higher education, and on the value of strong intervention programmes for first-generation
students.



 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

3.1 Income
UoA30 research income for the REF2021 period was in excess of £2.5m, as shown in Table 3.

Table 3: UoA30 Research Income
 Funder          Short Description                                                          Funding
                                                                                            (£)
 National        Global Health Research (ongoing) improved Stroke Care in India; a          291,211
 Institute for   collaboration with Watkins (returned in UoA3). Watkins’ project was
 Health          one of the pioneer users of the GCC.
 Research
 European        TRUST (2016-2019) fostered adherence to high ethical standards in          587,925
 Commission      research globally to counteract the practice of “Ethics dumping” or the
                 application of double standards in research. Developers of the GCC.
 European        REWARD (2014-2019) supplemented the Intellectual Property Rights           1,187,183
 Research        system with a performance-based reward mechanism for the
 Council         development of pharmaceutical products and services.
 European        PROGRESS (2013-2016) compared science funding strategies and               371,080
 Commission      innovation policies in Europe, the US, China, Japan, India, Australia
                 and South Africa to build a normative model for responsible research
                 and innovation, including pro-poor innovation.
 European        GEST (2011-2014) compared the role of ethics in science and                92,181
 Commission      technology policy in Europe, India and China with case studies in
                 Nanotechnologies, Food Technologies, and Synthetic Biology.
 Wellcome        PhD Scholarship (2011-2013, majority of funding in last REF period)        9,009
 Trust
 Total                                                                                      2,538,589

The funding strategy of the European Commission means that budgets are distributed across all
partners rather than being held by the institution of the Principal Investigator. This aligns well with
the values of UoA30 as it increases benefits for our NGO partners, who represent vulnerable users
of our research, in line with element 3 of our Impact Strategy: “Always ensure that research users
benefit from the research.” The CPE led all four of the European funded projects listed. Table 3
shows only the UCLan share of each of these, for example, total funding of the TRUST project was
£2.6 million, of which UCLan received £0.6 million, in addition to leading the project.
Figure 3 compares the distribution of the TRUST funds (2016-2019) with the distribution of the earlier
PROGRESS funds (2013-2016). PROGRESS distributed 8% of total funds to NGOs, whilst TRUST
doubled this share to 16%. The TRUST budget was almost twice as high as the PROGRESS budget
(€2.6 million versus €1.4 million), so the financial benefit for collaborating NGOs almost quadrupled.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Figure 3: Distribution of PROGRESS and TRUST budgets to partners




  PROGRESS                                            TRUST

The Director of the CPE (Schroeder) is the most public face of UCLan’s Philosophy work and is firmly
established as a prominent ethicist with the trust and standing to lead large international teams,
including senior UN advisors, funders, UN organisations, and representatives from vulnerable
populations, e.g. African sex workers or indigenous peoples, represented through NGOs. The results
of her global teams’ work have been featured in world media on several occasions, e.g. Nature,
Science, Scientific American and National Geographic, and have been returned as two Impact Case
Studies.
Chatfield, Deputy Director of the CPE, was successful in obtaining competitive internal funding,
including from UCLan’s QR Global Challenges Research Funding (QR-GCRF) distributed centrally
by the University via a competitive bidding process. Her successes represent additional grant
capture, not included in the above table:
   •   2019-2020 QR Global Challenges Research Fund, £17,420, The Global Code of Conduct for
       Research in Resource-Poor Settings in action: a case study with BiZiFED 2 in Pakistan.
   •   2019-2020 Funding for the UCLan Research Centre for Global Development, £33,000.
   •   2019 Research Catalyst Scheme, £5650, Implementing the San Code of Research Ethics
   •   2018 Resource Allocation, £3961, Translating the Global Code of Conduct for Research in
       Resource-Poor Settings.

In this REF-period, but largely undertaken before his arrival at UCLan, Davies was successful in a
£150,000 bid to research and support STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and
Mathematics) education in primary schools in the West Midlands (funder Paul Hamlyn Foundation)
via the Teach-Make project. A small proportion (£11,000) was received by UCLan to support the
activity of the project, an active collaboration between schools, engineering companies, artists and
academics that reconsiders the epistemic foundations of the Primary School curriculum The
outcomes of this project are ongoing and will continue into the next REF period.

3.2 Infrastructure
The University has invested in the formation of two Research Institutes and twelve Research Centres
to promote interdisciplinary research across School and Faculty boundaries. As shown in Table 1,
members of UoA30 are closely related to four of the Research Centres. All four carry funding to
support the development of research collaborations with additional administrative resources.
Thornton, for example, was supported to attend a conference in Cork to develop a UK-Canada

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
network on recovery in mental health with plans for joint publications. C4Globe provided additional
funding for Schroeder and members of the San community to meet representatives of a community
living in a settlement near Stellenbosch who had asked for advice around preventing their
exploitation. The central roles of philosophers in these new centres helps to illustrate the University’s
ongoing commitment to a strong philosophical strand to interdisciplinary research.
Predating the Covid pandemic, the University already had excellent IT provision which facilitates
peripatetic and collaborative research. It recently redesigned its systems so that remote access is
now seamless and has equipped its staff with Microsoft Surface Pros to make working remotely,
nationally or internationally, easy. The Library changed its focus from physical books and journals to
electronic access, again significantly improving access for researchers. The use of modern IT to
support communication; the cultural shift to encourage participation in meetings via Breeze, Adobe
Connect, Zoom and Skype; and the adoption of tools such as Microsoft Teams have all combined to
facilitate the lives of those with family and other caring responsibilities. This has underpinned, in
particular, Schroeder’s ability to develop and sustain international research networks.
Research bids are supported by the central Grants and Funding Unit, which provides support to
researchers from the point at which they have research ideas and are looking for funding, through
identifying funding opportunities, development of proposals (including their costing and pricing), the
internal approval process for submission, and submission to the funders. Researchers are
encouraged to subscribe to a weekly digest of relevant funding opportunities from the funding portal
Research Professional. An internal peer review process is led by the Grants and Funding Unit, to
which Schroeder contributes on a regular basis.
UoA30 researchers within Health Faculties can access support from the Research Support Team
(RST). The RST consists of 20 members, 12 academic (9.5 FTE) and eight administrative (7.4 FTE).
This is an invaluable resource for our vibrant and diverse research community. RST members are
highly qualified in their fields, with over 50% holding PhDs, and provide flexible provision for multiple
projects simultaneously. This facilitates research planning and ensures continuity of support over a
project’s lifetime. The RST assists with literature and systematic reviews; bid writing; quantitative
and qualitative research tasks and data collection, data entry, and analysis; report writing and
drafting papers for publication.



 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society


This section provides key examples to illustrate how UoA30 activity contributes to the national and
international research base, economy and society, through both leadership and collaboration.

4.1 The Research Base

4.1.1 Research Collaborations
UoA30 research collaborations are truly global. For example, the TRUST Project collaborates with
universities, NGOs, policy advisors, policymakers and business worldwide to ensure research is
tailored to 21st century real-world needs and has the best possible chance of implementation. Figure
4 shows the research networks of the TRUST project as an example. TRUST partners and advisors
included representatives from UNESCO, Partners for Health and Development in Africa, Forum for
Ethics Review Committees in India, and the South African San Institute.




                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Figure 4: International Collaborations with Geographic Reach of UoA30 (TRUST Project)




P=Partners, A=Advisors



4.1.2 Editing, Peer-Review, Consultancy and other Services to Research
Staff regularly provide reviews for academic publications or research proposals:
•     Thornton regularly reviews grant applications for the ESRC, the AHRC, the Austrian Science
      Fund (FWF), the Council for the Humanities of Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research
      (NWO, the Dutch Research Council), the MRC, the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), the
      Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, and the Wellcome Trust.
•     Both Chatfield and Schroeder are expert ethics and scientific reviewers for the European
      Commission, are regularly invited to evaluate projects for the European Commission funding
      streams (H2020, Marie Curie etc.), and conduct ethics assessments of grant applications and
      ethics checks of ongoing projects.
•     Schroeder has written prepublication endorsements for three publishers, assessed book
      proposals for eight publishers and journal articles for 26 journals3. In this REF period, she
      assessed grant proposals for the Academy of Finland, the Carnegie Trust Scotland, the
      Wellcome Trust, and the National Research Foundation South Africa.

Members of the UoA have editorial roles with a range of journals and publishers: Chatfield is Editor-
in-Chief of SAGE’s Research Ethics; Thornton a Senior Editor of Philosophy, Psychiatry and
Psychology; Davies is a Review Board Member for Educational Theory; and Schroeder is the Editor
of Springer Briefs in Research and Innovation Governance, along with editorial board memberships
with Cambridge University Press, Taylor and Francis, and Rowman and Little.
Aligned to UoA30’s impact strategy, Schroeder has also undertaken the following major consultancy
roles in relation to her work on ethics and ethics dumping:
•     Member of the Wellcome Trust Ethics & Society Interview Panel (2011 – 2015) interviewing grant
      applicants who had received positive reviews.
•     Review of all research ethics processes at the European Commission in 2016 on behalf of the
      EC Director General of Research and Innovation. A risk-based approach to ethics review was

3 This information was collected over the last 12 years without noting down the years, so cannot be attributed

more precisely to this REF period.

                                                                                                    Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    recommended by Schroeder and Kinderlerer and, whilst we cannot claim that the sole reason is
    our report, four years later the EC now operates a highly sophisticated system of dealing with
    funded projects according to ethics risks assessed by external experts.
•   Co-author of Horizon 2020 ethics guidelines. Schroeder introduced a link between benefit
    sharing and World Bank lending groups, making it impossible for grant recipients to avoid the
    benefit sharing requirement with reference to lack of clarity to whom it applies. All grant recipients
    who undertake work in countries that the World Bank classes as lower income or lower middle
    income, now have to show how their research benefits these countries.
•   Invited input to WHO Expert Advisory Committee on Developing Global Standards for
    Governance and Oversight of Human Genome Editing; release of document in 2021.
•   Invited input into CIOMS (Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences) guidelines
    “Clinical Research in Low-Resource Settings”, release of document in 2021.
•   Committee membership on UKCDR (UK Collaborative on Development Research) Safeguarding
    Advisory Group contributing to “Safeguarding in International Development Research” guidance.

4.1.3 Fellowships, Prizes and Visiting Roles
Schroeder was a visiting academic at the University of Sapporo (2014) and the University of Oxford
(2019) and an Adjunct Professor at Charles Sturt University, Canberra, Australia (2012-2017). In
2014, through a competitive international process Thornton was awarded a Fellowship with the
Institute for Advanced Studies, University of Durham and was awarded a DLitt in 2019.

4.1.4 Invited Keynotes and Other Invited Presentations of Note
Members of the UoA have been invited to deliver presentations, lectures and keynote addresses
around the world, including but not limited to Europe, Japan, India, China and South Africa. These
have included a prestigious keynote by Chatfield at the 2017 17th FERCAP International Conference
organised by the Forum for Ethics Review Committees in Asia-Pacific (an initiative undertaken by
WHO TDR), and a half-day event at the European Parliament to launch the GCC, with the keynote
given by Prof. Jeffrey Sachs (invited by Schroeder).
Schroeder has also co-organised international conferences and workshops, including with the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (2014), WHO (2015), UNESCO (2015), European Economic
and Social Committee (2016), Wellcome Trust (2017) and the European United Left (2018), while
Thornton was one of three international academics invited to lead the Vienna Circle Summer School
in Philosophy of Psychiatry in 2019.

4.2 Contributions to Society
UoA30’s major contributions to society are covered in detail in our REF2021 Impact Case Studies.
The most significant is the development of a new research ethics code, the GCC, published in 2018.
This code was designed to prevent the exploitation of vulnerable individuals and communities and
was immediately adopted by the European Commission. It is now applied in more than 44 low- and
middle-income countries around the world. UoA30 researchers also contributed to the success of
the biggest benefit sharing case to date (see Impact Case Studies for further details).
Thornton’s work on Values Based Practice emerged from research with the Collaborating Centre for
Values-based Practice in Health and Social Care (St Catherine’s College, Oxford). He works with
mental health service user groups to articulate models of good practice for co-authored textbook
chapters, for example, editing a book articulating the recovery model in mental health written by
Liverpool-based service users and service providers.
Colleagues have also produced articles featured in the Times Higher, Guardian, and The
Conversation, using these routes to spark wider conversations. Lucas’ article on male sexual

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
objectification was later republished in the Independent online, the Mail online, and Pride magazine,
and leading to interviews on the topic on BBC TV Sunday Morning Live and BBC Radio 4’s Woman’s
Hour.



Summary
Operating across three Schools and three Faculties, UoA30 combines pure Philosophical research
with interdisciplinary collaborations and real-world impact. The UoA responds to institutional strategy
within well-developed Faculty structures, Research Centres and the cross-institutional Philosophy
group. These mechanisms sustain and develop world-leading and internationally excellent research
and support staff and research student development within and across disciplinary boundaries. This
approach has fostered significant international impact (also evidenced in our Impact Case Studies)
and our forward strategy aims to sustain and expand this towards 2028 and beyond.




                                                                                              Page 19
