Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Brighton
Unit of assessment: D34 - Communication, Cultural and Media Studies; Library and Information
Management
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1. Context and structure
Comprising a vibrant community of academics and postgraduate research students (PGRs) across
the Schools of Media and Humanities, this UoA represents a major expansion of interdisciplinary
research in media, communication and cultural studies at the University of Brighton (UoB).
Increasing from 14.7 FTE in REF2014 to 63.85 FTE (8 Professors, 53 mid-career and 10 ECRs),
staff in this submission have gained over £2.6m in competitive research funding during the census
period. Our success as a partner in 4 Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) - AHRC technē,
AHRC Design Star, ESRC South Coast (SCDTP), ESPRC Science and Engineering in Arts,
Heritage and Archaeology (SEAHA) - has significantly expanded our PGR community, with PGR
completions increasing from 3 in REF 2014 to 40.74 in this submission. Partnering with industry,
civil sector, policy and community stakeholders, our research prioritises key societal challenges
around digital inclusion and data access, cultural representation and democratic participation, and
social and environmental justice, providing impactful interventions in the cultural and creative
sectors and society. From 2015 we were academic lead for the advanced digital technology
innovation centre, Digital Catapult Centre Brighton, and provide a significant national and
international screen cultural presence through our public screen archive collection, Screen
Archives South East (SASE).

Since REF2014, significant university investment has provided a new research environment
facilitating our research expansion. This includes £26m investment in our city centre campus
providing new research spaces for the two Schools in this UoA, and strategic investment in a new
sustainable research infrastructure and leadership through Centres of Research and Enterprise
Excellence (COREs see REF5a). Founded and led by our senior staff, 5 COREs provide strategic
leadership and direction for the development of interdisciplinary research in this UoA and across
the University, identifying intellectual priorities and collaborative partnerships to address global and
societal challenges:
    • The Centre for Digital Media Cultures (CDMC), founded by Behrendt, examines the
          intersections of digital media and data technology in societal change.
    • The Centre for Memory, History and Narrative (CMHN), led by Dawson, interrogates the
          cultural significance of the past for our present lived experiences, social relationships,
          politics and identities.
    • The Centre for Applied Philosophy, Politics and Ethics (CAPPE), led by Brecher and
          Devenney, examines links between philosophy, critical theory, global ethics and the wider
          public.
    • The Centre for Transforming Sexuality and Gender (CTSG), led by Jenzen, interrogates
          sexuality, gender and social change through impactful community partnerships.
    • The Centre for Spatial, Environmental and Cultural Politics (CSECP), founded by Doyle,
          addresses the intersecting cultural and ecological challenges of climate change, social
          inequalities and migration.

Each CORE has a Director, a dedicated non-staff budget and administrator representing an annual
investment of £162k to support research in this UoA. Interdisciplinary research is encouraged
through staff membership of one or more of the COREs, and budgets are used to facilitate COREs
working together on joint research and impact activities.

1.1.1. Research themes
Our interdisciplinary research and the activities of our 5 COREs make an ethical commitment to
questioning knowledge production and power relations in the creation, representation,
dissemination, interpretation and use of cultural, literary and media texts, including the socio-
historical, technological, and political processes that shape these practices. Paying particular
                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
attention to how the cultural past informs the present and future, we draw upon the critical, literary
and philosophical foundations of humanities, media and cultural studies research, to address
contemporary problems in the economy and society through 4 interdisciplinary themes that are
central to the work of our CORES and link to our impact case studies (ICS):
   • Digital Media Cultures and Economies
   • Screen Cultures and Practices
   • Cultural and Literary Histories
   • Critical Theory and Contemporary Politics

Digital Media Cultures and Economies. Strategically supported by CDMC and CTSG, our
research interrogates digital technologies and big data through a focus upon inclusion, economy
and creative practice. 11 staff, including 1 Professor (Cham) and 1 ECR, undertake research in
this theme, collaborating with industry, SMEs and community stakeholders, to generate novel
insights and impacts relating to digital inclusion, sustainability and innovation
[ICS_DigitalEconomy]. Through theoretical and practical interventions in data literacy
(Fotopoulou), smart cities (Behrendt, Sourbati), digital activism and cultural entrepreneurship
(Jenzen), we provide new knowledge and important critical tools for creating equitable digital
futures.

Screen Cultures and Practices. Our leadership in archival screen practices (SASE archive,
[ICS_Screen]) is attended by research expertise in the histories, cultures and practices of screen-
based media as forms of cultural meaning and social change. 10 staff work in this theme, including
1 Professor (Doyle) and 1 ECR. Combining individual scholarship with community and civil sector
partnerships, and enabled by CSECP and CTSG, we interrogate the historical and representational
politics of film, TV, gaming, photography and social media (Gray, Chard, Kirkland), and utilise
visual methods to create new cultural expressions that contribute to socio-political change
[ICS_VisualCommunication].

Cultural and Literary Histories. Our research interrogates historical and literary texts and
practices as contested sites in the formation of culture, identity and social relations. 34 staff work in
this theme, our largest grouping, including 2 Professors (Dawson, Salkie), and 2 ECRs.
Strategically supported by CMNH, we foreground the cultural memories and histories of race,
colonialism and conflict, revealing their contemporary effects (Dawson, Rupprecht, Bergin, ECR
Hogsbjerg). Through critical and practical reinterpretation of literary narratives, we produce new
understandings of socio-political relations, including work, gender, and migration, (Connell,
Velickovic, Margree, Hammond, Satterthwaite), forging impact through new modes of
storytelling and performative practice [ICS_NarrativeDesign, ICS_ ShakespeareHut].

Critical Theory and Contemporary Politics. We develop pioneering work about the critical and
social functions of critique and philosophy in contemporary politics and society. 16 staff work in this
theme, including 3 Professors (Brecher, Devenney, Maddison), and 1 ECR. Through the
strategic direction of CAPPE, our research addresses key challenges of democracy and
participation, focusing upon transnational populist and protest politics (Devenney, Woodford,
Dunford), and the philosophies and ethics of neoliberalism, violence and conflict (Neu). We use
critical theory to interrogate the cultural politics of sex, gender (Maddison) and climate change,
offering radical thinking for new ways of living and being.

1.2. Research strategy since REF 2014 and achievement of strategic aims
The significant expansion of interdisciplinary research in media, communication and cultural
studies at UoB has been driven by the University strategy and investments. We used REF2014
results to benchmark our UoA D36 submission against the sector. Encouraged by our relatively
strong performance in outputs and impact we developed a research and impact strategy for this
UoA based on a vision to expand interdisciplinary excellence and build on our strengths. The UoB
supported our vision and subsequent strategic developments enabled us to deliver marked growth
as investment in staffing and researcher development were enabled by 3 strategic university level
interventions.
                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   In 2014, the University established a new School of Media based on the same campus as
       the existing School of Humanities and this provided an opportunity to bring together media,
       communication and cultural studies staff and PGRs to develop new collaborations and
       research directions building on the successes of REF 2014, such as in digital inclusion and
       cultural histories.
   •   In 2016, leaders and staff in these two schools helped develop a new University Strategy
       (REF5a) that emphasises UoB values of inclusivity, creativity, sustainability and
       partnerships enabling us to make the case successfully for increased staff investment in
       our distinct creative, values-focused, partnership-based research concerned with inclusion,
       equality, democratic participation, and social and environmental justice.
   •   A new UoB Research and Enterprise Strategic Plan (2017 – 2021) instigated the COREs
       (REF5a) and our staff’s central role in establishing 5 COREs described earlier provided the
       budgets for promoting intellectual debate, researcher interaction and external partnerships
       that allowed us to coalesce the staff in the schools of Media and Humanities into a coherent
       group of researchers focussed on our 4 themes.

To deliver our UoA research and impact strategy we established the following seven strategic
research and impact goals and we provide evidence below of how each has been achieved:

Significantly invested in people, recruiting 32 new staff in this UoA (45% of staff in this
submission) to strengthen our research in digital media, screen cultures, cultural and literary
histories and critical theory. Investment in early career researchers (see section 2.2) has led to
66% staff being promoted from Lecturer to Senior or Principal Lecturer. We achieved our Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion goal of obtaining an Athena SWAN bronze award for Arts and Media in
2020.

Invested in supporting staff preparing external bids via competitive annual sabbaticals and
rising stars awards, and increased the quality of our external funding applications through
mentoring and internal peer review (see 2.4.1). As a result, we have increased the diversity of our
research funding and staff gaining funding. We have achieved over £2.6m in competitive research
funding from Research Councils (36%), EU Government Bodies (38%), UK Central Government
(20%), UK Charities (3%) and Non–EU other (3%). This addressed our reliance in REF 2014 upon
EU Government bodies and 1 member of staff for over 90% of income generation. Since REF2014,
20 members of staff have gained 42 funding awards, including 15 AHRC awards and two
Leadership Fellows.

Used our QR funding to support staff to prepare outputs that shape their research fields (see
2.4.1), leading to 39% of staff in this UoA submitting a monograph; 30 monographs in total.

Extended the impact of our research to digital innovation, developing new partnerships with
SMEs and digital industries. The Fusebox24 (2015) and Youngs’ ‘Internet of Place’ research
underpinned the establishment of Digital Catapult Centre Brighton (DCCB) in 2015. Drawing
upon this work, we created new partnerships with the aviation sector, supporting the unlocking of
value from proprietary data (Digital Research & Innovation Value Accelerator DRIVA, led by Cham;
[ICS_DigitalEconomy]. The DCCB has become integral to the design of the national 5G testbed as
part of the UK Government’s 5G Digital Strategy.

Expanded our big data research and impact (Behrendt, Sourbati, Fotopoulou) through
partnerships with local and national governments, community and industry partners in the transport
and health sectors, ensuring that our scholarship published in key journals Information,
Communication and Society and New Media and Society, has diverse societal benefit and
engages a wide range of audiences.

Advanced our cultural heritage expertise by deploying QR and external funding to develop: new
heritage histories informing heritage practices in the UK and New Zealand [ICS_ShakespeareHut];
expansion of the international reach of our public screen archive collection, SASE, including the
digitisation of 504 films for the BFI [ICS_Screen]; an Horizon2020 Marie Sklodowska Curie
                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Individual Fellowship on educational methodologies for dance heritage; membership of the EPSRC
Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Science and Engineering in Arts Heritage and Archaeology
(SEAHA, 2014 – 2022) with the University of Oxford and University College London; co-creation of
Hastings and St Leonards Heritage Society (Madden) and the related cultural regeneration of
community piers through collaborations with Hasting Pier and The Clevedon Pier Trust (Jenzen).

Significantly increased our PGR recruitment and provided a significantly enhanced doctoral
experience through our success in 4 competitive Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP see 1.1)
consortia during the census period, and the AHRC technē 5 year follow on funding from 2019/20.
30 technē studentships have been awarded, including 2 collaborative studentships with Imperial
War Museum and Falls Community Council, West Belfast. University investment in 7 PGR
studentships in cultural histories of conflict has produced 6 completions during the census period.
We have centralised our PGR induction and training processes through the Brighton Doctoral
College (BDC), offering a high-quality PGR environment that has aided completion rates, with PGR
completions increasing from 3 in REF2014 to 40.74 in this submission. We support a new
generation of scholars by providing opportunities for our PGR students to publish, organise
symposia and conferences, and work placements (see 2.7).

1.3. Enabling impact
Our research makes an ethical commitment to questioning knowledge production and power
relations across media, culture and society. This ethical vision underpins our approach to enabling
impact. Through our funding and support for individual scholarship and extensive collaborative
partnerships with stakeholders at the local, regional, national and international level (see section
2), our research changes people’s lives by: facilitating community empowerment for under-
represented or marginalised groups/publics, including youth, people living with HIV/AIDS and
conflict, and LGBTQIA+ communities; influencing democratic practices, such as environmental and
community activism, and shaping populist political party policies; producing new forms of cultural
meaning across film, arts, theatre, creative and digital industries for diverse audiences; advancing
technological innovation and use of big data in SMEs; and changing organisational and policy
practices around social justice and inclusion within the creative and digital industries and transport
sector (for examples see 3.1, 4.2 and our five ICSs).

This UoA has achieved its impact through recognition that research excellence and impact express
themselves in multiple ways and are generated through different types of investments from
individual scholarship and public engagement activities to research involving multiple partnerships
with external stakeholders. Research and impact are enabled through competitive internal funding
opportunities that support teaching buyout for scholarship and partnership building, and funding
from schools and COREs for partnership development and impact activities (see section 2). Our
Community University Partnership (CUPP) (REF5a) works directly with research beneficiaries,
often through co-produced research, to maximise the potential for impact. CUPP remains a key
means by which staff are linked with local community partners. Regular impact workshops
delivered by the University’s Impact Manager, and mentoring from experienced colleagues in this
UoA ensure diverse expressions of impact at all stages of the research cycle are recognised by
staff.

Our 5 impact case studies demonstrate our breadth of impact across the media, cultural and
creative industries and society, and the success of our strategic investment in multiple pathways to
impact. Demonstrating the global impact of our individual scholarship, Rawle’s multimodal fictional
texts have influenced storytelling practices, readerships and international publishing strategies
[ICS_NarrativeDesign]. Grant Ferguson’s scholarship on Shakespeare’s cultural legacy,
supported by funding for a sabbatical and public engagement activities, has impacted the
educational and creative practices of leading cultural institutions, such as the National Theatre, in
turn generating future creative industry collaborations [ICS_ShakespeareHut].

Collaborative partnerships with academic and non-academic stakeholders have contributed to the
development of our 3 other impact case studies. Doyle, Jenzen and Ashmore have worked in co-

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
productive ways with arts, youth and disadvantaged communities at local, national and
international level to build collective identity and activist engagement on socio-political and
environmental issues [ICS_VisualCommunication]. Through internal sabbatical awards, Impact
Development Funding (REF5a), Community University Partnership Programme (CUPP) funding,
public and stakeholder engagement activities and external research funding, the researchers in
this ICS have scaled up their research and stakeholder engagements to develop international
impact.

Through multiple digital and creative industry partnerships across a number of years, our
ICS_DigitalEconomy likewise demonstrates a scaling up of impact through externally and internally
funded research projects that have iteratively built research and impact across regional creative
industries and national policy. Our [ICS_Screen] shows how our long-term partnerships with the
creative industries (BFI; Whitechapel Gallery, UK; Brighton & Hove Museum) both sustain and
increase public engagement with screen archives and their industry use. Financial investment in
administrative and archive staff support for our screen archive collection ensures engagement with
the world through a multitude of partners (see section 3). Combined with external funding, new
forms of impact are developed, including new film content for marginalised groups leading to new
cultural forms that address social inequalities. The screen archive audience venue-based, online
and broadcast audiences now total over 55m [ICS_Screen].

Whilst COVID-19 has placed an extra short term pressure on our face-to-face engagement with
publics and stakeholders, we have quickly adapted to the online environment, building our
partnerships in more sustainable and inclusive ways to reach wider audiences across the globe:
Fotopoulou with AHRC funding commissioned artists to creatively explore stories of lockdown
through online formats (AHRC ART/DATA/HEALTH); CSECP Visiting Fellow, Suzanne Dhaliwal,
repivoted her work and public engagement to the digital environment to address climate justice
activism in the context of COVID-19. Given our research and impact work in digital cultures and
digital participation, and in environmental and social justice, we are well situated to contribute to
post COVID-19 global research challenges.

1.4. Research and impact strategy 2021-2026
Following a period of significant growth, our strategy for the next 5 years is to consolidate these
developments across our 5 COREs, expand in selected areas of strength, increase our PGR
community and invest in impact pathways to ensure the sustainability of this UoA’s impact.
Through our interdisciplinary research, we will respond to the changing demands of a (post)
COVID-19 world that has seen the expansion of digital technologies and screen- based media use
in everyday life, a deepening of social inequities, and the acceleration of environmental change.
We will:

Address key global and societal challenges – the intensification of digital cultures and
social inequalities, democratic participation, decolonisation and the climate crisis – through
critical and creative cultural, communication and media research that provides new
narratives and practices for impactful social change. We will:
      •     use the COREs budgets to stimulate debate to help set intellectual priorities and
            nurture new research ideas through individual scholarship and collaborations;
      •     expand our decolonising work and grow our strengths in digital and screen cultures,
            gender and sexuality, cultural histories and narratives, populist politics, and social and
            environmental justice;
      •     invest in multiple pathways to impact, ensuring we deliver on our developing impacts in
            creative data engagement and sustainable mobilities, and support new impacts in
            digital and screen cultures, creative industries and cultural activism;
      •     maintain our diverse research income portfolio.

Deepen existing partnerships and develop new interdisciplinary collaborations at local,
national and international level, ensuring our continued research engagement with diverse
audiences and marginalised communities. We will:
                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •      utilise the COREs to build new global partnerships, expand existing partnerships by
            supporting scale-ups, and increase our numbers of Visiting Fellows;
     •      collaborate with community, civil, industry and policy partners and situate marginalised
            communities and users as key partners;
     •      share our research with diverse audiences in creative and accessible ways especially
            though our screen archive.

Invest in staff development, addressing any unequal impacts of COVID-19, and diversify our
staff base with regards to race and ethnicity. We will:
      •     address any negative impacts of COVID-19 through targeted support of affected staff
            and through increased mentoring;
      •     commit to the recruitment of a more racially diverse staff base.

Grow the volume and diversity of our PGR community. We will:
    •     use our existing DTPs to increase total PGR students by 25% and seek new DTP
          opportunities;
    •     promote new access opportunities for PGRs with protected characteristics by utilising
          match funded UoB studentships.

1.5. Open research and ensuring research integrity
UoB has upgraded its research repository to facilitate the accessibility of research outcomes
through open access (see REF5a), with an Open Access Fund to support the publication of articles
from RCUK-funded research. The University is committed to the Concordat on Open Research
Data through its new PURE research repository developed during the REF period to enable the
uploading of research outputs and allows a more strategic communication of our research and its
outcomes. Individual staff and PGR profiles on PURE include key research information, with
access to online output repository. CORE websites showcase research projects and enable
international partnership building. Our UoA also disseminates research through over 10 public
exhibitions, with strong online presence, accessible PDF outputs that visualise our research, talks
to the civil sector organisations, creative industries, and public talks/events. Our annual Cinecity
Festival of World Cinema includes extensive research installations for public engagement and
drew a paying audience of 115k between 2013 and 2020.

Our research is undertaken in accordance with the University’s Policies on Research Integrity and
Research Ethics. The University has a three-tiered system of ethical review, supported by a central
Ethics and Governance Manager (REF5a). All staff research projects go through at least Tier 1
approval, with the most complex approved at Tier 3 by the University’s Research Ethics and
Integrity Committee. PGR students undertake a mandatory ethics and integrity training course and
are unable to progress through their first Annual Progress Review if not completed. The University
also provides regular ethics and integrity training courses each year for all research staff.

2. People

2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development
Supporting staff at all career levels to reach their research potential is key to the vibrancy of our
values-based research culture and the success of our research and impact activities. Through
Athena SWAN, the Research Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
the Race Equality Charter Mark we provide an inclusive environment that provides resources,
mentorship and leadership opportunities. This submission includes 8 Professors, 1 Reader, 20
Principal Lecturers, 33 Senior Lecturers, 8 Lecturers, and 1 Senior Research Fellow. In alignment
with the planned expansion in the UoA set out in our research and impact strategic aims, our
staffing strategy since REF2014 has been to:
    • Appoint a substantial number of new staff including early career staff;
    • Make strategic external and internal senior appointments to expand leadership in key areas
        linked to our COREs and intellectual themes;

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Invest in the career progression of our existing staff, especially ECRs, through staff
       development and opportunities to undertake key research leadership roles at School and
       University level;
   •   Expand our support for PGRs as the next generation of researchers.

2.2. New staff appointments
Aligning with UoB’s Recruitment and Selection Policy, substantial long-term investment in new staff
has been achieved. 32 new appointments in this UoA have been made, of which 56% are female.
These new appointments comprise 45% of submitted staff. 29 of these new appointments are
permanent. The remaining 3 are fixed term for specific research projects. The majority of these
appointments (27) were ECRs at Lecturer level, with 2 Professorial, 1 Senior Research Fellow and
3 mid-career (Senior Lecturer or Principal Lecturer). We have placed a strategic focus upon
developing research profiles of new staff, and recruited senior staff to enhance existing expertise
and provide strategic leadership. New appointments have strengthened research related to our 4
interdisciplinary themes in digital media (Cham, Fotopoulou, Close) screen cultures
(McNaughton, Chard), critical theory and politics (Maddison, Dunford, Woodford, Bunyard,
Primera), cultural and literary histories (Connell, Grant-Ferguson, Hogsjberg, Virkar-Yates) and
socio-cultural linguistics (ECR Formato, ECR Iveson). 24 of the 32 new staff have been promoted
to Senior or Principal Lecturer since joining us. Robust staff induction processes ensure new staff
are integrated into the University research structures, including School research activities, CORE
membership, and assignment of a mentor.

2.3. Existing staff investment and strengthening leadership
Investment in existing (pre-REF2014) staff career development has led to 58% achieving
promotions during this period, including 13 staff becoming Principal Lecturer and 7 Senior Lecturer.
We have strengthened leadership in this UoA through internal promotions to Professor (Doyle,
Professor of Media and Communication, 2017; Devenney, Professor of Critical Theory, 2020) and
Reader (Jenzen, 2020), aided by the founding and leadership of COREs (section 1). Our two
external professorial appointments (Cham and Maddison) further expanded leadership and
Maddison is Head of the School of Humanities. Other leadership developments include: Kirkland
and Doyle’s co-leadership of MECCSA2020 Annual Conference; Fotopoulou’s role as the
University’s ECR Lead (2017 – 2019); Woodford’s leadership position in CAPPE; and Searle’s
coordination of a University wide Housing Research Forum. These staff also received support from
the University’s Leadership Programme instigated in 2017.

2.4. Support and funding for all staff development
Researcher development is formally managed by Schools through Annual Staff Development
Reviews (SDRs) led by a senior member of School Management Team, focusing upon the
development, achievement of, and plans for research activities. New staff have one year probation,
followed by a meeting with their Head of School to review progress and identify any research
development needs. The University’s Professorial Review Framework (2018) has supported the
career progression of Professors through Annual Reviews, led by the PVC. The University’s
Researcher Development Programme also provides training for all researchers, who attend an
average of two formal research training events each year, with ‘Introduction to Research Ethics’,
‘Introduction to Open Access’, ‘Demonstrating and Evidencing Impact’ and ‘Making the Most of the
Research Mentoring Relationship’ recommended initially.

The University provides competitive research funding award schemes, enabling researchers to
develop and lead their own research projects, write external funded bids, and support output
writing and impact activities. 24 staff (34%) in this UoA have received internal funding - including
Sabbaticals, Rising Stars, Impact Development Fund, Innovation Fund, COVID-19 Urgency Fund
(see REF5a). 23 staff received sabbaticals funding (worth up to £14k); 4 staff received Rising Stars
awards that support ECRs (up to £10k); 1 member of staff received Impact Development funding
(up to £2k); and 1 received Innovation Funding (up to £10k).

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Competitive annual sabbaticals have aided output and monograph production for REF2021
(Myketiak, Fotopoulou, Devenney), and enabled external funding bid success (Jenzen,
Fotopoulou). The Digital Catapult Centre Brighton has benefited from Innovation Funding to
develop research impact in our ICS_DigitalEconomy, enabling the success of other funding bids
(Close, Jenzen and Burns, AHRC). The Impact Development Fund enhanced impact activities
from an AHRC award (Jenzen), contributing to our ICS_VisualCommunication. Rising Stars
scheme ECR recipients include Virkar Yates’ project on Literature, Music and Conflict (shortlisted
for AHRC/BBC New Generation Thinkers scheme, 2017), leading to an invitation to discuss
Beethoven’s legacy, on BBC3 Radio (2020). Fotopoulou’s Rising Stars funding led to a UKRI
Innovation/ AHRC Leadership Fellowship (ART/DATA/HEALTH, 2019-2021). Hearsum’s award to
work with the British Library produced an oral history of UK popular music studies.

Schools and COREs enhance UoB research and impact funding schemes. Schools provide
competitive funds for supporting outputs, research bids, impact activities and conferences. All staff
can apply to these schemes, but priority is given to ECRs through a ring fenced £5k allocation per
year. COREs provide funding to host conferences/symposia, develop research networks and
external bids, host Visiting Fellows, and develop impact activities. The University’s Futures (see
REF5a) work across the COREs providing financial support for joint activities, such as,
Velickovic’s LGBTQ+ Writers Under Lockdown (July 2020), a series of video panels and podcasts
on the topic; and CSECP’s project exploring 'digital pivoting' around scholar-activist-practitioner
work on climate justice during COVID-19.

2.5. Mentoring
The University-wide Research Mentoring Framework (REF5a) is central to the Implementation
Plan for the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Research mentoring is
managed at School level by the Research Mentor Lead. Mentoring training and development
opportunities are provided for mentors and mentees at University and School level; allocation of
hours to both mentor and mentee; and the opportunity to engage in group and individual
mentoring. Across the 4 years of its implementation, 20+ staff per year have been mentored, with
plans to increase this to address COVID-19 impacts. To support gender equality, additional training
is provided for research mentors regarding the need to identify and support research active
women, including targeted interventions such as writing retreats and travel grants.

2.6. Support for ECRs
Aligning with the Research Concordat, ECRs are supported in this UoA through a broad range of
University, School and CORE initiatives. A university wide ECR network run by the University ECR
lead provides support and collaboration opportunities. New staff have teaching remission in their
first year of appointment to enable research development. This UoA has prioritised the provision of
formal mentoring of ECRs on PGR supervisory teams. Where possible teams have a third ECR
member who receives training on the supervisory process.

ECR Representatives sit on all University and School committees. Schools allocate 0.1 FTE to an
ECR Lead who represent the interests of early career staff, reports to the Deputy Head of School
for Research and Enterprise, and organises events for staff. All 5 COREs in this UoA have ECR
members on their Management Board, who steer the strategic research direction, and gain
experience of research management. All COREs host annual events aimed at ECRs.

2.7. Support for PGR students
The growth of our PGR environment: We have a thriving PGR community of 61 registered
students in 2020 supervised by staff in this UoA. Since REF2014, our recruitment has pivoted
around our substantial success in 4 DTPs, which has generated 34 PGR studentships in this UoA
during this period. 30 of these have been AHRC technē (2014-2019) awards, involving universities
in London and the South East, led by Royal Holloway. Technē’s focus upon interdisciplinarity in the
arts and humanities has enabled our substantial success in gaining studentships across cultural
memory studies, literary histories, media and contemporary politics, gender and race. Advertising

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
technē studentships through our COREs around our four intellectual themes has generated strong
applicants who benefit from the COREs support and experience. Staff in this UoA are involved in
the recruitment of technē applicants, and attend the final consortia Panel meetings (Jenzen,
Doyle, Connell, Wrighton, Philips, Wharton). In 2018, we were successful in our joint application
for further technē funding providing £18m for a further five technē cohorts starting in 2019/20 (57
studentships per cohort); one of only 10 DTPs funded by AHRC.

The University has also invested in its own studentships (see REF5a). In this UoA, supervisors in
CMNH and CAPPE received internal funding for 7 PGR studentships. In 2020, 2 fee waiver
scholarships were awarded by the School of Media and CTSG: the first focused upon climate
justice and media, enabled by the financial success of the MeCCSA2020 conference; the second
was awarded to a candidate committed to making a difference to the wider Trans community,
especially its most marginalised members.

Support for PGRs: All PGRs are supported by the UoB Brighton Doctoral College (BDC) which
provides strategic overview of PGR processes. The BDC delivers workshops and skills
development through the Postgraduate Researcher Development Programme (PRDP). This
includes topics such as research ethics, doctoral milestones, academic writing skills and preparing
for your viva. The COREs have developed substantial PGR communities, allowing PGRs to work
with staff and PGRs across Schools and the University. Technē PGR students and supervisors
have collaborated with colleagues at partner universities and cultural organisations in consortium
events. Brighton organised and hosted two technē student congresses, for the full consortium
cohort – Archive Fever (2015) and Poetics of Method (2019). Other CORE and technē events have
focused on creative methods, interdisciplinarity and impact, exhibitions and performance.

The BDC inducts PGR students to the University and PhD Manager - the online hub for formal PhD
processes, including supervision records, annual progress reviews and examination processes.
Through COVID-19, the BDC have ensured that all doctoral students have continuity of support
and advice. Specific measures include: additional stipend payments and fee-waivers of up to 6
months for all final year students disrupted by the pandemic, regardless of funding source, going
beyond UKRI requirements to ensure equitable treatment across the student body; fee waivers for
self-funded students requiring COVID-19 related extensions; online workshops; and monthly
meetings with PGR student representatives. This provision has been recognised by 2 awards to
the BDC from the University Alliance, for professionalism and integrity.

A Postgraduate Co-ordinator in each School is responsible for the development of PGRs. They
deliver an induction that complements the BDC’s, where new students meet existing students, are
introduced to the PGR Student Representative (who sits on the School Research and Enterprise
Committee), and have presentations from the CORE leads. We provide PGR students with
opportunities to gain teaching experience once they have received the University's mandatory
teaching training.

Responding to the increase in our PGR numbers, we have ensured the provision of PGR working
space for all students, and offered IT equipment where required. Through COVID-19, students
have been able to take laptops and desktops home. The Schools have 4 dedicated PGR rooms
where fulltime PGR students get a dedicated desk, and part-time PGR students get access to
shared desks.

PGRs can access the School based Research Development Fund, for conference attendance,
networking and workshop hosting, to supplement that available from the BDC’s Research Student
Conference Support Fund. COREs also support PGR researcher development, providing funding
for workshops and symposia. PGRs benefitted from a Doctoral College Placement Support Grant
(up to £1.5k), supported by Santander Universities. Four of our PGRs undertook work placements
in an environmental think tank in Germany, the Department of Political Science at Johns Hopkins
University, and the University of Reno USA.

PGR research successes: PGRs receive mentoring for submitting external applications. For
                                                                                       Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
example, PGRs successfully bid to host the 2020 MeCCSA Postgraduate Network Conference,
Mediating Place: Memory, Culture and Experience (postponed until 2021). With PGRs on all 5 of
our CORE Management Boards, we host annual PGR workshops and conferences, including visits
from academics around the globe to offer PGR workshops including Laleh Kahlili (Queen Mary),
Wendy Brown (UC Berkeley) and Fred Moten (NY University). Reciprocal PGR student exchanges
have been established with University of Verona and National University of Ireland Galway.

PGRs organise their own events regularly co-organising conferences and reading groups, and.
Conferences include, Subversive Histories for Public Cultures: The politics of life history research
(2016) with University of Sussex, and Time, Memory, and Conflict: Critical Approaches (2018).
CAPPE funded a PhD student journal Critical Studies that published 4 editions
(http://www.criticalstudies.org.uk) and developed into Interfere: Journal for Critical Thought and
Radical Politics (https://interferejournal.org). Our PGRs publish their work throughout their doctoral
studies: Afxentis Afxentiou co-edited a ‘Drones and State Terrorism’ special section for Critical
Studies on Terrorism (2018); Will Stronge edited Georges Bataille and Contemporary Thought
(Bloomsbury 2017). Two former PGR students have permanent posts with us (Lovat, Primera)
and are submitted in this UoA. Following graduation, Antonia Hofstaetter (2017) gained a
Lectureship at University of Stockholm, and Lars Cornelissen (2018) became Academic Editor for
the Independent Social Research Foundation.

2.8. Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
UoB has an institutional Athena SWAN Bronze award, is one of only 17 universities to have a Race
Equality Charter Bronze award, is a Top 100 Stonewall employer and a Stonewall Diversity
Champion, and a disability confident employer. Inclusivity is a core value of our University Strategy
(2017 – 2021), the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Strategic Plan (2017 – 2021) and central
to the ‘Brighton 2025’ strategic programme. The School of Media achieved Athena SWAN Bronze
Award, and across the Schools we are committed to fostering and maintaining an inclusive
environment through our staffing and research practices.

Staffing: 25% of our submitted staff are part-time and all are permanent, apart from 3 working on
funded research projects. Staff are supported in undertaking study leave for doctoral studies.
Hearsum and Adamson completed a doctorate during this REF period. Schools ensure committee
membership includes staff on fractional, fixed-term and flexible working arrangements in
membership. Promoting inclusivity, School meetings and research seminars are scheduled during
core work hours.

Career progression: Successful career promotion during the REF2021 period (across full and
part time) was 54% female, 46% male. 58% of staff in this UoA have been promoted (68% of full
time and 28% of part time staff). Annual promotion workshops are run by Schools and those
applying are offered mentoring. All promotional opportunities include pro-active statements to
encourage under-represented groups to apply. Research and impact are criteria for promotion.

The Schools of Media and Humanities and COREs take actions to encourage gender and race
equality. The School of Media has actively addressed the gendered inequalities of academic
career progression by encouraging female staff to apply for the University’s Research Leadership
Programme. Four women have attended (Doyle, Jenzen, Behrendt, Fotopoulou), subsequently
achieving career promotion to Professor, Reader and Principal Lecturer. The School of Humanities
has agreed the following policies: i) annual review of research leadership roles aiming to ensure
BAME and gender equality; ii) annual reporting on allocation of School and CORE Research
Support; iii) a research policy recognising the needs of staff with caring responsibilities ensuring
equal opportunity and incentive to engage in research. The training of PGR supervisors and
composition of supervisor teams is annually audited in both Schools to ensure inclusive teams for
career progression. In this UoA women are more likely to submit funding applications and be
successful, 22 out of 28 successful grant applications are led by women. Our Athena SWAN action
plan supports women’s career progression to Professorial level (currently 37.5% female), although
there is gender balance across the 4 professorial appointments made in the REF2021 period.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Recruitment and EDI awareness: Our recruitment process uses both gender decoders for
adverts and anonymous online shortlisting. Recruitment panel chairs sign a declaration that an
interview panel is gender-balanced. Since 2017 all panel members must complete Equalities and
Diversity and Unconscious Bias training, whilst all staff are encouraged to complete this training. In
2019, the School of Media undertook a whole school Trans awareness training working with
Allsorts (LGBT+Ally scheme). In 2018, the University backed a campaign to raise awareness of
people’s gender identity and how they should be addressed, with staff routinely wearing the ‘my
pronouns are…’ campaign badges. School committees have gender balance and EDI is a standing
item.

Periods of leave: The University has policies and guidance for staff and managers on maternity,
paternity, shared parental and adoption leave. Staff meet with their line manager to ensure
familiarity with relevant policies including flexible working and shared parental leave. Keeping in
Touch (KiT) days are how the level of contact is agreed, up to 10 days of which are paid regardless
of FT/PT. All returning academic/research staff are provided a QR fund allocation to support
research re-engagement.

Well-being: We foster clear distinctions between work and home. We add availability to email
signatures to make other staff and students aware of staff contract times and to mitigate an ‘always
on’ culture. This etiquette is for all staff FT/PT/PGR students who also teach and is part of our
induction process. The Schools have Health & Wellbeing training days, and staff with caring
responsibilities have been supported during COVID-19. Our future aims (see 1.4) will address the
ongoing impacts of COVID-19.

REF submission: The Academic Lead for this UoA is female. All staff on the REF Output Review
panels and UoA Leadership teams undertake Equalities and Diversity, Unconscious Bias,
Information Security Awareness and GDPR Training. We have gender parity for our UoA
Leadership Team and our Output Review Panel is in line with the gender balance of the wider staff
pool. REF submission data shows we are 6.2% above HE benchmarking for gender, with 50%
gender parity for staff submitted to this UoA. Whilst we are 2.5% below HE benchmarking for
ethnicity, we have specifically committed to addressing this in our future aims (see 1.4).

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Research income
Creating a more sustainable research income strategy to support research and impact activities
has been a key focus for this UoA. In REF2014 our research income was dependent upon a small
number of senior staff bringing in relatively large amounts from government, especially EU bodies,
with no income from research councils. Since REF2014, a broader range of staff (25%) across
different career levels have secured awards from a wider group of funding bodies resulting in a
total of £2.6m grant spend. Whilst our largest funding remains EU bodies (£1m: Horizon2020,
ERDF, Erasmus), this is now matched by our success with Research Councils (£938k: AHRC,
ESRC, EPSRC), followed by UK government/local authorities (£515k: eg Arts Council England),
charities (£90k: Leverhulme, British Academy), and non-EU other (£78k: eg NESTA). The
infrastructural support of 5 COREs, the Schools, internal peer review and mentoring, has been
central to the success of our staff obtaining funding from a broader range of funders. The range of
funders is indicative of the interdisciplinarity of our research and impact activities and the structures
that support these, with a majority of our research income awards involving multiple academic and
non-academic partners across the public and private sectors.

Our most significant increased funding source are Research Councils, including 15 AHRC awards.
Dawson’s project on Conflict, Memory and Migration: Northern Irish Migrants and the Troubles in
Great Britain (£318k AHRC) utilises oral history interviews to explore how the Troubles in Northern
Ireland (c.1969-98) have shaped distinctive forms of Northern Irish migrant subjectivity in Great
Britain. Fotopoulou’s Innovation Leadership Fellowship project, ART/DATA/HEALTH: Data as

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
creative material for health and wellbeing (£199k AHRC) is advancing the digital and health literacy
of the public and health/care practitioners through local partnerships with the community (RISE
domestic abuse charity), health (NHS Brighton and Hove) and creative sectors. The underpinning
research for our ICS_DigitalEconomy was the Fusebox24 project (£76k, AHRC) which explored
how arts and humanities approaches can accelerate innovation in the Creative, Digital and IT
sector. Fusebox24 found that whilst collaborative approaches dominate, the sector needs shared
spaces in which to collaborate with others. Bringing media and communication studies to
understandings of transport and mobility, Behrendt’s Creative and Industry approaches to mobility
project (£60k AHRC) explored how mobility data (cycling and cars) is generated and used, and the
changes this brings for culture, society and industry. Other AHRC funding has enabled the
exploration of immersive technologies in creative practice (XR: CIIRKES, £56k AHRC) and popular
cultural heritage work with local communities (Jenzen £19k AHRC). Significant long-term
international research partnerships with scholars in the UK, Argentina and Southern Europe have
been enabled through the British Academy Theorising Transnational Populism project (Devenney,
£26k).

Comprising our largest source of research income, funding from EU bodies includes 3 prestigious
Horizon2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) Individual Fellowships awards in the areas
of climate communication, social linguistics and cultural heritage. Doyle and Behrendt (£164k,
MSCA) mentored Maria Sakellari (University of Crete), on IKETIS: The mediation of climate
induced migration, whilst Wharton mentored the artist, Patricia Kolaiti, on CogLit: Literature and
Art as a cognitive (£130k, MSCA). Cham’s industry focused Digital Research & Innovation Value
Accelerator (DRIVA) project (ERDF, £446k) furthers our work on digital economy by supporting
entrepreneurs and technologists to collaborate and release value from Gatwick Airport’s big data to
create new products and services.

Our funding from UK government/local authorities demonstrates the integration of our research
and impact activities across diverse sectors, and their role in developing subsequent larger grant
awards. Linked to DRIVA, and drawing upon the Fusebox24 legacy, Close’s Arts DRIVA project
(Arts Council England, £267k) deploys the skills of creative arts to create value from data by
introducing 14 artists to emerging technologies like immersive, interactive, 5G and quantum
computing to utilise in their practice. Behrendt and Sourbati’s Intelligent Transport for Social
Inclusion project (Brighton and Hove Council, £47k) brought together media and mobility
academics with transport and community stakeholders to explore intelligent technologies and data
in community transport, and provided recommendations for its ethical integration into the transport
sector. This work informed Behrendt’s AHRC Creative and Industry approaches to mobility project
(£60k) and this research will continue at a national scale in future with Sourbati’s recently awarded
project Innovative Light Electric Vehicles for Active and Digital Travel (EPSRC £761k). Income
through charities has supported historical race studies research through Rupprecht’s work on
Indenturing Re-captured Africans (Leverhulme Trust, £35k) examining neglected nineteenth
century colonial archives to explore race-making.

Through the work of SASE and Cinecity (Gray and Brown) our contribution to the screen culture
sector has generated £2.2m in knowledge exchange income, largely from the British Film Institute
and Arts Council England. This has supported work on SASE’s film archive collection, film
exhibitions and film festivals. A £1m contract with the BFI has enabled SASE/Cinecity to develop a
sector-wide capacity building initiative for the region’s film exhibitors, whilst its archive has provided
content for 44 broadcasters (UK, European, American and Asian) and UK Museum exhibitions
including the Whitechapel Gallery and Queen Elizabeth’s Foundation for Disabled People.

3.2. Organisational infrastructures supporting research and impact
As members of the Schools of Humanities and Media, staff are supported by School research
structures. The School Research and Enterprise Committees (SREC) identify research priorities,
strategic distribution of QR funds (considering equality and diversity issues), research staff
development and career progression, delivery of the Research Concordat Implementation Plan,
and monitor progress against University KPIs. The KPIs are monitored by a University planning

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
committee that includes members of the University Executive Board. A range of funding is
available for research and impact development at both School and University level (see 2.4).

The 5 COREs in this UoA all have a Director (0.2FTE time allocation) and CORE Management
Board with elected staff from its membership, including ECR and PGR representation. The
Management Board develops the research and impact strategy and oversees the allocation of the
£10k annual funds to develop and support its strategy, for example, through support for networking
activities for external bid development, research symposia and Visiting Fellowships to facilitate
scholarly partnerships, and bid writing workshops.

The University ’s Research, Enterprise and Social Partnerships team provide centralised support
for staff to submit and manage research grant applications, with dedicated pre- and post-award
teams, and an internal Peer Review Panel that draws on the experience of staff with a track record
of external funding to enhance the quality and success rate of applications. Designated Research
Development Officers and Knowledge Exchange Managers also support research across the
Schools of Media and Humanities.

Staff who are successful in achieving external research funding have often been initially supported
by internal funding for pilot projects that involve non-academic partners, through School’s, COREs
and University schemes (eg sabbatical, Rising Stars see 2.4). Fotopoulou’s AHRC funding was
enabled by a Rising Star Award; Doyle’s multi-partner Cli-MATES project (Co-I, Austrian Climate
Research Programme, €250k, £21k to UoB) that explored the role of social norms in youth climate
action, was supported by an internal CUPP award.

3.3. Operational and scholarly infrastructure
Research facilities are available to all staff, providing support ranging from specialised software
and equipment to physical spaces for practice, archival resources, exhibitions, film screening and
digital content creation.

Software, equipment and buildings: Audio recording equipment, microphones and digital editing
programmes are available to produce high-quality interviews for oral history and interview-based
research. Transcription software provides facilities for transcribing interviews and text mining for
corpus linguistics research. Oral history is foundational to research in the CMNH CORE, with its
focus on lived experience, plural histories and memory. Researchers can deposit their interviews
with international public repositories, such as the British Library (Hearsum’s Rising Star award),
who demand high quality audio (uncompressed, Wave file formats).

Staff can use 2 photographic studios, an edit suite, a moving image studio, single camera self-op
TV booth workshop and kit room, a radio booth and film/photography/audio practice room.
Supporting our film research is a filming equipment loan store, a Dolby atmospheric 72-seater
screening room and set of plasma screens. These were used for our MeCCSA2020 screenings
and research exhibition.

SASE Archives: The University funds the scholarly and operational activity of the SASE/Cinecity
through a dedicated salaried staff team of 6 (4.5 FTE), work space and storage area. SASE
provides desk space for researchers and the public, enabling visitors to consult with SASE staff
and view the collection. SASE/CC has complemented this investment by using £980k from its
external income for additional professional staff. SASE provides a professionally recognised
screen archive service for a collection of 25k items. It is dedicated to acquisition, preservation,
digitisation, cataloguing and the sharing of its collection through its online catalogue. As reported in
ICS_Screen, the impacts generated through the use of SASE material by a wide range of
researchers, broadcasters, exhibitors, curators and the public are far reaching. The archive has
enabled the production of high-quality research including Brown’s recent monograph The Brighton
School and the Birth of British Film (Palgrave 2019).



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
SASE benefits from substantial in-kind support from the West Sussex County Council through its
provision of an environmentally-controlled strong room for the archive’s film and videotape
collections (with security and disaster proofed measures) and a work room for the assessment,
documentation and transferring of analogue material to HD video files by SASE staff. (Support
from WSCC is estimated at £25k annually) The business sponsorship for Cinecity in this period
totals £63k. SASE/Cinecity meets the BFI’s Diversity Standards and is now entitled to use the BFI
DS logo in order to signify its positive work and promote these standards.

Exhibition Spaces: A major new research environment investment of £343k University funds and
£50k of external funds has enabled refurbishment of our galleries and theatre and established the
Brighton Centre for the Contemporary Arts (CCA). This represents a unique investment in the REF
period creating nationally distinct new event and gallery spaces with programmes engaging UoA
staff, PGRs and publics with the intersections of creative practice, community engagement and
research. With 6.6 FTE staff, the CCA occupies space alongside SASE to create a new research
and public exhibition space in central Brighton. In 2019-20, the first year of operation, CCA
received over 10k visitors attending 55 theatre events and 5 gallery exhibitions each with a distinct
research component, where external curators undertake research activities with UoB staff,
students and community partners. Visiting regional and international audiences also engage with
the University’s research and practice providing new research opportunities and benefits for our
staff and students. For MECCSA2020 conference, the CCA exhibited research informed practice.
We also use local galleries to engage publics with our research: Doyle’s Arts Council England
funded, System Change Hive used ONCA’s gallery in Brighton to creatively engage publics with
zero-carbon futures through an interactive exhibition and VR.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our research and impact strategy (see 1.3) ensures staff make key contributions to the research
base, economy and society. Through individual scholarship and collaborative research
partnerships with communities, the public sector and industry, we contribute to culture, the creative
economy and society, engaging with a diverse range of public and professional audiences.

4.1. Supporting research collaborations
Our COREs and Schools financially support and help build international and national research
collaborations and partnerships through funding for international conferences/symposia, visiting
fellowships, and PGR exchanges (see section 2.7). Our externally funded research projects also
develop research collaborations, providing long-term strategic alliances.

4.1.1. Scholarly networks
We facilitate national and international networks of scholars through our COREs to produce
globally significant research in the following areas:

Transnational Populist Politics: Through CAPPE (Devenney, Woodford, Primera) and a British
Academy award (Devenney) we facilitate a network of over 50 international scholars and research
centres working on transnational populist politics and democracy, including University of Buenos
Aires, University of California Berkley, University of Verona, The New School for Social Research
New York, University of Galway, Federal University of Pelotas and University of Helsinki. This
partnership has contributed to populist party policies (see 4.2) and a Polemics book series
(Rowman and Littlefield International).

Cultural Memories and Histories: CMNH (Dawson, Rupprecht) has a partnership with The
Uses of the Past Research Group, University of Aarhus, building research capacity, connectivity
and exchanges. CMNH also participates in international networks led by Columbia University and
University of Stellenbosch, and has a formal academic partnership with the European Observatory
on Memories at the University of Barcelona.


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Digital Cultures and Creative Practice: CDMC members Close, Jenzen and Burns have
worked with Brunel University, Bahçeshir University Istanbul and Istanbul Bilgi University to
develop a network of academics and practitioners from performing arts, festival and games sectors
in Istanbul and UK, to explore the cultural possibilities of 5G (AHRC/Newton Fund £4k).

4.1.2. National and international conferences
Over this period, we have engaged with emerging research priorities and promoted collaborations
by hosting over 30 conferences and symposia in key research areas. Notable examples include:

Media interactions and environments: Our MeCCSA2020 annual conference placed critical
attention on the importance of environmental concerns for media and cultural studies. Supported
by CDMC, CSECP and CDMC, 250+ international delegates across scholarship and practice
attended. Funding raised from the conference created a PGR (fees only) studentship on Media and
Climate Justice to develop future research.

Populism and Democracy: With University of California Berkeley, CAPPE co-hosted the
International Consortium of Critical Theory Programmes conference, Populism, Fascism,
Democracy (2019), funded by the Mellon Foundation. Attracting scholars from 43 countries, with
keynotes from Judith Butler (Berkley), Christophe Menke (Giether University) and Maurizio
Lazzaratto (University of Paris), it led to PGR student exchanges with Berkeley.

Queer lives: Through CTSG and CAPPE we co-hosted 3 LGBTQI+ lives conferences: the 24th
Lesbian Lives international conference on the ‘The Politics of (In) Visibility’ (2019), with University
College Dublin and Maynooth University; Gayness in queer times (2019): and Carry on Camping:
The politics of subversion (2019). Keynotes included Phyll Opoku-Gyimah (Co-Founder of UK
Black Pride), Katherine O’Donnell (University College Dublin), Julia Downes (Open University),
David Halperin (University of Michigan); Elizabeth Wilson (Emory University) and Richard Dyer
(Kings College).

Race narratives: CMHN has hosted two ‘Reparative Histories’ conferences on Radical Narratives
of ‘Race’ and Resistance (2014) and The Making, Re-Making and Un-Making of 'Race' (2017), with
keynotes from Priyamvada Gopal (Cambridge University) and Brian Kelly (Queens University
Belfast), leading to a special issue of the journal Race and Class (2016) co-edited by Bergin and
Rupprecht. Velickovic hosted the inaugural conference of the Black British Women's Writing
Network, Black British Women's Writing: Tracing the Tradition and New Directions (2014) with 60
delegates and keynote from Bernardine Evaristo (Brunel).

Cultural memories of conflict: Collaborating with Wildspark Theatre Company, CMNH hosted
The Brighton “Grand Hotel”: History, Memory & Political Theatre conference in commemoration of
the 30th anniversary of the bombing (2014). It was a distinct event bringing together members of
the Irish community in Britain, people affected by the bombing, theatre practitioners in Northern
Ireland and England, and academics from the Universities of Ulster, Leicester and Rennes II,
including a keynote from Gary McGladdery (Queens University Belfast).

4.1.3. Incoming Visiting Fellows
The Schools and COREs in this UoA have hosted over 30 international visiting research fellows
from Europe, Mexico, South Africa and the US, including early career fellows. Often co-hosted
across COREs to facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration, Visiting Fellows provide important
opportunities for:

Research collaborations: Samuel Chambers (Johns Hopkins University) was a Leverhulme
Funded Visiting Professor at CAPPE, leading to ongoing research on critical theory and political
philosophy between UoB and Johns Hopkins.



                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Co-authored publications: Michael K. Goodman’s (Reading University) Fellowship with CSECP
led to a co-edited special issue (with Doyle) of Climatic Change on ‘Everyday climate cultures’
(2020).

Advancement of external scholars’ careers: Rebeca Pardo Sainz (Universitat Abat Oliba CEU
de Barcelona) (2018 – 2019) was co-hosted by CDMC and CTSG to work on the project
Visibilizing pain and was promoted to Vice-Dean of Research, International University of
Catalunya; hosted by CDMC, Natalia Grincheva (University of Melbourne) (2018 – 2019) worked
with Close to adapt a geo-visualisation of the impact of museums tool for cultural venues in the
UK, contributing to the book, Museum Diplomacy in the Digital Age (2020).

PGR development: World-leading oral historian Sean Field (University of Cape Town) was
Visiting Professor in CMNH (2019), delivering a PGR workshop on Oral History; Paris-based artist,
Marina Wainer, (2018 – 2019) was co-hosted by CSECP and CDMC to work on Wild Diplomacy
exploring relationships between nature and technology, and delivered a PGR workshop;
Tina Campt (Barnard College, Columbia University) led a workshop for PGRs on Image, Archive &
Practices of Refusal (2016).

Public engagement: Albert Grundlingh (Stellenbosch University, South Africa) gave a public
lecture on Mutating Memories and the Making of a Wartime Myth in South Africa (2016);
Tina Campt (Barnard College, Columbia University) delivered a public lecture on Black Gravity:
Impossible Stories of Black Possibility (2016).

4.2. Research users and developing impact
We work with a broad range of research users, beneficiaries and audiences through a diversity of
research partnerships to develop impact in the following ways:

Finding new audiences and enhancing engagement with heritage and creative sectors:
Cinecity (Gray and Brown) champions diverse and non-mainstream voices by including women
and LGBTQ+ film-makers and curators. Through its newsletter (1k+ subscribers) and audience
surveys, it has cultivated a strong audience base (ranging annually from 10k to 30k), and
contributed film content to two European heritage public portals: EUscreen and Europeana.
Close’s work introducing digital technologies to circus and outdoor artists in partnership with
Freedom Festival and Without Walls led to the development of Digital Democracies, a national
consortium of festivals commissioning technology projects in public spaces. In partnership with
New Writing South, The Marlborough Theatre and the University of Sussex, Velickovic has co-
curated Brighton’s annual LGBTQ literary festival The Coast is Queer, attended by more than 1k
people, with 40 writers over four days (2019). Jordan-Baker has worked with Brighton and Hove
Museums through the Arts Council England’s Museum Resilience Fund and Museum University
Partnership Initiative (2017 – 2018) to creatively enhance visitor engagement with the Booth
Museum of Natural History Collection.

Contributing to policy debates leading to economic and socio-cultural impact: Cham is
advising on the development of a plan for encouraging SME and other businesses to adopt 5G
technologies, contributing towards a UK-wide policy report for Department for Media, Culture and
Sport. Through an ERASMUS + programme Close worked with international partners from policy,
education, and academia to explore how European approaches to creative leadership could drive
economic and social impact in Israel, leading to educational and policy changes in Israel.
Devenney, Primera and Woodford’s transnational populist politics research has impacted on
democratic party policies in Spain (PODEMOS and Mas Pais), and contributed to public debate
about populism and democracy in Denmark and Germany. With Brighton and Hove Community
Land Trust and Brighton and Hove City Council, we hosted a series of Housing Forums, raising
awareness of the city’s housing crisis (2018 – 2019) securing cross party support for Searle’s
community led housing, and two plots of land to develop community housing.



                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Enhancing young people’s social inclusion and well-being: Jenzen worked with youth social
inclusion charity, FURD (Football Unites Racism Divides), University of East Anglia and University
of Bristol to explore racism in football (AHRC Connected Communities, 2015 – 2016). Arts Council
England funding (ACE Rezilience) enabled Dann’s work with pre-teens from diverse communities
in the UK to co-create sci-fi adventure narratives containing pro-social emotional well-being
messaging designed to empower at-risk young people. Jenzen has worked with Allsorts Youth
Project (UK Charity) to enhance LGBTQ youth access to higher education (HEFCE Sussex
Learning Network Innovations). Adamson used digital storytelling with migrant children in local
schools (CUPP funding) to amplify their voices and experiences, directly impacting the training of
over 300 school staff and trainee teachers in supporting children with English as an extra
language.

Enhancing digital literacy and creative media skills amongst artists and community
organisations: Doyle’s Arts Council England (2019) funded collaboration with Swarm Dynamics,
ESRC STEPS (Social, Technological and Environmental Pathways to Sustainability) Centre and
Wired Sussex, enabled a group of regional emerging and professional artists to explore how art
and VR can communicate system change and zero-carbon futures; the artists’ understanding of
system change increased and VR skills were acquired for arts communication. Close investigated
the role of artists and cultural production processes in digital innovation with data (ACE, Arts
DRIVA) commissioning 8 new arts projects, supporting 13 artists-in-residence, and organising a
year-round programme of 77 events in partnership with the creative sector. Jenzen (AHRC
Connected Communities Project 2015 – 2016) explored the role of piers in popular cultural
heritage in collaboration with The Clevedon Pier and Heritage Trust, and Hastings Pier. This led to
the Clevedon Pier developing their visitor centre with new methods for enriching local communities’
lives through storytelling and use of digital tools, increasing their youth audience engagement.

4.3. Sustainability of our disciplines, interdisciplinarity, and responsiveness to priorities
Staff contribute to the sustainability of our disciplines through leadership of professional
associations, learned societies and research networks nationally and internationally. Supported by
our COREs, our research is also interdisciplinary, working across disciplines and communities of
practices, enabling us to respond to national and international priorities through disciplinary
expertise and interdisciplinary understanding.

4.3.1. Sustainability of disciplines in key areas
Mediated environments: Doyle has prioritised climate and environmental issues within media
and communication research agendas at both national and international levels through
membership of the International Association of Media and Communications Research (IAMCR)
inaugural Environmental Impact Committee (2013 – 2019), as invited Co-Judge of its inaugural
Climate Communication Research Award (2015), and nationally as Co-Chair of MeCCSA Climate
Change Network (2014 –).

Screen heritage and screen cultures: Gray has advanced screen heritage through his role as
Chair of Film Archives UK (2012 – 2018), member of the British Film Institute’s national Steering
Group for film audience development (2013 – 2017) and of the Regional & National Archive
Committee (2012 –). Prieto-Blanco makes strategic contributions to visual communication
research in the European Communication Research Education Association (ECREA) as young
scholar representative for the Visual Culture Working Group (2016-19), and as Steering Group
member (2016 –). Prieto-Blanco is also Technology Advisor for the International Visual Sociology
Association (2020 –).

Digital Communication: Fotopoulou served as young scholar representative (2012 – 2014), Vice
Chair (2014 – 2016) and Chair (2016 – 2018) of the Digital Culture and Communication Section of
ECREA, and holds advisory positions on the Royal Society Data group, and the Steering Group for
Arts, Health & Wellbeing of Public Health-Brighton Council.


                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Literary studies: Wrighton is Advisory Council Member (2017 –) for the Institute of English
Studies. Connell was a founding member (2016) and inaugural (elected) committee member
(2016 – 2018) of the British Association of Contemporary Literary Studies (BACLS) and Judge for
the BACLS 'best edited collection' prize 2018.

4.3.2. Interdisciplinarity and responsiveness to priorities
Our COREs provide strategic support for interdisciplinary research around key themes and
challenges, building collaborative partnerships and communities of practices. Our interdisciplinarity
enables us respond to national and international funding and industry priorities, illustrated by the
following digital humanities exemplars:

Behrendt’s AHRC project (2019), Creative and Industry Approaches to Mobility in the Age of the
Internet of Things, Blockchain and Data, responded to three challenges in the UK Industrial
Strategy: 'Growing the AI & Data-Driven Economy', 'The Future of Mobility', and the 'Shift to Clean
Growth'. Analysing industry case studies and creative arts engagements with transport, its
interdisciplinary approach provided a media-focussed framework for mobility innovation.

Fotopoulou’s AHRC leadership project (2019 – 2021) ART/DATA/HEALTH responds to key
challenges around data inclusion through an interdisciplinary approach that brings together data
science with art practice. Working with different governmental, health and charity groups (eg NHS
Brighton and Hove Clinical Commissioning Group, RISE domestic abuse charity), it will offer
disadvantaged groups and the public new tools for digital skills and health literacy.

4.4. Wider influence, contributions to and recognition by our disciplines
Staff make contributions and are recognised by our disciplines in the following ways:

Journal editorship, grant committees: During the census period, 16 staff have been editorial
board members (one as Associate Editor) for 21 journals and 2 book series; and 6 staff are editors
for book series. Staff across all career levels review for over 60 journals, 20 book publishers and
12 national and international funding bodies. Our staff are members of Peer Review Colleges for
the AHRC (6), ESRC (2) and European Science Foundation (1).

Invited Advisory Boards: We advise on funded projects and reports. Doyle was expert reviewer
for Nuffield Council on Bioethics, Cosmetic Procedures: Ethical Issues, Guidelines for Policy and
Practice (2017), and Co-Judge for the Getty Images ‘Climate Visuals’ international photography
grant competition (2020). Prieto-Blanco is International Advisory Board Member for ‘What's in the
App?’ Jyväskylä University, Academy of Finland (2018 – 2022). Hearsum was Steering Committee
Member for AHRC Fifty Years of British Music Video (2015 – 2018) and Doyle was an Expert
Advisory Board Member, Brighton & Hove Council Climate Change Citizen’s Assembly (2020).

Visiting Fellows: Invitations as Visiting Fellows enable international links with other institutions.
Visits include Prieto-Blanco at Jyväskylä University (2019); Fotopoulou at University of Bergen
(2019); Jordan-Baker is a Lifetime Residency Holder (2016 – ongoing) at Tyrone Guthrie Centre,
a residential workplace and residency programme in Ireland for artists. Staff use sabbaticals to
develop their research at other institutions: Jenzen worked on digital activism and sexualities at
Centre on Social Movement Studies, Scuola Normale Superiore Florence (2018); Margree worked
at the University of Passau, Germany (2018), designing an undergraduate course on ‘Victorian
Women’s Short Fiction’, which informed the monograph British Women’s Short Supernatural
Fiction, 1860-1930 (2019).

Keynotes and conference chair roles: High profile international keynotes include: Margree’s
work on Shulamith Firestone, at the City of Women Festival in Ljubljana, Slovenia (2019); Foxcroft
on Malcolm Lowry and the Interconnectedness of East-West Cultures and Civilizations at XXII
Malcolm Lowry International Colloquium, Lisbon, Portugal (2019); Doyle on Climate change
imagery and science communication, Conference on Climate Change Research, National
Autonomous University of Mexico (2015). Doyle was Invited Conference Co-Chair, with Maxwell T.
                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Boykoff (University of Colorado Boulder), for Conference on Communication and Environment,
University of Colorado Boulder, USA (2015). Their leadership expanded the disciplinary
perspectives of the environmental communication field to include artists as participants and
exhibitors, now a regular feature of this biennial conference.

Awards: Mousoutzanis’ monograph, Fin de Siecle Fictions, was awarded the Science Fiction and
Technoculture book prize (2014), by the University of California Riverside. Prieto Blanco won the
International Visual Sociology Association Rieger Award 2018 for exceptional work in visual
sociology.

External PhD Examination: 16 staff have examined at 22 different universities, both nationally
and internationally. These include: University of Copenhagen (Connell), University of
Johannesburg (Connell), University of KwaZulu-Natal (Kirkland), University of Auckland
(Kirkland), Murdoch University (Brecher) University of Rouen (Carpenter-Latiri), University of
Paris (Carpenter-Latiri), Queensland University of Technology (Hearsum), University of Oxford
(Madden).

Collaboration in the development of doctoral training: Collaborative training has been a
feature of our participation in 4 DTPs (see 2.7). In 2014 – 2015, we were funded under the AHRC
Collaborative Skills Development Scheme in collaboration with Royal Holloway to work with
doctoral students and ECRs from the partner universities to develop new skills for working with
historical objects, artefacts, performances, live events and recordings. Building on this experience,
we led a technē DTP project to develop online resources for research students across the arts and
humanities. The outcome is a series of films that capture the points of view of students at key
milestones in their journey (published on technē website, 2020).

Summary

This submission has demonstrated a significant and strategic expansion of interdisciplinary
research in media, communication and cultural studies at UoB since REF2014, enabled by
University investments in new staff, a new sustainable research infrastructure based on 5 new
COREs, significant successes in Doctoral Training Partnerships, substantial increases in PGR
completions, and a diverse research income portfolio. Through individual scholarship and
extensive collaborative partnerships with industry, civil sector and community stakeholders at the
local, national and international level, we have empowered marginalised communities, produced
new forms of cultural meaning and storytelling, enabled technological innovation and big data use
in SMEs, and shaped inclusive organisational and policy practices. As we look ahead, we are well
placed to respond to the challenges of a (post) COVID-19 world that has seen the intensification of
digital technologies and screen-based media use, a widening of social inequities, and the
acceleration of environmental degradation. Through our critical and creative cultural,
communication and media research, we will continue to advance understanding, and provide new
narratives and practices for more equitable and sustainable futures.




                                                                                             Page 19
