Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of South Wales

Unit of assessment: D28 History

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Context and Structure
History has been taught at the University of South Wales (USW) and its predecessors since
the 1970s. The formation of USW, through the merger of the University of Glamorgan and the
University of Wales Newport in 2013, brought together two institutions with significant research
traditions.


The History Unit of Assessment (UoA) has 7.0 FTE staff, six of whom (Atherton, Croll,
Durrant, Evans, Hill, and Lock-Lewis) map directly on to the History Division teaching unit. A
seventh member of the UoA, Finucane, Academic Subject Manager for the Humanities since
2017, is an early modern historian who remains research active. The UoA also has two
Professors Emeriti, Gray and Williams, who are a source of sage advice and mentorship to
younger colleagues. Indeed, Gray, who maintains particularly close contact with her former
colleagues, leads one of the UoA’s Impact Case Studies. Restructuring within the Faculty of
Business and Society, in which History then sat, led to the departure of some experienced
members of staff in 2017. The appointment of two new lecturers (Atherton and Hill) in 2019,
however, makes for a more balanced age profile within the History team.


Temporally, USW historians research the world since 1450. Spatially, they write upon These
Islands, continental Europe, the Atlantic World, and aspects of global history. Historians in the
UoA are also involved in inter-disciplinary centres, notably the Centre for Gender Studies in
Wales (where Lock-Lewis is co-director) and the Centre for the Study of Media and Culture in
Small Nations (where Hill has assumed a leadership role).


Successive University-wide restructurings have seen History within a Humanities and Social
Sciences Research Institute (2013-2016) and then a Humanities Research Institute (2016-17),
both under the aegis of the Faculty of Business and Society. Since 1 August 2020, however,
History has been part of the School of Design and Digital in the Faculty of Creative Industries,
and enjoys close links with the English Division, which facilitates regular research
collaborations – particularly through the Centre for Gender Studies. Within History, research
governance is the responsibility of the UoA leader Evans, who sits on the USW REF Working
Group and Faculty Research Committee.



                                                                                             1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Research and Impact Strategy
The UoA’s five main Aims over the period 2014-2020 have been:
    1. To support outstanding individual research, recognising that the small size of the
       History team can inhibit meaningful collaborative work within USW.
    2. To encourage engagement with networks beyond USW that can leverage colleagues’
       research effectively.
    3. To forge links with cultural institutions beyond USW in order to raise the profile and
       extend the reach of the UoA’s research.
    4. To invest in research that will deliver impact beyond the academy.
    5. To support a number of postgraduate researchers appropriate to the size of the
       teaching team and to ensure that achieving a postgraduate qualification is an opening
       in the profession rather than an end point.


Despite much time being lost to structural reorganization in 2013-14, 2017 and 2019-20, and
some shrinkage in the teaching team, substantial progress has been made in meeting each of
the five Aims.


    1. USW historians have published critically acclaimed monographs with front-rank
       academic publishers (such as The Johns Hopkins University Press) and reported on
       their research in world-leading journals (such as Past & Present). Judicious application
       of the Academic Workload Model and the deployment of QR money to buy-out time for
       ambitious researchers has led to high-quality publications.
    2. UoA historians have been centrally involved in academic networks locally, nationally
       and globally. Some have been formal and well-established scholarly bodies, such as
       the Ecclesiastical History Society, of which Atherton is a committee member. Others
       have been more recently established bodies that seek to bridge the scholarly-activist
       divide, such as Our Chartist Heritage, which Lock-Lewis convenes. Other networks
       have a more ad hoc quality, such as the network of scholars researching the early
       modern copper industry in Europe, with which Evans is affiliated.
    3. UoA Historians have taken advantage of closer links with institutions such as the
       National Museum of Wales (with which USW signed a Memorandum of Understanding
       in 2018) to establish research partnerships with curatorial staff. One of the UoA’s REF
       2021 impact case studies – “Wales and Atlantic Slavery: redressing historical amnesia”
       – has drawn heavily on the Museum’s resources and will inform the Museum’s
       treatment of slavery and Black History.



                                                                                                2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    4. To maximise impact, History at USW, in conjunction with English, used QR funding to
        appoint a Research Development Advisor (2015-16) and an Impact Research Assistant
        (from 2018). Impact planning has been embedded into the planning process for all new
        research projects.
    5. Nine research degrees (PhD, MPhil, MRes) have been awarded – an increase on the
        number awarded in the previous REF cycle – with several of the successful candidates
        progressing to research posts within USW or at other institutions.


The success of our research strategy is evidenced by the fact that over the current assessment
period members of the UoA have published four single-authored books, three edited volumes,
24 refereed journal articles, and 14 book chapters, together with a host of shorter contributions,
blog pieces and journalism.


Future Plans
The UoA’s Aims for the future (2021-2030) are:
    1. To enhance postgraduate provision through the development of a MA in Public History
        and by contributing to allied programmes, such as the cross-faculty MSc Global
        Governance.
    2. To ensure that appropriate support is available to staff at all career stages, especially
        staff with relatively recent PhDs.
    3. To prioritise applications to UKRI and other front-rank funders.
    4. To cement closer links with the heritage sector in Wales and beyond.
    5. To strengthen the UoA’s advisory capacity, linking to the Welsh Government, NGOs,
        and charities.


 The fulfilment of many of these aims is already underway. Our PGR community continues to
 grow (Aim 1), with fourteen students registered for the 2020-2021 session (two for PhD, twelve
 for MA by Research). Almost all of them are the product of our undergraduate programme and
 are overwhelmingly drawn from the communities we serve in the economically disadvantaged
 South Wales valleys. They are testimony to the energy that historians at USW devote to
 nurturing research ability in students who are often the first of their family to attend university.
 We have also become more self-consciously ambitious in our approach to funding (Aim 3). It is
 an approach that is already bearing fruit. In 2021, Hill will take up an AHRC Early Fellowship
 on Nuclear imperialism and the British Empire in the 1950s and 1960s. Meanwhile, Evans is
the principal investigator in a funding application to the AHRC’s Towards a National Collection
programme. The £3.5 million bid is a collaboration with the British Library, English Heritage,



                                                                                                  3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Historic England, Historic Environment Scotland, National Museums Liverpool, the National
Trust, and Tate.


Our advisory capacity (Aim 5) has been significantly enhanced and will continue to be
enhanced in the period to come (see below, Section 4).


Section 2. People


Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
All UoA historians hold PhDs and all are research active. As outlined in the institutional level
statement (REF 5a), the USW Academic Workload Model ensures that staff with significant
responsibility for research (SRR) have 20 per cent of their time protected for research. From
2018-2019, professors have had 30 per cent of their time protected. The UoA leader (Evans)
is allocated additional time within the workload model for research leadership. In addition,
timetabling is managed to allow one clear day for research per week and, when appropriate, to
allow for ‘light’ teaching terms. There is no sabbatical scheme. Research is a key element of
USW’s Development and Performance Review Scheme which includes an annual review in
June-September and a mid-point review in January-February. In addition, the UoA leader
meets regularly with unit members and offers individual mentoring where appropriate. A strong
research portfolio and the ability to develop research leadership is a requirement of all new
appointments to the History Division.


 Research Students
 The UoA’s postgraduate community is not large in absolute numbers, but it is substantial in
 relative terms. Moreover, it is conspicuously diverse in its interests and remarkable for its
 energy. The topics of recent postgraduate students include Iron Age landscapes, early modern
 medicine, the Poor Law in nineteenth-century Wales, and film and the Left in twentieth-century
Britain.


History postgraduates are integrated into our research culture as fully as possible. They are
 encouraged to present papers at the University’s annual postgraduate conference and at
 internal seminars, as well as at external fora. Students can apply for conference funding (up to
 £1000) via the University’s Graduate School.


Support mechanisms for postgraduate students have been made more robust, in part through
the introduction of ‘PhD Manager’ (a postgraduate research management system), and the



                                                                                                 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

establishment of a new Graduate School (see Section 3). The Graduate School runs Induction
workshops and a research skills training programme which is mapped on to Vitae’s
Researcher Development Framework. The programme includes sessions on academic writing,
literature review, social media skills for researchers, employability, public speaking and
engagement, online skills, the transfer report, and the viva. The Graduate School also runs an
annual postgraduate conference. Each student’s supervisory team is required to provide an
annual report on their progress. The new procedure for transfer from MPhil to PhD, which
includes a viva (usually with an external examiner), introduced during the last audit period, has
now bedded in.


Equality and Diversity
The UoA is fully committed to the principles of Equality and Diversity (E&D) which are
supported by the University – as detailed in the institution-level statement. USW holds an
Athena SWAN Institutional Bronze Award and became a Stonewall Champion in 2016. In 2020
the University rose 19 places to 24th in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index and was
named a Top Trans Employer. Ray Vincent, convenor and founder of Spectrum, USW’s
LGBT+ Staff Network, was celebrated as Stonewall’s Gay Role Model of the Year in 2019.
Calls to ‘decolonise’ the curriculum have been eagerly supported by UoA members, with Hill
taking a leading role on a University-wide commission seeking to link decolonial research to
new pedagogical practices. Mention must also be made of the ‘Women in Academia’
development programme set up at USW in 2014 to raise the profile of women academics.
Lock-Lewis has been a contributor to and beneficiary of this scheme. Promotion opportunities
and research support are equally available to part-time and full-time staff. More broadly, the
UoA’s research contributes to debates and awareness around gender and diversity particularly
through the Centre for Gender Studies, the contribution of Lock-Lewis to the Women’s
 Archive Wales, the work of Hill on British imperialism in the twentieth century, and the
 research of Evans on slavery and race in the Atlantic World. The wider importance of Evans’
research has been recognised in his appointment in June 2020 to a Welsh Government ‘task
 and finish’ group to conduct an Audit of Public Monuments, Street and Building Names
associated with Atlantic Slavery.


Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Income
The UoA has generated £82,125 in income in the period 2013-20. This is drawn from major
overseas funders (Riksbankens Jubileumsfond in Sweden) and from scholarly funds in the UK



                                                                                             5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

(the Pasold Research Fund and the Economic History Society). USW historians have also won
several stipendiary fellowships at research institutions in the United States worth US$8,400.


UoA historians have also contributed indirectly to important funding initiatives. Lock-Lewis, for
example, was a member of the steering committee that developed a Gwent Archives bid for
Wellcome Trust funding to catalogue Monmouthshire hospital records from the age of Aneurin
Bevan. The project that Lock-Lewis helped design – ‘From a “Penny in the Pound” to “Free at
the Point of Delivery”: Cataloguing the pre- and post-1948 hospital records of Monmouthshire’
– was awarded £38,729 in 2018.


Infrastructure and Facilities
Research at USW is supported by the Research and Innovation Services (RISe) team. The
UoA has benefitted from major developments in the University’s research infrastructure and
facilities spearheaded by RISe during this period. The opening of the new Graduate School in
December 2018 brings postgraduate researchers together into one interdisciplinary community
and enhances the development opportunities available to them. Research students already
benefit from access to the Postgraduate Centre in Ty Crawshay which provides a social
learning space, meeting ‘pods’ and access to networked PCs, email, phone, photocopiers, etc.
Within the Faculty, full-time postgraduate researchers are supplied with shared offices,
including computer facilities, while part-time students can hot-desk in a shared room. The
introduction of PhD Manager software has streamlined administration and record-keeping for
both PhD and MPhil students.


In addition, RISe has supported the UoA’s prioritisation of Impact activities, building on
 History’s tradition of public engagement and our strong links with local communities, creative
 industries, museums, art galleries, voluntary organisations, and the media. As well as its
 programme of Impact Masterclasses and lunchtime workshops, the Research Impact Team
 has run bespoke sessions specifically for the UoA.


 The UoA issues a regular research bulletin to key individuals with the Faculty and the
 Research and Innovation Services team. The UoA also organises a variety of events designed
 to build an internal research culture at USW: bid-writing workshops, “Shut Up and Write!”
 sessions, PechaKucha research-sharing seminars, etc.




                                                                                              6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
The UoA has drawn on a range of established and newly flourishing research collaborations
during the assessment period. Our partners range from the Welsh Government to the Anglican
Church in Wales, from the National Museum of Wales to local heritage organisations, and from
professional bodies to activist community groups. Many of these connections are manifested in
our Impact Case Studies. ‘Using Research on Medieval Pilgrimage to Boost Faith Tourism in
Wales’, for example, involved working with Christian churches (the Anglican dioceses of
Llandaff and Monmouth and the Roman Catholic diocese of Cardiff), tourist agencies (Visit
Wales, formerly the Welsh Tourist Board), charities (the National Churches Trust in Wales),
and recreational groups (Ramblers Cymru). The outcome was that the UoA played a central
role in design of the Welsh Government’s Faith Tourism Plan for Wales. Our other Impact
Case Study, ‘Wales and Atlantic Slavery: redressing historical amnesia’, led to cooperation
with curatorial staff at the National Museum of Wales, close work with HLF-supported
community groups, and a pivotal role in the Welsh Government’s response to the Black Lives
Matter movement in the wake of George Floyd’s murder in May 2020 for the Impact Case
Study leader.


Activities and Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society
Members of the UoA contribute to the research base, economy and society through a range of
events, organisations and activities, both nationally and internationally.


USW historians have served the profession in various ways - as officers, as committee
members, as editorial board members, or as trustees of a range of scholarly bodies, including:
       Army Records Society
       Church Monuments Society
       Ecclesiastical History Society
       European Reformation Research Group
       Glamorgan-Gwent Archaeological Trust
       Historical Metallurgy Society
       History of Universities (an Oxford University Press yearbook)
       Twentieth Century Communism: A Journal of International History (Lawrence &
        Wishart)
       Welsh Government Advisory Panel on Medieval Welsh Stone Sculpture
       West of England & South Wales Women’s History Network



                                                                                            7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         The International Newsletter of Communist Studies (Institute for Social Movements,
          Ruhr University Bochum)
UoA historians also manage important scholarly resources. Durrant, for example, edits the
internationally acclaimed Witchcraft Bibliography Online.


History also co-hosts, with colleagues in English, the Centre for Gender Studies in Wales. The
 Centre provides a focus within USW for multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research in
 gender generally and in relation to Welsh history, culture and society specifically. The Centre
 hosts the annual Ursula Masson Memorial Lecture, a showpiece event sponsored by the
 Women’s Archive Wales/Archif Menywod Cymru. The Centre regularly hosts conferences and
 seminars. Its tenth anniversary celebration was held on International Women’s Day 2018 at the
 Senedd (National Assembly of Wales) on the theme ‘Women’s Activism: Past and present’,
 marking the centenary of women’s partial suffrage. Other notable recent events include the
 2019 seminar co-hosted with the USW Spectrum/LGBT+ Staff network featuring the historian
 and heritage consultant Norena Shopland talking about the hidden history of LGBT people in
 Wales.


 Organisation of conferences and scholarly encounters:
    Atherton is the annual conference convener for the Society for Reformation Studies (from
     2020)
    Lock-Lewis has co-convened the annual Chartist Convention in Newport throughout the
     assessment period
    Evans convened ‘Clothing the Enslaved in the Eighteenth-Century Atlantic World’, National
     Museum of Wales, with sponsorship from the Pasold Research Fund (2019)
    Hill convened a workshop on the Peace Pledge Union for the AHRC-funded project Voices
     of War and Peace: The Great War and its Legacy (2018)
    Evans convened ‘Global Copper: Mining, Smelting, Minting, and Manufacturing from the
     Baroque to the Modern’, a panel at the 18th World Economic History Congress, Boston,
     USA (2018)
    Evans co-convened ‘Diverse History’, a regional symposium of the Royal Historical Society
     at the University of South Wales (2018)
    Evans convened ‘Copper from the Baroque to the Modern’, The National Waterfront
     Museum, Swansea (2017)
    Finucane co-convened ‘Representing the Tudors: an interdisciplinary conference’,
     University of South Wales (2015)




                                                                                              8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

•   Evans co-convened ‘Materials making modernity’, a panel at the 14th International
    Congress for Eighteenth-Century Studies, Rotterdam, The Netherlands (2015)


Editorial positions:
USW’s historians have contributed to the editing of journals and yearbooks: Historical
Metallurgy, History of Universities, and Witchcraft Bibliography Online.


Refereeing/reviewing for academic publications or research proposals: members of the
UoA have provided peer reviews for a wide range of publications and bodies including:
    •   Reviewing for journals: H-Slavery, Itinerario, the Journal of Southern History,
        Morgannwg: Journal of Glamorgan History, Midlands History, the Mining History
        Journal, Quaker Studies, Social History, and Technology & Culture
    •   Refereeing for journals: Agricultural History Review, the Canadian Journal of Law and
        Society, Contemporary British History, Economic History Review, The Extractive
        Industries and Society, Genealogy, History Compass, History of Science, the Island
        Studies Journal, the Journal of British Studies, the Journal of Contemporary History, the
        Journal of Global History, the Journal of Global Slavery, Open Library of Humanities,
        and the Transactions of the Honourable Society of Cymmrodorion.
    •   Publishers: Bloomsbury Academic, Edinburgh University Press, Liverpool University
        Press, Oxford University Press, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge and the University of
        Wales Press
    •   Funding bodies: L’Institut d’études avancées de Paris, Israel Science Foundation, and
        the Welsh Books Council


 External Examining and HEI Consultancy:
 UoA historians have examined postgraduate dissertations at the universities of Birmingham,
 Cardiff, Kent, Portsmouth, St Andrews, and Sheffield. Evans was an assessor for professorial
 promotion at Montana State University (2016).


 Honours, fellowships and prizes awarded to staff:
 UoA historians have been awarded the following competitive fellowships:
    •   Evans: E. Geoffrey and Elizabeth Thayer Verney Fellowship, Nantucket Historical
        Association (2019)
    •   Evans: Marie L. and William R. Hartland Fellowship, The John Carter Brown Library,
        Brown University (2016)
    •   Evans: Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Fellowship, The Huntington Library (2016)


                                                                                            9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

They have also been awarded the following prizes:
    •   Evans: the Best Article Prize 2019 of the Forum on European Expansion and Global
        Interaction for his article ‘”Voyage iron”: an Atlantic slave trade currency, its European
        origins, and West African impact’, Past & Present, 239 (2018), 41-70
    •   Evans: the 2016 Douglass Adair Memorial Award of the Omohundro Institute of Early
        American History and Culture for his article ‘The plantation hoe: the rise and fall of an
        Atlantic commodity’, The William and Mary Quarterly, 69: 1 (2012), 71-100
    •   Evans: the 2014 Abbot Payson Usher Prize by the Society for the History of
        Technology for his article ‘An Enlightenment in steel? Innovation in the steel trades of
        eighteenth-century Britain’, Technology & Culture, 53: 3 (2012), 533-560




                                                                                              10
