Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 13 Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and structure
Architecture, Built Environment and Planning research at UWE is carried out by a large
interdisciplinary research grouping with some sixty-eight staff, external grant-funded research
income averaging £2m per annum over the REF period and a vibrant culture of collaborative,
challenge-based research with impact.

Research activity submitted under Unit 13 is focused in five University Research Centres:
   Air Quality Management
   Transport and Society
   Water, Communities and Resilience
   Sustainable Planning and Environments
   Architecture and the Built Environment

The five Centres mainly map onto the Department of Architecture and the Built Environment (ABE)
and the Department of Geography and Environmental Management (GEM) in the University’s
Faculty of Environment and Technology. Distinctive in focus, the five Research Centres share a
common commitment to the holistic, collaborative and interdisciplinary approach needed to
understand, transform and manage our built and natural environments to meet the challenges of
the 21st Century.

Air Quality Management Resource Centre (AQMRC)
Professor Hayes (Director), Professor Longhurst, Barnes, De Vito, Willams, B.
The Air Quality Management Resource Centre operates at the interface between air quality science
and policy, concentrating on the experiences and challenges of stakeholders and practitioners in
the field of air quality and carbon management. Research addresses air quality management, the
policy context and the development of tools to enhance AQM and outcomes. Under the theme of air
pollution and citizens (Hayes, Barnes, De Vito), the focus is on relationships between air pollution,
health and social-economic status to address impacts on citizen health and well-being alongside
more equitable policy implementation. Shifting from a techno-centric narrative around AQM to a
more citizen-focused, social-practice approach creates a new awareness of the role of citizen
behaviour in the generation of air pollution, giving citizens greater ownership and advocacy around
pollution challenges and solutions (Hayes, Chatterton, Longhurst). AQMRC promotes a public
health-led approach to air quality management, identifying the impact of citizen behaviour on
reaching our carbon reduction commitments and generating independent advice for cities on
climate mitigation and adaptation (Longhurst, De Vito). Other work has focused on improved
understanding of emerging pollutants such as ammonia and bioaerosols (Hayes, Williams) to
advice on better regulation for public health and ecosystem protection for regulatory authorities
such as the Environment Agency (EA).

Centre for Transport and Society (CTS)
Professor Parkhurst (Director), Professor Lyons, Professor Parkin, Chatterjee, Clark, Clayton,
Crawford, Jain, Melia, Paddeu, Ricci, Shergold.
The Centre for Transport and Society is one of the largest transport research centres in the UK,
recognised internationally as a centre of excellence on mobility, travel behaviour, transport policy
analysis and technological change in the transport sector. The Centre aims to improve and promote
understanding of linkages between lifestyles and personal travel in the context of social, political
and technological change. CTS is at the forefront, globally, of critical assessments of societal
change, technology and mobility futures (Chatterjee, Lyons, Paddeu), influencing both research
and policy agendas. As the transport system evolves, CTS contributes to new understandings of
the social impacts of transport and mobility for different population groups (Chatterjee, Clayton,

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Jain, Lyons, Parkhurst, Shergold). Through projects funded by ESRC, CTS has continued to
advance understanding of travel behaviour, lifestyles and the life course and in particular has
developed new theoretical perspectives and evidence on behavioural change (Chatterjee, Clark,
Crawford, Jain). CTS has collaborated with public sector, third sector and industry partners to trial
and evaluate sustainable mobility policies and solutions (Clayton, Melia, Parkhurst, Parkin,
Ricci). Over the REF period, it has also evolved its research remit for transport infrastructure and
design and has increasingly contributed to safer road design for cycle traffic, while also looking
ahead to future road use with an expanding portfolio of collaborative projects on the design of
Connected Autonomous Vehicles.

The Centre for Water, Communities and Resilience (CWCR)
Professor McEwen (Director), Professor Staddon, Bell, Chatzirodou, Cole, Everard, Gopinath,
Horswell, Mol, Mourne, Quinn, Wanke, Williams S-J.
The Centre for Water, Communities and Resilience promotes world class, interdisciplinary research
into extreme weather and water risk, vulnerabilities and what makes communities resilient. Its
distinctiveness lies in an innovative interdisciplinarity, strong community focus and creative
participatory methods for co-production with diverse stakeholders. CWCR explores research at the
intersections of four themes: i) security, policy and governance, ii) water/earth science and
engineering, iii) community/stakeholder development, vulnerability and resilience, and iv)
representation, perception and behaviour. Research has delivered new conceptual framings, new
understandings of evidence to support decision-making and creative tools for knowledge exchange.
The two main strands of work are; i) community resilience to changing and extreme weather risk,
particularly floods and drought, critical infrastructure and extreme weather events (McEwen,
Quinn, Horswell, Mol, Bell, Williams, Gopinath), and ii), the impacts of household water
insecurity on human well-being and ecosystems, including gendered impacts of water insecurity,
sustainable off-grid drinking water in the Global South, community-based groundwater and
rainwater harvesting, and data-driven approaches to water demand management (Staddon,
Everard, Wanke, Chatzirodou, Cole).

Centre for Sustainable Planning and Environments (SPE)
Sinnett (Director), Professor Boddy, Professor Atkinson, Buser, Foroughmand Araabi, Hall,
Hickman, Hoyle, Ludlow, McClymont, Tallon.
The Centre for Sustainable Planning and Environments aims to develop understanding of how to
achieve places that are environmentally sustainable, socially just and economically competitive.
Research themes include; planning theory, policy and practice; sustainable urban environments;
governance of place; and smart cities. SPE is also home to the cross-faculty World Health
Organisation-accredited Collaborating Centre for Healthy Urban Environments. This coordinates
work under the cross-cutting themes of healthy urban environments and has members from
disciplines across the University. SPE has a portfolio of funding from sources including UKRI,
European Commission, Innovate UK and Wellcome Trust. It contributes directly to planning policy
and practice, including for the Royal Town Planning Institute, National Infrastructure Commission,
Power to Change, CPRE (formerly Campaign to Protect Rural England) and Public Health England
(PHE). Research has focused on contemporary issues in planning including soft densification,
cemetery planning, green infrastructure, community-led housing, informal development, urban
regeneration, European spatial policy and the quality of place (Hickman, McClymont, Sheppard,
Sinnett, Foroughmand Araabi, Ludlow, Atkinson). SPE research on governance of place has
focused on strategic planning, governance and localism (Hickman, Boddy, Hall), and on
communities engaged in cultural and environmental activism (Hall, Buser, Atkinson).

Centre for Architecture and Built Environment Research (CABER)
Professor Lamond (Co-Director) Professor Mahdjoubi (Co-Director) Professor Gething, Professor
Olomolaiye, Adkins, Appleby, Archila-Santos, Badarnah, Booth, Burch, Chatzimichali, Deza,
Dragojlovic-Oliveira, Everett, Lavaf Pour, Mahamadu, Mason, Mawle, Organ, Rice, Sierra-
Fanlo, Tahsiri.
The Centre for Architecture and Built Environment Research seeks to develop innovative
approaches, procedures, and technologies that support the design, construction and management
of buildings, their fabric and their environmental settings. In digital design and construction research

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
it has examined the processes and competencies associated with implementing digital technologies
in construction (ontology, competency) (Mahdjoubi, Mahamadu), the development of digital tools
to improve health and safety in construction, and the application of digital technology in emergency
planning, heritage buildings and the process of digital design (Mahamadu, Tahsiri, Chatzimichali).
Research on transforming real estate in a changing world incorporates adaptation to climate
change and climate hazards (Lamond, Booth, Everett, Organ) and emerging social and political
changes; the impact of Brexit and environmental legislation on marine real estate and fisheries
(Appleby); valuation and infrastructure development in Sub-Saharan Africa (Lamond, Booth); and
the evolution of digital retail and work (Mason, Lamond). Research in sustainable design and
performance has focused on energy efficiency and overheating in buildings in the UK and overseas
(Gething, Dragojlovic-Oliveira, Adkins, Sierra-Fanlo, Deza), and sustainable building materials
and eco-design (Archila-Santos, Badarnah, Lavaf Pour). The Centre has a developing theme of
place and society that explores the user perspective encapsulating social meaning of architectural
space, participation in design and buildings in context, and social responsibility (Rice, Everett,
Mawle, Burch).

Research and impact strategy
Strategic objectives for the current REF period were set out in the 2014 submission and were
framed by the UWE Research Strategy 2020. Similarly, future strategy is framed by Transforming
Futures: UWE Research Strategy 2030 launched in 2020 (see Institutional-level Statement).
Key objectives for the current assessment period, as set out in the 2014 REF submission, are
summarised here along with evidence of achievement against the objectives.

    To continue to invest in, and develop, our internationally excellent research in terms of
     outputs, impact and reputation.

External research income totalled £13.8M over the REF period, averaging nearly £2M per annum,
up from £1.6M over the previous REF period. Indicative of quality and breadth, 33% of external
research income was secured from across four different Research Councils (up from 26% in the
previous REF period). The number of staff whose work has been submitted in this Unit increased
from 30.7 fte in REF 2014 to 64.7 fte, focused across the five Research Centres. In part this reflects
the integration and increasing alignment of air quality and water research within UoA 13 (returned
to UoA 17, Geography, Environmental Studies and Archaeology, in 2014,13 ftes) but for the most
part (at least 20 ftes) reflects an increase in the numbers of research active staff in the Unit. Unit
members produced nearly 700 refereed journal articles, just under 100 commissioned reports, 44
books and over 120 book chapters within the assessment period.

Since 2014, there has been an increasing volume of impactful research activity and outputs
focused across all five core research centres. Work on floods, water and drought was brought
together in the Centre for Water, Communities and Resilience (CWCR) in 2018. The Centre for
Architecture and Built Environment Research (CABER) was established in 2016, evolving from the
former Centre for Construction and Property Research, integrating work on building design and
performance with delivery and management of the built environment. There was increasing
emphasis in the Centre for Sustainable Planning and Environments (SPE) on research on green
infrastructure, low-impact development and urban design and, in collaboration with the Faculty’s
Computer Science Research Centre, on smart cities. The Centre for Transport and Society’s (CTS)
research focused increasingly on the integration of engineering and behavioural approaches,
autonomous transport and safer road design. Work in the Air Quality Management Resource
Centre (AQMRC) expanded to focus on air quality and carbon policy, air pollution and citizens and
better regulation through public health approaches.

    To develop our multi-disciplinary and trans-disciplinary research by securing further external
     funding and supporting existing collaborations

Trans-disciplinarity is embedded in our thinking through a focus on cross-cutting built environment
themes, such as climate change, transport, and public health and through the focus of research in
multi-disciplinary centres. As detailed below (in section 3, Income), many of the Unit’s large scale,

                                                                                                 Page 3
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    collaborative projects involved multi-partner, cross-disciplinary research. Examples of such projects
    include: a £5M EU project on ‘Citizen Led Air Pollution Reduction in Cities’; a £3.3M NERC-funded
    project on ‘Developing a Drought Narrative Resource in a Multi-stakeholder Decision-Making Utility
    for Drought Risk Management (DRY); a £500k ESRC-funded ‘Driverless futures: Anticipatory
    governance for self-driving cars’ project; a £1.4M AHRC-funded ‘Hydrocitizenship’ project; and
    ESRC-funded projects in CTS and SPE on ‘Collective urban governance, innovation and creativity
    in the face of climate change’ (£223k) and on ‘Commuting and Well-being’ (£160k). Evidencing
    strong cross-disciplinary working, Centre members secured 36 UKRI grants from ESRC, NERC,
    EPSRC, AHRC and Innovate UK over the assessment period along with multiple EU awards.
    Centre members also secured internal awards for explicitly cross-disciplinary research through the
    Vice-Chancellor’s Challenge Fund. For example, Mahamadu collaborated with the Machine Vision
    Lab at UWE on ‘Consafe-VR - Measuring Construction Workers’ Visual Attention and Cognition
    using Virtual-Reality’ and Rice worked with colleagues in the Faculty of Arts, Creative Industries
    and Education (ACE) on the ‘Integration of Social Robots into School Settings for Children with
    Autism’.

       To improve the quality of our PhD provision by building on previous success achieved in
        improving the quality and quantity of PhD provision

    The Unit has placed increasing emphasis on the quality and timely completion of PGRs in the
    context of the University-wide Graduate School, along with increasing alignment of PhDs with
    existing centres of excellence and priority research themes. Reflecting this, annual doctoral
    completions increased from 2016/17 through to the end of the assessment period. Indicative of the
    Unit’s research quality, as demonstrated in REF 2014, it has co-led the University’s membership of
    the ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership with the Universities of Bath, Bristol, Exeter
    and Plymouth, and participates in the EPSRC-funded FARSCOPE Robotics DTP (joint with the
    University of Bristol). It has also secured increasing numbers of students through the International
    Water Security Network and increasing numbers of Partnership PhDs part-funded by external
    partners. Overall satisfaction in the latest Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) was
    93%, well into the top quartile (see section 2, below).

       To pursue a pro-active impact and advisory strategy, capitalising on our track record and
        existing reputation in this area.

    With research impact a key strategic goal for the Unit and the University as a whole, our pro-active
    approach is based on: securing follow-on funding for key projects; internal investment in impact
    activities; partnership and co-creation of impact with stakeholders; provision of expert advice and
    guidance; and targeted dissemination and communication aimed at research users and
    beneficiaries. The quality and scope of our achievement in terms of impact, advisory and policy
    work across different research themes is evidenced by the five impact case studies included in the
    submission, covering Transport Planning, Marine Environment Protection, Cycling Infrastructure,
    Flood Resilience and Green Infrastructure Planning. Other impact highlights beyond the case
    studies include CWCR’s role in a range of international projects aimed at providing safe water
    supply and sanitation for multiple agencies, AQMRC research impacting and informing government
    policy and mitigation across UK and European contexts, and work in SPE impacting UK policy on
    use of ‘brownfield’ land for housing and EU urban cohesion policy. Further, wide-ranging examples
    of impact and engagement are detailed in section 4.

       To drive business and public engagement, innovation and enterprise support, and the role of
        UWE as an ‘anchor institution’ in the city-region and beyond.

    As a locally embedded, civic university, we have strong links with local government, the Local
    Enterprise Partnership and a wide range of other regional organisations (see section 4). In this REF
    period, our long-standing associations in the field of Air Quality Management have extended into
    local planning (SPE), transport planning (CTS), energy (CABER) and water (CWCR). Research
    activity across the Unit drives extensive engagement with multiple partners through collaborative
    research, knowledge exchange and public engagement. Examples detailed in section 4 include

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
contributions to policy development in the Bristol city-region on climate change, air quality, mobility,
planning and local industrial strategy by AQMRC, SPE and CTS. The EU-Replicate project and
Clair City projects were carried out in close partnership with Bristol City Council. CTS has provided
critical evidence for the Council to take forward progressive policies in cycling infrastructure. AQM
researchers are working closely with Bristol City Council and South Gloucestershire Council to
enhance the policy and practice links between their research and local carbon management efforts.
Longhurst (AQMRC) is co-chair of the Bristol Advisory Committee on Climate Change (BACCC)
and is a significant contributor to Bristol's One City Climate Strategy. Two further Unit staff
(Clayton, Gething) support the BACCC. AQMRC staff also chair the South Gloucestershire
Climate Emergency University Advisory Group and provide technical advice and guidance on
strategies, plans and policies for carbon neutrality.

    To enhance our capacity to recruit and retain high quality staff, and to promote extensive
     employee engagement, career opportunities and job satisfaction.

As noted above, there has been significant growth in numbers of research-active staff whose work
has been returned in the Unit across all five Centres, more than doubling over the REF period.
Reflecting strongly the vitality and sustainability of the staff base, 40% of staff whose work is
featured are new to the University since 2014 and 31% are Early Career Researchers as defined
for REF purposes (see section 2.1 below). Reflecting a pro-active approach to career development
over the assessment period, three members of the Unit have been promoted to professorial roles,
nine to Associate Professor, nine members on research contracts have been promoted to Research
Fellow or Senior Research Fellow. Equality and inclusion across all five Centres are promoted by
pro-active leadership including three female and one BAME Centre Director.

Open environment
Activity across the Unit is fully aligned with the University’s statement on open research, and with
policy and practice on open access as set out in the Institution-level Statement. Data management
and associated software have been implemented in line with good research practice. Nearly a
thousand outputs produced across the five Research Centres have been made accessible via the
University’s Repository. Central funding supporting open access costs for UKRI projects, and
selected outputs from other research has been supplemented by additional faculty-level investment.
The University also has a growing number of gold open access agreements with publishers.

Research integrity
Unit activity is fully aligned with University culture and practice of research integrity set out in the
Institution-level Statement including compliance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity
and UWE’s Code of Good Research Conduct. Researchers are required to maintain a Research
Governance Record (RGR) for all projects to ensure that risks are identified and managed, and
support is given, for example, for managing sensitive and confidential research data. Ethics training
(on-line) is mandatory for all staff undertaking research or supervising PGR students with
completion centrally monitored. Ethics approval and support for good practice is provided for by the
Faculty Research Ethics Committee within a policy framework developed and overseen by the
University Research Ethics Committee. This is reflected in an equitable approach to the subject and
process of our research where we seek to work in partnership with external researchers and
research users. For example, the participatory methods favoured by all our Centres recognize the
validity and equity of the views of all research participants.

Future strategic aims and goals – Research Strategy 2030
Looking forwards, research strategy for the Unit is framed by the University mission adopted from
mid-2020 to:

   “… prioritise and grow internationally excellent and world-leading research with real-world
   impact, build on our strengths, prioritise challenge-based research, drive innovation and
   enterprise, and enhance the student experience” Transforming Futures: UWE Research Strategy
   2030


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We share the University ambition that:

  “… through our research, we will transform the future, advance knowledge, support sustainable
  economic growth and development, enhance social and cultural development, promote health
  and well-being, equality and diversity, and the quality of built and natural environments (ibid)

Building on the more detailed strategic priorities set out in the UWE Research Strategy 2030, our
future goals are to:
    Shape our ambition and reputation around the University’s Research Beacons, further
      strengthening alignment with priority themes by channelling investment in people
      (recruitment, training and opportunities) towards the four Beacon areas:
         1. Digital Futures - embedding digital technologies in the built environment and transport
             systems to improve lives in smart future cities but also to transform construction
             efficiency and safety (CABER, CTS, SPE);
         2. Health and Wellbeing – addressing ongoing health inequalities in cities, planning for
             access to clean water, air, green space and transport and healthy architecture (CTS,
             SPE, AQMRC, CABER, CWCR);
         3. Creative Industries and Technologies – research into design of new products and
             processes such as modular housing, and communication through design to engender
             equality and diversity in place (CABER, CTS);
         4. Sustainability and Climate Change Resilience – mitigation and adaptation research in
             energy and transport, land use and planning, regeneration and investment, water and
             flooding in the built environment, improved resilient infrastructure and social value
             (CWCR, CABER, SPE, CTS, AQMRC).
    Encourage and enable interdisciplinary approaches and contributions that combine to
      address effectively the key challenges of the future. We will collaborate across the institution
      to consolidate cross-disciplinary thinking under the Beacon themes. This will be enabled by
      cross-faculty working groups such as the Transforming Construction working group and the
      Climate Resilience working group.
    Achieve outstanding and far-reaching research impacts working with business, government,
      other stakeholders and communities. For example, building on recently completed RCUK-
      funded projects, the DRY project and Urban Flood Resilience project, follow-on work will
      target impact in water management, in collaboration with water companies, Defra and the EA.
      Findings from the EU-funded Clair City and Replicate projects will inform post-COVID
      transformations towards healthier and more breathable cities. Our recently formed partnership
      with the Health Foundation and Sustrans will mobilise the transport sector to ensure that the
      needs of young people are given due attention.
    Develop and support research that drives outstanding, research-enabled, learning and skills
      development. For example, we will continue to offer support based on our research expertise
      for professional partners in the development of training and guidance.
    Combine local focus and global reach across our research activities and impacts, working
      with world-leading partners and stakeholders in the UK and internationally. We will build on
      existing, and form new, strategic partnerships related to the challenges identified. We will
      deepen these partnerships to facilitate industry and society-led research agendas that lead to
      learning in partnership, relevant evidence-based knowledge and true impact through, for
      example, increasing the number of KTP projects and external secondments.
    Promote and support the development of postgraduate research and doctoral studies in
      support of our strategic research priorities. We will continue to align postgraduate research to
      our Centres, and increasingly to the Research Beacons, thereby increasing the involvement
      of PGRs in our wider research activities.
    Work to address the need for inclusion of groups and individuals under-represented across
      our research activities and to oppose discrimination in all its forms. We will aim to exceed
      UKRI expectations in this area. This will be achieved through increasing the visibility of our
      diverse community and the diversity of our research and by promoting open access and
      engagement via our web presence and social media. Members of the Unit will engage pro-
      actively with University governance including our new Pro Vice-Chancellor: Equalities and
      Civic Engagement (Olomolaiye).

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Section 2. People

Staffing strategy and development
Since REF 2014, there has been significant growth in research-active staff at all grades as a result
of our recruitment strategy and staff development. The Unit is submitting outputs and impact from
more than twice the number of FTE equivalent staff than in REF2014, up from 30.7 to 64.7 (68
heads). Strategies have included the appointment of lecturers with strong research track records
and potential, the appointment of research grade staff to an expanding volume of externally-funded
projects, and the appointment of Graduate Tutors under a faculty scheme to recruit to lecturing
roles that includes full support in time and fees to achieve a PhD, with the expectation of
progression to permanent academic contracts. Demonstrating vitality and sustainability for the
longer term, as noted above, almost 40% of staff whose work is submitted have been recruited
during this REF period, and some 31% of all staff with outputs submitted are Early Career
Researchers by the REF definition.

Overall responsibility for research staff recruitment and development strategy lies with the
Associate Dean (Research and Knowledge Exchange), supported by a Faculty Director of
Research and an Associate Head of Research (AHoD) in each department. These staff work
closely with the Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee that includes Centre
Directors and representatives of the Graduate School, research grade staff and PGR students.
Centre Directors input to staff development in collaboration with the relevant Head(s) of Department
and Human Resources.

The Unit has approximately 15 dedicated technical support staff who provide a range of services in
support of laboratory work, workshop manufacture, engineering design and fabrication,
procurement, graphics, reports and other media. The University and Faculty were founder
members, and have been fully committed to progressing, the national Technician Commitment (see
Institutional-level Statement). Support is also provided by the Research, Business and Innovation
unit’s range of services including bid preparation and costing, and post-award finance and contract
management.

Staffing investment is built into departmental business planning processes and discussed at
University annual planning meetings. Recruitment has increasingly targeted talented researchers at
early and mid-career stages that align with current and emerging research priorities.

The five Research Centres in the Unit provide the focus for growth in research capacity through
new staff appointments, including ECRs, new externally-funded projects and career development
opportunities. The University also support a number of 50:50 research and teaching positions
including Wallscourt Fellows, an institutional initiative to invest in areas of priority and strength.

At Centre level, CTS has maintained a vibrant cohort of 15-20 staff and postgraduate researchers
over the period. Parkin was appointed to a chair in Transport Engineering, ECRs (Crawford,
Paddeu) were appointed with expertise in data analytics and freight transportation and two
research staff (Clark, Clayton) were appointed to permanent appointments as Senior Lecturers.
CABER expanded in membership from 9 to 21, with Professors Mahdjoubi and Lamond appointed
as joint Directors and newly-appointed staff expanding disciplinary reach in; Building Information
Modelling (BIM) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) (Boguslawski, Deza); building physics, energy and
engineering (Dragojlovic-Oliveira, Sierra-Fanlo); and sustainable buildings through a new 50:50
Wallscourt fellow (Adkins). Two research grade staff secured permanent academic posts at UWE
(Sierra-Fanlo, Dragojlovic-Oliveira) while others successfully secured roles elsewhere (Baffour
Awuah, Bhattacharya-Mis, Adekola, Boguslawski). SPE was led by Professor Williams until she
had to retire for health reasons in January 2020, with Sinnett, promoted to an Associate
Professorship, succeeding her as Centre Director. SPE expanded through recruitment of new
research active lecturing staff (Foroughmand Araabi, Hickman) in sustainable urban
environments and capacity in green infrastructure was supported through a 50:50 ECR post
(Hoyle). Investment in CWCR has included several new research active lecturing staff (Mol,
Chatzirodou, Bell, Wanke) and the promotion of Staddon to Professor. Hayes, head of AQMRC,

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
was promoted to a Chair and externally-funded projects supported growth in staff numbers (De
Vito, Williams).

Staff development
The University operates a points-based workload management model which identifies time
allocated for research alongside other activities. Time allocated for research in externally-funded
projects is identified and allocated through the workload model. All staff are also allocated 5 weeks
of time for scholarly activity including research over the course of the year (pro rata for part-time
staff). Research-active staff can also bid annually for an additional workload allocation based on
their track record and planned activity to carry out internally-funded research and might, typically,
be allocated between 10% and 20% of their time under this scheme. Professors and Associate
Professors have an automatic allocation of protected research time and can bid for additional time
on an annual basis. Staff new to an academic role are typically awarded protected time for research
(20% per year for two years) to assist them in establishing their research career. An increase in the
total time allocated to research across the Unit during the period has been made to meet this
commitment.

Staff development needs are assessed formally through a Personal Development Review (PDR)
process that includes annual review and interim progress meetings. For new staff, an initial
probationary period includes support from an experienced research mentor. Research active staff
become members of a Research Centre, a process that is supported by the Associate Heads of
Department (Research). Staff can also put themselves forward to participate in REACH, UWE’s
talent management programme which has been created to develop and retain staff seeking posts at
a higher level. Research leaders took part in a 360o leadership programme including self and peer
assessment, training and individual coaching. Research Centre staff also enroll where appropriate
in a Faculty-based mid-career accelerator scheme offering training and time allocation for the
development of ambitious research proposals.

Research leaders have been promoted from within the staff base in this Unit (three Professors and
nine Associate Professors over the period) and staff development has enabled nine internal
promotions to Research Fellow and Senior Research Fellow positions. We have also seen staff
supported through our development schemes secure promotions to research posts elsewhere, for
example Sara to a Professorship at Birmingham City University, Manu to a Readership at University
of Manchester, Squires to Associate Professor at Massey University, New Zealand and Hill to a
Professorship at University of Gloucestershire.

Support for Research Centre members is provided through:
   Centre meetings to develop bidding strategy and facilitate collaborations.
   Development workshops allied to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework.
   Meetings with our external-facing networks such as the CWCR annual local agency partners
    meeting and the SPE RTPI annual partnership meetings.
   Residential writing retreats, which provide dedicated writing time, mentoring of ECRs and
    partnered authoring, and reading groups to enhance the quality of submissions.
   Seminar programmes, both externally and internally facing.
   A formal internal peer review process for UKRI applications and informal review for other bids.
   Skills development through feedback on internal bidding schemes.
   Centre updates celebrating the role of research, and Faculty newsletters highlighting research
    successes.

ECRs can bid for Vice-Chancellor’s Early Career Researcher Awards which combine a time
allowance and financial resources to support research activity with a view to laying the foundations
for bidding, often collaboratively, for significant external funds. This operated throughout the REF
period with 16 ECR staff from across the Unit successfully securing awards to the value of £0.25M.

The Vice-Chancellor’s Challenge Fund, initiated in 2019, provides resources through competitive
bidding for cross-disciplinary research including cross-faculty projects. These are intended as seed
funding to support small-scale pilot projects and encourage further bidding and research outputs.

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Unit staff secured five awards under the scheme, which, again, provide a combination of research
time and financial resources.

Professorial staff are appointed on a criteria-based merit pay scale introduced in 2014/15 and can
apply annually for re-grading based on their performance. Criteria include a range of research-
based achievements including grants secured, outputs, impact and leadership.

All researchers are supported through the University’s central Research, Business and Innovation
service. This includes support for staff training and development, bidding, collaborative engagement
and impact. Staff on research grade contracts are supported through a Researchers’ Forum
designed to represent and assist with the career development of this staff group. Support is
underpinned by the commitment of the University and the Unit to the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers.

Staff on research contracts can apply, with support from Centres and Faculties, for promotion
through the University Research Review and Progression Panel. This is a criteria-based scheme
providing for promotion from Research Associate to Research Fellow or Senior Research Fellow.
The Panel meets twice a year. As noted above, nine staff on research grades were promoted
through this process over the REF period.

Equality and diversity
The Unit has followed rigorously the University’s Code of Practice for REF2021 developed in
collaboration with the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Unit and involving extensive
staff consultation. Staff involved in the preparation and submission for this Unit attended mandatory
equalities training with respect to the identification of staff with significant responsibility for research
(SRR), determining research independence and selecting outputs. Principles applied include output
selection on the basis of rigorous review of self-nominated outputs, regardless of topic area,
disciplinary focus or geographical scope, and with no expectation about how many outputs would
be submitted for any one individual, including ECRs, part-time staff and those taking career breaks.
Where time allocations were used to designate SRR, part-time staff were assessed pro-rata. Impact
case studies have been selected based on significance and reach from a wide pool of self-
nominated examples.

Reflecting this, the inclusion of female staff in the Unit increased markedly from 27% of staff
submitted to REF 2014 to 37% of staff with SRR in 2021. The proportion of staff included who were
from BAME groups increased from 13% in 2014 to 18% in 2021. Seven percent of staff represented
in the 2021 submission self-declared as disabled compared with 6% in departmental staff overall.

On an ongoing basis over the REF period, all staff involved in recruitment, performance review and
career development underwent mandatory equality and diversity training as well as unconscious
bias briefing. Staff with responsibility for overseeing or recruiting staff attend recruitment and
management training to embed UWE’s equality and diversity ethos and policies, for example the
two-ticks policy to ensure appointable individuals with disabilities are offered an interview, now
subsumed by our Disability Confident employer accreditation. The Unit proactively engages with the
Athena SWAN Charter with the two supporting departments at different stages in the journey; ABE
has achieved, and GEM is working towards, a departmental bronze award with researcher
representation on the respective working groups

The Unit participates in the University-wide Women in Research Mentoring Scheme, which
promotes equality and facilitates professional development for women researchers, helping them
achieve their potential and to reach senior roles. Lamond and Sinnett serve on the Scheme
committee which has, since 2014, supported 11 female mentees in the Unit. Additionally, eight Unit
staff (male and female) have been Scheme mentors.

We provide appropriate support to staff with registered disabilities, making reasonable adjustments
and providing appropriate supporting equipment such as bespoke furniture. Requests are reviewed
and adjustments implemented promptly, typically going beyond legal requirements to ensure staff

                                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have long-term and appropriate support. For example, staff with mobility impairments have been
offered support with transport and adapted wheelchairs to carry out fieldwork for their research.
Staff with other long-term health issues have been provided with flexible working, reduced working
hours, remote working and standing desks. We support staff in negotiating their timetabled working
pattern to accommodate caring responsibilities. Flexible retirement schemes enable colleagues to
reduce their hours and access some or all of their pensions in preparation for retirement. As noted
in the Institutional-level Statement, UWE is a Mindful Employer, a UK wide initiative providing
employees with easy access to professional workplace mental health training, information and
advice, as well as being a Stonewall Diversity Champion.

Research students
The Unit has a vibrant population of PGR students who are closely integrated with the research
activities and culture of the five Research Centres. Centres collaborate in ESRC and EPSRC
Doctoral Training Partnerships and have developed a portfolio of Partnership PhDs part-funded by,
and based on collaboration with, external partners. As indicated earlier (section 1) doctoral
completions increased from 2016/17 through to the end of the assessment period.

PhD students are supported centrally through the UWE Graduate School that also co-ordinates
recruitment, progression and examination processes with assistance from the International Office
for our overseas students. Students have access to a programme of training courses mapped
against the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Faculty and Departmental support
focusses on academic support and standards, and pastoral care. We follow a Code of Practice
closely aligned to that of the QAA. Research student progress is monitored through the Faculty
Research Degrees Committee, which has representation from both Departments and our PGR
community.

Key features of our PGR provision include research bursaries awarded in areas of identified
research strength or ambition such as flood risk management, sustainable buildings and BIM. Since
its inception in 2013, the International Water Security Network has supported more than 15 PhDs
across the three key partner institutions, including 7 registered at UWE, the lead institution. We
have also received funding from international programmes such as the Ghana Education Trust, the
Nigerian Tertiary Education Trust Fund and the Nigerian Delta Development Corporation to support
capacity building in academic communities in Sub-Saharan Africa.

Over the REF period, Unit staff collaborated, regionally, to secure funding for the second phase of
the ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership with the Universities of Bath, Bristol, Exeter
and Plymouth. Staff in the Unit lead for UWE on the interdisciplinary pathway ‘Sustainable Futures’
and the University provides an associated, interdisciplinary MRes. DTP PGR projects in the Unit
have included studies of contested urban street space, planning for rural sustainability, and
community-owned renewable energy. The Unit also collaborates in the EPSRC FARSCOPE
Robotics DTP, run jointly with the University of Bristol (renewed in 2019) focused on Robotics and
AI and including, for example, research on building information systems, driverless cars and other
topics relevant to the Unit.

Induction and training for PGRs includes Faculty-based welcome events to encourage cohort
identity, detailed orientation by the supervisory team, centrally organised induction training and
familiarisation with University support and facilities. Doctoral students have access to Masters Level
taught provision including central, cross-faculty and Faculty level modules, chosen in discussion
with supervisory teams.

Students are supported to attend conferences and given training support and opportunities to
present their work within the University at Centre, Faculty and departmental PGR seminars,
colloquia and roundtable events, as well as at regional fora.

Our emphasis on quality is reflected in the satisfaction of our PGRs. In the latest PRES survey
(2019), our provision (Geography, Archaeology and Built Environment) was ranked in the top


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
quartile of HEIs with an overall satisfaction level of 93%, significantly up on the second quartile
score of 82% for overall satisfaction in 2015.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
Research income from external sources over the REF period totalled £13.7M (REF 4b). Income
averaged just under £2M pa, up from £1.6M pa over the previous REF period. This included £4.6M
from UKRI (33% of total income, including Research Councils and Innovate UK), £2.6M (19%) from
the EU, £3.6M from UK Government (26%), £2.0M from UK charities (15%) and £0.6M from
industry (4%). Indicative of the cross-disciplinary reach of our research, significant UKRI funding
was secured through 36 grants across four Research Councils - EPSRC (7), NERC (16), AHRC (6)
and ESRC (7). This diversity and scale of funding also reflects the vitality and sustainability of the
funding base across the Unit as a whole, and the multidisciplinary, challenge-based approach to
research with impact. Alongside research funding, staff in the Unit secured £1.75M of expert
consultancy and knowledge exchange income.

Larger scale, collaborative, interdisciplinary projects led by UWE have included the £5M EU ‘Citizen
Led Air Pollution Reduction in Cities’ project (led by Hayes, AQMRC), and the £3.3M NERC-funded
‘Developing a Drought Narrative Resource in a Multi-stakeholder Decision-Making Utility for
Drought Risk Management DRY’ project (led by McEwen, CWCR).

Large scale projects with UWE as a collaborator include the EPSRC-funded ‘UK Centre for
Research on Energy Demand’ (£19.4M, value to UWE £46k) led by Chatterton, SPE; the £19.5M
EU-funded ‘Renaissance of Places with Innovative Citizenship and Technologies’ project (£182k to
UWE, led by Parkhurst), CTS; the ESRC-funded ‘Driverless futures: Anticipatory governance for
self-driving cars’ project (£500k, £58k to UWE), and the AHRC funded ‘Hydrocitizenship’ project,
(£1.4M, £232k to UWE) led by McEwen, CWCR.

Substantial EU-funded projects include ‘Inequality, Urbanization and Territorial Cohesion:
Developing the European Social Model of economic growth and democratic capacity’ (£2.6M,
£532k to UWE); ‘Evidence of the Proven Economic Benefits of Sustainable Transport Initiatives to
Facilitate Effective Integration in Urban Mobility Plans’ (£1M, £125k to UWE); ‘Copernicus for Urban
Resilience in Europe’ (£2.3M, £295k to UWE), ‘Citizen Observations of UrbaN Transport
(WECOUNT)’ (£272k), ‘Sustainable Urbanisation Global Initiative Food-Water-Energy Nexus’
(£189k). CABER also received EU funding for ‘Predicting the Deterioration and Service Life of
Bridges’ (£657k, £217k to UWE), while the Dutch Research Council supported ‘Public
accountability to residents in contractual urban redevelopment’ (£266k).

Other significant UKRI-funded projects included ‘Residential building energy demand reduction in
India’ (EPSRC, £167k, CABER), ‘Urban Flood Resilience in an Uncertain Future’ (£282k ABE),
‘Construction safety for the Construction Sector’ (£101k, CABER). ESRC projects for CTS and SPE
include ‘Collective urban governance, innovation and creativity in the face of climate change’
(£223k), ‘Commuting and Wellbeing’ (£160k), ‘Providing insights into multi-day traveller behaviour
to inform sustainable transport policy and practice’ (£80k). NERC funded AQMRC and CWCR to
explore, respectively, air quality and water in built environments through ‘Detection and
characterisation of inflammatory agents associated with bioaerosol emitted from biowaste and
intensive agriculture’ (£1.1M), ‘Clean Air for Delhi Through Interventions, Mitigations and
Engagement’ (£368k), ‘Impacts of droughts and water scarcity’ (£110k), and ‘Engaging diverse
stakeholders and publics with outputs from the UK Drought and Water Scarcity programme’
(£424k). SPE also received NERC funding for ‘In-situ recovery of resources from waste
repositories’ (£131k).

Charity-funded projects included 26 grants over the period from organisations including the
Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme Trust, Sustrans, the Ove Arup Foundation, the Health Foundation,
and the National Museums and Galleries of Wales. For example, Sinnett explored the ‘Availability
of brownfield land for development in England’ for the Campaign for Rural England, Mol carried out

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research for the Leverhulme Trust on ‘Ballistic damage of stone heritage structures in conflict areas’
(£200k), and Melia worked on the ‘Evaluation of car clubs in new developments’ for the Rees
Jeffrey Road fund (£20.5k).

Projects funded by government departments, agencies and independent foundations, many of
which fed directly into policy, were secured from the Department of Transport, Department for
International Development, Rail Safety and Standards Board, Welsh Assembly Government,
National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence, Public Health England, Department for
Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy, Department of Energy and Climate Change, Department for
Communities and Local Government, Transport Scotland, and Highways England.

Applied and industry-engaged research projects have been funded by Innovate UK, for example,
CTS has looked at behavioural and social issues resulting from the introduction of new transport
technologies (£310k for ‘Mobility on Demand Laboratory Environment’). Funding has also come
directly from industry and industry bodies (21 projects) including the Investment Property Forum,
Flagship Group, Green Blue Urban, Springfield Supplies & Projects, Arup, Flood Re Ltd, Grosvenor
Group, Great Western Rail, and Touche NFC Ltd.

Knowledge exchange activity evidences the strong impact of research activity across the Unit.
Highlights of knowledge exchange and consultancy (returned as HEIF metrics) over the REF period
include the extension of the Environmental Technologies iNet (2013-2015) hosted at UWE (£350k),
training provided to Laing O’Rourke (£186k) on construction in regulated controlled and licensed
environments, and staff secondments such as Carmichael to the London Borough of Tower
Hamlets (£138k). Over 100 other KE activities have involved organisations such as Cornwall
County Council, Heathrow and Gatwick Airport, Flood Re Ltd, Mott MacDonald, Transport Focus,
World Bank, South Gloucestershire Public Health Team, Port of Milford Haven, Council for the
Protection of Rural England, RAC Foundation, Aquarian Cladding Ltd, Stride Treglown Plc, C & J
Blacks Solicitors, Ardagh Community Trust, Reach Robotics and Buro Happold.

Infrastructure and facilities
The five Research Centres included in the Unit are co-located, with open plan PGR workspace
adjacent to this. Other facilities available for researchers in the Unit include the University’s new
engineering building, opened in 2020, a £33M investment including facilities for a wide range of
research including composite manufacturing and machining for product design, masonry and
concrete testing laboratories, metrology and wind tunnels. Our Departmental building houses
expanded laboratories for geotechnics, including physical wet/dry ground analysis, and an
environmental change lab for masonry and other materials analysis.

Staff also collaborate with the nearby Bristol Robotics Laboratory, a joint facility with the University
of Bristol, and part of the Faculty of Environment and Technology. BRL is located in dedicated
premises which include extensive laboratory and specialist spaces along with staff offices and
teaching spaces for PGR and Masters-level programmes. Collaborative work with BRL includes
interdisciplinary built environment research in transforming construction, and projects with CTS
using dedicated facilities for live, on-campus simulation and testing of autonomous vehicles and
full-vehicle immersive driving simulators for testing systems and driver interactions.

BRL is co-located with the University’s Future Space facility which provides office space,
laboratories, workshops and co-working facilities for new and growing tech-based businesses.
Operated on a commercial basis, this provides multiple opportunities for collaborative research and
student placements. The UWE Exhibition and Conference Centre, the largest of its kind in the
South West with a flexible space of over 4,000m² (currently acting as a Nightingale Hospital) is
used to host major conferences and industry outreach events.

Research bidding, post-award support and research impact in the Unit are supported by the
University’s Research, Business and Innovation service. This includes identification of funding
opportunities, bid preparation, costing and submission and post-award management through faculty
business partners and other common, central services. Postgraduate research is supported by the

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University Graduate School and Graduate Office (see above) which includes recruitment, induction,
training, annual progression, welfare and support, and the examination process.

The Faculty also has 45 technical staff supporting facilities distributed across multiple buildings and
facilities, in support of multidisciplinary research. The University subscribes to multiple data
services including those for modelling and simulation of built environment performance and value,
GIS and architectural design.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research collaboration, interdisciplinary research, responding to national and international
priorities
The majority of projects secured over the REF period involve interdisciplinary collaboration with, in
many cases, multiple partners, including joint working with academic colleagues in other HEIs,
nationally and internationally. Large-scale consortia projects led by UWE, or with UWE as a partner,
have been identified in section 3 above. Here, we provide details of a selection of the collaborative
projects conducted by each of our research centres, many commissioned directly to support
national and international priorities and challenges by wide-ranging governmental bodies and other
agencies.

In the EU-funded Clair City project, AQMRC (Hayes) led a consortium of 16 partner organisations
which engaged directly with the public in six European cities or regions seeking to improve air
quality (Amsterdam, Bristol, the Aveiro Region, the Liguria Region, Ljubljana and Sosnowiec). UK
partners included Imperial College, Cranfield University, Open University, Plymouth University,
Public Health England and the Environment Agency.

Three of the Unit’s Research Centres (AQMRC, CTS and CABER) collaborated with multiple
partners on the EU-funded Replicate project which tested new energy and transport-related
technologies for smarter streets and homes in Bristol, Florence and San Sebastian. This involved a
collaboration of 39 organisations including the Universities of Florence, Exeter, Bristol, Oxford and
the Esade Business School, Barcelona, alongside municipalities and industrial partners.

In the Innovate UK-funded £16M ‘Transport Infrastructure Efficiency Strategy (TIES) Living Lab’
project, CABER (Mahdjoubi, Gething and Mahamadu) collaborated with the Department for
Transport and 30 other strategic partners, including Costain, Transport for London, and the
Universities of Leeds and Dundee.

CABER was part of a consortium of 25 international research organisations in the DFID-funded
(£3.5M) ‘Urbanisation Research Nigeria’ project in which UWE (Lamond) led on urban land
planning and management. UWE researchers worked with six Nigerian universities, while
partnering with planning consultancy ICF GHK, the University of Pretoria and University College
London.

The UKRI-funded DRY project led by CWCR (McEwen) involved the Universities of Dundee,
Exeter, Harper Adams, Loughborough, Sheffield and Warwick. Stakeholders included the Canal
and River Trust, Chartered Institute of Building, Climate Outreach and Information Network,
Emergency Planning Society, Environment Agency, Federation of Small Businesses, Natural
England, Natural Resources Wales, National Allotment and Leisure Garden Society, Public Health
England, Scottish Environmental Protection Agency, Scottish Natural Heritage, Scottish Water, The
Eden Project, The National Trust and UK Water Industry Research.

In work on Flood Memory funded by EPSRC, CWCR (Lamond) collaborated with the Universities
of Newcastle, Aberdeen, Swansea, Liverpool and Southampton (National Oceanographic Centre),
Nottingham, Queen Mary London, Cranfield and Heriot Watt. CWCR (Mol) has partnered with
heritage organisations to explore weathering and water damage to masonry, including Leverhulme
Trust-funded research in collaboration with researchers from different disciplinary backgrounds at
the Universities of Cardiff, Manchester Metropolitan and Oxford on ballistic impact damage

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sustained by built heritage during conflict.

CTS, led by Parkhurst, provided social science input and expertise for four Innovate UK-funded
projects (Venturer, Flourish, CAPRI, MultiCav) on connected and autonomous vehicles, alongside
the Bristol Robotics Laboratory. For example, the CAPRI project brought together 20 organisations,
including four Universities (Bristol, Loughborough, UWE, Warwick), to trial new autonomous and
connected pods on-demand at Filton Airfield, Bristol, and London's Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
The MultiCav project is led by FirstGroup to test shared autonomous vehicles at a business park in
South Oxfordshire.

In the EPSRC-funded ‘cycle BOOM’ project, CTS collaborated with Cardiff, Oxford Brookes and
Reading Universities to understand barriers to cycling among the older population. CTS also led a
study for the Department for Transport working with the University of Oxford on the decline in
driving of young adults, and with UCL on an ESRC project ‘Driverless Futures’.

SPE (led by Ludlow) has conducted smart cities research in collaboration with UWE’s Computer
Science Research Centre as part of a number of EU research projects. These projects involved
partners from the information and communication technology sector, end-user engagement experts
and city authorities. For example, in the SUNEX JPI-Urban EU-funded project, SPE is collaborating
with partners in Austria, Germany and Qatar, as well as Bristol Water, in formulating inclusive urban
food, water and energy strategies.

The five impact case studies included in our REF submission (see REF 3) all provide further
examples of strongly developed, multi-partner research and user collaboration leading to wide-
ranging benefits.

We have been pro-active in establishing various networks to strengthen research capacity in our
areas of interest. McEwen (CWCR), for example, led the ESRC-funded CASCADE-NET seminar
series ‘Increasing Civil Society’s capacity to deal with changing extreme weather risk: negotiating
dichotomies in theory and practice’. CWCR also had a lead role in the Building UK Climate
Resilience Network. Staddon leads the International Water Security Network (for which he is
founder-director) initiated with Lloyd’s Register Foundation funding, in collaboration with the
University of Arizona and Monash South Africa.

SPE has hosted the cross-faculty WHO-accredited Collaborating Centre for Healthy Urban
Environments (WHO CC) at UWE since 1995. The WHO CC is part of the WHO Healthy Cities
Networks comprising 100 cities, and 10 national networks of cities from the EU and Eastern
Europe. The WHO CC is also the designated NICE Centre of Excellence for Health and Spatial
Planning.

The Unit encourages exchanges of expertise through visiting positions and activities at other
Universities. Staddon (CWCR) is a Visiting Research Professor at the University of Arizona.
Parkhurst (CTS) is a Visiting Professor at three Italian Universities (Brescia, Cagliari, Insubria).
Parkin is an Erskine Visiting Fellow to Canterbury University (New Zealand) and a Visiting
Professor to the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences (BOKU) Vienna. Archila-
Santos (CABER) is a Visiting Research Fellow at the University of Bath. Mahdjoubi (CABER) is a
Visiting Professor at Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen. Casado-Diaz (GEM) is a Visiting Fellow
at Umea University, Sweden. The Centres in the Unit have been host to 29 Visiting Fellows and 15
Visiting Professors over the REF period.

Engagement with key research users and professions
Our research is oriented to support policy makers, practitioners and civil society in managing the
built environment and protecting the natural environment. As a civic university, we have strong links
with Bristol City Council, South Gloucestershire Council, the West of England Combined Authority
(WECA) and other regional organisations. In this REF period, our long-standing association with
regional bodies in the field of Air Quality Management has extended into planning (SPE), transport
planning (CTS) energy (CABER) and water (CWCR). Longhurst (AQMRC) is co-chair of the Bristol

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Advisory Committee on Climate Change (BACCC) and a significant contributor to Bristol's One City
Climate Strategy. Two further staff (Clayton, Gething) also support the BACCC. In 2019, SPE
initiated a joint seminar series between SPE and Bristol City Council planning staff, including heads
of service.

The Unit engages fully with the professional and trade bodies associated with the built environment
including the Institute of Civil Engineers, Royal Town Planning Institute, Royal Institute of British
Architects, Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors, Institute of Environmental Sciences, Institute of
Environmental Management and Assessment, Chartered Institute of Builders and Chartered
Institute of Water and Environmental Management. These bodies are represented through steering
group membership on projects (RTPI, CIOB, RICS) or on Centre advisory or steering boards (RTPI,
RICS). Government departments and NGOs are also included in partnership activities through
steering groups, for example Defra and the Environment Agency support the CWCR advisory
board. The Department for Transport call heavily on CTS expertise and fund multiple projects with
the Centre. Close working relationships are developed through these projects to inform our
research priorities and enhance routes to impact.

Williams B was seconded to the Environment Agency to contribute to the redesign of the UK’s
entire air quality monitoring networks (2018-2020). Lyons (CTS) has worked in strategic
partnerships with the Mott MacDonald engineering consultancy, the Chartered Institution of
Highways & Transportation, the New Zealand Ministry of Transport, and the UK DfT’s Office for
Science and Transport Scotland.

Beyond the research projects they undertake, our researchers provide high-level policy and
practice advice in their areas of expertise. At an international level, Staddon (CWCR) has advised
the Lloyd's Register Foundation on its Global Safety Challenges Foresight Review. Sinnett (SPE)
has been an expert reviewer for United Nation's Global Environment Outlook for Cities Report
2020. Parkhurst (CTS) was invited to write a White Paper for the 5th EU-US Transport Research
Symposium. Chatterjee (CTS) is chair of the Urban Travel Transitions and New Mobility Behaviour
Working Group for OECD’s International Transport Forum. Cole (CWCR) is an expert advisor to the
UNEP Global Partnership for Sustainable Tourism.

Examples of national contributions include Barnes’ (AQMRC) membership of PHE’s Air Quality
Advisory Panel, and Hayes’ (AQMRC) appointment to the Welsh Government Clean Air Advisory
Committee. Longhurst (AQMRC) is Climate Commissioner for UK Higher and Further Education.
Lamond (CABER) is an invited member of Flood Re Transition Planning Group. Lyons (CTS) is a
member of the DfT's Joint Analysis Development Panel while Parkin (CTS) is a member of the DfT
Analytical Advice and Challenge Panel and Parkhurst (CTS) is a member of DfT’s Roads Reform
Expert Group. McEwen (CWCR) is a member of UK Government’s Civil Contingencies -
Communities Prepared National Group.

We also contribute significantly to the work of third sector organisations. For example, Everard
(CWR) is an Ambassador and science advisor to WaterHarvest (a UK-based NGO working in
Rajasthan and Gujarat) and a science advisor to the NGO Tiger Watch (Rajasthan). Appleby
(CABER) is a Trustee of the Blue Marine Foundation, advisor to various NGOs, including the
Marine Conservation Society, the High Seas Alliance, and the UK Overseas Territories
Conservation Forum.

Recognition of our standing with research users is evidenced by invitations to provide high profile
contributions at their events. For example, Longhurst (AQMRC) gave a keynote address in 2017 at
the Challenge and Change: Air Quality Conference of the Chartered Institute of Environmental
Health in London. Lyons (CTS) gave an invited talk at an event to mark 100 years of the DfT in
London in 2019. Chatterjee and Clark (CTS) were invited to speak on the adverse effects of
commuting to the UK Government’s Social Impacts Task Force. Parkhurst (CTS) was invited to
present to Council officers, politicians and the public in Bath on a Park and Ride proposal, which
subsequently led to a change in local policy.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We also support professional bodies in our respective subject areas. For example, Barnes
(AQMRC) is a member of the Environmental Protection UK Air Quality Committee. Lyons (CTS) is
Trustee of the Chartered Institution of Highways & Transportation (CIHT) and Chair of its
Membership and Skills Strategy Board. Parkin is Chair of the CIHT Individual Route Assessment
Panel and Chair of the Institution of Civil Engineers Cycle Working Group. Ricci (CTS) has been a
member of the National Steering Group of Bikeplus.

McClymont (SPE) is a member of the Expert Roundtable on ‘Empowering communities to
participate in planning for new communities’ for the Town and Country Planning Association.
Hickman (SPE) was appointed to the Royal Town Planning Institute's Partnership Board. Sinnett
(SPE) is a committee member of British Land Reclamation Society and UK Urban Ecology Forum.

Gething (CABER) is Vice-Chair of BRE Global’s Governing Body. Booth (CABER) was elected a
member of the Association of Researchers in Construction Management (ARCOM) Committee.
Archila-Santos (CABER) is a member of Technical Committee TC 165 of the International
Standardisation Organisation (ISO) and a board member of the Natural Materials Association.
Lamond (CABER) is a member of BSI committee CB/501 Flood Risk & Watercourse and a
member of the Defra/Industry Property Flood Resilience Roundtable. Organ (CABER) is RICS
Matrics UK board member. Mason (CABER) is Vice-Chair (Europe) of the Commonwealth
Association of Surveyors and Land Economy.

Contributions to economy and society and wider impact
Impact reported in the case studies relates to our research in Transport Planning, Marine
Environment Protection, Cycling Infrastructure, Flood Resilience and Green Infrastructure Planning.
Other examples of impact follow.

CWCR research has advanced a new measurement tool for assessing the provision of safe,
resilient and equitable water supply. The cross-culturally validated Household Water InSecurity
Experiences (HWISE) scale has provided a tool to strengthen the programmes of Oxfam, Witness
International and End Poverty. WHO/UNICEF and USAID are also looking to include it within their
survey tools.

Research, technical guidance and training by CWCR on distributed water systems has led to
around 250,000 people in East Africa and India enjoying higher levels of water security, including
better water supply and sanitation services. In Peru, CWCR (Staddon and Octavianti) co-designed
and co-delivered a successful ‘Sustainable Water in the Andes’ programme with Peruvian partners.
Research by Cole (CWCR) has influenced policy agendas addressing the challenges of
sustainable water management in Bali, including legislation to designate groundwater conservation
zones, improved compliance registering and permitting, and monitoring of groundwater use and
quality.

In the UK, our research on drought and water shortage has led to award-winning co-created
educational materials for schools; the book ‘DRY: Diary of a Water Superhero’ won the
Geographical Association Publishers’ Silver Award in 2020. The impact of our research on flood
and drought-resilient communities (McEwen) has led to increased stakeholder capacity in building
mutual capital and working with different types of evidence and resources that can be used in
training and in horizontal dialogue with communities. The SESAME project produced a prototype e-
tool to promote the flood resilience of SMEs which secured an Environment Agency Excellence
Award.

AQMRC’s research with Public Health Wales and the Welsh Government has enhanced the linkage
between air quality management and public health, contributing to Prosperity for All, the National
Strategy, the Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015 and the National Clean Air Plan
for Wales (2020). Its research also informed the UK Government Clean Air Strategy (2019) aiming
to improve quality and public health across the UK. Internationally, its research underpinned the
European Environment Agency (EEA) report on the unequal impacts of air pollution, enabled
European policymakers to focus environmental policies on areas where ‘particularly sensitive or

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
vulnerable groups of society are exposed to high levels of pollution’, and informed a WHO report on
environmental health inequalities in Europe. It also directly influenced the EU Clean Air Policy
Package 2030, impacting on EU member states and their citizens.

CWCR research into damage sustained by built heritage during conflicts (Mol) has helped open a
debate into ‘crimes against culture’ within the legal community, global media, and the wider public.
The work has been translated into triage and stabilisation methods for military personnel and front-
line heritage professionals engaged in conflict zones.

SPE’s review of the use of brownfield land for housing, commissioned by the Council for the
Preservation of Rural England, was instrumental in strengthening brownfield policy and was cited in
the Briefing Paper for the Housing and Planning Bill (2015). Atkinson was commissioned by the
Polish EU Presidency to review urban cohesion policy, which subsequently helped shape EU
Cohesion Policy.

Engaging with diverse communities
A key focus of our approach to research design is to increase the engagement of diverse
communities in projects. For example, AQMRC’s EU-funded four-year Clair City project worked
directly with citizens and local authorities in six countries around Europe, engaging them in creative
ways to explore air quality issues, feeding back outcomes to policy makers, citizens and influential
organisations in each city and region. The project equipped local school students with PM2.5
personal exposure monitors to assess how air pollution exposure is connected to different modes of
transport used for the school commute. The project interacted with 818,000 citizens.

CWCR members involved stakeholders in field research in east Africa, Indonesia and India on
public accountability and decentralised control over water resources. Cole’s research on water and
tourism in Indonesia sparked public engagement and awareness campaigns by local and
international NGOs, including a manual on 'How to build your own well' and a film, ‘Adopt Water’.

In the CAPRI project, CTS consulted, and used co-design methods, with members of the public,
technical experts and academics. Live demonstration trials of autonomous shuttle pods in Bristol
and London enabled the collection of opinions on trust and comfort from passengers, pedestrians
and cyclists. Over 650 members of the public contributed to the research and a Virtual Museum
was created as a legacy.

In the DRY project, CWCR researchers ran events in seven case study catchments in England and
Wales including participatory workshops, digital storytelling work, river walks (e.g. science
storytelling) and festivals. In the ‘Deathscapes and Diversity’ project, SPE worked with minority and
migrant communities and partnered with RTPI and the Institute of Cemetery and Crematoria
Management to produce recommendations for more inclusive cemeteries and crematoria services.

Wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
Over the REF period, members of our Unit have held more than 22 roles as conference organisers,
conference chairs and advisory panel members, 30 roles on journal editorial boards, 15 special
issue editorships and served on 166 funding panels, advisory boards and NGO and professional
steering groups and boards. They gave over 300 invited talks and were involved as peer reviewers
for large numbers of journals/publishers.

Notably, Atkinson (SPE) is Chief Editor of Urban Research and Practice; Tallon (GEM) is Chief
Editor of Journal of Urban Regeneration and Renewal; Parkin (CTS) is Chair of the Editorial
Advisory Panel for the Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers: Municipal Engineer; Quinn
(CWCR) is Editor-in-Chief of Hydrology Research; McClymont (SPE) is book reviews editor for the
Journal of Urban Regeneration and Renewal and interface editor for Planning Theory and Practice.
Editorial Board membership includes Journal of Environmental Engineering & Landscape
Management (Booth), Frontiers Sustainable Cities (Sinnett), Journal of Flood Risk Management
(Lamond), International Journal of Social Research Methodology (Gopinath), Journal of Transport
Geography (Parkhurst).

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Contributions to grants committees includes Longhurst (AQMRC), Chair of UKRI’s Strategic
Priorities Fund Clean Air Wave 1 Assessment Panel and Deputy Chair for Wave 2. He also chaired
the Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology Natural and Environmental Sciences
Panel. Olomolaiye (CABER) is a committee member for the Royal Society Future Leaders: African
Independent Research Fellowship Panel (2018-23). Mahdjoubi (CABER) was Chair of the Thermal
Energy Panel for EPSRC in 2015. Appleby (CABER) was on the ESRC Advisory Panel for its
Governance After Brexit Programme (Phase 1) in 2018. Sinnett was commissioned by NERC to
examine how green infrastructure research is influencing practice. In addition, Unit members
regularly review grant proposals for a wide range of UKRI and other bodies including AHRC
(McEwen), BBSRC (Sinnett), EPSRC (Sinnett, Booth, Mahdjoubi, Lamond, Parkin), ESRC
(Gopinath, Sinnett, Lamond, McEwen), MRC (Longhurst), NERC (Longhurst, Lamond,
McEwen, Staddon, Sinnett), NIHR (Williams B, Sinnett), GCRF (Gopinath, Lamond), Innovate
UK (Sinnett), British Academy (McCLymont), EC (Sinnett, Booth) and UKRI Future Leaders
(Lamond).

Contributions to disciplinary and subject groups include; Parkin (CTS), Chair of the University
Transport Study Group; Parkhurst (CTS) Treasurer and Executive Committee Member of the
Transport Geography Research Group of the Royal Geographical Society; and Staddon (CWCR) is
on the reviewer panel for the Royal Geographical Society Neville Shulman Challenge Award which
assesses applications for funding for ‘a challenging research project or expedition’. At an
international level, Williams B (AQMRC) has been an expert valuator for the Earth Champions
Awards (Air category, 2015). Oliveira is board member of the Serbian Green Building Council and
advisor to RIBA Sustainability Future Group.

Significant conference contributions include Longhurst (AQMRC) as Co-Chair of the annual
International Conference on ‘Modelling, Monitoring and Management of Air Pollution’. Mahdjoubi
(CABER) is Chair of the Bi-Annual International ‘Conference on Building Information Modelling’.
McClymont (SPE) was AESOP (Association of European Schools of Planning) Congress Track
Chair for the ‘Planning Theory and Complexity’ track (Utrecht). Ludlow (SPE) was Program Chair
of the 4th International Workshop on ‘Smart City Clouds: Technologies, Systems and Applications’
Austin (Texas) 2017. Booth (CABER) was Chair for the ‘Sustainable, Development and Planning
(UK)’ conference (2017, 2020).

National keynotes have included: Lyons (CTS) at the ‘Modelling World’ conference for transport
professionals in Birmingham in 2018; Parkhurst (CTS) at the Welsh National Transport Conference
in 2016; and Parkin (CTS) at the annual meeting of the Universities’ Transport Study Group in
Dublin in 2017. Jain (CTS) gave an invited talk at the British Sociological Association Annual
Conference in 2017; Mahdjoubi (CABER) at the International Conference on ‘Heritage Building
Information Modelling’ (2018); Melia (CTS) at the Scottish National Active Travel Conference, 2017;
and Booth (CABER) at ‘Sustainable, Ecological, Engineering and Design for Society’ in the UK in
2017. Staddon (CWCR) gave a public lecture for the Royal Geographical Society on the ‘The
Future of Food’ in February 2020. Ludlow (SPE) gave keynote addresses at the ‘Internet of Things
(IoT) Smart Cities’ Conference (Excel Centre, London) and the IoT Tech Expo Global (Olympia,
London), both 2019. Longhurst (AQMRC) gave an invited talk to the Chartered Institute of
Environmental Health, World Environmental Health Day Event in London and a keynote address at
the ‘Challenge and Change: Air Quality’ Conference of the Chartered Institute of Environmental
Health in London, both 2017. Lamond (CABER) gave an invited talk to UK Construction Week
(Birmingham) in 2018 and 2019. Parkin (CTS) gave an invited talk at the annual transport industry
event ‘Traffex’ in 2015.

International keynotes have included: Staddon (CWCR) to the 100th Anniversary of the Bulgarian
Geographical Society in 2015; Longhurst (AQMRC) at the 27th International Conference on ‘Air
Pollution Modelling, Monitoring and Management’ at the University of Aveiro (Portugal) in 2019;
McEwen (CWCR) at the 4th ‘Disaster Risk Reduction’ Conference in Warsaw (Poland) in 2019;
Atkinson (SPE) at the ‘Small Towns’ conference in Budapest (Hungary) in 2018, Gething
(CABER) at the Chinese Building Technology Committee Green Forum at the Harbin Institute of

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Technology (China), 2014; Ludlow (SPE) at the 2017 ‘Integrated Network for Social Sustainability’
Conference, Charlotte, USA; Lamond (CABER) at EDMIC 2019 ‘Drivers and dynamics of change
in the Built Environment’ in Ife-Ife (Nigeria) in 2019; Everard (CWCR) at the 7th International
Ground Water Conference in New Delhi (India) in 2017; and Cole (CWCR) at the Critical Tourism
Studies Asia Pacific Inaugural Conference in Yogyakarta (Indonesia) in 2018.

In support of collaborative PGR training (see section 2 above) the Unit has partnered with the
Universities of Bath, Bristol, Exeter and Plymouth in the ESRC SWDTP which includes more than
300 PhD students plus postdoctoral fellows. UWE contributes as a Management Board member, to
subject theme leadership, to taught modules, to supervisory teams and through mentoring post-
doctoral fellows. The Unit also partners with Faculty colleagues in the EPSRC FARSCOPE
Robotics DTP, in partnership with the University of Bristol, and is part of the University’s initiative to
develop Partnership PhDs which are part funded and co-supervised by external partners from a
wide range of business, professional and community organisations.




                                                                                                 Page 19
