Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Huddersfield
 Unit of assessment: 33 (Music and Music Technology)
 Section 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

    1.1. How Research is Structured

 The subject area of Music and Music Technology (MMT) is one of five in the Department of
 Music and Humanities, which lies within the School of Music, Humanities and Media (MHM). MMT
 has 23 academic staff: nine Professors (Adkins, Adlington, Cassidy, Clarke, Harrison, Stras,
 Thomas, Till and Tremblay; Schmidt is Dean of MHM); two Readers (Colton and Jan); ten
 Senior Lecturers (Bellamy, Cox, Dobson, d’Escriván, Harker, Haworth, Herbst, Milsom,
 Worthington and Worthy) and one lecturer (White). There are ten full-time postdoctoral Re-
 search Fellows (RFs), four on ERC-funded projects (Dufeu, Green, Roma, Takahashi), and six
 funded by the British Academy (Contreras), the Leverhulme Trust (Assay, Pistorius, Stanović),
 and the EC (Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions; Asaba, Both). These are Early Career Research-
 ers, as defined by paragraph 148 of the REF Guidance on Submissions, but chose not to declare
 their individual circumstances. The acronym ECR is used in this document in this specific sense.

 Recognised in REF2014 as a leading UK and international centre for research, MMT has extended
 this reputation significantly in the current REF period. Detailed evidence of this is given below, but
 two particular markers of esteem are the award of the Queen’s Anniversary Prize (QAP), for con-
 temporary music, in 2015; and the identification of several MMT-related Areas of Strategic Re-
 search Importance (ASRIs) in the University’s Research Strategy. MMT’s closely intersecting re-
 search strands are: new music (composition, performance, musicology); music technology
 (hardware, software, creativity, production); performance (including popular music and research-
 informed performance); musicology (including medieval and renaissance studies, gender and
 identity, reception, and theory and analysis); popular music (composition, performance, musicol-
 ogy); and film music (composition, musicology). These are aligned with the undergraduate (UG)
 teaching provision, which draws significantly on staff research interests.

 Jan and Thomas, as UoA Coordinators (UoACs), have oversight of MMT’s research. They man-
 age strategy, allocate the research budget, advise individual staff, and liaise with the Associate
 Dean (Research) (ADRes; Adkins, who has overall responsibility for research in MHM) and with
 the University’s Department of Research and Enterprise. Work is organised across three re-
 search centres, the establishment of which was the principal objective of REF2014:

     CeReNeM (Centre for Research in New Music, upgraded in 2016 to an Institute; director
       Cassidy), covering composition, new music performance, new music studies, music tech-
       nology and the creative and technical aspects of film music.
     CMCI (Centre for Music, Culture and Identity; director Herbst), covering musicology, popular
       music and the musicological aspects of film music.
     ReCePP (Research Centre for Performance Practices; directors Worthington (MMT) and
       Spatz (Drama, Theatre and Performance)), covering performance, including synergies be-
       tween musical and dramatic performance.

 The centres enjoy significant autonomy in planning their activities, while the UoACs maintain over-
 sight of their medium- and long-term direction, their alignment with MMT’s overall strategy, and
 their contribution to Postgraduate Research Student (PGR) provision. Each centre has a direc-
 torate which formulates research priorities and plans events, and which is assigned a devolved
 budget based on the number of primary staff affiliations. All staff and PGRs are affiliated with a
 centre, and several have secondary affiliations with another centre. Cross-fertilisation between
 centres is integrated into the planning of their annual programmes, and staff and PGRs are
 strongly encouraged to participate in the numerous opportunities offered by all three, not just those
 presented by their primary affiliation.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Each centre encompasses research groups dedicated to specific projects. For example, in
 CeReNeM, a Creative Coding Lab (CCL), led by Harker, brings together composers and technol-
 ogists interested in the augmentation of creativity; and Democracy in Music, led by Adlington,
 explores intersections between ideas of democracy and musical practice. In CMCI, Integrated
 Methodologies for Film Musicology, led by Haworth, explores the complex genesis and structure
 of film soundtracks; and the Popular Music Studies Research Group (PMSRG), led by Till, hosts
 its own seminar series and various specialist activities within CMCI. In ReCePP, a Nineteenth-
 Century Performance Research Group, led by Milsom, works on the reconstruction of historical
 performance techniques; and (Re)constructing Early Recordings, led by Stanović, explores strat-
 egies for preservation and the development of performance practices based on them.

    1.2. Research Objectives

 MMT’s main objective articulated in REF2014 was to ‘establish research centres to focus on key
 areas of research excellence’. The current structure, arrived at through a process of development
 and consolidation (Section 3.2), is intended to achieve the following eight sub-objectives identified
 in REF2014:

       REF2014:R1 Maintain excellence in individual outputs, as identified in RAE2008, for per-
        formance and electroacoustic music;
       REF2014:R2 Develop composition and musicology to a similar level as performance and
        electroacoustic music through the development of existing staff and recruitment of interna-
        tionally leading individuals in the field;
       REF2014:R3 Increase external grant income;
       REF2014:R4 Increase our community of postgraduate researchers and PhD completions;
       REF2014:R5 Increase our international collaborative exchanges and research partner-
        ships;
       REF2014:R6 Continue to support and develop ECRs;
       REF2014:R7 Bring internationally excellent researchers into the Department through con-
        ferences, symposia, masterclasses and guest lectures;
       REF2014:R8 Implement, where appropriate, national frameworks for researcher support.
 These objectives have all been achieved in the current REF period. To achieve REF2014:R1 and
 REF2014:R2, we have implemented processes for supporting and monitoring individual research
 (including additional protected time and a more rigorous process of annual research audits (Sec-
 tion 2.1)), and we have developed our profile in musicology by making several strategic appoint-
 ments, including those of Adlington (appointed as QAP Chair in Contemporary Music in 2017),
 Haworth, Herbst, Martin, Schmidt and Stras. To achieve REF2014:R3, we have drawn upon
 the University’s improved infrastructure for application development and significantly increased
 our grant capture (Section 3.1). To achieve REF2014:R4, we have engaged with University initi-
 atives for attracting students to PGR programmes; capitalised on our expanding international net-
 work to drive recruitment, particularly in CeReNeM; and pursued externally funded doctoral
 schemes rigorously (Section 2.3). To achieve REF2014:R5, we have expanded our complement
 of Visiting Research Fellows (VRFs) and Visiting Professors (VPs), and have gained University
 Research Fund (URF) income to develop CeReNeM’s international research network Specula-
 tions in Sound (Section 4.1). To achieve REF2014:R6, we have reduced teaching workload by
 strategic use of resources; prioritised internal funding for ECRs; and devoted significant resources
 to recruit and support postdoctoral researchers. To achieve REF2014:R7, we have hosted over
 twenty prestigious conferences and other gatherings, with international keynotes and other speak-
 ers. To achieve REF2014:R8, we adhere to the relevant national policies, as detailed in REF5a.

 Our objectives in the next REF period are designed to ensure vitality and sustainability in a re-
 search landscape shaped by new challenges, including: (i) changing priorities for external funding
 schemes; (ii) the effects of COVID-19; and (iii) increasing pressures on UG recruitment. They are
 as follows:

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       REF2021:R1 To develop the centres further by: (i) a greater focus on external grant cap-
        ture in CMCI; and (ii) developing ReCePP’s collaboration with Drama, including their pio-
        neering exploration of multimedia modes of research presentation.
       REF2021:R2 To expand the size and diversity of MMT’s research community by: (i) build-
        ing our cohort of international PGRs by augmenting our online provision for PGRs; (ii) en-
        couraging applicants for funded postdoctoral fellowships across the full spectrum of our
        subject expertise; and (iii) pursuing internally and externally funded opportunities for at-
        tracting VRFs and VPs.
       REF2021:R3 To maintain the international profile of MMT’s research community by build-
        ing on working patterns developed during COVID-19 to develop models of international
        collaboration that are socially engaged and environmentally responsible.
       REF2021:R5 To enhance support for ECRs, by means of increased allocation of resources
        to enable teaching and marking relief, and to establish more proactive mentoring arrange-
        ments.
       REF2021:R6 To build capacity for successful large-scale funding bids in CMCI and
        ReCePP by further developing strategic partnerships.
       REF2021:R7 To increase resilience of our research culture at a challenging time for stu-
        dent recruitment by giving particular attention to the further development of research fields
        (e.g., performance and music production) that attract UG applicants.

    1.3. Enabling Impact

 MMT’s impact strategy outlined in REF2014 was as follows:

       REF2014:I1 To continue to develop and embed impact within the established research
        centres.
       REF2014:I2 To further the relationship with our existing partners, including the Hudders-
        field Contemporary Music Festival (HCMF), Ableton, Stonehenge, the National Centre for
        Early Music and new partners including Sound and Music.
       REF2014:I3 To involve the central Research and Knowledge Transfer team at a much
        earlier stage in our development of research impact in order to assist in identifying impact
        partners and end-users and to maximise the reach and benefit to these communities.
       REF2014:I4 To acknowledge that not all research projects necessarily yield impact, or do
        so immediately, but should nevertheless be financially supported and encouraged for their
        long-term impact.
       REF2014:I5 To assign more financial support from the research budget for seed-funding
        future impact case studies.
       REF2014:I6 To conduct an annual review of research dissemination and impact within the
        Music Department with the Directors of each of the research centres, the Head of Research
        for the School and the UoA co-ordinator.
 These have all been achieved in the period since REF2014. To achieve REF2014:I1, REF2014:I2
 and REF2014:I3, activities have been supported by a new MHM infrastructure comprising a 1.0
 Impact Officer (appointed 2016 and continuing beyond REF2021), who supports engagement ac-
 tivities and all MHM Impact Case Studies (ICSs); a Data and Quality Administrator whose con-
 tract involves supporting impact; and an 0.4 Impact Assistant (appointed 2018) to develop MMT’s
 work with diverse communities across Yorkshire and to provide support for MMT’s ICSs. To
 achieve REF2014:I4 and REF2014:I5, each ICS lead is allocated £5,000 per year, and there is
 funding for other staff to support early-stage work on impact (Section 3.1). To achieve
 REF2014:I6, research audits involve discussion of potential impact-related research and strate-
 gies to optimise impact. The three ICSs submitted for REF2021 demonstrate the success of this
 impact strategy: they span all three of our research centres (REF2014:I1), involve established and
 new partners (REF2014:I2), and are the outcome of infrastructural and financial support offered
 across the REF cycle (REF2014:I3; REF2014:I5).

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our objectives for impact in the period leading up to the post-2021 REF are:

       REF2021:I1 To reserve 25% of the devolved budget for centres for impact-related activi-
        ties.
       REF2021:I2 To foster research in potentially impactful areas. These are envisaged to be
        in established fields, but potential growth areas include film musicologies and research-
        informed performance.
       REF2021:I3 To develop links with a wider range of external, non-academic partners in
        order to identify areas where MMT research can support impact, including software
        houses, record labels and community music organisations.
       REF2021:I4 To use the University’s networks, including those fostered by the 3M Buckley
        Innovation Centre, to explore opportunities to commercialise research in music technology.
       REF2021:I5 To build upon the established impact of MMT’s research in the Kirklees area
        (Section 4.4), by wider engagement with rich extant local practices. Contributions are en-
        visaged, for example, to the Kirklees Year of Music (2023) and to the Sound Space arts
        venue developed by Kirklees Council.
       REF2021:I6 To maintain momentum with existing ICS projects, with a view to one or more
        being submitted as ‘continuing’ impact in the next REF.

    1.4. Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 Centres foster interdisciplinary research by incorporating staff from other parts of MHM and the
 University. CeReNeM has built strong links with the School of Computing and Engineering (C&E):
 the CCL is a joint enterprise with C&E, hosting fortnightly meetings on coding practices; and the
 Applied Psychoacoustics Laboratory (APL; led by Lee), based in C&E, is affiliated with CeReNeM.
 The interface between music and computing is also central to the IRiMaS and FluCoMA projects
 (Section 3.1). CMCI is linked with C&E through Herbst’s Heaviness in Metal Music Production
 AHRC project, with Mynett (C&E) as Co-I (REF2021:R6). Till and Lee have also worked on 3D
 electronic popular music using the HISS loudspeaker orchestra (Section 3.3). The Centre for His-
 tory, Culture and Memory (CHiCaM), based in History, connects researchers from multiple disci-
 plines through four interlocking research groups; MMT staff are particularly active within the Me-
 dieval and Early Modern Culture group. Interdisciplinarity is also fundamental to the projects of
 our RFs: Contreras collaborated with historian Giulia Quaggio on a conference examining artistic
 models of democracy in post-authoritarian Iberia; Pistorius works alongside African Studies
 scholars on the Black Opera Research Network; and Assay’s work on Shakespeare and Music
 entails collaboration with literary scholars, including in her role as Chair of the RMA Shakespeare
 and Music Study Group (founded by her in 2019). ReCePP brings together specialists in perfor-
 mance studies and artistic research across MMT and Drama, and speakers at seminars are drawn
 from a wide range of disciplines.

 Links are being developed with the School of Human and Health Sciences (HHS) to foster work
 in music psychology, with collaborations between Jan (MMT) and Peebles and Shibazaki (HHS)
 being planned. Another area of development is the Yorkshire Film and Television School, which
 combines subject areas across the University. MMT is closely involved in this, given its strengths
 in film/media production (Cox), composition (Cox, d’Escrivan), technology (Dobson) and musi-
 cology (Cox, Haworth, White) (REF2021:R6).

    1.5. Progress Towards an Open Research Environment

 MMT is committed to an open research culture. The URF funding (2015–2020) secured by
 CeReNeM (Section 3.1) enabled a significant move towards open-access publishing, through
 various platforms. CeReNeM publications issued by University of Huddersfield Press have gen-
 erated substantial public reach: five open-access books authored and edited by MMT staff have
 had c. 25,000 downloads since 2014. CeReNeM’s peer-reviewed online journal Divergence Press

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 averages over 2,000 unique visitors and 3,600 article views per year. CeReNeM’s YouTube chan-
 nel, containing videos of guest lectures, workshops and interviews, has had over 65,000 views.
 The open-access Journal of Creative Music Systems (edited by Jan) had 5,700 views in 2020.
 Other outputs of MMT staff available as open-access items include Cox’s 2018 Soundings: Doc-
 umentary Film and the Listening Experience (UoH Press), downloaded over 2,000 times; and Mil-
 som’s 2020 Pennine Records recording of violin and viola sonatas by Brahms. Several MMT-
 authored codebases are freely available, including Harker’s FrameLib and iPlug2 software (the
 latter winning the 2018 FAUST Open Software award); and the FluCoMa project’s Fluid Decom-
 position Toolkit. Several MMT-hosted conferences (Section 4.5) have full texts of presented pa-
 pers, or videos of presentations, publicly available, including the First Conference on Computer
 Simulation of Musical Creativity (2016) and the IASPM-UK Biennial Conference (2018).

    1.6. Research Integrity

 MMT follows the principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity as enshrined in the
 University’s Code of Practice for Research. Compliance is overseen by the School Research
 Committee (SRC), whose meetings begin with consideration of research integrity and ethics busi-
 ness. The University’s Research and Enterprise team offers support to staff to help ensure appro-
 priate ethics protocols are integrated into externally funded projects. The induction of PGR stu-
 dents (Section 2.3) involves training in research integrity, including compulsory completion of the
 Research Integrity (Concise) training provided through Epigeum. Progression monitoring reviews
 for PGRs include support with ethical issues.

 Section 2. People

    2.1. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 We foster a collegiate and supportive culture for research which takes into consideration the dif-
 ferent needs of researchers at various stages of their careers. Of the 23 permanent staff currently
 in post, 14 (60.9%) were also in post in 2014. This strong retention rate reflects an environment
 that supports all staff to research productively and thereby enhances prospects for promotion. In
 the current REF period: Bellamy, Harker, Haworth, Herbst, Martin and Worthington were pro-
 moted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer (Haworth began her career in MMT as a RF); Cassidy,
 Harrison, Thomas, Till and Tremblay from Senior Lecturer to Reader and then to Professor;
 Colton and Jan from Senior Lecturer to Reader; Till from Professor to Associate Dean; and Ad-
 kins from Professor to Associate Dean to Dean (of the Graduate School).

 All research staff are assigned a research mentor from the professoriate, who is available at all
 times for advice on draft publications, grant applications, promotion applications and research
 audit preparation. UoACs and the ADRes conduct annual research audits, which assess pro-
 gress towards agreed goals for outputs and impact, and determine the support needed to achieve
 them. Training offered by the University’s Researcher Development Programme is mapped
 against the Vitae Framework, and includes best practice in PGR supervision, data collection and
 management, ethical issues, and using research-related software. Research audits are coordi-
 nated with annual staff appraisals, undertaken by the Subject Area Leader (SAL) for MMT (Wor-
 thy), to balance research objectives with those of teaching and administration. Key staff (Adkins,
 Cassidy, Colton, Till) have further developed their competencies in research and PGR leadership
 by undertaking Level 7 Certificates through the University’s Chartered Management Institute Re-
 search Leader Development programme.

 All academic and research staff have one research day per week (pro rata) that is kept free of
 teaching and administrative commitments. Staff receive a minimum annual personal research
 allocation of £750. Requests for additional funding, sometimes amounting to sums of several
 thousand pounds, are assessed to determine alignment with MMT’s and the relevant centre’s
 strategic goals, and the development needs of the applicant. Such additional support takes the

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 form of funding for international travel, and also as blocks of teaching and marking relief to facilitate
 work on specific outputs or grant applications. Unspent ‘carry-forward’ funds have since 2017 been
 used to pay for additional part-time hourly-paid teaching to alleviate the teaching and marking
 burden of staff. Adding this to the allocations funded by QR has resulted in an additional 100 hours
 of research time for grades 7 (Lecturer), 8 (Senior Lecturer) and 9 (Reader), and an extra 50 hours
 for grade 10 (Professor), compared to the University’s standard workload model. Additional relief
 comes from work undertaken by PGRs (a condition of fee-waivers; Section 2.3), which addition-
 ally benefits the latter’s professional development.

 Staff are eligible for a six-month sabbatical after seven semesters. Twenty-eight sabbaticals
 have been awarded to MMT staff during the current REF period. Sabbatical applications are as-
 sessed first by the UoACs and SAL for MMT, and then by the SRC. Post-sabbatical, the SRC
 measures outcomes against the proposal and offers advice for further development. Sabbaticals
 may take different forms, such as year-long 1.0 FTE, if matching funding is secured; year-long
 0.5 FTE, if that better supports the applicant’s research goals and workload; or impact sabbati-
 cals, designed to initiate or develop ICSs. A year-long 0.5 FTE sabbatical allowed Cassidy to
 complete Self-portrait, 1996 and to revise A republic of spaces, whilst continuing to manage
 CeReNeM. Six-month, 1.0 FTE sabbaticals have been extended to allow for the completion of a
 particularly ambitious output, such as Milsom’s 9-month sabbatical in 2019, during which he un-
 dertook the bulk of the work on his Handbook to Romantic Violin Performing Practices 1840–1920
 (with lighter duties on his return in order to complete the monograph). Other examples of major
 outputs completed during a sabbatical include Adkins’ edited volume Music Beyond Airports and
 Colton’s monograph Angel Song. Martin’s ICS (developed but not submitted) benefitted from an
 impact sabbatical which gave him 268 hours over eighteen months.

 Centres have hosted a number of Visiting Research Fellows and Visiting Professors. These
 include Sam Pluta and Miller Puckette (CeReNeM/CCL); Michael Ahlers, Franco Fabbri, Toby
 Martin, and Philip Tagg (CMCI); and Duncan Druce and George Kennaway (ReCePP). VRFs
 and VPs have made significant contributions to MMT’s research community, through collabora-
 tions with staff and presentation of research seminars for PGRs. For example, Puckette worked
 with Harker on the PureData port of the latter’s FrameLib software, and Pluta has mentored sev-
 eral PGRs and engineered a Huddersfield Contemporary Records (HCR) release featuring work
 by Harrison and Tremblay. Fabbri gave a keynote lecture for the MMT-hosted IASPM Confer-
 ence (2018). Kennaway has given papers at ReCePP seminars and performed in several con-
 certs with Milsom’s Meiningen Ensemble period-instrument group.

     2.2. Early Career Researchers

 MMT has substantially increased its complement of ECRs during the current REF period. In addi-
 tion to the ten fully funded RFs in post at the census date, two others recently completed their
 fellowships (Conner and Wolfe), making a total of twelve funded postdoctoral RFs during the
 current REF period, with two more incoming since July 2020. MMT attracts talented ECRs be-
 cause of the robust opportunities it provides for career development, and its supportive and inclu-
 sive research culture. These aspects of our research environment not only meet the core require-
 ments of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, but they also
 satisfy the expectations of fellowship funders. For example, the three research centres offer mul-
 tiple fora for sharing and receiving feedback on work; our physical infrastructure is ideally suited
 to the organisation of research events attached to RF projects; and the research-only professorial
 staff provide capacity for meaningful weekly mentoring on publications and career progression (for
 instance, Adlington mentors five RFs as part of his research chair role). RFs are each assigned
 a research mentor, separate from their line manager, and they participate in the same research
 audit process as permanent staff. RFs are also invited to all staff meetings, and have access to a
 dedicated research room with individually allocated workstations and printing facilities. RFs have
 been supported to develop their career profiles through funding from UoH internationalisation
 streams (Section 3.1), organising conferences (Section 4.1), convening research seminars (as

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Contreras and Pistorius did for the CMCI series in 2019–2020), and contributing to UG teaching
 where their fellowship permits (examples include Music and Politics, designed by Contreras and
 Pistorius under the aegis of CeReNeM’s Democracy in Music project; and Music on Stage, rede-
 signed and expanded by Assay with a stronger coverage of gender and race). Permanent ECR
 staff have received additional support designed to meet the Concordat’s expectations for support
 in establishing research careers. For instance, our PGR scholarships (Section 2.3) have been
 used to ensure ECRs gain the experience in PGR supervision necessary for career progression;
 the student recruited to the ‘Steinitz’ Scholarship in 2019 allowed Worthington to undertake her
 first main supervisory role (REF2014:R6). Permanent ECRs have also been prioritised in the al-
 location of additional research funds: Haworth received matching funding for travel costs to make
 a BA Small Research Grant viable, a project that formed the foundation for a subsequent Lever-
 hulme award; and Worthington received funding to support the production of her Beethoven
 Transformed CDs. We recognise that the demands on EC staff are greater than ever before, and
 are resolved to strengthen EC teaching and marking relief and mentoring arrangements as a key
 goal for the next REF cycle (REF2021:R5).

    2.3. Research Students

 MMT currently has 91 PGRs, one of the largest communities in the UK, undertaking PhD and MA
 by Research programmes. In the current REF period (to the 2018–2019 academic year), forty-
 seven (39%) PhDs have hailed from outside the UK, including Australia, Canada, China, Colom-
 bia, Iran, Russia, South Korea, the USA, and mainland Europe. Seventy-one PhDs have been
 awarded during the current REF period, an increase of 222.7% from the 22 reported in REF2014.
 Many recent PhD graduates have secured prestigious academic and industry appointments, in-
 cluding Mira Benjamin (Goldsmiths College), Diego Castro Magas (Catholic University of Chile),
 Cassandra Miller (Guildhall School), Abel Paúl (Conservatorio Superior de Malaga), David Pock-
 nee (Ableton), Daniel Portelli (Western Sydney University), Dominic Thibault (Université de
 Montréal), Hakan Ulus (Gustav Mahler Privatuniversität für Musik), and Seth Parker Woods (Dart-
 mouth College and University of Chicago).

 Each PGR begins their studies by completing a Research Support Plan and Skills Audit with
 the assistance of their supervisors (all PGRs have a main and a co-supervisor). Progression
 monitoring reviews take place at months nine and 21 of full-time study, involving a viva with two
 staff members external to the supervisory team. MHM’s Director of Graduate Education (MMT’s
 Colton) leads obligatory induction workshops, serves as Personal Academic Tutor for PGRs, and
 communicates training and funding opportunities throughout the year. A wide-ranging Researcher
 Development Programme offers training in generic skills such as research integrity, viva prepa-
 ration and grant applications, and MMT runs complementary skills sessions for PGR students,
 covering, for instance, archival research and practice-based methodologies.

 Each centre organises a lively programme of weekly research events designed primarily for
 PGRs. CeReNeM runs two weekly sessions: a staff-taught graduate seminar, and a colloquium
 featuring guest and PGR speakers. CMCI and ReCePP have coordinated weekly provision, em-
 bracing presentations from visiting speakers, practical workshops, and work-in-progress sessions.
 An additional ReCePP seminar session, run by Drama, is open to all PGRs. These different events
 are timetabled on separate days, giving MMT PGRs access to a uniquely rich and varied PGR
 provision. These sessions have continued online during the pandemic.

 PGRs are supported by competitive fee-waiver scholarships designed to retain and attract the
 strongest students. These are offered under two separate schemes: (i) a University-wide Vice
 Chancellor’s Scholarship (for alumni) and (ii) an MHM-specific Scholarship (for all applicants,
 some carrying an additional bursary of £3,000 per year). During the current REF period, 439 waiv-
 ers (for MAR and PhD study) have been awarded to MMT students (compared with 132 in the
 previous REF period). Additionally, seven stipendiary scholarships are offered by MMT on a
 rolling basis to attract outstanding PhD candidates in fields reflecting key research themes. They

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 pay £7,000 or £14,000 each per year and offer 100% fee-waivers. In return for a waiver, PGRs
 undertake various duties, including opportunities to contribute to UG and PGT teaching. This
 teaching experience may include tutorial support, co-teaching of small groups, seminar tuition,
 and the delivery of lectures with support from academic staff. All PGRs who teach undertake a
 mandatory Teaching Assistant Preparation Programme.

 Generous financial support has been available for PGRs’ research during the current REF period
 through a variety of schemes. The Postgraduate Researcher Environment Development Fund
 (offering up to £2,000 per project) and its antecedents have awarded a total of £40,778 to MMT
 PGRs. Additionally, MHM offers a Postgraduate Support Fund of up to £800 per student to
 facilitate the development and dissemination of research. These mechanisms have helped support
 a PGR environment of great vitality: beyond successful pursuit of their degrees, PGRs have pub-
 lished online journals (e.g., the annual CeReNeM Journal, the monthly the MASS); founded new
 ensembles and creative collectives (e.g., DriftEnsemble, Noisebringers, and Creative Coding
 Hackspace); released acclaimed CDs (e.g., Kathryn Williams’ Coming Up For Air, released on
 HCR and featured on BBC Radio 3); received prestigious commissions (e.g., from Ensemble Mod-
 ern, Radio France, and Salzburg Biennale); and won prizes (including the PRSF Oram Award, the
 Sound and Music George Butterworth Prize, and the Pulsar Prize). PGRs have also been sup-
 ported to organise conferences relevant to their research interests (Section 4.5).

    2.4. Equality and Diversity

 The SRC oversees compliance with the University’s EDI-related commitments (see REF5a) in
 relation to research, operating in dialogue with the School’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Committee (EDIC). This involves ensuring that all aspects of MHM research management are
 guided by University EDI policies in relation to the protected characteristics or individual circum-
 stances of staff and PGRs. Staff Matters is a standing item on the agenda of EDIC, where research
 support issues can be raised. MHM’s School Executive (including the ADRes) are ex-officio mem-
 bers and receive all papers, and EDIC’s Chair reports to MHM’s School Board. Recognising its
 work towards gender equality, MHM received the Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2020, com-
 plementing the Bronze Award first received by the University in 2015. Dobson has also under-
 taken the Advance HE Aurora programme.

 These mechanisms and accreditations underpin a culture within MMT that values equality and
 diversity as an essential component of a vital and sustainable research environment. Caring re-
 sponsibilities and other individual circumstances are acknowledged in research audits and men-
 toring discussions, with plans and outcomes adapted accordingly. Impact activities and ICSs have
 continued to be developed on behalf of staff on circumstance-related leave. Carry-forward-funded
 reduction of teaching and marking and extra research funding have been successfully deployed
 to support ECR career development (Section 2.1); and QR funding has been used to retain fixed-
 term researchers beyond their contracted project (Melen). Staff are also granted an additional six
 weeks’ leave after the end of a sabbatical if their research has been affected by COVID-19, per-
 haps owing to caring responsibilities. For PGRs multiple arrangements are in place to accommo-
 date students’ diverse circumstances. Students may alternate flexibly between FT and PT modes
 of study according to need, and PT students can apply for short interruptions specifically on ac-
 count of changes in personal circumstances. PGRs with disabilities or chronic health conditions
 may be granted bespoke timelines – for instance, dropping to 0.25 for a period – to allow continued
 study and supervision. Fee-waiver eligibility has been extended to PT applicants, increasing the
 proportion of PT students in MMT (c. 30%) and the diversity of students successfully completing.

 MMT also embraces diversity through its leadership structures and through the kinds of research
 conducted. All three of our research centres have been led or co-led by women. Our work on
 gender and identity spans musicology (Colton, Haworth, Stras), composition (Lim), and music
 technology (Dobson), and is reflected in many PGR projects. CeReNeM is a signatory to the
 PRSF Keychange initiative (Section 4.4), and its Speculations in Sound symposia (Section 4.1)

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 have explored topics of gender, sexuality, disability, migration and race, with guest speakers from
 three continents. MMT researchers have also engaged with diverse communities locally and in-
 ternationally (Section 4.4). Such activity fosters high levels of awareness around difference and
 discrimination. More generally, MMT recognises and supports a very broad spectrum of research
 processes and output types, as reflected in the diverse portfolio of work submitted for REF2. We
 recognise, however, that there is more to be done to remove barriers to participation in MMT
 research, hence our identification of this as an objective for the coming cycle (REF2021:R2)

 All those involved in the selection of staff and outputs for REF2021 undertook the University’s
 e-training in unconscious bias. An Equality Impact Assessment conducted by the University in
 relation to the REF submission found that ‘the SRR/IR process has had little impact upon gender
 representation’ in MMT. MMT’s male : female staff ratio (M 68.57% : F 31.43%) is closely repro-
 duced in the gender of authors of selected outputs (M 67.11% : F 32.89%).

 Section 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

    3.1. Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income

 MMT has garnered significant research grant income from a range of sources (REF2014:R3).
 In the current REF period, it has secured £4,975,527 of external grant income, compared with
 £757,056 during the previous REF period, an increase of 557%. This success has helped to
 strengthen the staff base at a challenging time for student recruitment, and has underpinned our
 output and impact activities across the full spectrum of our research expertise, including work
 showcased in each of our ICSs. MMT’s ongoing strategy for generating and increasing grant
 income is twofold: (i) senior colleagues with established research profiles and a history of funding
 success are expected to make large-scale bids to fund extension and expansion of their work; and
 (ii) colleagues without significant grant success are mentored by those in category (i) to build skill
 and experience in grant-writing, initially targeted at achieving smaller grants from schemes with a
 higher success rate, such as the BA Small Research Grants (REF2021:R5).

 Funding applications are supported by three means: (i) research audits involve discussion of strat-
 egies for securing funding and progress in bid-writing; (ii) research mentors are in regular contact
 with mentees to discuss how their work might be developed by external funding; and (iii) a Re-
 search Development Manager (RDM) (Fenlon), assigned to MHM by the Department of Re-
 search and Enterprise, promulgates funding opportunities to staff and supports the development
 of bids, in conjunction with MHM’s Impact Officer. Grant-writing workshops have been organised
 by the RDM, offering support over an intensive two-day period.

 A significant portion of MMT income in the current REF period comes from two large European
 Research Council projects with MMT PIs: Clarke’s Interactive Research in Music as Sound:
 Transforming Digital Musicology (IRiMaS; €2,471,416, 2017–2022); and Tremblay’s Fluid Corpus
 Manipulation (FluCoMa; €1,997,431, 2017–2022). These are examples of category (i) in the strat-
 egy outlined above: both PIs have a track record of attracting research funds and, particularly in
 the case of Clarke, experience designing software of which IRiMaS represents a significant ad-
 vance. Thus, these projects are the outcome of extended investment in areas – software for music
 analysis, and sound-corpora analysis and manipulation, respectively – of particular research
 strength in MMT. Each has recruited two full-time RFs (IRiMaS: Dufeu, Takahashi; FluCoMa:
 Green, Roma) and a community of three associated PhD students who, while attached to the
 projects, are fully integrated into the body of MMT PGRs.

 Other significant externally funded projects with MMT staff as PI include Adkins’ Gerhard Re-
 vealed (AHRC; £79,944; 2020–2021; follow-up funding for The Electronic Music of Roberto Ger-
 hard (AHRC; £146,202; 2012)), Bryan’s Making the Tudor Viol (AHRC; £286,596; 2009–2014),
 Clarke’s The Impact of Technology on the Creative Processes of Composing Electroacoustic Mu-
 sic (TaCEM) (AHRC; £312,000; 2012–2015), Haworth’s Sounds Criminal (Leverhulme Trust;

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 £37,176; 2019–2021), Herbst’s Heaviness in Metal Music Production (HiMMP) (AHRC; £199,900,
 of which £157,233 to MHM and £42,667 to C&E; 2020–2023), Thomas’s John Cage and the
 Concert for Piano and Orchestra (AHRC; £279,778; 2015–2018), and Till’s Songs of the Caves:
 Acoustics and Prehistoric Art in Cantabrian Caves (AHRC; £79,999; 2013–2014). Till was also a
 Co-I in the European Music Archaeology Project (EMAP) (EU; €4,000,000; 2013–2018); his ICS
 relates to both these projects.

 Staff have also been awarded other types of external funding, including those that support cre-
 ative work, such as Harrison’s Paul Hamlyn Foundation award (£50,000; 2013–2016), which al-
 lowed him to compose, among other works, Receiving the Approaching Memory (2014). MMT
 composers have also received significant funding from commissions. Examples include
 d’Escrivan’s commissions for film trailers from Los Angeles-based Sencit Music (£25,000); Har-
 rison’s Siemens Foundation commission for How Things Come Together (£9,982); Lim’s com-
 mission for Tree of Codes (€30,000); and Tremblay’s Canada Council for the Arts grant
 (Can$7,500; associated with his receipt of the Jules Leger Prize in Composition, 2015). As noted
 in Section 2.2, MMT has had significant success in securing funding for postdoctoral fellowships.

 MMT has been successful in securing competitive funding via the URF. CeReNeM has received
 two large URF grants: International Leadership in New Music and Audio Technology (£336,437)
 and Sustainability in Strategic International Research Partnerships and the Establishment of New
 Research Grouping: Creative Coding Lab (£152,932), which enabled the partnerships detailed in
 Section 4.1. The URF has also supported initiatives relating to the internationalisation of re-
 search. These include resources to promote ECR participation in international events by funding
 travel to present papers and for the costs of international speakers attending ECR-convened UoH
 conferences (REF2014:R6). A number of ECRs have been successful in securing funds from this
 stream, including Assay (to present a paper in St Petersburg), Pistorius (to present papers in the
 USA and Turkey), Stanović (to present papers in Australia), and Worthington (part-funding the
 Nineteenth-Century Salon workshop).

    3.2. Organisational Infrastructure

 CeReNeM has used its URF funding to build significant capacity, including through the appoint-
 ment of an Administrator (Gillies), who has developed CeReNeM’s open-access platforms (Sec-
 tion 1.5), its social media presence, and the Speculations in Sound network (Section 4.1). The
 Administrator has also supported the development of the Huddersfield Contemporary Records
 (HCR) label, established in 2009, which provides a platform for the international dissemination of
 compositions and performances by MMT staff alongside work by CeReNeM’s network of partners.
 HCR is exclusively distributed and promoted by NMC, the UK’s leading label for contemporary
 music. Since 2015, HCR has released 15 new CDs, and average annual sales are 1,600% higher
 than average annual sales before the partnership with NMC. This has resulted in worldwide radio
 play and reviews in The New Yorker, The Guardian, The Sunday Times, The Wire, BBC Record
 Review, The Nation, Tempo, and Neue Zeitschrift für Musik, among others. Download and stream-
 ing sales have increased markedly over the last five years, from 2,357 in 2016–2017 to 18,372 so
 far in 2020–2021.

 CMCI and ReCePP were established during this REF period, the former arising from the Music,
 Gender and Identity (MuGI) group, the latter from a merger between the Huddersfield Centre for
 Performance Research and Drama’s Centre for Psychophysical Performance Research. CMCI’s
 strategic rationale was to expand the reach of MuGI to encompass a wider range of staff research
 interests while preserving an overarching focus on the cultural mediation of musical production
 and reception (REF2014:R2). The merger which created ReCePP aimed to establish structures
 for dialogue between practice-researchers (not least PGRs) in MMT and Drama. Both centres
 have supported projects which reflect these infrastructural changes. These include (in CMCI) Dob-
 son’s Gender and Inclusion in Music Technology, which has fed into her ICS and YSWN; and (in
 ReCePP) the migration to MMT of the Collection of Historical Annotated String Editions (CHASE)

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 website (part of an AHRC-funded project on historical string editions on which Milsom was a co-
 investigator), and the website’s development to support new projects on nineteenth-century per-
 formance practice. Thomas’s John Cage and the Concert for Piano and Orchestra project, which
 combines performance studies with the study of American experimental music, brings together
 the interests of CeReNeM and ReCePP. ReCePP has also established the Pennine Records
 label, under the direction of Milsom, to promote research-informed performance.

 MMT enjoys a relationship of ‘allied autonomy’ with the Huddersfield Contemporary Music Fes-
 tival (HCMF), directed by McKenzie, which was established in 1979 by emeritus MMT staff mem-
 ber Steinitz. MMT composers and performers regularly present their work at HCMF; there is an
 annual CeReNeM Guest Lecture; and there are free ‘shorts’ concerts co-curated by MMT staff
 and PGRs (REF2014:R7). The international audience drawn annually to Huddersfield for HCMF
 has provided opportunities for MMT’s work to be distributed widely; projects co-produced by
 CeReNeM and HCMF have received further performances in Australia, Canada, Mexico, Norway,
 Serbia, Switzerland, Taiwan, and the USA, as well as broadcasts on BBC Radio 3 and on eight
 CD recordings since 2014. Given the synergies between the HCMF and CeReNeM in particular,
 MMT supports HCMF with c. £9,000 per year and the University provides HCMF with two offices.
 Similar opportunities are afforded by the MMT-curated Electric Spring Festival, which brings
 staff, PGRs and visiting researchers together for the exploration of cutting-edge electronic music.
 The MMT-curated University concert series regularly presents research-driven performances
 given by MMT staff.

    3.3. Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure

 MMT is based in the Richard Steinitz Building (RSB), a £14,800,000 facility completed in 2008
 and home to a range of equipment used specifically for research. Equipment includes the Hud-
 dersfield Immersive Sounds System (HISS), a loudspeaker orchestra created in 2008 by Trem-
 blay; and the 25.4-channel SPIRAL Lab, a sophisticated environment for sound experimentation.
 In addition to support from CeReNeM’s URF funds, the HISS receives a subsidy from QR to en-
 sure its ongoing development. Harker’s cross-disciplinary collaboration with C&E centres on
 HISS: there is co-development and exchange of software and hardware between the two staff
 teams, and participation from PGRs from both schools. The HISS is also regularly used by the
 HCMF and at Electric Spring, and a residency at the local Marsden Jazz Festival is planned
 (REF2021:I5). Technical staff (Peters, plus a team of UG placement students), working with
 School- and University-level staff, maintain MMT’s research-related technology and IT infrastruc-
 ture.

 MMT maintains a substantial collection of modern and historical instruments, including three or-
 gans (one a replica baroque chamber organ), a c. 1830 Clementi square piano, an 1897 Broad-
 wood piano, and several harpsichords. Some of these are available to PGRs in an Early Music
 Room (which also houses a collection of violins, viols and sackbuts) in RSB adjacent to Phipps
 Concert Hall, and some are located in MMT’s main concert venue, St Paul’s Hall, a converted
 nineteenth-century church. Many of these instruments are used for research activities, particularly
 in relation to the work of ReCePP. The £28,000,000 Oastler Building, completed in 2017, has a
 dedicated Postgraduate Space with 52 networked PCs, work areas, photocopying facilities, seat-
 ing/discussion zones and a kitchen. Forming a superb physical infrastructure, St Paul’s Hall,
 Phipps Hall and the Oastler Building have hosted many large-scale research events organised by
 MMT (Section 4.5).

 MMT works closely with the University Library (which employs a specialist Music Librarian),
 whose substantial Music Library occupies its own room, and with the University Archive which,
 in 2014, transferred to its new £2,000,000 premises Heritage Quay (HQ). HQ houses several
 nationally significant music archives, including the former collection of the British Music Infor-
 mation Centre (40,000 scores and recordings), the archives of the Society for the Promotion of
 New Music (SPNM) and the HCMF, and collections relating to a number of local ensembles and

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 musical organisations. HQ has three full-time, professionally accredited staff, who have collabo-
 rated closely with MMT staff on grant applications and research events relevant to the collections.
 HQ’s PD5454-compliant standards for storage and its reputation for nationally significant music
 collections continue to attract new depositors, including most recently prominent figures in British
 improvisation and London concert life. HQ hosts regular study days on its music collections, often
 involving MMT staff, and supports training in archival research for MMT PGRs.

 Section 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

    4.1. Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 The University’s strategic focus upon internationalisation (REF5a) has supported MMT’s goal of
 developing collaborative exchanges and research partnerships (REF2014:R5). Two URF grants
 totalling £490,000 enabled CeReNeM to create an ambitious international research network,
 Speculations in Sound (2015–) bringing together new music researchers from leading institutions
 in North America, Europe and Australasia in a series of symposia and exchange residencies. The
 network has enabled: 11 MMT researchers to present work at Stanford, Cornell, Columbia, Chi-
 cago, Northwestern, NoTAM, Princeton, Harvard, Montreal, NYU, CUNY, Wesleyan, and Dart-
 mouth College; visits to Huddersfield from researchers at Monash, Montreal, Graz, Columbia,
 Northwestern, Chicago, UCSD, Oxford, Oslo, Leuven, Harvard, and Princeton; three network-wide
 gatherings in Huddersfield and Queen’s University Belfast; three commercial CDs (on HCR) aris-
 ing from artistic exchanges with Chicago, Northwestern, Harvard and Sydney; and symposia pub-
 lications involving network partners arising from conferences at Darmstadt and Huddersfield. In
 2019 Cassidy and Till obtained further Huddersfield funding (£25,500) to support collaborative
 projects in new music, music archaeology and popular music with researchers in Australia, Spain
 and the USA.

 Other partnerships have arisen from externally funded projects (Section 3.1). The IRiMaS project
 brings MMT researchers together with Co-Is at Cork, Bath Spa and IRCAM (Paris), the last of
 these continuing a relationship established by Clarke in the 1980s. MMT-led AHRC projects have
 enabled new partnerships with researchers at Durham (TaCEM, PI Clarke; Songs of the Caves,
 PI Till), Leeds (John Cage and the Concert for Piano and Orchestra, PI Thomas) and Cambridge
 (Gerhard Revealed, PI Adkins). MMT researchers have collaborated as Co-Is on the AHRC pro-
 jects French Opera and the Revolutionary Sublime (Cowgill; with Nottingham, Leeds, Copenha-
 gen, Warwick, KCL, Bristol; 2014–2015) and Modelling a Virtual Violin (Harker; with Edinburgh
 and Royal Conservatoire of Scotland; 2015–2016), and on European projects including the Euro-
 pean Music Archaeology Project (Till; with institutions in Cyprus, Germany, Austria, Spain and
 Italy) and Música y danza en los procesos socioculturales (Contreras; with universities in Barce-
 lona and Granada; 2019–2022). Our funded postdoctoral RFs have created new international
 knowledge exchange partnerships with Africa Open Institute (Pistorius; 2018–2021) and Univer-
 sity of Osaka (Asaba; 2019–2022).

 Our superb physical infrastructure has supported other research collaborations. Several of the
 music conferences held at Huddersfield (Section 4.5) have arisen from cross-institutional partner-
 ships: Michael Finnissy Dialogues (with Manchester); Arts and Models of Democracy in Post-Au-
 thoritarian Iberian Peninsula (with Sheffield); Sound and Music in Documentary Film (with Leeds);
 and Finding Democracy in Music (with Fondazione Giorgio Cini, Venice). The last two of these
 resulted in substantial edited volumes: Soundings: Documentary Film and the Listening Experi-
 ence (2018), edited by Cox and John Corner (Leeds); and Finding Democracy in Music (2020),
 edited by Adlington and Esteban Buch (EHESS, Paris). Our studio facilities have enabled crea-
 tive collaborations, such as a new acousmatic work for HISS by Jonty Harrison (Birmingham), co-
 produced for HCMF (2015) by Tremblay. MMT staff have additionally co-authored scholarly and
 creative work with researchers from UK institutions including Cambridge, Manchester, Oxford and
 UCL; and overseas institutions such as University of Chicago, Humboldt University, Université
 Paris 8, the Sydney Conservatorium, and Vienna University.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    4.2. Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences

 The centrality of creative practice within MMT’s research culture has enabled the development of
 strong relationships with industry professionals and audiences, some involving partners as co-
 researchers. MMT staff are active as professional performers, enjoying enduring relationships
 with high-profile ensembles, festivals, venues and audiences around the world. Worthington
 leads Boxwood and Brass (founded 2013), whose performances of neglected eighteenth- and
 nineteenth-century wind chamber music have been described by the BBC Music Magazine as
 ‘dazzlingly persuasive’. Worthington’s research on period performance and repertoire informs
 the ensemble’s practice, benefitting audiences for the group’s regular concerts and three critically
 acclaimed CDs (2016, 2019, 2020; two supported by MMT funding), as well as participants in their
 annual adult education weekend for wind players. Stras is co-director of Musica Secreta, whose
 revival of female-voice polyphony from the fifteenth to the eighteenth century is based in substan-
 tial part on Stras’s archival and historical research. In addition to their commercial recordings
 (most recently in 2017 and 2019) and performances at leading early music festivals, Stras and
 Musica Secreta run an annual summer school in Italy focused upon repertoire discovered through
 Stras’s research. Thomas has for twenty years been pianist with the ensemble Apartment House,
 recently appointed an Associate Ensemble of London’s Wigmore Hall. Thomas’s research contri-
 bution to the group extends well beyond the New York School repertoire documented in our ICS,
 to include recent pioneering explorations of the music of Laurence Crane and Jürg Frey, on each
 of whom Thomas published substantial articles. Bryan’s research on viol repertoire and perfor-
 mance practice contributes significantly to the activities of the Rose Consort of Viols, with whom
 he has given 27 concerts since 2014 in historical venues across Europe and the UK, and has
 recorded five CDs. Milsom’s research on nineteenth-century performing practices has been ex-
 plored practically and theoretically through regular performances with the Meiningen Ensemble.

 Industry partnerships are central to other areas of MMT research. Herbst’s AHRC-funded
 HiMMP project incorporates seven music producers as co-researchers, with the goal of creating
 innovative learning resources for the industry. Tremblay’s FluCoMA project involves eight free-
 lance composers, commissioned to explore the creative potential of the project’s tools as they are
 being developed. CeReNeM’s URF funding has enabled MMT composers to work collaboratively
 with leading new music groups, resulting in 10 new compositions by Adkins, Bellamy, Cassidy,
 Harrison and Lim for Ensemble Musikfabrik, ELISION, the Bozzini Quartet, and Wet Ink. MMT
 staff have developed key relationships with record labels, including the exclusive distribution
 agreement between HCR and NMC (Section 3.2), and the extended relationships with Delphian
 Records and Another Timbre documented in our ICSs. MMT staff also act as consultants to lead-
 ing organisations: for instance, Bryan was Artistic Adviser for the York Early Music Festival (2014–
 2020); Stras was consultant for Kings Place’s Venus Unwrapped concert series (2018);
 Worthington was consultant for major recordings by Paul McCreesh and the Gabrieli Consort
 (2018, 2020); and Till, Dobson and Thomas provided consultancy to media professionals, tech-
 nology companies and ensembles, as described in our ICSs.

    4.3. Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Beyond the extended relationships described above, MMT research has contributed to the
 economy and society in myriad ways. In the assessment period, MMT staff gave 393 research-
 related public performances, and had 761 public performances of their compositions. This
 extensive presentation of creative work has circled the globe, encompassing performances in
 Australia, Canada, Chile, China, Iceland, Japan, Mexico, Serbia, Taiwan, the USA, and throughout
 Europe. Since 2014 MMT research has been presented at festivals including the Darmstadt
 Ferienkurse, November Music, Sonorities, TRANSIT, Tectonics, Spoleto, HCMF, and early music
 festivals in Utrecht, York, Beverley, and Brighton. MMT composers have produced new repertoire
 for ensembles including Klangforum Wien, Ensemble Modern, Ensemble Contrechamps,
 Ensemble für neue Musik Zürich, Speak Percussion, and the Riot Ensemble; and MMT
 performers have performed with the Kings Consort, the Academy of Ancient Music, the Gabrieli
                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Consort and Players, the Orchestre de Champs-Élysées, and the Orchestra of the Age of
 Enlightenment. MMT research has been distributed globally by record labels based in the UK
 (Amon Ra, audiobulb, Delphian, NMC, Obsidian, Resonus), Australia (Ivy League Records),
 Austria (Kairos), Belgium (Sub Rosa), Canada (empreintes DIGITALes), Germany (cpo, Wergo),
 Hong Kong (Naxos), Portugal (Crónica), Switzerland (HatHut), and the USA (Divine Art). Staff
 have acted as mentors for young composers and performers at leading international events
 including the LSO’s Soundhub scheme, Barcelona’s Mixtur Festival, HCMF, the Darmstadt
 Ferienkurse, and MMT’s own five-day Nineteenth-Century Salon (2018; Worthington), which
 explored period performance practice with 30 postgraduate and professional chamber musicians
 from ten countries.

 UoA researchers have been active in public engagement, delivering 152 invited talks during the
 assessment period, for venues including the South Bank Centre, Kings Place, Spectrum (NYC),
 the Luxembourg Philharmonie, the Spoleto Festival (Charleston), the Boom Festival (Portugal),
 Club Transmediale Festival (Berlin), the Sydney Recital Hall, the Ethnografilm Festival (Paris), the
 British Library, and the EU Researchers’ Nights. Cassidy, Colton, Dobson, Stras, Thomas, Till,
 Tremblay and Worthington have all contributed to BBC national radio programmes during the
 assessment period, and Till has appeared several times on BBC television. Herbst, Jan, Till and
 Wolfe have contributed to programmes made by broadcasters in Australia, Germany, France, the
 USA and Japan. MMT staff have written on their research for the general readerships of The
 Guardian, The Conversation, the New European, the New Scientist and The Wire.

    4.4. Engagement with Diverse Communities and Publics

 MMT researchers have been actively engaged with the local communities of Kirklees. Cassidy
 and Schmidt serve on Kirklees Council’s Music Development Group, created following the
 Council’s successful bid for £300,000 funding from Leeds City Region to place the region’s ‘rich
 and diverse musical heritage’ at the centre of local regeneration. One of the cornerstone activities
 enabled by the Council’s funding was devised and led by Martin: the Roots to Inspire programme
 (2019) highlighted the diversity of musical traditions in Kirklees through creative collaboration,
 drawing upon Martin’s research on song-writing and cross-cultural collaboration. The programme
 paired four experienced musicians with community music groups in Kirklees to create new music
 fusing diverse styles and traditions. The project, delivered with £20,000 funding from Kirklees
 Council, involved 127 participants from local schools, an Urdu community centre, a centre
 providing support for women experiencing mental health difficulties, a gospel choir, and a brass
 band, in workshops, public performances, recordings and a project film. A predecessor project,
 Momentum II (2017), run by Martin in association with HCMF, involved vulnerable and stigmatised
 local communities. Over 50 participants, including refugees, asylum-seekers, and inmates at HMP
 Leeds, developed song-writing skills, and recorded their compositions.

 MMT staff have deployed their research expertise to support greater gender equity in musical
 life. One of our ICSs documents the work of YSWN, initiated and co-led by Dobson, which has
 offered training in music technology to over 850 women and girls across the north of England. A
 complementary initiative was the Professional Development Programme for Female Composers
 of Electronic Music (2018–2019), which gave five female-identifying emerging composers access
 to MMT's extensive multichannel studios and mentoring from Cassidy and Tremblay in prepara-
 tion for premieres at HCMF. CeReNeM is a signatory to the PRS Foundation Keychange initiative,
 committing to achieve at least 50% representation of female-identifying artists and guests across
 its academic, performance and recording programmes.

 MMT staff have also brought benefit to diverse communities overseas. Martin’s critically ac-
 claimed album Songs from Northam Avenue (2017) originated in a commission from Urban The-
 atre Projects in Sydney to create songs responding to the lives of people from the multicultural
 suburb of Bankstown. Beginning with a residency during which residents collaborated on song
 lyrics, the project developed into a collaboration with local musicians from various backgrounds,

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 including Iraqi, Lebanese, Vietnamese and Western. The album’s success has created new op-
 portunities for several of Martin’s collaborators (including festival performances and recordings),
 and through workshops and extensive media coverage has contributed to new public appreciation
 of the benefits of Australia’s multiculturalism.

    4.5. Contribution to Sustainability of the Discipline and the Research Field

 MMT staff have contributed to the discipline through roles with academic and professional or-
 ganisations. They have filled significant positions within the leading UK subject associations, in-
 cluding the RMA (Assay, Schmidt), MusicHE (Dobson), and IASPM-UK (Herbst, Till); and in
 subject associations overseas, including the Society for Ethnomusicology (Asaba), the Interna-
 tional Council for Traditional Music (Both), and the South African Society for Research in Music
 (Pistorius). Staff serve on the boards of scholarly organisations including the Digital Image Ar-
 chive of Medieval Music, the Plainsong and Medieval Music Society, the Répertoire International
 des Sources Musicales, and the British Academy’s Early English Church Music series. Adlington
 and Clarke are members of the subpanel for REF2021. Adkins, Adlington, Cowgill, Schmidt
 and Thomas were all appointed to the AHRC Peer Review College during the assessment period.
 Staff also serve on the boards of non-academic organisations, including Sound and Music’s British
 Music Collection Working Group, HCMF and the York Early Music Festival.

 MMT has hosted twenty national and international conferences since 2014. These include major
 meetings of the musicological calendar, such as the BFE/RMA Research Students’ Conference,
 the Biennial International Conference on Nineteenth-Century Music, IASPM-UK’s Biennial Con-
 ference, and the Biennial International Conference on Music Since 1900. Complementing these
 fixtures has been an array of events reflecting new avenues for the discipline, encompassing ed-
 ucation (Research in Popular Music Education, 2015), technology (Visual Interactive and Sound
 Technology in Archaeology, 2015; First Conference on Computer Simulation of Musical Creativity,
 2016), new music (Michael Finnissy Dialogues, 2016), film music (Sound and Music in Documen-
 tary Film, 2017), social inclusion (Activating Inclusive Sound Spaces, 2017), popular music (Re-
 contextualising Ragtime, 2017; Ambient @40, 2018), and four international symposia on music
 and democracy (2017–2020). Two conferences have been organised by PGRs under the mentor-
 ship of MMT staff: Vocality/Instrumentality (2017) and Capitalist Realism: 10 Years On (2020).

 MMT research has responded to Global Challenge priorities by addressing the refugee and
 environmental crises. Martin’s work with refugee communities in Huddersfield (Section 4.4) led
 to the innovative Sounding Out Refugee Stories project (2019), raising awareness of the plight of
 Syrian refugees in Jordan; Martin collaborated with Jordanian musicians to create new songs
 using transcripts of interviews with refugees, and was interviewed about the project on Jordanian
 TV. Cox’s 45-minute documentary film Tree People (2014) makes creative use of location sound
 and music to communicate the environmental contribution of the Colne Valley Tree Society; the
 film has since been used by the society to publicise its achievements and to recruit new members.
 Lim’s compositions engage extensively with ecological interconnection and the effects of the An-
 thropocene, topics on which she has spoken regularly in interviews and invited talks, notably
 around her works How Forests Think (2017) and Extinction Events and Dawn Chorus (2019).

    4.6. Leadership and Recognition

 MMT staff have acted as editors for prestigious journals and book series, serving as editors for
 the journals Analitica (Herbst), Journal of Creative Music Systems (Jan), South African Music
 Studies Journal (Pistorius), Music Archaeology of the Americas (Both), and Metal Music Studies
 (Herbst); as editorial board members for journals in the UK (Early Music, IASPM Journal, Music,
 Sound and the Moving Image, Journal of the Royal Musical Association, and Metal Music Studies),
 and overseas (Journal of the Alamire Foundation, Journal of Music Research Online, Nielsen
 Studies, Polifonie, Revue de Musicologie, Transposition, Tijdschrift voor de Nederlandse Muz-
 iekgeschiedenis, and Искусство музыки (Art of Music)); and as editors for the book series Ele-
 ments in Popular Music (CUP), Music in Britain 1600–1900 (Boydell and Brewer), and Musical
                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Cultures of the Twentieth Century (Routledge). MMT staff have served as peer reviewers for
 journals including Cambridge Opera Journal, Contemporary Music Review, Early Music, Journal
 of the American Musicological Society, Journal of the Royal Musical Association, Journal of Musi-
 cology, Music and Letters, Organised Sound, Psychology of Music, and Twentieth-Century Music;
 and for publishers including CUP, OUP, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, and Springer. In addi-
 tion to serving on the AHRC Peer Review College (Section 4.5), MMT staff have acted as review-
 ers for the national research councils of Germany, Canada, Switzerland, Austria and the Euro-
 pean Science Foundation. Staff have also served on juries for leading composition prizes includ-
 ing the ISCM, British Composer Awards, Ivor Composer Awards, Young Nordic Music Days, and
 the Geneva International Composition Programme.

 MMT staff have achieved international recognition for their research. They have received prizes,
 including the AMS’s Otto Kinkeldey Award for most distinguished book in musicology (Stras,
 2019), the American Musical Instrument Society’s Nicholas Bessaroff Prize for the best book in
 English on musical instruments (Bryan, 2017), the Mariangela Tempera Award in Shakespearean
 Studies (Assay, 2020), and the Paul Hamlyn Foundation Award for Artists (Harrison, 2013–
 2016). They have been appointed to prestigious residencies, including the Hartley Residency at
 the University of Southampton (Cowgill, 2019), and a DAAD Guest Professorship at TU Berlin
 (Tremblay, 2014–2015). They have received high-profile media attention: for instance, the New
 Yorker’s influential music critic Alex Ross singled out Thomas’s five-CD set of Morton Feldman
 and an HCR disc as two of his top ten recordings of 2019; and BBC Radio 3’s Record Review
 programme reviewed discs containing work by Adkins, Harrison, Stras, Thomas and Worthing-
 ton. MMT staff have been keynote speakers for the RMA Annual Conference, the Conference for
 Medieval and Renaissance Music, and the International Society for the Study of Greek and Roman
 Music and its Cultural Heritage, and at overseas conferences in Derry, Colombia, Treviso, Shang-
 hai and Sydney. Since 2014, staff have examined a total of 36 PhDs at leading research institu-
 tions in the UK, Europe and North America.




                                                                                          Page 16
