Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of West London
 Unit of Assessment: 11 Computer Science and Informatics
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context
 Since 2014, the University has invested in research and has provided an infrastructure to expand
 and support strategic areas, of which this UoA is one. The plan for growth and improvement is
 articulated through our two last strategic plans (Ambition 2013-2018; Achievement 2019-2023),
 and the related research strategies which require Schools to plan research in ways that reflect the
 main objectives of the institutional strategies (see institutional statement, section 2). This UoA was
 submitted in REF 2014, and it is strongly embedded in the School of Computing and Engineering,
 where research in Computer Science was first submitted in RAE 2008. Over the present REF
 period, the direction of research for the UoA has been refined - three clear clusters have been
 nurtured - and the main strategic aim has been to increase quality and reach, particularly by
 engaging with industry partners. The University has invested in this UoA; we have acquired new
 facilities, created an interdisciplinary research centre, and invested in staff and funding
 opportunities for doctoral students (see institutional statement, section 2.1.2). This unit has
 therefore significantly matured and focused its research.

 1.2 Structure and Description of the UoA
 Currently, 10 (9.8FTE) academics and 20 research students comprise the computer science and
 the associated fields. The composition of the unit has changed significantly since December 2013;
 75% of academics have joined this UoA since 2014. The academics who left were replaced by
 leading/promising world-class researchers, allowing us to bring maturity to the research areas
 identified for growth whilst ensuring sustainability for the years ahead. Of the 10 current members,
 six hold Associate/Full Professor positions. Four are more junior members. We have also identified
 six members starting their career who have been identified as ‘next generation’ researchers (see
 section 2).
    Academic                    Position & Research Area/Expertise          Year Appointed/Left
    Jose Abdelnour-Nocera       Associate Professor, HCI                    2003
    Junaid Arshad               Associate Professor, Cybersecurity          2015- 2020
    Waqar Asif                  Lecturer, Cybersecurity                     2020
    Wei Jie                     Associate Professor, Cybersecurity          2009
    Elahe Kani-Zabihi           Senior Lecturer, HCI                        2015
    Jonathan Loo                Professor, Cybersecurity & AI               2017
    Christian Sauer             Lecturer, AI                                2011- 2019
    Shanyu Tang                 Professor, Cybersecurity                    2017
    Ikram Ur Rehman             Lecturer, AI                                2019
    Hui Wang                    Professor, AI                               2020
    Xinheng (Henry) Wang        Professor, Cybersecurity & AI               2017- 2019
    Scott Yang                  Lecturer, AI & Cybersecurity                2020
    Massoud Zolgharni           Associate Professor, AI                     2018

 The principal focuses of research are reflected in three multi-disciplinary themes. Each theme links
 to a research centre/group that provides the coordination and infrastructure/expertise for targeted


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. Academics involved are not limited to just one theme, and many work collaboratively
 across a number of these thematic areas.




     Figure 1. Our main research themes: Cybersecurity, Intelligent Computing, and Human-
                                    Computer Interaction.
 Cybersecurity research, supported by the Cybersecurity and Criminology Centre (CCC),
 addresses research and public engagement in cybersecurity, crime and their intersections. This
 Centre became fully operational in 2017 to focus on cybersecurity research and research in other
 forms of criminality and security issues, with a view to be an interdisciplinary resource for internal
 and external collaborators. It has a wide research scope: in computer system and network
 security, Loo has recently been supported by the Innovate UK and the Department for Digital
 Culture, Media and Sports (DCMS): i) to develop Cyber monitoring and Defence for IoT (04/2018-
 02/2019), and ii) to investigate an intelligent threat hunting system based on Linux security
 hardening and mandatory access control policies (04/2020-07/2020). In communication
 security, Tang secured an Innovate UK grant (1026790, 12284 GOL) in May 2020 to develop a
 secure mobile apps universal converter using cybersecurity and automation technology (10/2020-
 03/2023). Asif, a more recent addition to the CCC, has been involved in multiple EU projects
 focusing on data privacy. Currently, 7 PhD students are attached to the Centre. Key researchers
 in this stream are:
    •   Loo, Tang, Jie, Arshad, Asif, Yang
    •   Also from UoA20: Brooks, Harding, Henry, Murji and Wakefield
 Intelligent Computing research is supported by the Intelligent Sensing and Vision Research
 Group (IntSaV), which is a specialised group coordinating advanced research in all aspects of
 Artificial Intelligence and Big Data. It covers a range of topics in machine learning and computer
 vision/sensing, encompassing various applications in industry and healthcare. IntSaV has fostered
 interdisciplinary research by providing a framework for cross-faculty collaborative working beyond
 the School. The group has pursued a successful strategy of growth in several key areas: in
 biomedical image processing, Zolgharni was awarded a British Heart Foundation (BHF) grant
 to develop computer-aided diagnostic technologies (01/2020-12/2022). The area of signal
 processing has been revitalised with the recruitment of Yang whose novel methodologies for
 biometric recognition has attracted attention. IntSaV has recruited 8 PhD students. In 2020, this
 group introduced a new MSc in AI as a one-year bridge between undergraduate and PhD degrees.
 Key researchers in this stream are:

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Zolgharni, Loo, Rehman, Yang, Wang and Sauer
    •   Contributary members: 2 ‘next generation’ colleagues, and Chousidis from UoA12; and
        Brew from UoA3
 Human-Computer Interaction research, supported by the Sociotechnical Group for Innovation
 and User Experience (SCIUX), addresses the design and development of systems that meet the
 needs of end-users globally. It investigates the sociotechnical and cultural differences inherent in
 the process and product of design, and development, of interactive systems. SCIUX has
 developed strong relationships with industry, national and international partners, and has been
 supported by several funding bodies. In HCI, Abdelnour-Nocera is funded and working closely
 with Heathrow Airport on improved decision-making in the deployment of automation in terminal
 airside operations. In exploring various dimensions of quality of experience, Kani-Zabihi has
 focused on human factors in multimedia systems. Currently, 5 PhD students are attached to the
 group. Research at SCIUX also feeds into our postgraduate courses in Information Systems,
 Health Informatics, and Software Engineering. Key researchers in this stream are:
    •   Abdelnour-Nocera, Kani-Zabihi
    •   Contributory members: 4 ‘next generation’ colleagues.

 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy
 With the appointment of an Executive Dean in late 2014 (Professor Amir Alani), and under his
 direction, the UoA has grown strategically to occupy a strong position in a number of niche
 research fields. Four major goals were set in 2015:
    1) Focus on strategic research areas to increase quality and impact.
    2) Strengthen the environment to generate a long-term and stable research community and
       culture within the UoA, including through the establishment of Research Centre/Groups.
    3) Increase bid activity and secured funding, improving our national and international reach
       and recognition.
    4) Develop industry-related links, and identify and develop impact communities, and impact
       monitoring mechanisms for long-term impact engagement.
 These goals were achieved as follows:
    1. Developing strategic areas of research
    It was agreed that we would reduce our focus from five to three main research areas; AI,
    Cybersecurity, and HCI. Early in the cycle, the School set out its strategy to support staff in
    the UoA, to be able to produce high quality research and strong impact in the field. We
    recruited staff with cybersecurity expertise that brought additional STEM weight to our UoA.
    This provided us with an opportunity to impact directly on sector-wide technological
    developments in the areas related to cybersecurity, as our third major research theme.
    2. Strengthening the environment
    The CCC was established in 2017 to address current and future security threats in a cross-
    disciplinary approach, contributing to the areas of cybersecurity and information security. The
    Centre has recruited and promoted world-class researchers (six professors from this UoA and
    other schools within the University). IntSaV, opened in 2018 to provide the expertise and
    support for our AI research, and includes seven members. HCI research, supported by the
    SCIUX group, has six members.
    3. Improving our reach
    Over the period, the UoA has established collaborative links with many industrial and clinical
    partners, including the following partnerships with:


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Secure Technologies UK Ltd and Imediavan, funded by the Innovate UK (Loo, to develop
        cyber monitoring and Defence for IoT (CYMOND)).
    •   AB5 Consulting Ltd, through a KTP fund (Tang, to develop a secure mobile apps universal
        converter predicting apps security strength with a new fractal algorithm against security
        metrics).
    •   SALMAC: ‘Security Assessment tool for Linux Mandatory Access Control’, project funded
        by Innovate UK/DCMS, led by Middlesex University with Loo as a CI, (April 2020 to July
        2020) investigating an intelligent threat hunting system based on Linux security hardening
        and mandatory access control policies
    •   The National Heart and Lung Institute (Zolgharni, funded by BHF Project to develop
        cardiovascular diagnostic tools).
    4. Impact
    The University holds an Impact Group which has supported academics with their ICSs, and is
    presently focusing on upcoming impact opportunities beyond REF2021. Group members meet
    monthly to identify promising early-stage research projects which could potentially be
    impactful. From this UoA, Zolgharni serves as a group member.
    The two impact case studies submitted illustrate the UOAs approach to impact. One shows
    how we have developed an innovative approach to protecting internet-connected consumer
    devices from cybersecurity threats, winning financial development support from Innovate UK /
    DCMS and then taking this forward towards commercialisation. The second shows how our
    Sociotechnical Research Group for Innovation and User Experience has contributed to the
    effective adoption of Human-Centered Systems Design in Asia and Africa, as well as in the
    UK. This builds on well-established research at the University and extended it to benefit new
    partners, particularly in South Africa.

 1.4 Strategic plan for the next 5 years
 Based on the University Research Strategy for 2025 (see institutional statement, section 2.1) the
 principal aim for this unit is to further develop the quality and reach of its established areas of
 research, to continue focusing on applied interdisciplinary projects, and to pursue quality research
 spanning from underlying theoretical studies to transformative applications in the scientific,
 commercial, and social domains. We will develop and pursue collaborative research, engaging
 across the institution, and with regional and international partners, based on existing partners and
 impact communities – with a view to expand. This is the basis on which will continue to develop
 and grow this UoA towards the next REF, as we intend to produce research that impacts social
 (in HCI research), medical (see collaborations with hospitals in Section 4.1), environmental and
 scientific (see AI and Cybersecurity) aspects of our field. Our main objectives are:
    1. Expansion of existing research capacity
    The recent pandemic has accelerated digital transformation as people work remotely. This
    paradigm shift will not be completely reversed in post-COVID era. CCC will be addressing the
    profound questions posed by these changes to enhance cyber resilience and improve data
    security distributed across private and corporate systems.
    Similarly the rapid development of new online teaching and learning approaches in schools
    and universities will engage HCI in the design of online learning platforms, and study wider
    socio-political and economic implications on learning.
    The Government’s Industrial Strategy identifies AI as one of its four Grand Challenges. This
    will be a key focus area for us. It is envisaged that an AI Research Centre will emerge from
    the IntSaV research group, spanning the breadth of its interdisciplinary research areas.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Transformative multidisciplinary research
    We will sustain and expand our problem-driven and interdisciplinary research in the relevant
    areas of AI, Healthcare, Security, and Ageing Society. We will do this by building on the
    strengths of different disciplines at UWL already engaged interdisciplinary research, and grow
    externally to tackle complex computer science problems.
    3. Emerging research challenges in the discipline
    We will focus on fast emerging challenges and shifting paradigms - including AI ethics,
    explainable AI, cloud computing, and human-centred systems design - to meet the evolving
    needs of industry, healthcare, and society.
    4. Growth and diversification of research income
    We will grow and diversify our research income portfolio, from commercial and non-
    commercial sources, ensuring high-quality submissions and effective management of awards.
    We aim to double our present research income by focusing on large and longer-term projects.
    5. Training the next generation of researchers
    We will continue to include the ‘next generation’ of researchers, and ensure they are targeted
    for UoA and University funding and support opportunities. We will continue to attract high-
    calibre PhD students, including securing further industry-based PhDs.
    6. Pathways to impact
    We will further engage with existing identified impact communities and end-users, as well as
    identifying new ones, deploying systematic mechanisms to monitor and collect evidence. We
    will further establish and generate new highly effective collaborations (including KTPs),
    through consultancy work to industry.

 1.5 Support for Standards and Ethics
 1.5.1 Academic research infrastructure to support standards
 The University Research, Scholarship and Enterprise Committee (URSEC) chaired by the
 Deputy Vice-Chancellor, receives reports on matters of University-wide interest, including
 regular updates and annual reports from schools on research, scholarship, and knowledge
 transfer activities. URSEC also advises on research governance within the individual Schools. It
 oversees key performance indicators and their fitness for purpose in the context of the
 University’s Strategic Plan. A University Research Degrees Sub-Committee oversees
 progression by postgraduate research students to registration to MPhil status, and onward to
 doctoral (PhD) completion.
 1.5.2 Ethics
 The University Research Ethics Committee (UREC) – also a subcommittee of the University
 Research, Scholarship and Enterprise Committee (URSEC) - has overall responsibility for ethics
 approval of all staff and students’ applications. This UoA’s staff and student approvals are
 scrutinised by the School’s Research Ethics Panel (SCREP), chaired by Abdelnour-Nocera.
 SCREP reports regularly to UREC. UREC subgroups are convened where ‘high risk’ applications
 are identified by any School/College SCREP.
 In UoA11, all research activities are also assessed rigorously for the health and safety under the
 University’s established directives and protocols. The equipment being used for research
 purposes are regularly inspected and tested to ensure it meets the technical and safety
 requirements.




                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.6 Open and Interdisciplinary Research
 All researchers in this UoA are ORCiD registered, and 386 publications are associated with this
 UoA and openly accessible through repository, out of which 304 (80%) publications have full text
 associated with the record. At UoA level, we do the following to support open research:
    •   In the wake of open science, the priority in this UoA has been the full publication of details
        of all methods developed in research, so that they can be reproduced, criticized, and
        improved upon.
    •   Crucial to the field of computer science, where not only publications but also other research
        materials can be usefully shared, industry-standard code-sharing utilities, such as GitHub,
        is used to make the datasets, code of experiments, and analyses freely available.
    •   To stimulate faster impact, when possible, the scholarly research outputs are also openly
        available by publishing in open access journals and arXiv repository.
 As indicated earlier, this UoA has a strong interdisciplinary make-up. This is sustained through
 regular meetings and seminars, and through expansive engagement with a range of industry
 partners (see section 4).
 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 In 2015, UWL introduced an Academic Employment Framework (AEF) which addresses the
 recruitment, management, development and support of all academic staff. In this framework all
 academic staff can focus (in addition to teaching) on research, scholarship and/ or knowledge
 exchange activities (see institutional statement, section 3.1). Academic staff agree targets for
 these activities which form part of their annual appraisals. Through this framework, SCE has
 benefitted (as explained in section 1) from the addition of new research-active staff. Over the REF
 period, seven key appointments were made to strengthen the areas of AI and Cybersecurity.
 The unit’s current diverse level of seniority (Professors, Associate Professors, and more junior
 SRR) is supported through different mechanisms, and ensure we have succession plans within
 the unit. Research expectations and publications in peer-reviewed reputable journals, and
 participation in bids applications, are at the core of this UoA’s activities. All new members of staff
 are allocated mentors to enable them to adapt well to the School culture. This process ensures
 that talent is spotted early to allocate research responsibilities that will contribute to the future
 shape of the UoA. Where relevant, new members of staff join a supervisory team as ‘observers’,
 and later - after training (which is mandatory at UWL) - as second or third supervisors. Our UoA is
 diverse, in terms of gender, race, religion, and age. Our academics originate from over nine
 different countries on three continents, with 80% being of BAME background.

 2.2 Staff Development
 There is a broad-ranging staff development provision, both at University and at School level (as
 described in the institutional statement section 3.2). Several services contribute to research-based
 staff development, which has involved staff in this UoA. The AEF framework provides a 5-day
 annual allowance for CPD and development.
 At University level, Research and Enterprise Operations (REOps) offer lunchtime seminar
 sessions on research issues including knowledge exchange; impact; collaborative projects;
 commercialisation; managing research budgets; funding opportunities, industry and user
 engagement. REOps also support applications for research funding. This UoA has greatly
 benefited from this training and support, and been supported by REOps with funding applications.
 HR provide training on equality and diversity, managing stress, appraisals, preparing for
 promotion, working with external collaborators, and leadership. They hold a budget for
 conferences, sabbaticals, and other staff development programmes. For instance, Abdelnour-
                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nocera spent one year at the IT University of Copenhagen as part of a University’s sabbatical.
 Staff on this UoA staff have also been supported for attending international conferences. The
 University also pays for internal and external courses, and for staff to study additional
 qualifications, including MAs and PhDs. For example, staff who take up studying for a PhD are
 supported financially (no fees are paid) and through a 100-hour reduction in their teaching load.
 Five members of staff have benefitted from this over the period; and another is presently
 completing their PhD. The Library has provided training and one-to-one support on Open Access;
 and has trained members of the UoA on understanding open access and compliance rules. They
 encourage staff and research students to sign up to and use ORCiD ID. The Communications
 department offers advice on media; public engagement; engaging with diverse audiences; social
 media. The University also runs impact workshops, with access to impact advice (described in
 section 1). It has provided training on impact; outputs planning; REF guidance; REF Code of
 Practice. The annual University Research Conference led by the PVC (Academic) provides
 opportunities to disseminate research findings, and network with potential new research partners.
 This UoA has played a strong role in the conference, with regular attendance and presentations
 (e.g., Abdelnour-Nocera in 2018, and Zolgharni in 2019 and 2020). Members of the UoA have
 attended sessions on impact, public engagement, interdisciplinary research, mentoring, new
 career researchers, at the annual conference.
 At School level, the School of Computing and Engineering organises its own monthly research
 seminars. Each session includes up to three internal (staff and doctoral students) or external
 (visiting researchers) speakers presenting their latest research plans/findings. The seminars are
 well-attended (>50 attendees each month) and attract audience from beyond SCE. It provides the
 opportunity for junior researchers to benefit from detailed discussions and feedback on their work
 with senior researchers. The UoA has been very active, accounting for ~70% of the speakers.
 Other School-based support includes:
    •   Junior academics are encouraged to meet with their link/mentors at least twice a year. This
        may be on a one-to-one basis, and many discussions also occurred informally or during
        the monthly research surgeries. Some junior staff have submitted joint bids with their
        mentors.
    •   Staff are supported with research and scholarly activities through regular developmental
        workshops: e.g., introductory sessions to ‘Research Professional’; Research Data
        Management and Data Management Plans.
    •   All staff including junior staff are supported for attending internal and external conferences
        and contribute to the research centre/groups.
 Regular events include:
    •   Peer review groups where colleagues review each other’s research outputs and doctoral
        students’ proposals, prior to submission.
    •   Monthly School’s Research Meetings during which research ideas, projects, and research-
        related concerns are discussed.
    •   Twice-yearly Research Showcases, an all-day event which showcases the research work
        of all students and selected academics within the School.
 All these initiatives are well embedded in the activities of the UoA, and have been sustained for
 several years.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3 Research Students and Supervisors
 Community
 All our doctoral students benefit from a formal centrally-run research training programme (see
 institutional statement, section 3.2) based on the VITAE Researcher Development Framework and
 delivered by the Graduate School, with contributions from senior academics from across the
 institution. On this programme, PGRs complete a series of Research Development Units (RDU)
 throughout the entire period of their registration, with embedded Epigeum interactive online
 activities. At School level, our current 20 registered research students are an integral part of the
 UoA, and we engage them in seminars and meetings where we discuss their research and that of
 staff. We run monthly research seminars where attendance is mandatory for doctoral students.
 They are also required to present their research at least twice throughout their PhD journey: once
 in first year of their studies when are forming their research ideas and plan, and can benefit from
 feedback/comments provided by Schools’ academics and from practicing their presentation skills;
 and closer to completion they present their final research findings, to get feedback from colleagues
 as part of good preparation for their Viva. These activities are considered as required milestones
 for progression, and are monitored via regular updates and annual progress reports. We also run
 twice-yearly School Research Showcase full-day events within the School to enable doctoral
 students to showcase their research work to the wider University and to the invited guests from
 industry/media/charities (e.g., speakers/guests from Royal Academy of Engineering in January
 2020). Showcase exhibits include research posters and oral presentations. Ten prizes are
 awarded (through visitors and staff vote) each year for the best exhibit in different categories.
 Prizes are in the region of £100 (in the form of Amazon vouchers or Students’ Union goods such
 as quality clothing items).
 Expansion has been a key priority. Fifteen of our students have gained Vice-Chancellor’s PhD
 Scholarships (on a competitive basis) to study towards a PhD over the period; seven are current
 students. During the period of assessment, there have had 20 successful PhD completions. This
 compares favourably when contrasted with the previous REF period with just three awards. In
 parallel, supervisory capacity has also increased from 10 to 14.
 Training
 The Graduate School also runs a mandatory training course for all supervisors on topics including
 good supervision management, regulations, equality and diversity issues, student support, using
 the VITAE framework, and helping students through the various progression stages and
 milestones. We also discuss in these sessions the University’s Code of Practice for Research
 Students and Supervisors. This policy sets-out the main principles for successful supervisory
 arrangements, and the University’s main priorities for doctoral research (see institutional
 statement, section 3.2). Quite a few senior colleagues contribute to this training from across the
 University, including Zolgharni from this UoA. It also has also run a comprehensive SEDA-
 accredited programme on Supervising Postgraduate Research for training new and experienced
 PhD supervisors to enhance their practice of supervision (e.g., one member of the UoA
 successfully completed the course in 2020, a school colleague also completed in 2019). The
 Graduate School runs an annual doctoral conference across all subjects. The annual doctoral
 conference is always very well attended by academics and PhD students in this UoA. We play a
 significant role in supporting the event, and students presenting their latest research findings; at
 least 15 PhD students from this UoA have presented in the last 5 years (2015-2020).
 PhD students are each supported by a sizeable group of people. Each student is assigned a
 principal supervisor who is a subject specialist, and a second supervisor. In case of
 multidisciplinary research projects, a third supervisor from a different discipline may also be
 assigned, when needed. Ensuring the next generation of researchers are confident in

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disseminating their knowledge we provide teaching opportunities with a limit of 6
 hrs/week (including preparation). Students engage with groups according to their evolving degree
 of expertise. Supervisors acts as mentors to support them in delivering those teaching duties.
 Pastoral support is provided through the University’s central student support services.
 Our students present regularly, and we support them in preparing for their presentations. They
 have access to a central conference fund; e.g. a PhD student from IntSaV, was funded to attend
 and present his research at ICRMIRO2020, for which he was awarded the ‘Best Presentation
 Award‘. The doctoral students are also encouraged, and supported, to publish in discipline-specific
 journals and the UWL University Press publication, New Vistas (see institutional statement,
 section 3.2).

 2.4 Equality and Diversity
 Training
 The HR department delivers a mandatory programme of face-to-face and online training on all
 aspects of equality and diversity which has been attended by all members of the UoA. Supervisors
 have been trained on these issues through the compulsory programme of training run by the
 Graduate School.
 Research development opportunities
 The research development opportunities available to staff – e.g. research funding, sabbaticals,
 conference funding - always state the conditions and criteria that are applied. There is a
 transparent process for these applications. Academic staff are actively encouraged to attend
 briefing sessions on research funding opportunities, such as our regular lunch seminars and our
 triannual research events. Access to other research support, such as conference attendance
 support, sabbaticals and “seed grants” follow established procedures and are open to all staff
 meeting the relevant criteria.
 Recruitment and progression of research students
 The recruitment of doctoral students is based on regulations that specify entry requirements, and
 their application is supported by a written statement and an interview by a panel including
 supervisors and a Graduate School Director of Studies to ensure fairness and consistency across
 the institution. Progression is monitored by the Graduate School through a set of staggered
 milestones, and final registration to PhD status (transfer) is overseen by the University Research
 Degrees Sub-Committee. We aim to support completion within 3 to 3.5 years and have
 mechanisms (e.g. regular supervision meetings, milestone presentations; regular reports) to
 support all students in achieving this (see institutional statement). We subscribe to the
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) and this shows that students are satisfied with
 this support; UWL is ranked 7th out of 103 institutions on progression in PRES 2020.
 REF
 As a UoA, we have received training on recruitment, promotion, appraisal; and the UoA leads and
 reviewers have received specific training on equality and diversity, and unconscious bias to
 support them in their role. They have been advised to access to practical advice and support from
 HR if needed.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 The strategy in the unit is to support applications to both external income (Research Councils,
 industry, government agencies, consultancy) and internal investments. The internal funding is
 used to support active researchers with travel and equipment, and to provide funding for bursaries



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for PhD students. The University has a responsive structure - the Research and Enterprise
 Operations (REOps) – to identify relevant funding opportunities and support bids.
 This UoA has used REOps to identify funding opportunities and been supported to produce strong
 applications. The UoA has its own panel of expert reviewers, composed of academics from various
 research themes, to support each other with peer-review of the bids under development, to ensure
 high quality research proposals are submitted to the funding bodies. This model, established
 during the census period, has seen annual income generation of c£650k for the REF2021 period.
 We have been successful at attracting research income in all main themes in this UoA, and the
 diversity of funders reflects the multidisciplinary nature of our research. The main sources of
 research income for Cybersecurity include Innovate UK and industry (e.g., Amazon), realised via
 our close collaboration with the industrial partners. The AI research has benefited from support
 provided by Innovate UK, whilst we also target specialist funders and medical funding bodies (e.g.,
 BHF). The HCI research theme has been supported by the national academies (e.g., British
 Academy) and industry (e.g., Heathrow Airport). This has allowed the expansion of our research
 capacity in our three strategic areas of research.
 Below is a brief account of funded projects started during the REF2021 period:
 Cybersecurity (£381,140):
    •   A Self-organizing Community Detection Algorithm for Large-scale Social Networks (in
        AWS credits) $10,000 (£7,400)
        Funded by Amazon Research Grant (Jie), 2016
    •   A Provenance Framework to Minimize Malleability Risk in Blockchain, approx. £23,000
        Funded by Ministry of Science and Technology, Pakistan (Arshad), 2017
    •   CyMonD: Cyber Monitoring and Defence System for Internet of Things, £9,446
        Funded by DCMS & Innovate UK’s Cyber Security Academic Startup programme. Phase
        1 (Loo and Arshad), 2018
    •   CyMonD: Cyber Monitoring and Defence System for Internet of Things, £16,000
        Funded DCMS & Innovate UK’s Cyber Security Academic Startup programme. Phase 2
        (Loo and Arshad), 2018
    •   CyMonD: Cyber Monitoring and Defence System for Internet of Things, £100,000
        Funded by DCMS & Innovate UK’s Cyber Security Academic Startup programme. Phase
        3 (Loo and Arshad), 2018
    •   A Scalable Framework for Trustworthy Marketplaces, £50,000 (PhD Scholarship)
        Funded by MyPocketSkill (Loo and Arshad), 2018
    •   Representation Learning of Large-Scale Complex Information Networks by Integrating
        Community Structure, RMB100, 000 (£11,300)
        Funded by Shaanxi Provincial Department of Science and Technology, China (Jie), 2019
    •   SELMAK: An Intelligent Threat Hunting System Based on Linux Security Hardening and
        Mandatory Access Control Policies, £16,000
        Funded by DCMS & Innovate UK’s Cyber Security Academic Startup programme. Phase
        1 & 2 (Loo), 2020
    •    Secure mobile apps universal converter, £147,974
         Funded by Innovative UK – KTP (Tang), 2020
 Intelligent Computing (£201,472):
    •   Personalised Service Assistant for Journey Planner, £48,472
        Funded by the Innovate UK - Newton Fund: UK-Malaysia urban challenge (Wang) 2018

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Tensor-mapping to resolve the Achilles heel of echocardiographic imaging, £143,000
        Funded by the British Heart Foundation (Zolgharni), 2020
    •   Digital Innovation in Flood Early Warning and Water-related Disease Prevention for
        Community Capacity Building and Resilience, approx. £10,000
        Funded by the EPSRC (Zhang), 2020
 HCI (£70,000):
    •   Digital Inclusion, £20,000
        Funded by British Academy (Abdelnour-Nocera), 2017-2019
    •   Industrial PhD on Sociotechnical Innovation and User Experience £50,000
        Funded by Heathrow Airport Innovation Unit (Abdelnour-Nocera), 2018-2021

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 3.2.1 Digital research infrastructure
 The University actively supports research data management and the use open data repositories
 to archive research data. It offers a suite of tools to assist researchers in managing their research
 data. Our online tools enable simple and secure collaboration, and are aligned with requirements
 our Data Management Policy and General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
    1. Support for Research Data Management and Storage
    The University has a workflow to support for research data management of funded research,
    and a package of Microsoft programs, both desktop and web-based, for collaborative
    document editing and data management. OneDrive is used for data storage, which has a
    desktop syncing application.
    2. Research Software
    The UoA is equipped with a set of free and specialised commercial software packages (e.g.,
    Matlab Mathworks, Microsoft Visual Studio, Deep Learning Frameworks), necessary for model
    developments and data analysis in research. The unit benefits from access to a Research
    Programming Platform which is a browser-based service providing access to Python, R and
    Julia through Jupyter Notebooks, Jupyter Lab, for general purpose code development.
    3. Research Data Resources
    Due to the long-standing relationships with several NHS Trusts and hospitals, IntSaV has
    access to the clinical data, in accordance with the ethical regulations. Complementary to
    information access, the group holds strong relationship with leading clinicians and medical
    scientists – important for guiding research directions and providing ‘ground truth’
    interpretations for AI developments. IntSaV also has participated in the development of, and
    therefore has access to the UK’s largest biobank of echo expertise (http://unityimaging.net),
    under the aegis of the British Society of Echocardiography.
 3.2.2 Research facilities and equipment
 In addition to a significant investment programme on campus that has created social and open
 learning spaces; advanced simulation spaces for research; a library without boundaries; and a
 large flexible performance auditorium, the University has built a Sports Centre and a postgraduate
 building for doctoral students. It has also built a number of laboratories and specialist facilities.
 This UoA enjoys fully equipped computer labs and studios available to support ongoing research
 with assistance of two full-time computing officers. We also have a dedicated Cybersecurity lab to
 support research in the CCC. Researchers including permanent academics, postdoctoral
 researchers, and research students have access to these resources. The CCC is also equipped
 with Titax RTX GPU servers for high performance computations. These considerable in-house
 computing and communication systems are enhanced by the extensive network infrastructure

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provided by the University IT Service. The SCIUX lab has several servers, cameras, and software
 licences for usability testing in HCI research. It also benefits from an eye tracking specialised room
 to conduct research on human cognition and perception.
 IntSaV’s laboratory equipment and infrastructure includes several ultrasound imaging machines
 (General Electric, Philips, Ultrasonix) for data collection, deep learning servers equipped with
 NVIDIA GPUs for model training and developments, RAID severs for data management, 3D
 motion tracking systems (Polhemus), medical imaging test equipment (Blue Tissue Mimicking
 Phantoms, and GAMMEX Precision Resolution Phantoms), and 3D printers.
 The facilities and infrastructure strategies are based on a mix of institutional investment,
 philanthropic donations, and capital investment through bid income (where applicable). Our next
 research strategy has factored in the acquisition of HPC facilities and state-of-the-art GPU-
 equipped servers, reflecting our view of emergence of an AI Research Centre from the IntSaV
 research group, and expansion objectives for Cybersecurity and HCI research themes.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Nature and scope of research collaborations
 Much of the UoA’s success in research has been realised via collaborative research. We
 collaborate with other disciplines and divisions of UWL (e.g., Biomedical Sciences, Hospitality and
 Tourism, Law and Criminology, Nursing, Midwifery and Healthcare). Externally, we engage and
 collaborate with academia, industry and government, both at national and international levels.
 The research grants we participate in are multi-institutional and involve industrial/clinical
 collaborations. We are partners on these grants with other HEIs (e.g., Imperial College and UCL).
 Strong industry links ensure that our research remains at the forefront of the computing fields,
 allowing us to contribute meaningfully to national and international challenges in cybersecurity and
 HCI areas, where we are partners with many companies (e.g., Amazon, Imediavan Ltd, AB5
 Consulting Ltd, Heathrow Airport). A considerable body of the work being carried out in this unit
 has also focused on healthcare applications and clinical research, where we have strong ties with
 researchers in many NHS sites (e.g., St Mary’s Hospital, ULCH, Kings College, London) and
 industry (e.g., KYMIRA Ltd). Examples of research collaborations which were initiated - or matured
 - during the REF2021 period, and have been identified as promising and potentially impactful
 projects by the Impact Group (see section 1), are provided below.
 Collaborations with other HEIs
 We collaborate with >15 UK academic institutions, including KCL, UCL, Imperial College,
 University of Lincoln, University of Swansea, Brunel University, University of Salford, Ulster
 University, University of Leicester, Queen Mary University of London, University of Birmingham,
 London Metropolitan University, University of Derby, University of Huddersfield, and University of
 Manchester. Examples of collaborative work include Zolgharni’s joint efforts with the Laboratory
 of Vision Engineering at Lincoln to develop AI-driven solutions for oesophageal cancer detection
 from endoscopic images/videos, and the work with the School of Medicine at Imperial on
 myocardial deformation imaging from echocardiograms. In the area of Internet of Things, Asif has
 been working closely with City, University of London, to develop prediction and control models for
 energy management in sensor networks. In HCI, and in collaboration with Brunel University, Kani-
 Zabihi has been conducting a large experimental study to establish the impact of the fundamental
 dimensions of scent intensity and valence on user experience in multimedia environments.
 The academics in this UoA have also developed close working relationships with a number of
 Non-UK academic institutions, including Aalto University in Finland, University of Oulu,
 Copenhagen Business School, IIT Bombay in India, IT University of Copenhagen, KU Leuven in
 Belgium, Instituto Superior Tecnico Lisbon, University of Madeira, ITI / Larsys in Portugal, Dalian
 Maritime University in China, Columbia University in the USA, University of Verona and University

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Florence in Italy. For instance, in collaboration with KU Leuven, Zolgharni is developing
 innovative ultrasound strain imaging applications. A joint research proposal is being drafted.
 Another example is the collaboration between Sauer and Aalto University, Finland, which focused
 on the use of AI in selection of cyanide-free hydrometallurgical gold ore processing. More recently,
 Zolgharni has been working with the Heart and Vessels Department within the University of
 Florence to develop machine learning algorithms for automated clinical measurements.
 Abdelnour-Nocera has been working closely with Cape Peninsula University of Technology and
 University of Fort Hare, supporting them in service design and student retention. Loo has been
 working closely with a number of universities in cutting edge technology; for instance, i) Beijing
 University of Post and Telecommunications (BUPT) funded by Ministry of Education China in AI
 and Machine learning in telecommunication technology (5G and beyond), and deep learning
 technology for natural language processing and image processing, ii) University of Engineering
 and Technology (UET Taxila) in wireless communication and antenna design, and iii) University
 Tunku Abdul Rahman (UTAR) in advance wireless resource management with AI.
 Collaborations with Industry
 Collaboration with the local and global industries involves joint formulation of challenging and
 relevant research agendas of our research strategy, they include:
    •   A partnership with the Heathrow Airport that aims to address improved decision making in
        the deployment of automation in terminal airside operations (Abdelnour-Nocera).
    •   In collaboration with Secure Technologies Ltd and Imediavan Ltd, research has been
        carried out to exploit Cyber monitoring and defence for IoT which was developed under
        the Innovate UK and DCMS funding (Loo).
    •   Partnership to develop a novel framework for online marketplaces to facilitate safe, secure
        and dynamic multi-party interactions, in collaboration with MyPocketSkill which funded a
        PhD student (Loo).
    •   Joint venture in IntSaV developing deep learning models for monitoring and detecting atrial
        fibrillation using wearable ECG recordings, in collaboration with KYMIRA Ltd. Mobile apps
        are being developed to deploy the developed models for clinical pilot studies (Zolgharni).
 The UoA also meets quarterly with SCE Industrial Consultative Board, comprised of several
 major companies, including SEGA, Amazon, Oracle, Fujitsu, Huawei, Heathrow Airport,
 PE.fiberoptics Ltd, Ratcliffe Groves Partnership, EMEA at Birst, Acumin Consulting Ltd, Digital
 Service, Enterprise Services PLC, Masagi Ltd, SAS UK, Katchup, and Lombard Street Research.
 The Board provides opportunities for both academics and industry practitioners to discuss and
 receive feedback about current industry best practice, current changes and needs, and inform the
 unit’s research agenda.
 Collaborations with Hospitals/NHS
 The IntSaV’s research profile, in many respects, is aligned with the government research agenda
 on global societal impact and healthcare aspects. Most of the research carried out is focussed on
 issues that have direct practical implications on quality of life. For instance, involvement in
 healthcare relates to the advancement and exploitation of medical imaging from understanding
 clinical needs to assisting in medical diagnosis. IntSaV has established strong research
 relationship with several clinical partners, such as St Mary’s Hospital, Hammersmith Hospital, and
 West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust. A recent example of collaborative research with the
 clinical partners is the development of “Echognition” (http://unityimaging.net), a user-friendly
 image annotation platform for collecting and building a large biobank of cardiac expertise, working
 closely with cardiologist and physiologists from many NHS sites across the UK, including Glasgow,
 Birmingham, Manchester, Sheffield, Oxford, Cambridge, Luton, Watford, Ealing and London
 (Imperial, Kings College, London, UCLH, Bart’s Heart Centre, St Thomas’s Hospital).

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2 Academic leadership and wider contributions to the research base
 We publicise our research strengths regionally, nationally, and internationally to ensure that the
 valuable work of individual academics is recognised by the local community, and on the world
 stage. The research academics within the Computing subject and the associated fields have
 produced 386 peer-reviewed journal and international conference papers since 2014. The majority
 of these publications are journal papers. Our staff also provide academic leadership nationally and
 internationally, influencing research agendas and strategy.
 Editorships and membership of editorial boards
 Academics in this unit hold editorial roles on the major journals:
    •   Editor-in-Chief. International Journal of Sociotechnology and Knowledge Development.
        2014-2019 (Abdelnour-Nocera)
    •   Editorial Board Member. International Journal of Biomedical Science and Engineering.
        2019-present (Zolgharni)
    •   Associate Editor. Wiley International Journal of Communication Systems. 2011-present
        (Loo)
    •   Editor. KSII Transactions on Internet and Information Systems. 2017-present (Tang)
    •   Editor. International Journal of Computer Science & Information Technology Applications.
        2011-2017 (Tang)
 Convenors of conferences; Programme Chairs
 Our academics serve as Program or General Chair for many national and international
 Conferences and Workshops.
    •   15th EAI International Conference on Collaborative Computing: Networking, Applications
        and Worksharing, 2019, London, UK, Publicity Chair, Zolgharni
    •   30th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-21), 2021, Montreal,
        Canada, Zolgharni, Program Committee member
    •   7th International Conference on Vehicle Technology and Intelligent Transport Systems,
        2021, Prague, Czechia, Loo, Technical Programme Committee
    •   29th IEEE International Symposium on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio
        Communications, 2018, Bologna, Italy, Loo, Technical Programme Committee
    •   4th Symposium on Engineering Energy Efficient InternetWorked Smart seNsor (E3WSN-
        2018), in conjunction with the 32-nd IEEE International Conference on Advanced
        Information Networking and Applications (IEEE AINA 2018), 2018, Pedagogical University
        of Cracow, Poland, Loo, Workshop Chair/Organiser
    •   Human Work Interaction Design: Analysis and Interaction Design Methods for Pervasive
        and Smart Workplaces. The International Federation for Information Processing (IFIP) 13.6
        Working Conference in Human Work Interaction Design, 2015, London (UWL), Abdelnour-
        Nocera, Chair
    •   Culture, Technology, Communication. Common World, Different Futures. 10th IFIP WG
        13.8 International Conference, CaTaC 2016, London, UK (UWL), Abdelnour-Nocera,
        Chair.
    •   Symposium on Digital Inclusion in the Global South. British Academy, 2018, London
        (UWL), Abdelnour-Nocera, Chair.
    •   Participatory Design Conference 2020, Manizales, Colombia, Abdelnour-Nocera, Full
        Papers Chair (Spanish).
    •   IFIP Interact Conference, 2019, Paphos, Cyprus, Abdelnour-Nocera, Workshops Chair
    •   IFIP Interact Conference 2019, Mumbai, India, Abdelnour-Nocera, Field Trips Chair.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Workshop on Cognitive Computing and Analytics (WCCA 2019), collocated to
        COLLABORATECOM 2019 – 15th EAI International Conference on Collaborative
        Computing: Networking, Applications and Worksharing, London, 2019, Zhang, Workshop
        Chair/Organiser
    •   27th European Conference on Information System, Stockholm University, Stockholm,
        Sweden. 8-14th June 2019, Zhang, Associate Chair, HCI Track of ECIS2019
    •   11th International Workshop on Security in e-Science and e-Research (ISSR 2019), in
        conjunction with the 12th International Conference on Security, Privacy and Anonymity in
        Computation, Communication and Storage (SpaCCS 2019) Jie, Workshop chair
    •   14th International Symposium on Pervasive Systems, Algorithms, and Networks (I-SPAN
        2017), 2017, Exeter, UK, Jie, Workshop Chair
    •   8th International Workshop on Security in e-Science and e-Research (ISSR 2016),
        Zhangjiajie, China, 2016, Jie, General Chair
    •   9th International Workshop on Security in e-Science and e-Research (ISSR 2017),
        Guangzhou, China, 2017, Jie, General Chair
    •   10th International Workshop on Security in e-Science and e-Research (ISSR 2018),
        Melbourne, Australia, 2018, Jie, General Chair
    •   11th International Workshop on Security in e-Science and e-Research (ISSR 2019),
        Atlanta, USA, 2019, Jie, General Chair
    •   IEEE Workshop on Internet Privacy Information Protection, Tsinghua University, Beijing,
        2020, Tang, Chair
    •   IEEE Workshop on Cloud Data Security Auditing (ICCCS2018), Haikou, China, 2018,
        Tang, Chair
 Leadership of advisory boards, industry, commerce, research councils, learned societies
 or professional bodies
     • Representative appointed by the British Computer Society (BCS) to represent the UK in
        the Technical Committee 13 in Human-Computer Interaction in International Federation for
        Information Processing (IFIP), under the auspice of UNESCO. September 2017-present,
        Abdelnour-Nocera
    •   Advisor to the UK government through the BCS on the development of the Internet Safety
        Strategy green paper. January 2018-present, Abdelnour Nocera
    •   Advisor to South African universities (University of Cape Town, Cape Peninsula University
        of Technology, and University of Fort Hare) in designing digital services for student
        retention in higher education in Cape Town and Eastern Cape. September 2016 – April
        2019, Abdelnour Nocera
    •   Steering Committee Member of AITECHTalents, a global forum exploring the future of
        artificial intelligence and its impact on the future of work, global corporations and society
        as a whole. 2019-present. Zolgharni
    •   Lead for Team UK, 45th WorldSkills International Competition on Cloud Computing,
        Kazan, Russia, 2019, Jie
    •   Scientific Advisory Board of Ministry of Education of China, 2012-2017, Tang
 Invited/keynotes speakers
 Our academics gave about >15 keynotes or invited speeches in recent years. Main keynotes are:
    •   Abdelnour-Nocera, BCS Software Quality Management Conference, 2016
        (http://sqminspire2016.weebly.com/keynote-speakers.html)



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Zolgharni, Mechanical Engineering Department, Fresno State Directory, USA Novel
        Automated Methods for Cardiac Imaging, 2018
    •   Zolgharni, IBM (Querétaro, Mexico), Data Science and Machine Learning in Healthcare,
        virtual event, 2020
    •   Loo, BCS West London, Blockchain for the real world, “Blockchain for Businesses”,
        November 2017
    •   Loo, London Tech Week, Cyber and Blockchain in One Breath, “The 51% attack on
        Blockchain”, Westmont Enterprise Hub, June 2018
    •   Loo, 2nd China-ASEAN Computer Technology Development and Cooperation Forum,
        China Computer Federation (CCF), “Proactive Edge Caching in Content-Centric
        Networks with Dynamic User Requests”, December 2020.
 Reviewer for research funding bids
 Academics in this unit review research proposal for research councils and other funding bodies
 including:
    •   Reviewer for EPSRC, Zolgharni, since 2020
    •   Reviewer for British Council (Newton Fund & Researcher Links), Zolgharni, since 2018
    •   Reviewer for NIHR, Abdelnour-Nocera, since 2020
    •   Reviewer for EPSRC, Abdelnour-Nocera, since 2019
    •   Reviewer for Academy of Finland’s Centre of Excellence Programme, Loo, since 2020
    •   Reviewer for EPSRC, Loo, since 2012
    •   Reviewer for National Natural Science Foundation of China, Tang, since 2015
 Peer-review for journals
 Currently, we provide peer-review services to >35 journals, including:
    •   Physiological Measurement, IOP, Zolgharni
    •   Physics in Medicine and Biology, IOP, Zolgharni
    •   Measurement Science and Technology, IOP, Zolgharni
    •   Biomedical Physics & Engineering Express, IOP, Zolgharni
    •   International Journal of Imaging Systems and Technology, WILEY, Zolgharni
    •   International Journal of Cardiovascular Imaging, Springer, Zolgharni
    •   Medical and Biological Engineering & Computing, Springer, Zolgharni
    •   Microfluidics and Nanofluidics, Springer, Zolgharni
    •   International Journal of High Performance Computing, SAGE, Zolgharni
    •   Sensors, MDPI, Zolgharni
    •   Micromachines, MDPI, Zolgharni
    •   Journal of Medical Imaging and Health Informatics, ASP, Zolgharni
    •   PLOS ONE, Zolgharni
    •   Transactions on Medical Imaging, IEEE, Zolgharni
    •   Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, IEEE, Zolgharni
    •   Journal of Medical Imaging and Health Informatics, ASPBS, Zolgharni
    •   Transactions on Wireless Communication, IEEE, Loo
    •   Transactions on Communications, IEEE, Loo
    •   Transactions on Vehicular Technology, IEEE, Loo
    •   Internet of Things, IEEE, Loo
    •   Transactions on Computational Social Systems, IEEE, Loo
    •   Transactions on Network and Service Management, IEEE, Loo
    •   Transactions Industrial Informatics, IEEE, Loo

                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   International Journal of HCI, Taylor & Francis Online, Abdelnour-Nocera
    •   Information Systems Journal, WILEY, Abdelnour-Nocera
    •   Information Technology and People, Emerald, Abdelnour-Nocera
    •   Co-Design, Taylor & Francis Online, Abdelnour-Nocera
    •   Journal of Computer Mediated Communication, WILEY, Abdelnour-Nocera
    •   Interacting with Computers, Oxford University Press, Abdelnour-Nocera
    •   Journal of Design Research, Inderscience, Abdelnour-Nocera
    •   Human Technology, Open Science Center (University of Jyvaskyla), Abdelnour-Nocera
    •   Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, IEEE, Tang
    •   Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, IEEE, Tang
    •   Transactions on Multimedia, IEEE, Tang
    •   Transactions on Industrial Informatics, IEEE, Tang
    •   Transactions on Computers, IEEE, Tang
    •   Transactions on Networking, IEEE/ACM, Tang
 Visiting professorships and fellowships
 We also engage with the wider community through our visiting research positions which include:
    •   Visiting Associate Professor, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark, 2016-2017,
        Abdelnour-Nocera
    •   Honorary Research Fellow, School of Medicine, Imperial College London, 2015-present,
        Zolgharni
    •   Foreign Expert, Ministry of Education China Foreign Expert Programme (equivalent to
        Royal Society International Fellowship), Beijing University of Posts and
        Telecommunications, 2017-present, Loo.




                                                                                        Page 17
