Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
21 - Sociology
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context and Structure

Since its foundation almost 60 years ago, the Department of Sociology (DoS) at Essex has
become internationally renowned for its innovation, collaboration and global reach. On its 40th
anniversary, its founding Professor, Peter Townsend, remarked that ‘a department which found a
place for mathematical modelling, history, anthropology, social philosophy and the sociology of
literature’, made ‘interdisciplinarity inevitable’. This collaborative spirit continues to inspire us today
and is reflected in the composition of the Unit of Assessment (UoA) for Sociology. Anchored by the
DoS, the UoA also includes the work of colleagues in three related but independent departments:
the Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER), the School of Health and Social Care
(HSC), and the Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies (PPS).

These are discrete organisational units but the DoS has played a key role in their establishment as
well as the evolution of the UK Data Archive (UKDA) at Essex. Taken together, the UoA is a rich
research environment which has contributed to the University’s overall ranking as 42nd in the world
for social science research, and to the DoS ranking as 44th in the world and 7th in the UK (QS
World University Rankings by Subject 2020). According to SciVal data (June 2020) for 2015-2019
publications, the ‘Sociology’ UoA at Essex was within the top 20 (ranked 18th) for citations per
publication when compared to all REF submitting institutions in the UK.

Reflections on our strategic aims in the REF2014 Environment Statement are provided in section
1.2 (‘Research Strategy’) below. We have fulfilled these aims and developed our strategy for the
future, further strengthening our inter-disciplinary approach, supporting social research that
maintains excellence, relevance and impact, and opening up new research horizons e.g. data-
science, the biosocial, and visual methods. The vitality of our UoA is evidenced by the scale and
diversity of, and recognition received for, our research - incorporating social theory, social policy,
social work, psychosocial studies, psychoanalysis, research methodologies, social anthropology,
social history, sociological criminology, social psychology, social epidemiology, and health policy.
This breadth means we have inevitably taken a selective approach to the examples of activity
provided.

The sustainability of the UoA is evidenced by its continued record of success in attracting research
income in a context of increased competition and Brexit-related uncertainty, increasing staff
numbers and doctoral completion rates, and by its championing of new social research methods
and open research practices.

Compared to the previous REF period, the UoA’s REF2021 submission shows:

       an increase in research income from a total of £34,141,751m to a total of £43,886,876m
        today (see REF4b);
       an increase in the number of FTE staff submitted from 47.45 to 66;
       an enhanced diversity among staff (see People section);
       an increase in the number of doctoral students completing their awards across the UoA
        from 171.20 in the last REF period to 183.35 in the current one (further detail in REF4a and
        People below).

Research expertise and outputs across the UoA are grouped into one or more of our five Research
Clusters: Social Divisions and Economic Life; Culture, Identity and Subjectivity; Crime, Justice and
Public Policy; Transnationalism, Nation and Rights; and Sociological Foundations – Theories and
Methods. The Clusters are presented on the DoS website
(https://www.essex.ac.uk/departments/sociology/research) and Figure 1 illustrates how the four

                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
departments engage with them as the organising framework for sociological work across the UoA.

Figure 1 UoA context and structure


                                                        UOA
                         Research Clusters Across the UoA
   Social Divisions
                       Culture, Identity        Crime, Justice and       Transnationalism,       Sociological Foundations
    and Economic
                        and Subjectivity           Public Policy         Nation and Rights       -Theory and Method
         Life
          A                    B                         C                       D                          E


              DoS                              ISER                          PPS                         HSC
                                       Misoc: A, B, D, E                   Centre for
       C4C: B, C, D                                                      Myth studies
                                           Understanding                       B, D                Division for Social
                                             Society: E                                             Work and Social
       Cresi: A, D, E                                                     CTAR: B, D                     Justice
                                                                                                           B, C
                                           Euromod: D, E                                               Division of
                                                                        Research Groups:
       CMS: A, B, D, E                                                                              Interdisciplinary
                                                                        Childhood Studies
                                                                                                     Research and
                                              UKDA                   History of Psychoanalysis
                                                                                                         Practice
                                                                           Comparative
        CISC: B, D, E                      UK Data Archive:                                               B, C, D
                                                                          Psychoanalysis
                                             A, B, C, D, E
                                                                              A, B, E


      Legend of Acronyms from left to right: Centre for Criminology (C4C), Centre for Intimate and Sexual
    Citizenship (CISC), Centre for Migration Studies (CMS), Centre for Research in Economic Sociology and
      Innovation (CRESI); ESRC Centre for Micro-social Change (MISOC); Centre on Trauma, Asylum and
                                                    Refugees (CTAR)

Bringing together the research expertise and efforts of four departments presents challenges but
also creates opportunities for cross-UoA links and collaborations. These synergies pivot on cross-
unit research initiatives, postgraduate training, and dissemination. First, significant cross-unit
research funding applications have included the ISER/DoS bid for the £6.1m ESRC Research
Centre on Micro-Social Change (MiSoC), which uses large-scale quantitative evidence to address
major social divisions; awards to HSC/DoS totalling £110,249 for projects underpinning the
REF2021 impact case study (ICS) on reducing care proceedings; the securing of two rounds of
ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) funding led by a Principal Investigator within DoS; and a
two-year DoS/ISER £122,985 ESRC, Nuffield and Office for Students award to establish at Essex
one of the 17 national Q-Step Centres for quantitative methods training. Second, the UoA offers
extensive cross-departmental postgraduate provision. The Sociology pathway of the Essex-led
South-East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS) ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership is open to
applicants who wish to be (co)supervised in DoS, HSC or ISER. UoA staff contribute to SeNSS-
wide cohort training in advanced social science methods and DoS/ISER currently co-teach five
MSc research and theory modules. Third, research dissemination occurs through cross-faculty and
intra-faculty seminar series, such as the ISER/DoS ‘Current Methodological Issues in the Social
Sciences’ (2013-17) series for doctoral students across the faculty, and through the activities of our
research centres (Figure 1).
                                                                                                                      Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Our five broad research clusters are designed to be synergistic and have fostered genuine
research linkages across the UoA:

Social divisions and economic life (SDEF) encapsulates our long-standing research on the
causes and impacts of socio-economic inequalities in many areas of life, from local to global
arenas, and across substantive areas of inquiry (e.g. health, education).

Culture, identity and subjectivity (CIS) comprises social and psychosocial research on questions
of culture, identity, history, memory, and the complex narratives of, and interplay between,
individuals and society in the framing of identities and personhood.

Crime, justice and public policy (CJPP) develops theory iteratively with extensive empirical work
whilst simultaneously addressing key issues of concern to the public and to policy makers within
the fields of criminology, rights, health, welfare, environmental challenges, and the life course.

Transnationalism, nation and rights (TNR) connects researchers investigating citizenship and
human rights, multi-culturalism, Indigenous rights, reconfigurations of ‘the nation’, refugees, and
the socio-economic integration of migrants.

Sociological foundations: theories and methods (SF) provides an interdisciplinary space to
explore the critical epistemologies, theories, methods and practices that underpin all our research.

The research clusters reflect the breadth of research conducted across the four constituent parts of
the UoA. Shared interests facilitate joint-working but the profile of each department reflects its own
theoretical, substantive and methodological orientations:

Department of Sociology (DoS)

The DoS was founded in 1964 and rapidly became known for its sociological pioneers and new
approaches. It has played a major role in shaping the discipline ever since. The DoS fostered
foundational research on gender, sexualities, deviance, sociological criminology, survey methods,
social stratification and oral history, and continues to lead in these fields today. More recently, it
has supported pioneering research in areas of globalisation, migration, economic sociology, social
anthropology, psychosocial studies, human rights, and critical data science. The DoS has
outstanding research strengths spanning all five research clusters within the UoA. It is recognised
for its (inter)disciplinary innovation, internationalism, and commitment to social justice.

Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER)

ISER is an interdisciplinary research institute, featuring world-leading expertise in quantitative
analysis, survey methods and a strong portfolio of national and international policy work. It reflects
UoA strengths in our research clusters on SDEL, CJPP, and, of course, distinctive contributions to
the development of Sociological Methods (SF). ISER hosts the ESRC funded ‘Understanding
Society: UK Household Longitudinal Study’, and the ESRC Research Centre on Micro-Social
Change (MiSoC). In 2017 ISER was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for its ‘authoritative
social and economic research to inform the policies of governments for the improvement of
people’s lives.’

School of Health and Social Care (HSC)

The School was established in 2002 and staff contributing to the Sociology UoA are hosted within
either the HSC Division for Social Work and Social Justice or Division of Interdisciplinary Research
and Practice (clinical researchers are returned to UoA2). Reflecting research clusters concerned
with SDEL, CIS, and CJPP, HSC research covers issues of social care, social justice and human
rights, the sociology of health, welfare policy and reform, and citizen and service-user engagement
in health and social care policy and practice. The DoS was centrally involved in the establishment

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of HSC, creating longstanding networks.

Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies (PPS)

Previously the Centre for Psychoanalytic Studies (established 1993), research in the Department
(from 2017) engages with sociology, social policy, social psychology, and criminology and
contributes to the CIS, TNR and SF clusters. Staff were submitted within the Sociology UoA in
2014. Close connections are based on the historical contribution made by the DoS to the
establishment of the Centre and continuing research links. Research applies psychosocial,
intrapsychic, and interpersonal approaches to contemporary challenges (e.g. refugees, trauma and
recovery, politics, social care, gender and sexualities, management and organisational functioning,
education, childhood, mental health and wellbeing). Shared theoretical orientations provide bridges
between the sociological, psychosocial and psychoanalytic (e.g. through the work of Deleuze,
Butler, Elias, and others), and the investigation of shared intellectual questions concerning, for
example, the constructions and strategic uses of ‘ignorance’.

1.2 UoA Research Strategy and Activity

Our research objectives, as set out in previous Statements (2008, 2014) have been expanded:

     i) to enable high quality research in Sociology, broadly defined;
     ii) to strengthen the discipline of Sociology and enhance its interdisciplinary connections
          (particularly with psychosocial studies, social work, health studies and criminology) through
          our research and teaching;
     iii) to contribute to the analysis of everyday life and major social change;
     iv) to continue our engagement with social policy and the public sphere;
     v) to generate research that makes a positive impact outside the academy and is underpinned
          by high-quality scholarship.

Reflecting on the composition of the UoA and our objectives at the time of our 2014 statement, we
have met the aims that were set out then (i-iii above) and successfully pursued our vision of
remaining an international centre of research excellence with a vital and productive research
culture. In addition, through strategic recruitment we have made efforts to increase diversity,
broaden our age profile, and enhance our management of succession planning. We have
strengthened procedures ensuring research integrity and ethical approval, and have developed
new ways to progress to a more inclusive and open research environment (further detail below).

We aim to meet our objectives by:

        Building a broad sociological research base and improving staff diversity;
        Strengthening support and collegiality;
        Increasing research intensity through expansion and releasing research time;
        Increasing research income to re-invest in research activities;
        Making the best use of our many collaborations, international, national or internal; and,
         through the use of tools and opportunities;
        Preparing for future REF and KEF exercises while maintaining research sustainability and
         growth as a cross-cutting strategic aim.

Seven overarching strategies (periodically reviewed and discussed at research-focused
Awaydays), have operated across past and current RAE/REF cycles with demonstrable success.

i)   Strengthening research clusters and supporting research centres (see Figure 1, p.3)

     Our Research Clusters provide conceptual and practical ways of creating a critical mass of
     research staff around specialisms (e.g. through seminars; joint supervision; publications; bids;
     meetings and presentations; and a working paper series managed by ISER with frequent
     contributions from Sociology). In addition, eight specialist centres within the UoA invigorate the

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   research clusters and contribute to new developments, benefiting from the input of over a
   hundred international visiting scholars in the assessment period.

   The DoS hosts four of these Centres. CRESI, established in 2008, focuses on economic
   sociology, political and cultural economy, the multi-modality of capitalist economies, and
   patterns of consumption and innovation. CMS, established in 2018, involves staff and PGR
   students working on migration. CISC was established in 2008 to reflect department strengths in
   work on intimate lives and sexualities (as initiated by Emeritus Professor Plummer who
   founded the journal Sexualities, still based in the Department). The deputy director, Crowhurst
   is also convenor of the European Sociology Association Sexuality network (RN23). C4C is well
   known for its ‘sociological criminology’ perspective, developed at Essex by scholars such as
   Stan Cohen and exemplified in its co-authored research-based textbook (now in its 4th edition).
   It has strong links with the Human Rights Centre, Law, PPS, Government, and HSC.

   PPS hosts two research centres: the Centre for Trauma, Asylum and Refugees and the
   Centre for Myth Studies; as well as three research groups on ‘History of Psychoanalysis’,
   ‘Childhood Studies’, and ‘Comparative Psychoanalysis’. In HSC, the Division for Social Work
   and Social Justice pursues a critical research agenda that includes work on participation,
   human rights and political economy.

   Twenty-four members of staff in the UoA are also members of the University’s award-winning,
   interdisciplinary Human Rights Centre which brings access to further networks, including UN
   agencies and international NGOs (e.g. Amnesty, Human Right Watch, ACLU).

ii) Securing research funding

   Attracting large-scale funding is a key objective as it supports projects involving big data, large-
   scale surveys, international fieldwork, and longitudinal approaches. The UoA maximises the
   quality and prospects of funding applications through ‘seed-corn funding’, grant-focused
   workshops, project presentation opportunities, peer review of applications via Research
   Committees, and a dedicated post within DoS to facilitate grant applications. The Research
   and Enterprise Office (REO) provides assistance with preparing, reviewing and submitting bids.

iii) Recruiting excellent academics and supporting early career researchers

   The UoA has increased academic staff numbers within the assessment period (see People),
   more than compensating for retirements and mobility, adding early career colleagues (ECRs),
   and recruiting to all the research clusters. Extensive mentorship of ECRs holding postdoctoral
   posts has supported them in gaining full-time lectureships at Essex or elsewhere (e.g.
   Hadjimatheou, Sandhu) and ECRs engage in a support and development group.

iv) Supporting research and strengthening research culture

   Teaching is organised to ensure staff benefit from at least one research day per week and a
   generous research leave scheme (eligible permanent staff accumulate one research term for
   every six terms worked, including parental leave, or paid leave-of-absence). Research funding
   is available across the UoA to assist with conference attendance, networking, small-scale pilot
   projects, and visitor and seminar programmes. Doctoral students are supported to teach in
   their areas of research. Research mentoring, monitoring, and annual appraisal systems are
   organised both centrally and departmentally (see People).

v) Recruiting good research students and strengthening research training

   The UoA has access to two UKRI research council funded DTPs – SeNSS and CHASE. In
   2016, an Essex-led bid to form a new ESRC DTP – the South-East Network for Social
   Sciences (SeNSS) – was successful. The DTP comprises 10 universities, spans 13 social
   science disciplines and offers 45 doctoral studentships each year, all supported by member

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   match-funding and involving external collaborations. The UoA is also part of a large AHRC
   DTP, the Consortium of Humanities and Arts South-East England (CHASE), comprising 9
   research-intensive institutions. CHASE studentships have been awarded and supervised within
   both DoS (5) and PPS (3), and staff have contributed to CHASE cohort training in qualitative
   methods.

   All doctoral students across the UoA have free access to DTP virtual learning environment
   platforms and are eligible for bursaries to enable them to participate in DTP-brokered advanced
   training. UoA staff regularly contribute to this, e.g. ISER on ESRC-funded national datasets, the
   DoS on computational data science methods. At the University-level, the UKDA, which is the
   principal collaborator in the ESRC-funded UK Data Service, leads on training concerning
   deposit of social science data, contributing to the raising of ‘open research’ standards.

   The DTPs foster research impact through collaborative studentships with external partners,
   and initiatives such as the ESRC IAA Business Boost (2019 and 2020) providing the UoA with
   an access-route to a £600,000 scheme linking doctoral students to private sector and social
   enterprises. In addition to DTP funding, the UoA has offered access to ESRC project-linked
   studentships (in ISER with Understanding Society (2), and MiSoC (1); in DoS with the ‘Human
   Rights, Big Data and Technology’ project (1), and the ‘2000 Families’ study (1 PhD, 2 post-
   docs.)); and to match-funded collaborative studentships involving an external partner (in ISER,
   with IPSOS MORI, and TNS UK; in DoS with Essex County Council, Essex Police, Islington
   Council, and Wellcome Trust education and public engagement programme).

   All UoA doctoral students are allocated £2000 for course attendance, £500 for conferences and
   can bid for Graduate Small Grants. Most students take two-three modules or bespoke training
   via the University’s ‘Proficio’ programme (UoA staff often contribute sessions) and internal
   courses on e.g. design, ethics, integrity, and viva preparation. Training can include courses
   offered by the renowned Essex Summer School in Social Science Data Analysis (now in its 54th
   year) or by external providers.

vi) Encouraging national and international research collaboration

   Sociology at Essex promotes collaboration and adopts an international outlook. For example,
   staff are involved in projects as co-investigators and on advisory boards, links can incorporate
   PhD research supervision as well as partnership plans (e.g. an agreement between DoS and
   the University of Adelaide to co-supervise and co-award a PhD), and in the future, the
   Sociology UoA strategy will involve creating stronger links with Public Health researchers
   (UoA2). Further examples are provided in section 4.

vii) Identifying and serving the needs of potential research users

   There are many examples of good practice and user engagement throughout the UoA.
   Understanding Society, as an example, stands out for its extensive user support, data-curation
   activities and its Policy Unit, while MiSoC (the ESRC Centre on Micro-social Change) runs
   Policy Groups that liaise with users from government and the third sector to help shape the
   MiSoC research agenda (see below). The experience of leading researchers contributes to the
   improvement of Essex-based investments (e.g. Demireva sits on the Advisory Board of the UK
   Data Service) and international standards regarding transparency and integrity in use and re-
   use of data (e.g. Allum is co-director on a EU (£257,831) project on ‘Standard Operating
   Procedures for Research Integrity’, and aspects of Danchev’s work address replicability). The
   UoA subscribes to the goal of creating an open research environment and adoption of
   University’s Open-Access Policy for pre-publication full-text outputs (available from the
   University Research Repository); encourages open access publishing where possible (with
   agreements in place with Sage and Wiley for gold open access publication of Essex
   researchers, in addition to provisions for UKRI-funded research outputs); and aligns with the
   Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Library staff provide training on accessing citations
   data (also distributed by Research Committees) and staff are asked to create ORCID identities.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Transparency and integrity in research are ensured by mentors, peer review, the ethics
   application process and monitoring by members of Research Committees.

1.3 Impact strategy across the UoA

The University sets out its strategy and aims in the Institutional Statement, and the REO provides
support mechanisms for research and impact. Within departments, impact strategy is led by either
a designated Impact Director or the Research Director, plus the HoD, and they monitor evolving
case studies, encourage engagement with marginalised groups, and review applications for
projects for the ESRC IAA funds awarded to Essex in order to facilitate sharing of experience.
ISER supports impact/policy and public engagement with the additional posts of Impact Fellow,
and a Communications and Engagement Manager and Officer.

Impact support is central to UoA research initiatives. In DoS for example, eligibility criteria for
internal research seed-funding have been widened to explicitly support network development in the
early stages of projects, and staff are allowed to reclaim indirect costs from external grants to
augment impact activities of funded projects. An internal peer-review process for ‘grant
applications in development’ is overseen by departmental Directors of Impact and Research,
providing a means for: embedding stakeholder engagement into early stages of project
development; encouraging originality and research that can benefit hard to reach or marginalised
groups; and pooling stakeholder contacts.

At Research Impact Officers in the REO provide assistance for funding applications (e.g. grants,
IAA awards), Pathways to Impact Statements / Impact Summaries, focussed support for REF
Impact Case Studies and their authors, timely collection of evidence of impact, and deliver training
on impact-related activities including public- and policy-engagement. A responsive Faculty ‘Dean’s
Fund’ supports the ability of researchers to capitalise on impact opportunities as they emerge, for
example funding Allen-Robertson’s invitation to Facebook HQ to meet with digital industry, policy
and academic communities in Silicon Valley. University and departmental policies for logging
consultancies and contacts on University databases such as the institutional Research Information
System support visibility of, and potential for sharing, impact relationships.

Case studies and approach to impact

The five impact case studies (ICS) represent work across all of the constituent departments of the
UoA and demonstrate the breadth of methodological approaches, intellectual activity, range of
stakeholders utilising Essex research, and our approach to supporting impact. The five ICSs are
integrated into the overall UoA research and impact strategy in several fundamental ways. Each
ICS was developed and promoted through the research strategy and its associated support
mechanisms. For example, all ICS authors have been supported by ESRC IAA funds, with one
award going to each of Jackle et al and Fussey, two to Sergi, and three each to Cox et al and
Papadopoulos, totalling over £84,000 of investment in these impact activities. In addition, learning
and other outcomes from each ICS were fed back to reinforce the overall vitality and sustainability
of the strategy itself.

UoA Research Objectives iv and v (section 1.2 above) emphasise collaborative engagement with
public policy and practitioner communities in order to foster high-quality and positive research
impact outcomes. These objectives are central features of each ICS and key to their success. The
application of research-led conceptual approaches and development of collaborative methodology
advanced by Cox at al’s ICS, which improved recurrent care proceedings for families and service
providers, demonstrates our impact approach in terms of working closely with external partners in
an iterative fashion. Fussey and Papadopoulos’ ongoing relationships with policy communities
within the UN and EU and at national governmental levels enabled quality research outcomes
(Objective ii) to be presented in ways sensitive to organisational cultures and increase their
prospects of becoming adopted into practice. In both ICSs, the same features of the overall
research strategy have also guided engagements with organisations such as Liberty and refugee
services. Jackle et al.’s ICS, which played a vital role in improving the quality of official statistics in

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the UK and Europe, illustrates the way in which the impact of methodological innovation has been
driven through ISER’s extensive networks in this field. Strategic and financial support for Sergi’s
ICS on changing approaches to policing Italian diaspora organised crime groups facilitated durable
relationships with multiple state- and transnational-level policing organisations. These relationships
enabled a deeper understanding of the varied nuances of policing and jurisprudence in different
jurisdictions. These in turn were incorporated into the presentation of research findings to increase
their likelihood of influencing policy and practice.

Impact activities and their associated learning, feed back into the sustainability of the UoA research
environment through several distinct mechanisms. For example, ICS authors play a leading role in
department-led grant proposal peer review processes. This initiative was designed to offer several
benefits, including maintaining high standards of proposal submissions, offering guidance on
developing effective impact plans, increasing the overall visibility of impact-related issues when
formulating grant proposals, and to provide longer term mentorship for applicants. Another
mechanism for channelling learning from ICSs back into the UoA strategy is through the IAA
application processes. The approval process has been structured to require feedback and final
sign off from both DoI and HoD (in the DoS both current postholders are ICS authors, as is the
HoD of ISER).

The UoA takes full advantage of funding schemes that support the enhancement of impact,
including an internal PVC-R Strategic fund as well as ESRC Impact Acceleration Awards (IAA) and
Global Challenge Research Funds (GCRF). Forty-nine UoA academics have received IAA grants
and GCRF funding has been awarded to twelve members for international projects that aim to build
networks for long-term partnerships and future impact pipelines. The University Impact Awards
scheme has recognised various projects within the UoA including a drama project with local
immigrant communities, collaboration with the Independent Office for Police Conduct, the oversight
of intelligence agencies, and evaluation of free childcare policies.

The UoA benefits from impact-focused relationships with industry partners, such as BT, and high-
level policy communities including the Cabinet Office Open Innovation Team, the Industry and
Parliament Trust, and the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, and initiatives such as
the Essex Centre for Data Analytics, a data-pooling and analysis collaboration between the
University, Essex County Council and Essex Police. All provide means by which policy and
industry voices articulate needs and challenges, shape research projects and embed impact
considerations, also enabling staff and PhD students to participate in policy processes and
undertake training to develop impact-focused skills. Calls for evidence to Parliamentary
consultations are circulated to research active staff and support is given for providing submissions,
leading to UoA research featuring in debates in both Houses of Parliament and the work of All-
Party Parliamentary Groups. Advisory roles are undertaken for local, regional and national
government bodies, health, policing and other public agencies, national and international
regulatory and policy agencies, third sector and civil society groups, and industry. For example,
P. Cox is co-leading a Public Health England initiative to establish a national community of practice
to reduce recurrent family justice care proceedings involving 40 services around the UK, and is
also a member of the Data First advisory group, led by the Ministry of Justice and funded by
Administrative Data Research UK. Hewamanne is the founding director of an NGO, IMPACT-
Global Work, aiming to improve occupational health within South and East Asian global garment
factories, fisheries and plantation-based industries, and has made recommendations to ILO and
UNDP. Staff with expertise in the use of digital policing tools sit on police ethics panels across
England, including the Gloucestershire Constabulary Ethics Committee, National Crime Agency
Ethics Advisory Group, Metropolitan Police Service Research Ethics Committee (Hadjimatheou),
and the West Midlands Police Ethics Committee (Fussey), the latter covering national data
analytics capability.

Fussey’s work on policing and surveillance has informed several government departments
including DDCMS, the Home Office and the Cabinet Office in addition to national surveillance
oversight bodies (Investigatory Powers Commissioner’s Office, and Office of the Surveillance
Camera Commissioner). International consultation has included work with Europol (Sergi,

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fussey), UN OHCHR and the EU Fundamental Rights Agency (Fussey), UNODC (South),
UNHCR (ISER), the European Commission (ISER) and Güveli’s engagement with Turkish MPs on
the integration of Turkish diaspora in Europe. The United Nations International Organization for
Migration has used an adaptation of Papadopoulos’ Synergic Therapeutic Complexity approach
to dislocated persons as the model for their community-based approach to Mental Health and
Psychosocial Support (MHPSS). Users of ISER research come from a diverse range of
organisations and their methods expertise has led to collaborations with national and global polling
firms such as YouGov, ICM, and NatCen. Strong relationships with industry such as BT and BAE
System create demand for ISER expertise, while innovative SMEs like Signal Media, Filament AI,
and Leonardo have contracted ISER experts to help solve acute business challenges. The SeNSS
partnership involves extensive industry links and in 2019 the partnership commissioned research
to audit and understand the wider nature of these relationships, as well as the ‘enablers and
blockers’ affecting social science relationships with industry.

Most recently, UoA researchers have advised parliamentary and government bodies on recovery
from the COVID-19 pandemic, including Güveli’s contribution to the government’s report on ‘Life
Beyond COVID’ concerning the likely impact of the pandemic on education. Evidence on NHS
contact tracing apps from Fussey and colleagues was reproduced in the Parliamentary Joint
Committee Human Rights report on UK government responses to COVID-19.

Impact and Media engagement

Media and impact training is readily available and the UoA employs many channels to publicise
research and reach the general public and specific users. ISER has a dedicated media resource
team led by a communications manager while the Faculty of Social Sciences has employed a
Senior Communications Officer and also draws on central University services, particularly in
relation to cross-disciplinary and inter-faculty projects. Since 2014 significant media output has
included P. Cox’s BBC series Servants: The True Story of Life Below Stairs, numerous research
and widely shared opinion pieces for newspapers (e.g. Beresford and McGoey in The Guardian
on, respectively, social care challenges and critiques of ‘big philanthropy’), and coverage of
Fussey’s independent evaluation of the Metropolitan Police’s trials of live facial-recognition
technology (as a ‘joint-exclusive’ in The Guardian and Sky News, and in over 250 international
news items including The New York Times, Washington Post, NPR, PBS Newshour, La
Repubblica, Le Monde, BBC Newsnight, BBC Radio 4 File on Four and the Financial Times front
page). Academic staff from all departments of the UoA have written for, been quoted in,
interviewed or had research covered by, major national and international mainstream media
outlets, including BBC Radio 4 (Today, PM, Woman’s Hour, File on 4, Thinking Allowed), BBC
Newsnight, ITN News, BBC Radio 5 Live, Sky News, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, The
Guardian, Observer, Daily Telegraph, Times, Express, Daily Mail, Deutsche Welle, The Economist,
New Statesman, Wired, Nature, Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Le Monde, El País,
Televisión Española (TVE), Voice of America, and national chat shows including BBC Breakfast
and The One Show. ISER’s research on children featured in Newsround and specialised media
aimed at parents, such as magazines and the online channel Mumsnet. Across DoS and PPS,
academics have written over 40 articles for The Conversation (the 2016 article by Yang Hu, a
senior research officer in DoS, received 6,156,205 reads). The Faculty, Departments and Centres
make strategic use of online media to promote their research and expertise (across the UoA,
Twitter accounts have over 42,000 followers). ISER has distributed 22 e-news bulletins to 2,500
subscribers (average 30% click-through rate), 12 newsletters to 1,700 subscribers and three ISER
Annual Reports disseminated to 650 subscribers (policy makers, civil servants, media, third sector
and researchers). In HSC, Speed co-founded the medical sociology ‘Cost of Living Blog’, an
international collaboration funded by the British Sociological Association, which since 2012 has
had over 217,000 page views. Material from the Blog has been picked up by The Guardian, The
Conversation, the Royal College of Psychiatry, and many others.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. People

Departments in the UoA follow the principles and practice of the University’s ‘People Supporting
Strategy’ and the Institutional Statement describes Essential Training modules, including those on
‘Equality and Diversity’ and ‘Unconscious Bias’ which all staff across the UoA are expected to have
completed, with managers undertaking enhanced training. Staff involved in any REF-related
management and decision-making will have completed the REF-focused elements of the
Unconscious Bias training which pays attention to equality and diversity issues in constructing
submissions and assessing outputs. The latter process requires two readers for each item, drawn
from a pool across the UoA. A review of our outputs submission profile shows that ten self-
identified BAME staff are included: seven are female, four with more than one item and of those
with only one item two are ECR/L level; three are male with one item each in the submission, one
retiring in the REF period, two being at L level.

Recruitment follows University procedures, rules on equality, diversity and inclusion, and job
adverts include positive action statements and the ‘Disabiity Confident’ guidelines. Interview panels
must meet University gender and ethnic representation guidelines and members must have
completed ‘Recruitment and Selection’ training. Nonetheless, despite continued strong efforts to
encourage non-white candidates to apply, the number of BAME staff remains relatively low. Table
1 shows that within BAME staff, 20% are Professors with the majority concentrated in Lecturer
positions (50%) while among members of staff identifying as white 37% are Professor and only
18% are at Lecturer level. However, almost all self-identified BAME colleagues have been hired in
the last 10 years and further analysis should focus on finer distinctions between ‘white British’ and
‘other-white’ which is standard practice in examination of ethnic penalty.

       Table 1.

            Position                              BAME Unknown            White    Total
            Professor (R)                N           2       3               18       23
                                         %         20%     43%             37%      35%
            Reader                       N           1                        1        2
                                         %         10%                      2%       3%
            Senior Lecturer (R)          N           1       1               15       17
                                         %         10%     14%             31%      26%
            Lecturer (R)                 N           5       3                9       17
                                         %         50%     43%             18%      26%
            Senior Research Fellow       N           1                                 1
                                         %         10%                               1%
            Research Fellow              N                                    6        6
                                         %                                 12%       9%
            Total                                      10            7       49       66

Staff are informed of clear criteria to follow on their ‘Pathway to Permanency’ and of standardised
procedures for promotion. ECR staff at the probationary stage are assigned a mentor from
amongst senior staff to provide support through these processes and to discuss matters relating to
research, teaching, administration, and career development. Continuing support is available for all
staff and the UoA follows the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
including avoiding (as far as possible) short-term contract conditions for research-oriented staff,
encouraging colleagues to apply for promotion, and full participation in the recently established
award scheme ‘Celebrating Excellence’.

Measures to support ‘inclusion’, such as flexible and remote working, were already embedded
across the UoA and in the context of COVID-19 have been supplemented by initiatives to provide


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
equipment and other assistance. Staff support and mentoring networks include Essex Women’s
Network, Parent’s Network, Access Forum, Global Forum and Essex LGBT Alliance and within the
UoA, colleagues have created Communities of Practice around shared research and cultural
issues. For example ESARN - Essex South Asia Research Network (co-led by Hewamanne and
Deka) is a forum for researchers working on South Asia to exchange ideas and develop new ways
of doing research and teaching. Such groupings encourage diversity, inclusivity and creativity.

Departments endeavour to create teaching timetables that allow for personal responsibilities and to
recognise adjustments needed after a return from leave caused by ill-health or similar issues. DoS
provides for an additional two weeks paternity leave and a reduced workload for those returning
from maternity leave. Staff with particular needs or carer responsibilities who might otherwise find it
difficult to attend conferences or make use of academic opportunities are supported by a central
‘Career Development Fund for Carers’. All staff are encouraged to maintain a healthy work/life
balance and a ‘career-break’ scheme is available. Overall, the UoA has benefited from high staff
retention alongside appointment of new colleagues.

Gender and Diversity

Athena-SWAN applications across the UoA have achieved Bronze awards for DoS and PPS (both
2019), Silver for HSC (2017) and led to a self-assessment exercise in ISER which will resubmit an
application in April 2021. Applications have involved a comprehensive review of procedures and
practices within UoA Departments, using surveys and focus groups to understand issues and
problems faced by staff (administrative and academic) and PhD students, and the development of
action plans regarding equality and diversity.

Table 2 shows that in terms of gender differences, 47% of men in the DoS (the largest department
in the UoA) have reached Professorial level compared to 22% of women. In contrast, 31% of
women are Senior Lecturer compared to 21% of men, and 13% are Research Fellows compared to
only 6% of men. (These results could be further adjusted for age). As our Athena-SWAN analysis
(pp. 40-41) noted, ‘there may be a cohort effect here: there is no evidence that female colleagues
appointed at the same time as male ones are less likely to become Professors and these figures
may simply reflect the fact that there were more men appointed twenty years ago. That is, there
are no women in that cohort who are not now Professors.’

       Table 2

           Position                                      Male        Female          Total
           Professor (R)                   N               16             7             23
                                           %             47%           22%            35%
           Reader                          N                              2              2
                                           %                            6%             3%
           Senior Lecturer (R)             N               7             10             17
                                           %             21%           31%            26%
           Lecturer (R)                    N               9              8             17
                                           %             26%           25%            26%
           Senior Research Fellow          N                              1              1
                                           %                            3%             2%
           Research Fellow                 N                2             4              6
                                           %               6%          13%             9%

           Total                                           34              32           66




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The approach to Athena-SWAN has received positive feedback, for example DoS was
commended for ‘evident senior commitment, engagement of staff … (including 100% survey
response rate), … insightful self-assessment, and the generally positive trajectory already being
seen.’ Members of Athena-SWAN Self-Assessment Teams are represented in department
management groups across the UoA to ensure delivery of action plans and new initiatives.

In a survey for the DoS Athena-SWAN application, 97% of students reported that they ‘agreed that
they would recommend the department as somewhere that was a great place for students of all
genders to study.’ Data from the survey and student focus groups emphasised the importance of
female academic role models, strengthening the commitment to support female staff in achieving
promotion and performing high-profile roles within the department.

Staff and students use ‘AbilityNet’ and other resources to help make IT and the Web more
accessible for anyone with disabilities, and the physical environment of the campus and
departments in the UoA are compliant with Equality Act 2010 guidance. Online access guides are
available through a partnership with ‘AccessAble’ and in the REF period the DoS main office was
moved down one floor and reconfigured to improve access.

The University supports staff continuing in their roles with removal of a fixed retirement age over
ten years ago; staff and postgraduates within the UoA span a wide age-range. Diversity of sexual
identity and preference is a celebrated feature of the intellectual work and culture of the UoA and
the University is a Stonewall Top 100 employer. Indeed research on the excluded, marginalised
and victimised has run through the history of the UoA and continues in work on sexualities,
Indigenous peoples, ethnicity, race and justice, domestic abuse, financial and food poverty, mental
health, and educational exclusion. As just one example, Rohleder is leading an international,
interdisciplinary project exploring the experiences of sexual inclusion/oppression of people with
disabilities in South Africa, with colleagues from the disciplines of psychology, disability studies,
and social anthropology, funded by the International Foundation for Applied Disability Research.
Work like this also supports the ongoing decolonisation of the curriculum and steps toward a Race
Equality Charter award in which Hewamanne (DoS) plays a key role. A deep commitment to
diversity and equality reflects the disciplinary orientation towards considering questions of power
and inequality.

Departments are led by a Head of Department, with management responsibility for the Department
Manager and academic members of staff, elected by academic and professional services staff, and
assisted by Directors of Education and Research. Department meetings are held twice per term
and Student ‘Year Representatives’ attend these and serve on key committees. In DoS a Steering
Group meets fortnightly and is responsible for developing policy and strategy for the department; a
maximum of 2/3 of this group can be of one gender.

Research Students

The number of doctoral students completing their awards across the UoA has increased from
171.20 in the last REF period to 183.35 in the current one (see REF4a) and Table 3 below:

Table 3

                                            Year of award
                                                                                               Total
                2013/14    2014/15    2015/16 2016/17 2017/18         2018/19    2019/20
 Normal
                  26.00      20.00      26.60      19.25      26.75     21.25      30.00     169.85
 doctorate
 Professional
                    1.00       1.00      3.50       2.00       2.00       2.00      2.00      13.50
 doctorate
 Total            27.00      21.00      30.10      21.25      28.75     23.25      32.00     183.35




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As the table shows, we have maintained a consistent level of PhD awards over this REF period
(notwithstanding an increasingly competitive PGR funding climate), and increased the number of
Professional Doctorates awarded from within the UoA. Recent increases in staffing and hence
supervisory capacity have not yet contributed to a marked increase in completions but will do so in
the near future. We also note that the addition of a new UoA (Public Health) to our institutional
submissions has had a modest downward impact on the PhD completions returned here.

Across the UoA, research students benefit from a strong research culture but also make significant
contributions to it, particularly to the various research centres and groups in the UoA, all of which
have active seminar programmes, and PGR research is featured on department websites. PGR
Directors oversee recruitment, with a commitment to widening participation and diversity, and
coordinate extensive training and support mechanisms for each research student. The University
holds an ‘HR Excellence in Research Award’ and strongly supports the Researcher Development
Concordat.

Training needs are reviewed prior to the student’s arrival or at the first supervision and reviewed at
each supervisory board meeting. PGR training is provided both centrally (e.g. on ‘Managing your
Research and Production of your Thesis’, ‘Surviving the Viva’) and departmentally, through
colloquia (DoS), student forums (PPS), joint student-staff conferences (HSC, DoS), and Proficio
courses. Academic career workshops are provided on profile building, effective communication,
and finding funding. The UoA enjoys strong relationships with public sector and industry
organisations and IAA support is available for short secondment activities (e.g. as arranged in
2020 with Eurojust but due to COVID-19 could only be taken up online).

Facilities for students include an allocated desk and PC with printer access, in shared offices
located centrally within departments to facilitate integration. Facilities are upgraded and refurbished
regularly. The aim is to create research space that supports both study and sociability with shared
kitchen facilities and break-out spaces.

Progress Monitoring

Department PGR Directors are responsible for student progression and ensuring an appropriate
research environment is maintained. In the Faculty, a PGR Office and PGR Deputy Dean co-
ordinate progress monitoring. In departments, full-time students must have two Supervisory Boards
a year chaired by an academic who is not the student’s supervisor to monitor progress and to
provide intellectual input. A Chair’s report on progress plus one from the student are submitted to
the twice-yearly Research Students Progress Committee to review progress and make decisions
on any necessary action. All research students must complete a fully developed research proposal
for their second Board before PhD status is confirmed. PhD students have strict milestones for
each year of study designed to help plan and complete stages, for example concerning access to
data and complying with ethical approval procedures.

PhD outcomes and destinations

PhD student career preparation includes a peer-led ‘Let’s Talk’ project linking individuals with
community and policy groups, supported by internal and external funds, and the promotion of
SeNSS/CHASE training on employability, and SeNSS/IAA business-link schemes, freely available
for all PGR students. Many 2nd/3rd year PGR students gain experience as GTAs and supervisors
will discuss future employment with their students (as required by supervisory panel reports), while
2nd and 3rd year PhD colloquia include employment skills sessions on presentations and writing for
different audiences.

PhD students graduating from the UoA have moved on to a variety of destinations for employment
or further research, contributing to the UK research system (e.g. at UEA, Warwick, Middlesex,
Manchester, NatCen Social Research, NHS England) and, reflecting international recognition of
the strength of research training at Essex, taking up posts at prestigious bodies abroad, for
example,- UC, Berkeley; Institut d’Etudes Européennes; Université Libre de Bruxelles; The World

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Bank; Max Planck, Germany; International Crisis Group, Mexico City; Facebook; German Federal
Institute for Population Research; OECD.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Investment in infrastructure and facilities

The University has invested substantially in infrastructure support for the UoA, including data
analysis resources (e.g. STATA, R, Python, ArcGIS), specialised secure data storage facilities
(e.g. offered by the UKDA), and buildings. HSC occupies a substantial new building and the DoS
and PPS are located in contiguous office spaces, recently refurbished with a shared common
room. A purpose-built, secure, social science research facility houses ISER, the UKDA and
EssexLab (a specialist laboratory for experimental social science expected to expand with
dedicated interview rooms for qualitative studies, mobile lab equipment and software, and full-time
technical support). ISER infrastructure includes dedicated servers and IT support to underpin the
delivery and maintain the integrity and resilience of the Understanding Society Survey and other
research assets. As mentioned, ISER also has a support team for media enquiries, publicity,
marketing and impact. In the Library, a subject specialist assists UoA academics with research-
related acquisitions.

The UoA benefits from the presence of the UKDA, a national repository that includes census and
survey data gathered via the Office for National Statistics and other public agencies. UKDA is
recognised for excellence in data governance, ethics, information security and strong
infrastructure. Established in 1967 it has been a place of deposit for public records and in 2012
became the lead partner in the UK Data Service. The Business and Local Government Data
Research Centre, (ESRC funded, 2014-22: £6,418,824), opens new avenues for UoA work on
public policy, third-sector engagement (Wyllie) and the important growth area of data analytics.
Additionally, various archives and artefacts of national and international importance represent
benefits-in-kind held by the University, such as ESCALA, the collection of art from Latin America,
of great value to scholars of the sociology of culture, representation, environment and protest, and
donated collections curated by PPS including those of psychoanalysts Enid Balint, Juliet Mitchell,
historian John Forrester, and the Sigmund Freud Collection.

Research Funding (see also REF 4b)

Our approach to securing research income is outlined in Section 1.2. UoA Research income
(REF4b) during the period was £43,886,876 and the UoA has been particularly successful in
consistently attracting the highest amount of ESRC income in the UK. As well as including
individual research project grants, this sum is primarily awarded to the UKDA (which has received
increased funding from £2.2m in 2014/15 to £2.8m in 2020/21) and to ISER. The total amount of
Understanding Society’s Research Council funding obtained during 2014-20 (for waves 9-15,
including work beyond December 2020) amounts to £94.1m but this is allocated across this and
two other UoAs. MiSoC was awarded £6.1m for a 5-year programme (2019-2024) including two
sociology postdoctoral scholarships to be jointly managed by ISER and DoS. In 2019, funding for
EUROMOD – the major tax/benefit micro-simulation project - amounted to £1.2m and ISER’s new
directions in biosocial research initiative has so far attracted funds from ESRC (£1.3M) and ERC
(£2M). The foundation for this initiative is ESRC funding for Understanding Society to create a
genome (£5M) and DNA methylation-wide scans (£250k and £660k) and proteomics (£660k)
resources. Plans to test the roll out of sample collection in the Understanding Society Innovation
Panel (£1.3M) have also received funding.

Overall, the UoA is large, diverse and successful in attracting funding for a wide range of research
projects and consultancies. This breadth can be illustrated by providing examples of awards valued
at over £50k reflecting the UoA strategic aim of attracting large awards in support of ambitious
high-quality research.

Some projects directly reflect our comparative and international orientation e.g.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Demireva’s EU Horizon 2020 GEMM (Growth, Equal Opportunities, Migration and
       Markets) project (£515,913) addressing barriers to mobility, competitiveness and growth;
      Soysal’s two major ESRC projects on ‘Asian Educational Mobilities: A Comparative Study
       of International Migration of Japanese students’ (£289,616), 2016; and ‘Bright Futures: A
       Comparative Study of Internal and International Mobility of Chinese Higher Education
       Students’ (£358,481), 2014;
      Canessa’s ESRC (£460k) project on Gibraltarian identity (gathering particular significance
       in the context of BREXIT); and
      Crowhurst’s coordination of the COST-Action IS1209 program, ‘Comparing European
       Prostitution Policies: Understanding Scales and Cultures of Governance’ (2013-2017;
       €540,000 held at Essex).

Projects (over £50k) contributing to the UoA’s public policy, justice and health research have
included:

      Morris: Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (‘The moral economy of welfare and
       migration’, £177,610);
      Soreanu’s Wellcome Trust Fellowship in Medical Humanities;
      P. Cox: Victim’s access to justice through English Criminal Courts, 1675 to the present,
       £236,377;
      a partnership between Southend Borough Council and the HSC Division for Social Work
       and Social Justice which brings £667,531 to fund two senior Research Fellows and a PI;
      the ambitious and very successful HRC/DoS ‘Human Rights, Big Data and Technology’
       project, awarded £4.8m ESRC funding to support several work-packages in the UoA and a
       five-year post-doc.

Other projects explore the relationship between culture and society e.g. Carrabine’s Leverhulme
Major Research Fellowship (‘The iconography of punishment’, £159,886); and Canessa and
Borea’s €224,933 Marie Skłodowska Curie project ‘Conquering Self-Representation: A
Collaborative Approach to the Aesthetical-Political Dimension of Amazonian Contemporary Art’.

To pursue smaller or pilot projects, members of the UoA have received awards from numerous
external funders, including local government bodies, companies and a wide range of charitable
organisations (e.g. British Academy, Venus Charity, Dartington Hall Trust, Society for Research
into Higher Education, Office of the Victims Commission, Family Action).

Our strategy expects to see the continuing development of research capacity and external partner
support in established and new areas. Internally held GCRF and IAA funds are used for pilot
projects and to support impact, KE, and dissemination. Regional collaborations also lever funding.
Green, Beresford, and Speed won net income to the university of £675k over 5 years, as part of a
£9.5 million collaboration with the Universities of Cambridge, Hertfordshire and East Anglia, under
the auspices of the National Institute of Health, Applied Research Collaboration programme, and
UoA involvement in the Eastern Academic Research Consortium has provided support for projects
on: mental health; reducing health and social inequalities in coastal communities; and participation
in a ESRC project on ‘volunteering during the pandemic’. In addition, the range of consultancies
and professional services provided by UoA members in this REF period is extensive.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships

A considerable amount of UoA work is based on international collaborations aiming to find tools to
analyse data and address shared challenges. For example, ‘EUROMOD’ is a resource providing a
tax-benefit microsimulation model for the European Union, enabling analysts to compare and
calculate effects of taxes and benefits on household incomes and work incentives for national
populations and the EU as a whole. An annual programme of events aims to widen use of the

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
resource and a bespoke training programme is offered internationally. The GEMM interdisciplinary
project involved more than 25 different researchers, 10 different institutions based in the UK, Italy,
Spain, the Netherlands, Norway, Germany, Romania and Bulgaria and gathered over 160 in-depth
interviews. Large data sets from major projects (such as ‘GEMM’ and Güveli’s ‘2000 Families’) are
made freely available for re-use via open-access repositories (e.g. Leibniz Institute for Social
Sciences, GESIS - DBK - ZA5957, and UKDA:
https://beta.ukdataservice.ac.uk/datacatalogue/studies/study?id=853333); and the UKDA Data
Service provides access to the flagship survey from ISER, Understanding Society
https://beta.ukdataservice.ac.uk/datacatalogue/studies/study?id=8644

Dissemination and network events bring together researchers and policy, practitioner and public
audiences, locally, nationally and internationally. The UoA has participated widely in ESRC Festival
of Social Science events and other examples include: ‘ContraST: a roundtable on governing sex
work and human trafficking in European cities’, disseminating findings of a project on governance
of prostitution in two European cities, funded by the Sociological Review Foundation; ‘Using big
data to analyse crime victims’ experiences and (dis)satisfaction’, a workshop, supported by the
ESRC project, ‘Victims’ Access to Justice’ and involving DoS, C4C, ISER UKDA, and the ESRC
Business and Local Government Data Research Centre. Presentations described the Crime
Survey for England and Wales and other large criminal justice datasets held by three Essex-based
ESRC-funded data centres. The C4C, Human Rights Centre, and HSC co-hosted an event on
‘Mental Health, Human Rights and the Struggle for Social Justice’ to thank the UN ‘Special
Rapporteur on the right to health’ for supporting work at Essex; and Preston’s (Co-I) EPSRC
project networks scientists, sociologists and manufacturing companies engaged in ‘Industry 4.0’.

Both PPS and HSC are involved in a strong research partnership with the Tavistock and Portman
NHS Foundation Trust and jointly organise an impressive annual research conference.
Collaborations with the health and care sectors are of significant benefit to the economy and
society and have been features of work in ISER on population health data, in DoS on studies of
medicine, pharmaceuticals, health and illness, and of course are central to the work of HSC which
hosts various NHS and other health and care service-facing research facilities. For example, the
National Institute for Health Research ‘East of England Research Design Service’ provides design
and methodological support to health and social care researchers in the region. Total funding for
the service (2018-23) is £5m, of which just over £1m is held by Essex. The separate Health and
Care Research Service (Speed and McPherson) has worked in collaboration with local and
national health and social care providers and commissioners (e.g. North Essex CCG, Alzheimers
Research UK, Essex County Council, NHS England) to provide research and evaluation services
on a commissioned basis. This service provides an opportunity for novice researchers to partner
with experienced investigators to gain experience of undertaking commissioned research. Funds
totalling £546,746 have been raised across 36 projects in partnership with local authorities, social
enterprises and other third-sector organisations. With similar aims, other staff have gained a
strong reputation for enabling service user participation in research (Beresford, McPherson,
Speed). In the Division for Social Work and Social Justice, diverse partners include the
International Federation of Social Workers; the British Association of Social Workers; Cyprus
expert team for the Fundamental Rights Agency of the EU; Federal University of Rio; and
University of Chile.

Across the UoA, the aim of Knowledge Exchange with relevant constituencies is to achieve a
dialogue, stimulate research processes and partnerships, and articulate evidence and ideas to
inform policy and practice choices and exploration of implications and consequences. This has
been achieved through creation of KTPs (e.g. from 2017-20, the development of a scalable, avatar
based, digital healthcare platform, driven by AI and Machine Learning technology, involving Speed
(HSC), the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering and industry partner Orbital
Media), as well as other KE initiatives. Sociologists (South), computer scientists and organisational
theorists from different UoAs across the University have been involved in a transformational
institutional partnership with regional healthcare ‘community interest company’ ‘Provide’ which has
supported joint research, employability, and KE opportunities for Essex students and researchers
since 2017. This is complemented by the long-term evaluation partnership between colleagues in

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the HSC Division for Social Work and Social Justice and the Big Lottery-funded ‘A Better Start
Southend’ programme.

For ISER, targeted beneficiaries include organisations in local, central and devolved UK
governments; executive agencies, non-departmental public bodies, parliamentary select
committees and quangos (e.g. HESA, EHRC, LPC); overseas governments, international
organisations and the EU; independent research foundations (e.g. Nuffield Foundation, Sutton
Trust, JRF); and other organisations engaging in public policy debates, such as think-tanks,
charitable bodies, political parties, commercial and third-sector organisations. Engagement with
research users and beneficiaries is central to the mission of ISER projects, with MiSoC and
UKHLS being very successful at disseminating findings. MiSoC policy advisory groups provide
face-to-face links with user organisations such as the Scottish Government, BEIS, HMT, DHSC,
Home Office, DfE as well as more than 30 devolved public offices, NGOs and think-tanks.
Individual researchers generate relationships with many organisations to present findings and offer
advice. Dissemination includes: running interactive events, input into policy debates and Select
Committee proceedings, hosting government department researchers, and collaborating with
various academic institutions, think-tanks and NGOs. Tools employed include ‘evidence briefings’
and one-page ‘explainers’, easily shared and also targeted at practitioners where new evidence
may lead to changes in practice (e.g. in schools, health or social care). UKHLS data and analysis
has been used in more than 1800 research papers, often interdisciplinary, and by a wide network
of collaborators. MiSoC ensures findings are accessible and employs a dynamic model of dialogue
with a core set of policy-makers who influence social change, meaning these partners continually
shape the research agenda. In this REF period, 32 events have been held featuring 68 different
speakers from non-academic organisations, with attendees from 411 different organisations.

The UoA is involved in research-based professional development, training and network creation.
For example, from PPS, Main gave nineteen presentations to psychotherapy organisations and
trainees, the general public, and health practitioners, while Nicholson engaged in training for the
British Army, Consortium of Therapeutic Communities, prison managers and therapists, and
Children’s Services. In DoS, over several years, South, colleagues and PhD students, organised
conferences on ‘women, criminal justice and domestic abuse’, in partnerships with the Royal
Statistical Society, the Chartered Institute of Housing, two ESRC Festival of Social Science events,
all contributing to the launch of a regional Domestic Abuse Research Network and a successful
application for a SENSS studentship award. Preston presented to the Chartered Institute of
Architectural Technologists on the Grenfell Tower disaster; Morris to an audience at Cumberland
Lodge on ‘Social Cohesion in Times of Uncertainty’; and Demireva to the European Parliament
and the EU Directorate General for Economy, Employment and Research; Fussey has made
numerous presentations to various bodies on his evaluation of police facial recognition technology.

Relevant partnerships are wide ranging across the UoA and span the local to the global (e.g.
A. Cox - advisory roles, Centre for Justice Innovation, New York, and Reprieve, the international
human rights organization; Papadopoulos - frequent training for professionals working with
involuntary dislocated and traumatised individuals across the world). Partnerships provide
opportunities to work with regional innovation and R&D initiatives (e.g. the ERDF-funded KEEP+
scheme and Southeast Creative Economy Network); and they embed us in local communities (e.g.
Luthra, Gigoux - links with Essex Migrant Agency Forum, Refugee Action Colchester; Beresford -
‘Shaping Our Lives’, a Disabled Person User-Led Organisation; Green’s INVOLVE outreach
project for vulnerable young people in the community, identifying priorities for well-being research).

4.2 Contributions to economy and society

The UoA is committed to ensuring its contributions to society, economy and the public good are
incorporating consideration of the needs of hard-to-reach and marginalised groups. For example
various colleagues have worked with the Tavistock-Portman NHS Foundation Trust, an
internationally renowned mental health organisation, including Papadopoulos whose work with the
Tavistock provides an ICS, and James-Hawkins who is analysing the connection between
adolescent mental health and social media use. McPherson has collaborated with the National

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institute of Clinical Excellence in framing new national guidelines on the treatment of depression;
Speed is a committee member, Essex County Council / University of Essex £2m ‘Catalyst’ project
improving community services for vulnerable people. Luthra and Nandi have integrated the work
of the Centre for Migration Studies into the Essex Migrant Agency Forum to support Essex Police
through the use of their hate crime data. This also reflects our substantial commitment to human
rights and social justice activities. Allen-Robertson has collaborated with the HRC Business and
Human Rights Resource Centre as part of a project analysing their database on corporate human
rights violations, Fussey works with Liberty, Amnesty International and the Ada Lovelace Institute
in the area of digital rights, and several researchers working on rights in the criminal justice
process have partnered with advocacy organisations. For example, Thiel works with Justice After
Acquittal, a victims rights group, A. Cox serves on advisory boards for The Howard League and
the Youth Justice Board, and several staff work with advocates for disadvantaged groups locally
and regionally. Research-links also lead to staff taking up Trustee or Director roles in charities e.g.
Wheeler: Sustainability and Environmental Education Charity; Fussey: Surveillance Studies
Network international charity; South: Open Road drugs and alcohol services charity. Other
associations have reflected standing in the sociological profession, e.g. Busfield: Treasurer,
Foundation for the Sociology of Health and Illness, 2015-2020; Samson: Trustee, AL Charitable
Trust, providing small grants to PhD students in areas of gender studies and sociology, and the
Judith Trust, funding research on mental health problems, particularly in relation to women and the
Jewish community.

Staff provide advice to governments and agencies on emergency situations and structural
challenges, e.g. Fussey has been invited to join the Government Office for Science initiative on
‘Rebuilding a Resilient Britain’ led by Patrick Vallance to offer research-informed insights on trust in
public institutions following the pandemic, and Preston is a member of the Space Environment
Impact Experts Group advising government on behavioural and societal impacts of solar flares and
other harmful space-related activity. The ‘Understanding Society’ programme submits evidence
that informs changes in policy and legislation (e.g. Select Committees (on homelessness),
Department for Work and Pensions (on income dynamics and improving the lives of workless
families), the Casey Review (on opportunity and integration), and the Taylor Review (on modern
working practices)). ISER data is also used by a wide range of charities (e.g. Age UK, Children’s
Society, Shelter), think-tanks such as the Resolution Foundation, IFS and the Social Market
Foundation, and by various commercial organisations.

ISER also runs an innovative ‘Research Vouchers for the Third Sector’ scheme, enabling charities
to undertake research using Understanding Society data. The scheme invites charities to propose
research questions that could potentially be answered using Understanding Society and provides
up to twenty days analytical support. Beneficiary charities include Young Women’s Trust,
Children’s Society, Barnardo’s, Child Poverty Action Group, MIND, and Coram Family and
Childcare, and the scheme is being extended. ISER’s collaboration and partnership work is co-
ordinated and driven by a dedicated Policy Unit which champions, facilitates and supports impact
on policy and practice, alongside the Co-Funders Group, a strategic partnership with various
government Departments (e.g. Work and Pensions, Trade, DfE, ONS). A future plan is to transform
the Policy Unit into a Policy and Partnerships Unit to create policy and social innovation
partnerships, working with other organisations over a longer-term period through co-creating
impactful activities. The Co-Funders Group will be widened into a policy forum by engaging other
government departments and strategic users.

4.3 Indicators of influence and recognition

From DoS, Carrabine is serving as a REF sub-panel member for the second time and South has
served on the Leverhulme Trust ‘Sociology and Social Policy’ prizes judging panel three times.
Speed is a member of the East of England ‘Research for Patient Benefit’ Grant Assessment panel,
Demireva is a reviewer for the European Research Council (ERC) Advance Grant Competition,
the UN International Organization for Migration, and the BA Global Challenges Research Fund.
Fussey regularly serves as an award panel member for ESRC new and emerging data
investments and for joint ESRC-overseas research council awards, and Speed is a member of

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UKRI Peer Review College for the Future Leaders Fellowship. Many other staff regularly review
proposals for funding bodies e.g. British Academy (including Knowledge Frontiers), Leverhulme
Trust, ESRC schemes, ERC Starting, Consolidator and Advance grants, Nuffield Foundation,
Wellcome Trust schemes.

Grundy and Glucksmann are both elected Fellows of the British Academy. Elected Fellows of the
Academy of Social Sciences include Busfield, Carrabine, Glucksmann, Greer, Grundy, Morris,
and South. Preston received a Leadership Fellow award as part of the ESRC Partnership for
Conflict, Crime and Security Research. Papadopoulos (2016) was winner of an award from the
European Family Therapy Association for his ‘Outstanding contribution to the field of Family
Therapy and Systemic Practice’; Hobbs was given the 2016 Outstanding Achievement Award by
the British Society of Criminology prior to his retirement; A. Cox won the 2019 Critical Criminology
Book Award of the American Society of Criminology, Sergi, the 2017 Italian Embassy ‘Early
Career Researcher Award’, Morris a 2020 Cambridge University Press Award for Excellence in
Social Policy Scholarship, and Solar, a 2016 ‘Best article’ award from the Latin American Studies
Association. In PPS, Walsh became an invited member of the British Psychoanalytic Council, in
recognition of status as ‘senior scholar and significant contribution to the field of psychoanalytical
thinking’; Gabriel was made a Fellow of the Norbert Elias Foundation and Soreanu an Academic
Associate of the Freud Museum. Ioakimidis is Chair, Global Education Commission, International
Federation of Social Workers. Within the British Sociological Association, Wheeler is co-convener
of the Climate Change Study Group and Speed co-convenor of the Medical Sociology Study group
(with over 1200 members) and Sociology of Mental Health study group. Many colleagues have
held Visiting Professor positions, for example at Freie Universite Berlin and Cologne (Luthra),
University of Wyoming (Samson), Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Melbourne Institute for
Economic and Social Research, Nuffield College, Oxford (Demireva), Flinders, Melbourne, Turin,
Canberra AIC, Montreal (Sergi).

Invitations to make keynote contributions to conferences enable early dissemination of findings
and reflect esteem and expertise. There are numerous examples from across the UoA but
examples might include: Carrabine: ‘Geographies of Landscape: Representation, Power and
Meaning’, Between Edges and Margins: Innovative Methods in the Study of Deviance, University of
Ghent, 14 September 2018; The Rhetoric of the Image Revisited: Iconography, Semiotics and
Representation’, Second International Symposium on Narrative Criminology, University of Oslo, 16
June 2017; Preston: ‘Disaster Capitalism and Time’, Polish Sociological Association Conference,
University of Warsaw, 7th May 2019; Samson: ‘‘Colonialism and Non-Universal Human Rights’,
Human Rights Policy and Practice International Symposium, Deusto University, Spain, 11 June
2019; ffytche: ‘Outsider Hermeneutics’, Neubauer Collegium, Chicago, October 27, 2018;
Soreanu: ‘Truth, Utopia and the Figure of the Child. A Ferenczian View’, The 11th Meeting of the
International Society of Psychoanalysis and Philosophy, Stockholm, May 4, 2019; Ioakimidis:
Inaugural lecture at the Social Work Research Centre at the University of Chile, 2019; Sergi:
Czech Criminological Association Conference, Brno, 2020; Demireva: Invited Speaker (with
Steven Pinker and others) at the Harvard Kennedy School’s Global Empowerment Meeting (April,
2018); Fussey: Keynote presentations at Africa’s largest digital rights conference, FIFAfrica,
Ethiopia 2019; Big Data Surveillance conference, Kingston, Ontario, 2016; and launch of
surveillance studies chair at Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 2019.

UoA staff are engaged in strengthening the field through varied involvements with journals - as
editors of special issues (e.g. British Journal of Sociology; Economy and Society; The
Geographical Journal; International Journal for Crime, Justice and Social Democracy; Sociology;
Social Inclusion; Sexualities; Sexuality Research and Social Policy; Theoretical Criminology);
service in senior Editor roles (e.g. British Journal of Criminology; British Journal of Social Work;
Crime, Media, Culture; Critical and Radical Social Work Journal; Critical Criminology; Critical
Public Health; International Social Work; Journal of Latin American and Caribbean Anthropology;
Journal of Latin American Studies; Migration Studies; Psychodynamic Practice; Psychology and
Sexuality; Psychoanalysis and History; Sexualities); and as members of boards of over 30 journals
(including - by research clusters: (SDEL) Cultural and Social History; Citizenship Studies; Economy
and Society; Ethnic and Racial Studies; Race, Ethnicity and Education; British Journal of Sociology

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of Education; Work, Employment and Society; (CIS) Journal of Cultural Economy; Psychoanalysis,
Culture & Society; Journal of Psychosocial Studies; (CJPP) Theoretical Criminology; Incarceration;
Journal of Health Psychology; Psychology & Health; Deviant Behavior; (TNR) Indiana; (SF)
Sociology; British Journal of Sociology; Frontiers in Sociology.




                                                                                          Page 20
