Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: UoA2. Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care


 1 Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Our mission is to deliver societal impact and improvements in health and healthcare
through deeper understanding of conditions of public health importance, developing and
evaluating novel approaches to prevent and treat these conditions, and creating a
compelling evidence-base for policy and practice.

1.1 About us: structure, vision, values, and goals of the unit
Our staff are based in three closely-collaborating research centres (Box 1) characterised by
shared vision, combined research and teaching programmes, joint appointments, fluid flows of staff
across our porous boundaries, deep stakeholder engagement, and extensive networks of national
and international collaborators. We share the exceptional intellectual and physical infrastructures
of two campuses in which we are co-located: the Cambridge Biomedical Campus (Europe’s
largest health and biomedical research centre) and the Wellcome Genome Campus (Europe’s
largest genome and biodata research centre).



 Box 1: Our three collaborating centres in population health research




Our vision for population health research is to generate high-quality evidence to improve the
health of populations in the UK and worldwide. We are guided by strong values, including
commitments to scientific excellence, serving the public good, and creating a positive, nurturing

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


and collaborative environment for research and capacity development. We create a thriving
intellectual environment where the most valuable asset is the people who conceive, drive, and
deliver research through their vision, imagination and intellectual energy.
Our goals are to create a compelling evidence-base for reducing premature death, disability, and
morbidity, promoting health and well-being throughout the lifecourse, addressing health
inequalities, and supporting health and healthcare policy and practice. We tackle grand challenges,
responding to major public health need in the UK and globally. Our structures are designed for
strength in pursuing long-term objectives, while retaining the agility to respond to emerging
crises and urgent need. Through high-impact programmes, we have delivered timely and
influential evidence informing, for example, policy decisions on alcohol and tobacco control,
planning for influenza epidemics, and NHS Health Checks.
We have also mobilised rapid responses to the Covid-19 pandemic (Section 4.7), yielding highly-
practical, actionable research that directly supports policy and practice, for example, through
subgroups of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (De Angelis, Marteau), the
Cabinet Office’s International Best Practice Advisory Group and the Royal Society’s Data
Evaluation and Learning for Viral Epidemics (DELVE) initiative (Richardson) and the Covid-19
Genomics UK consortium (Danesh), the world’s largest SARS-CoV-2 genome surveillance effort.
Our research ranges from innovation in quantitative methods and aetiological epidemiology
through to development and evaluation of interventions to prevent and manage illness, promote
the health of populations, and optimise organisation and delivery of healthcare. We encompass the
range of population health research approaches, from data science through to molecular
epidemiology, social and behavioural sciences, and applied health research disciplines. We deliver
on our mission by promoting interdisciplinary research and nurturing team science. Our efforts
are greatly facilitated by the powerful collaborative research infrastructures and other assets we
have created, and by our coalition-building strengths in securing impact.

1.2 Achievements since REF2014
Among achievements since 2014 (Table 1), we have greatly expanded our research output,
spanning multiple areas and cutting-edge methodologies, publishing over 9,000 outputs in peer-
reviewed journals. We have strengthened and diversified our research leadership, appointing
more than 20 additional senior faculty (Section 2.1). We have established multiple
interdisciplinary cross-departmental research centres and thematic collaborations, including
The Healthcare Improvement Studies (THIS) Institute, the Cambridge site of Health Data Research
UK (HDRUK) and the NIHR Global Diet and Activity Research Group and Network.
We co-lead and support multiple national and international initiatives, including HDRUK,
NIHR BioResource, UK Biobank, International Common Disease Alliance and the International
100K Cohorts Consortium. We have created novel cross-sectoral research partnerships,
exemplified by the National Diet and Nutrition Survey, in conjunction with Public Health England
(PHE) and the Food Standards Agency, and our partnership with AstraZeneca’s Centre for
Genomics Research.
We have achieved major societal and health impact, improving quality and quantity of life for
many thousands of people every year in the UK and globally: in areas as diverse as cancer, HIV
prevention, screening for cardiometabolic conditions and food and transport policies.



                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


We have laid extensive foundations for future research, leading and supporting major
population resources that are broad and deep, encompassing different study designs,
geographical locations, risk factors and disease outcomes (Box 2).

 Table 1: Examples of achievements since REF2014

    Areas of key research         Examples of outputs across              Examples of impact
        contributions                these research areas




     Health data science:                Publications:                    Improving the health
   creating innovative, open-          >9,000 papers with                    of populations:
 access tools to advance study         ∼330,000 citations.              through better prevention
 of multi-dimensional datasets                                           and treatments, e.g. for
      (e.g. Section 1.4.1)               New population                     common cancers,
                                      resources and trials:            cardiometabolic conditions,
     Clinical and molecular        e.g. recruitment of 300,000            HIV (e.g. Section 1.7)
         epidemiology:             participants into population
  laying foundations for novel     biobanks in UK and South              Evidence and tools that
   interventions by identifying   Asia, and randomisation of ∼1       underpin national and global
 new causes of major diseases     million people into pragmatic        guidelines, e.g. NICE, PHE,
       (e.g. Section 1.4.2)        trials (e.g. Boxes 2 and 7)        European Centre for Disease
                                                                              Control, WHO
   Applied health research:        Novel tools and methods:              (e.g. Boxes 19 and 20)
   developing and evaluating      e.g. Polygenic Score Catalog,
  interventions to prevent and      PhenoScanner, MR-Egger                Empowering patients
   treat major conditions, and         (e.g. Box 3 and 10)            to make high-stakes decisions
      improving health and                                             (e.g. about cancer treatment
            healthcare                    Leadership                   and end-of-life-care) through
       (e.g. Section 1.4.3)       of national and international        personalised, patient-centred
                                   research programmes, e.g.             approaches (e.g. Box 10)
   Global health research:        HDRUK, NIHR BioResource,
  contributing toward the UN’s      UK Biobank, WHO Hearts              Public engagement and
   Sustainable Development             (e.g. Section 4.1)                     public attitudes
     Goals, and identifying                                                 towards risk-related
   distinctive risk factors and    Extensive cross-sectoral             behaviours (e.g. physical
 interventions in understudied         collaborations and             activity and diet) (e.g. Box 11)
        populations (e.g.         engagements, nationally and
         Section.1.4.4)           globally, e.g. local authorities,     Developing major new
                                    Food Standards Agency,            research capacity including
                                           AstraZeneca                ∼20 senior faculty, ∼70 early-
                                      (e.g. Box 16 and 17)            career researchers and ∼110
                                                                             PhD graduates
                                                                         (e.g. Boxes 13 and 18)




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 2: Examples of our strategic development of population resources since REF2014

  • We have made detailed molecular measurements and extended participant follow-up in the
    520,000-participant EPIC cohort, in which we lead pan-European studies of type 2 diabetes
    (EPIC-InterAct), coronary disease (EPIC-Heart), and stroke (EPIC-CVD).
  • We have substantially enhanced Cambridge-led cohorts (multi-omic measurements in the
    50,000-participant INTERVAL and 12,000-participant Fenland studies) and contributed to
    enhancements of UK Biobank (accelerometry, telomere length) and South Asia Biobank (diet
    and physical activity determinants).
  • We have recruited ∼200,000 participants across England into cohorts involving genomics,
    biomarkers and health record linkages, and have consent for recontact.
  • We have recruited ∼100,000 participants in South Asia into multi-dimensional studies,
    including UKRI-funded BELIEVE in Bangladesh and MRC-funded MAVERIK in Malaysia.
  • We have created a Wellcome-funded 20,000-participant cohort to study persistent microbial
    carriage.
  • We co-lead and contribute to major new global consortia, including EU-InterConnect,
    HDRUK Multi-omics Cohorts Consortium, and International Common Disease Alliance.


1.3 Research strategy
Across UoA2, our goals are to:
    • Generate highly actionable evidence that can promote health and wellbeing and
      support policy and practice.
    • Promote aetiological discovery, with the aim of finding new targets for disease prevention
      and control.
    • Develop and evaluate new interventions to promote health and to prevent disease,
      avoidable morbidity and harm.
    • Produce an evidence-base for improving the organisation, quality, safety and
      delivery of care.
    • Develop and evaluate new approaches to predict disease, including early detection.

    • Create tools and resources, including cutting-edge analytical methods and
      population resources, with direct applications to improve health.
    • Create a thriving intellectual culture and organisational systems to support every
      individual and team to do their best work.
    • Build capacity, attracting talented early-career researchers and integrate training with
      high-quality research.
We organise our work around four inter-related priority areas (Figure 1). To achieve our goals, we
emphasise cross-disciplinary working (Section 1.5), ethical, open and reproducible research
conduct (Section 1.6), achievement of societal and health impact (Section 1.7), capacity-building
(Section 2), infrastructure-building (Section 3), and contributions to the research base, economy,
and society (Section 4).

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.4 Strategic priorities
 Figure 1: Our four strategic priorities




1.4.1 Strategic priority 1: Integration of population health research
      with data sciences
We develop and apply innovative open data science methods, integrating them deeply into
population studies. Our rationale is to optimise knowledge-generation from large-scale cohorts
featuring multi-dimensional data (Section 4.1) and ensure robust scientific progress by making
reliable inferences (Box 3).
We have achieved our REF2014 goal of substantially expanding our data science endeavours.
The MRC Biostatistics Unit has, for example, greatly augmented research programmes in
statistical ‘omics, data-driven methods to improve population health, and trial design and analysis.
Internationally, we have partnered with Australia’s Baker Institute, launching in 2018 the
Cambridge-Baker Centre for Systems Genomics (Director: Inouye), a GBP2.5 million
partnership to improve disease prediction and aetiological understanding using computational
approaches. Another effort with global reach is the Cambridge Centre for Artificial Intelligence
in Medicine led by van der Schaar (UoA10; jointly appointed Public Health/Mathematics) with a
GBP7 million award from AstraZeneca and GlaxoSmithKline in 2020.
Nationally, we are a founding partner of the Alan Turing Institute, established in 2015,
contributing several Turing Fellows in health data science (Inouye, Richardson, Wood). In 2018,
we were selected as one of the six original sites of HDRUK, a GBP55 million national institute for
health data science. HDRUK-Cambridge (Director: Danesh) is a partnership of the Wellcome
Sanger Institute, EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI), the University, and its associated
hospitals. In 2019, we were awarded GBP5 million to mobilise genomic, e-health records, and
other data related to inflammatory bowel disease in a HDRUK Data Research Hub. In 2020, we
co-founded a Wellcome PhD Programme in Health Data Science, a GBP3 million joint
HDRUK/Turing initiative. We collaborate closely in the EPSRC-funded Cambridge Centre for the
Mathematics of Information in Healthcare, renewed with a GBP3 million award in 2020.
Further development of this priority area will focus on expanding collaborations with
leading partners, both academic (e.g. EMBL-EBI, Turing) and in the tech industry
(e.g. Amazon, Benevolent AI, Microsoft Research), to accelerate our creation and application
of innovative methods.


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Examples of our partners in health data science efforts




 Box 3: Examples of tools created by our data science research since REF2014

   • Methods to estimate R for SARS-CoV-2, informing SAGE and PHE.

   • Multistate models characterising disease progression in chronic diseases.

   • Methods for Mendelian randomisation (MR), including MR-Egger and multivariable MR.

   • A comprehensive framework for Bayesian multi-parameter evidence synthesis to estimate
    disease burden.
   • Horizontal integration of genetic studies of different traits through co-localisation.

   • User-friendly methods for handling missing data.

   • Complex algorithms for estimating future cancer risks.

   • Methods to detect genetic causes of rare diseases.

   • Machine learning systems for automating clinical prognostic modelling.

   • ‘Green’ algorithms to facilitate environmentally-friendly computational research
    (http://www.green-algorithms.org)


1.4.2 Strategic priority 2: Integration of population health research
      with clinical and life sciences
A second strategic priority is the deep integration of aetiological epidemiology with clinical and life
sciences. Our rationale is to translate epidemiological discoveries into actionable insights by
identifying molecular mechanisms amenable to modification by new interventions.
Consistent with our REF2014 aim, we have succeeded in prioritising population health
research in the NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre (BRC), the main vehicle for
translational research in our campus, renewed in 2017 with an overall GBP114 million award. For
example, we lead the BRC Diet, Nutrition and Lifestyle theme (GBP3 million;
Wareham/Forouhi), focused on development of national and international platforms for
assessment of diet, nutrition and physical activity, and supporting methodological knowledge
exchange through online tools (Section 1.6). In 2018, we were awarded scientific leadership of the



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


National Diet and Nutrition Survey, the UK’s major surveillance investment in diet and nutrition,
funded by PHE and the Food Standards Agency (GBP17 million).
We lead the BRC Population and Data Science theme (GBP5 million;
Danesh/Richardson/Wood), focused on biostatistical methodology, multi-purpose cohorts, and
clinical informatics, including strategically-guided development of Cambridge University Hospital’s
GBP200 million Epic-based IT system (recognised as a “Global Digital Exemplar” by NHS
England) for research purposes. We co-lead the NIHR BioResource (Bradley [UoA1] /Di
Angelantonio/Danesh) of over 150,000 patients and healthy volunteers consented to recall by
genotype/phenotype, supported by the BRC and an additional NIHR GBP37 million award in 2017.
We also lead the BRC-supported Centre for Naturally Randomised Trials (Ference),
established in 2018 and focused on translational linkages with industry to inform clinical practice by
leveraging principles of Mendelian randomisation.
Our further development of this priority area will focus on accelerating translational research (Box
4) through a strategy of embedding population health in thematic multidisciplinary institutes able to
tackle major threats to health. Introduced to our campus several years ago by the Institute of
Metabolic Science (co-Directors O’Rahilly[UoA1]/Wareham) − a world-leading institute with
highly-integrated research across population and laboratory sciences − we are extending this
approach to multiple additional areas.




Complementing our holistic, cross-cutting multi-disease approaches, we are embedding population
health research in thematic multidisciplinary institutes: (centres, clockwise from top left) metabolic,
cardiorespiratory, cancer, infection/immunity, and the Royal Papworth Hospital.
Cross-disciplinary cardiovascular research has been strengthened through a GBP6 million award
in 2019 for the Cambridge BHF Centre of Excellence (Bennett [UoA1] /Danesh) and a four-year
BHF PhD Programme. From 2022, the Cambridge Heart and Lung Research Institute (GBP60
million) will co-locate more than 100 UoA2 cardiovascular researchers with around 300 clinical and
genomic researchers, benefiting from strategic co-location with the Royal Papworth Hospital
(GBP165 million; opened 2020), one of Europe’s largest cardiothoracic centres, and
AstraZeneca’s new global research headquarters (GBP500 million; opening 2021).

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 4: Examples of insights and translational advances from our cardio-metabolic
 research since REF2014

  • Pioneering genomic studies of the human plasma proteome and metabolome, providing a
    toolkit for Mendelian randomisation studies.
  • Discovery of >10,000 genetic variants determining blood cell traits, yielding insights into the
    differentiation of blood cells and their roles in common diseases.
  • Discovery of functionally significant variants for insulin resistance and puberty timing,
    advancing understanding of human development and metabolic disease.
  • Demonstration that safe limits for alcohol consumption should be lower than previously
    recommended, supporting UK policy and shaping Australia’s new guidelines.
  • Population studies that have shaped phase 3 trials of lipoprotein(a)-lowering and supported
    US and EU regulatory approval of bempedoic acid to treat LDL-cholesterol.
  • Trials and modelling that underpin the UK’s national abdominal aortic aneurysm screening
    programme.


Our strengths in multidisciplinary cancer research have been further enhanced by positioning of
our researchers (e.g. Antoniou, Easton, Pharoah) as key investigators in campus-wide initiatives
led by Gilbertson (UoA1), including the CRUK Major Centre (GBP35 million), CRUK Cambridge
Centre Early Detection Programme, and Mark Foundation Institute for Integrated Cancer
Medicine (GBP8.6 million). As key investigators in the planned Cambridge Cancer Research
Hospital (government pledge of GBP120 million), our researchers will further propel our
translational agenda (Box 5).

 Box 5: Examples of insights and translational advances from our cancer research since
 REF2014

  • Discovery of hundreds of genetic variants determining breast and ovarian cancer risk,
    underpinning stratified screening trials and clinical genetic tests.
  • Shaping national (e.g. NICE) and international (e.g. American Cancer Society) clinical
    management guidelines for women who carry major susceptibility gene variants.
  • Development of widely-used risk prediction and prognostic tools for cancer, incorporated into
    clinical management guidelines and decision-support tools worldwide (BOADICEA and
    PREDICT – see impact case studies).
  • Development and implementation of improved cancer diagnostic testing strategies for
    general practitioners, supported by a CRUK Catalyst Award.


1.4.3 Strategic priority 3: Expansion of applied health research
We have greatly expanded our programme of applied health research, achieving our REF2014
goal of enhancing capacity in this area. Our guiding rationale is that applied research directly
serves the needs of policy and practice in the UK and globally for high-quality evidence. We have



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


established multiple new multidisciplinary centres and strengthened existing centres, yielding
important findings spanning primary, acute, mental health and community care (Box 6).
A major new centre is The Healthcare Improvement Studies (THIS) Institute (Director: Dixon-
Woods), established in 2018 with GBP42.5 million core funding from the Health Foundation to
strengthen the evidence-base for improving the quality and safety of healthcare. Another example
is the NIHR Blood and Transplant Research Unit in Donor Health and Genomics (Director: Di
Angelantonio), established in 2015 with a GBP5 million award as a partnership of the University,
NHS Blood and Transplant, Wellcome Sanger Institute and Oxford University to improve the safety
and efficiency of blood donation.
Several centres have expanded considerably since REF2014, including the Centre for Diet and
Activity Research (CEDAR; Director: Wareham), a UKCRC Centre of Excellence in Public Health
Its research includes a focus on wider determinants of diet and physical activity and population-
level interventions, including a UKRI-funded GBP4 million interdisciplinary initiative to help
transform the UK’s urban food system. The Cambridge Centre for Health Services Research
(Co-Directors: Morris/Sussex), a research collaboration between the University and RAND Europe,
was further strengthened by the appointment in 2019 of the University’s inaugural chair in health
economics as the RAND Professor of Health Services Research (Morris). The Behaviour and
Health Research Unit (Director: Marteau), funded since 2018 by a GBP3 million Wellcome
Collaborative Award, generates evidence to support sustained behaviour change to improve health
outcomes and reduce health inequalities.
Our applied research efforts align closely with national public health priorities. We have provided
co-leadership of multiple NIHR-funded initiatives, including the eight-university NIHR School for
Public Health Research (Cambridge lead: Brayne), nine-university NIHR School for Primary
Care Research (Cambridge lead: Mant), and three-university NIHR Health Protection Unit on
Evaluation of Interventions (Cambridge lead: De Angelis).
Created in 2019 following two previous CLAHRC awards, the NIHR Applied Research
Collaboration (GBP13 million; involving the Universities of Cambridge, Hertfordshire, East Anglia,
and Essex) tackles challenges related to healthy ageing, frailty, multimorbidity and end-of-life care
(Director: Jones [UoA4]; theme leaders: Barclay, Brayne). We also lead multiple NIHR
programme grants (e.g. Griffin, Mant, Marteau, Sutton) and the Public Health Research
Consortium, a Department of Health and Social Care Policy Research Unit (White).


 Examples of our growing multidisciplinary centres in applied health research




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 6: Examples of insights and translational advances from our applied health research
 since REF2014

  • Demonstration of the value of self-monitoring and self-management in primary care in the
    control of hypertension, adopted in US and European guidelines.
  • Identification of optimum frequencies of blood donation through the first-ever RCT of varying
    the frequency of blood donation, influencing practices globally (see Blood
    Donation/Transfusion impact case study).
  • Development of interventions for smoking cessation using tailored text messaging.

  • Development and testing of tailored interventions for physical activity and medication
    adherence.
  • Leading the national evaluation of the Soft Drinks Industry Levy (see Sugar Consumption
    impact case study).
  • Identifying how specific patient populations (such as those of minority ethnicity) may have
    poorer experiences of care.
  • Characterising features of very safe maternity units to inform improvement strategies.

  • Developing methodology adopted by PHE to monitor and predict pandemic influenza using
    multiple surveillance streams.

Our further development of this priority area will emphasise sustainability, whole-systems
approaches, digital health, data science techniques, and remote study methods already
successfully employed in the Covid-19 response (Section 4.7), for example Thiscovery, an online
platform enabling large-scale multi-stakeholder engagement (including NHS staff and patients) in
studies to improve quality and safety in healthcare. We will also continue to strengthen our portfolio
of high-quality, large-scale pragmatic trials (Box 7), coordinated through local infrastructures (e.g.
the UKCRC-accredited Cambridge Epidemiology & Trials Unit) and external collaboration.

 Box 7: Examples of Cambridge-led pragmatic trials since REF2014

  • A cluster-RCT of 1.3 million blood donors (STRIDES) to evaluate simple interventions to
    prevent vasovagal reactions during blood donation.
  • A cluster-RCT in primary care of 126,000 people (SAFER) to inform the National Screening
    Committee about the value of screening for atrial fibrillation.
  • An RCT of different screening approaches in 13,000 women at high risk of breast cancer due
    to high breast density (BRAID) to inform the NHS Breast Screening Programme.
  • A portfolio of evaluations of behavioural interventions, including GoActive, a school-based
    cluster-RCT involving 16 schools.


1.4.4 Development of global health research
A fourth, more recent, strategic priority is to develop global health research. We seek to contribute
to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals by providing evidence-based context-specific
solutions to control non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in low- and middle-income countries, as


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


well as provide novel aetiological insights in understudied populations, building on progress
already made (Box 8).

 Box 8: Examples of insights and translational advances from our global health research
 since REF2014

  • Development and evaluation of cardiovascular disease prediction tools, calibrated for 21
    global regions, adopted in the WHO Hearts Technical Package.
  • Demonstration that overweight and obesity are associated with higher mortality worldwide,
    supporting WHO guidelines to combat all excess adiposity (not just morbid obesity).
  • Discovery of thousands of rare “null” genetic mutations in consanguineous South Asians,
    providing a roadmap for studying phenotypic consequences of gene “knock-outs”.
  • Development of a participatory coalition-building approach for healthy urban planning in
    African cities.
  • Identification of implications of Covid-19 control measures for diet and physical activity in
    rapidly urbanising low- and middle-income countries.

Cambridge’s expanding portfolio of NCD population resources in South(east) Asia (led by
Chowdhury/Di Angelantonio/Danesh) addresses the region’s distinctive challenges, including
arsenic-contaminated water and poor air quality. In 2017, we received a GBP8 million award from
UKRI to establish CAPABLE (Danesh/Chowdhury/Di Angelantonio) to create a 150,000-participant
cohort in Bangladesh to support training and applied health research in NCD control,
supplementing our portfolio of population resources (Box 9).




Rural site of a large household-based longitudinal study in Bangladesh that serves
training and NCD control needs.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


In 2020, we launched a strategic collaboration with Regeneron, a pharmaceutical company, to
sequence genomes of this Bangladeshi cohort to advance understanding of NCDs. Further
initiatives in this region include programmes on investigating breast cancer susceptibility in the
multi-ethnic Malaysian population, funded by MRC and Wellcome (Antoniou/Easton).




 Box 9: Examples of population resources created in South Asia since REF2014

  • BELIEVE: a household-based cohort in Bangladesh recruiting 150,000 participants (∼75,000
    already recruited), recording biological, behavioural, environmental and structural risk
    factors.
  • SHINES: a Sri Lankan cohort that has recruited ∼10,000 participants, following a similar
    approach to BELIEVE.
  • BRAVE: a retrospective case-control study (>8,000 cases and >8,000 controls recruited) of
    acute myocardial infarction in Bangladesh.
  • MAVERIK: a retrospective case-control study (>2,500 cases and >2,500 controls recruited)
    of acute myocardial infarction in Malaysia.


Another major initiative is the Global Diet and Activity Research Group and Network (GDAR;
Wareham/Unwin/Oni), established in 2017 with a GBP2.5 million NIHR award. It aims to help
prevent NCDs in low- and middle-income countries (particularly in Africa and the Caribbean)
through the development of population-level interventions aimed at diet and physical inactivity. It
includes the nine-country African Academic Consortium on Physical Activity. We collaborate
with the Wellcome Cambridge Centre for Global Health Research (led from the University’s
School of Biological Sciences), which promotes capacity development in Africa, and Cambridge-
Africa, a network of 50 African institutions across 18 countries, to prevent epidemics.
Aligned with our applied heath research strategy, our further development of global health
research will emphasise sustainability, whole-systems approaches, digital health and pragmatic
trials, using key frameworks (e.g. a ‘syndemic’ lens) to develop joined-up solutions for NCDs,
infectious diseases and structural inequalities.



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.5 Approach to interdisciplinary research
Our research tackles complex problems of pressing societal importance. Accordingly, our
approach to interdisciplinary research is strategic (led by our priorities), agile (responsive to
emergent questions), and curiosity-driven (arising from the creative synthesis and integration of
concepts, methods, data and theories from multiple fields).
We form and foster highly-productive interdisciplinary collaborations to identify novel research
questions, determine how to address them in new ways, and advance scientific inquiry through
joint endeavours that transcend single disciplines. Our work in the area of healthcare
improvement, for example, combines systems engineering, anthropology, sociology, psychology,
law, organisation studies and data science. Similarly, our work to evaluate screening for atrial
fibrillation in general practice combines expertise on sensor technology, artificial intelligence,
anthropology, behavioural science, epidemiology and public health.
To encourage cross-sectoral and multidisciplinary research, we support joint affiliations and
appointments, including with other University departments (e.g. Pharoah–Oncology; Ong–
Paediatrics), external research organisations (e.g. Inouye–Baker Institute; Danesh–Sanger
Institute), government agencies (e.g., DeAngelis-PHE), NHS bodies (e.g. Di Angelantonio–
NHSBT; Lango Allen–NHS Genomic Medicine Centre), not-for-profit organisations (e.g. Morris–
RAND Europe) and industry (e.g. Paul–AstraZeneca). Another example is embedding UoA2
researchers (e.g. Wallace, Kirk) in the Cambridge Institute of Therapeutic Immunology & Infectious
Disease (GBP94 million; opened 2019).
University-wide research networks and collaborations play important roles in ensuring our
connectivity, the relevance of our research questions, and cross-disciplinary strengths.
Cambridge Public Health (Chair: Brayne; established 2020) has an important role in facilitating
research activity across the University, NHS, and beyond, building on the coordinating
achievements of the Cambridge Institute of Public Health.
We are part of the Cambridge Cardiovascular Interdisciplinary Research Centre (established
2014), which brings together >500 researchers from multiple UoAs (1,2,5,6,9,12), our partner
hospitals, industry and international collaborators (e.g. Harvard, National University of Singapore)
to tackle grand challenges in cardiovascular research. We are partners in the Cambridge
Infectious Diseases Research Centre (established 2016), which connects over 100 investigators
across the Cambridge ecosystem. Further examples include University-wide initiatives in AI/Big
Data, Food Security, Global Challenges, Health Economics, and Sensors.
We collaborate directly with departments across the University, ranging from Mathematics to
Sociology. These partnerships connect deep expertise in diverse areas; for example, the
CAPABLE project on environmental determinants of global health unites population health
researchers with atmospheric scientists (Jones [UoA8]), environmental engineers (Fenner
[UoA12]), and synthetic biologists (Ajioka [UoA1]).

1.6 Strategy to support ethical, open and reproducible research
We are fully committed to the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, FAIR data
principles (findability, accessibility, interoperability, reusability), open-access deposition of pre-
publication reports, and the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA). The
University’s Office of Scholarly Communication supports our commitment to disseminating
research and scholarship widely.

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.6.1 Ethics, research governance and integrity
Standards of ethics, governance and integrity for our research are fundamental to our mission. We
benefit from the expertise of the School of Clinical Medicine’s multidisciplinary Research
Governance Team and Research Integrity Office, which provides specialist knowledge on
research ethics, information governance, and sharing and storing human tissue and data. We
foster a culture of constructive critique, promoting transparency, open dialogue and research
reproducibility through training and workshops. As a signatory of DORA, Cambridge is
institutionally committed to measuring scientific output based on wise evaluation, avoiding use of
journal-based metrics as a surrogate measure of quality of outputs.

1.6.2 Open research strategy
Delivering on our commitment to impact and interdisciplinarity, we make our methods, results,
and publications widely accessible.
We promote open access to publications through the University’s Open Access Policy and our
network of enthusiastic champions. More than 95% of in-scope UoA2 publications submitted in
REF2021 have been deposited via the Green Route (uploaded to the University’s institutional
repository) and published via the Gold route. The University Library’s Request a Copy service
enables online requests for any publication under embargo: several of the most-requested
manuscripts have been from UoA2 (e.g. Kuchenbaecker, 2017).
We aim to make data as widely available as possible while safeguarding the privacy of
participants, protecting confidential data and maintaining scientific integrity. We employ multiple
mechanisms to make data accessible, including deposition at the European Genome-phenome
Archive, posting via open-access public repositories (e.g. GWAS Catalog) without the need for
application, and data-sharing portals (e.g. https://epi-meta.mrc-epid.cam.ac.uk). Since 2014, we
have used such approaches to support many hundreds of external researchers to access, use,
and publish data from our studies (Section 4.1).
To enable wider use of methods that enhance reproducibility, we create open-access resources,
software and tools for multiple purposes (Box 10). One example, of many, is PhenoScanner, the
first publicly available tool to enable rapid assessment of associations for millions of genetic
variants with multiple phenotypes and diseases, accessed by more than 25,000 users in over 100
countries, yielding over a million website visits and queries. Another is the global Polygenic Score
Catalog (https://www.pgscatalog.org/), a major initiative we co-produced with EMBL-EBI and
HDRUK to enhance transparency and reproducibility. FEAT (https://www.feat-tool.org.uk/), a
tool to map, measure and monitor access to food outlets at neighbourhood level, supports planning
decisions and provides evidence to control obesity (Food Environments impact case study).




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Box 10: Examples of our open-access resources and tools with major impacts

  • The Multi-Parameter Evidence Synthesis model, adopted by PHE, triangulates multiple
    datasets to estimate HIV prevalence (HIV impact case study).
  • BOADICEA, a web-based prediction tool endorsed by NICE, identifies women at high breast
    cancer risk to inform decisions such as pre-emptive surgical removal of breasts or ovaries
    (BOADICEA impact case study).
  • The Propensity to Cycle Tool allows estimation of cycling potential and visualisation of routes
    (Transport impact case study).
  • PREDICT, a web-based prediction tool endorsed by NICE, supports decision-making about
    chemotherapy for women with early-stage breast cancer (PREDICT impact case study).


1.7 Strategy for enhancing the health and broader societal impact
    of our research
Our strategy for achieving impact is multifaceted and characterised by multi-stakeholder engage-
ment throughout the research lifecycle, beginning with the research questions we address through
to communication of findings and curation of impact. Our studies are typically developed and
delivered jointly with key groups to achieve shared goals, address important population health and
service needs, and provide actionable, practical findings. Our work benefits from our agility, ability
to convene coalitions of stakeholders, and expertise in mobilising expertise across disparate fields.

1.7.1 Deep stakeholder engagement in design and co-production of research
We are committed to co-production with end-users of research. We embrace patient and public
involvement and engagement throughout the research process (Figure 2), engaging diverse
communities directly, including marginalised groups in the UK and globally.

 Figure 2: Designing and delivering research for impact by working in partnership




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


We also engage deeply with those who use and work in health and care. One example is our
highly co-designed approach to research aimed at improving processes relating to emergency
treatment decisions (see ReSPECT impact case study).




We are skilled in engaging policy-makers early and often. Our work on transport policies (see
Transport impact case study) exemplifies our cross-sectoral engagement approach, working
with governments, not-for-profit organisations, industry, civil society organisations, the media and
communities (Box 11).

 Box 11: Example of promoting population health through cross-sectoral engagement on
 transport decision-making, policy and planning

 An example of highly practical support for decision-makers is our Propensity to Cycle tool. It is
 used by over 80 public authorities across England for preparing cycling and walking
 infrastructure plans, strategy documents and scenario-planning to inform cycling investment
 (Transport impact case study).




UoA2 researchers regularly provide evidence to parliamentary committees, executive agencies
and non-departmental public bodies. We support policy through committee service, evidence
provision, expert witness contributions and parliamentary placements. We work closely with the
NHS, PHE, local authorities, and other bodies concerned with population health. As illustrated in
the Sugar Consumption impact case study, this highly-engaged approach to policy-making
contributed to the UK government’s introduction in 2016 of a levy on sugary drinks, reducing
sugar consumption and helping to address health inequalities.
Other examples of our ability to secure impact include the adoption of our innovative tools to
monitor HIV prevalence and incidence (HIV impact case study) as the methods of choice by
PHE, the European Centre for Disease Control, and other international bodies. Contributing to
improvements in life expectancy and quality of life for thousands of HIV-infected individuals, and
reducing HIV spread, these approaches have helped place the UK on track to eliminate new HIV
infections by 2030. Our behavioural economic studies informed PHE’s policy to reduce food
portion size as part of its national childhood obesity strategy. Our major trial and modelling studies
have been important to decisions about the National Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Screening
Programme for men in England and other countries, for example informing the government’s
decision not to extend such screening to women. Our trials and modelling work has influenced the
NHS Health Checks’ introduction of diabetes risk scores and HbA1c tests to identify people
with previously undiagnosed diabetes.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.7.2 Communications and engagement
We use communications and engagement strategically to engage and develop positive
relationships with stakeholder groups, partners, publics and audiences. These approaches
help us to: identify effective ways of influencing key stakeholders; establish meaningful dialogues
with purpose; improve the visibility of population health research; enable decision-makers and
multiple publics to recognise the value of a scientific evidence-base in underpinning policy and
practice; engage in advocacy; and create clear pathways for education, training, collaboration, and
policy engagement. We dedicate significant resource − including more than a dozen staff across
UoA2 − to communications and engagement.
Planned, purposeful communications, using evidence-based tactics, have been important in
ensuring the impact of our research. As an example (Food Environments impact case study)
Cambridge researchers worked with The Guardian to mark the launch of Feat (www.feat-
tool.org.uk). The tool is now routinely-used in rejections of planning applications for new takeaway
food outlets where likely adverse impact on health and equality are anticipated. Another example
of our use of strategically-guided communication is our work on PREDICT (Box 12).



 Box 12: Using communications to secure impact (PREDICT impact case study)

 We partnered with the Winton Centre for Risk Evidence Communication on the NHS
 PREDICT tool for informed decision-making about breast cancer treatment. Working alongside
 patients, the public and healthcare professionals resulted in a tool that is useful and easily
 understood by all. PREDICT is used by oncologists to help guide treatment options for individual
 patients. The tool communicates the same information to patients, facilitating shared decision-
 making. Endorsed for use by NICE, the American Joint Committee on Cancer, and other major
 national and international bodies, PREDICT is used in more 200 countries and is accessed
 350,000 times per year, contributing towards improved prognosis, reduced distress, and
 decreased healthcare costs. This work has won several prizes, including the 2018 Office for
 National Statistics Research Excellence People’s Choice Award and the 2019 National
 Cancer Research Institute Research Excellence Impact Award.




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Working closely with the University’s Public Engagement Office and others, we use multiple
strategies to engage with diverse communities. We regularly participate in national public
engagement events, including the Hay Festival, Big Biology Week, and Pint of Science. We
have intensified engagement through Citizen Science projects, such as the use of crowdsourcing
to classify tumour data in collaboration with CRUK; arts-based approaches, including ‘Not Quite
Right’, an interactive drama performed UK-wide to engage people in healthcare improvement; and
Snackington, an online game to explore neighbourhood influences on healthy food.




Examples of our wide-ranging public engagement activities.


We engage deeply with local communities, for example through open meetings with research
participants, contributions to the curriculum of the University Technical College Cambridge, and
participation in the Cambridge Science Festival, Cambridge University Fun Lab, Famelab, and
Bright Club Cambridge comedy nights. During the Covid-19 pandemic, we were involved in the
‘I’m a Scientist, Stay at Home’ programme to engage school students in statistics.
                                                                                        Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




We make regular appearances on radio and television; our work attracts mass media and social-
media attention. For example, in partnership with the NIHR Centre for Black and Minority Ethnic
Health, Forouhi helped organise, and featured in, a video appeal (including several celebrities) for
more people of minority ethnicity to take part in Covid-19 research studies, viewed >125,000 times
on Twitter and reported in >200 news outlets. Another example is our paper on alcohol
consumption (Wood, 2018), which is in the all-time top 400 papers for social-media attention
(Altmetric score >4500) and now underpins guidelines encouraging lower alcohol intake.
                             Our achievements have been recognised by the Vice-Chancellor’s
                             awards for Impact and Engagement in 2016 (Sugar Consumption
                             Impact Case Study) and 2019 (ReSPECT Impact Case Study),
                             Klingberg’s shortlisting for the 2017 Max Perutz Science Writing
                             Award, and Junior Magazine’s award for ‘best designed/illustrated
                             book’ for Look Inside a Hospital, a guide for children (Fritz).




                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  People


2.1 Overview
Our approach to recruitment, development and progression of our staff and students is
underpinned by our commitments to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI). Our strategy is
to identify and nurture the best talent at every level across all academic, academic-related,
scientific support and operational roles. We engage in continuous improvement to optimise
our working environment, culture and systems, using structured methods to gather and act
on feedback to achieve our vision of “doing great work in a great place to work”.
The success of our approach is evident in the results of the most recent staff survey:
91% of our staff report being proud to work at the University and feel valued. We achieved the
largest departmental Athena Swan Silver Award in 2013, covering the School of Clinical Medicine
(including UoA2). It was renewed in 2016, marking our continued efforts to support and facilitate
gender equality in the workplace. In 2019, the University's commitment to addressing systemic
racism was recognised with an Advance HE Race Equality Charter Bronze award.

2.1.1 Equality, diversity and inclusion
Principles of EDI are central to how we operate. Through robust systems, we actively promote
good practices and embed a supportive, positive culture. University- and School-wide EDI
Governance and Working Groups are tasked with promoting EDI, reinforced by Equality
Champions in each of our departments totalling a network of ∼100 Equality Champions at the
School of Clinical Medicine and an EDI Coordinator in our central HR Team. EDI is a standing
item on our team meetings, encouraging consistent and systematic reflection and engagement.
The Academic Women’s Forum, led by eminent female scientists (e.g. Deaton), provides peer-
support and mentoring opportunities. University Diversity Networks enable staff with protected
characteristics to develop communities beyond academic boundaries and encourage a sense of
inclusivity. University-level champions for Race and Inclusion, Disability and Wellbeing,
Gender Equality and LGBTQ+ work to combat structural inequalities, including UoA2 staff
(Martin, Forouhi). The University runs annual events for Black History Month, along with
networking events for staff from Black, Asian and minority-ethnic backgrounds. The School of
Clinical Medicine runs focus groups for LGBTQ+ staff and those with invisible
disabilities/health conditions.
Our systems are designed to ensure fair processes for recruitment, funding applications and
further development opportunities for all staff. Staff involved in recruitment are required to
undergo EDI training and pass an assessment. Recruitment of colleagues with disabilities is
facilitated by the University’s Disability Resource Centre. We collect data to monitor progress
against our objectives, for example on protected characteristics among applicants (and those
receiving offers) for staff and student positions (Section 2.5) to ensure equality and inclusivity of
access to our opportunities.
University policies are family-friendly, offering flexible and remote working and generous
maternity/paternity/adoption leave, and a range of programmes and initiatives to provide tailored
support. The University Returning Carers’ Scheme, launched in 2016, supports academic
activity, builds up the research profiles of staff returning from a period away from work, and

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


provides up to GBP13,000 to support research activities and attendance at conferences and
training courses. The University SPACE (Supporting Parents and Carers) network provides
UoA2 members with information and points of contact during leave and upon their return. Since
2017, the University also provides MyFamilyCare, enabling access to emergency childcare and
a network of adult and eldercare providers.

2.1.2 Staffing and people strategy
Our staffing and people strategy is designed to serve the needs of an evolving workforce that
supports team science and multidisciplinary research. As with EDI, we actively promote good
practice through our systems and purposeful cultural change. Senior academics (Karet, Forouhi,
Deaton) serve as Director of Organisation Affairs (or equivalent roles) at School and
departmental levels, providing leadership and coherence for professional development.
We create a highly-stimulating intellectual environment, for example though workshops,
away-days, master classes, seminar series (including our flagship Bradford-Hill series) and team
meetings across research groups. We foster a dynamic teaching culture by involving people at
all levels – from senior faculty to early career researchers and PhD students seeking teaching
experience – as well as colleagues from industry, the NHS, and PHE.
We are deeply committed to ensuring a respectful and safe workplace. We seek to create a
positive culture that rewards talent and secures the engagement, professional
development, and health and wellbeing of all staff. We clarify expectations of staff, including
‘Respect At Work’, in a Code of Conduct. Supporting this in practice, we provide bystander
training to support appropriate challenge of poor behaviour, and we have reporting mechanisms
in place.
Since REF2014, we have deployed multiple strategies to create a highly-optimised working
environment. Important features include high-quality inductions and regular career
management reviews. We seek staff input systematically and regularly, using surveys and
other methods including focus groups. Findings are carefully scrutinised to identify areas for
improvement. Actions are reported back using a “you said, we did” format, with staff engaged in
suggesting, planning and testing improvements to systems, processes and environments through
task-and-finish groups. Several initiatives support our goals, for example:
 • High-quality mentoring programmes.

 • A comprehensive wellbeing programme to improve the health, safety and wellbeing of staff,
   including a Festival of Wellbeing, annual Wellbeing Week and regular events (e.g. exercise
   classes).
 • Systematic induction and appraisal programmes using methods that we have improved
   since REF2014, and now specifically responsive to the impact of Covid-19.
 • Affordable accommodation for staff and post-graduate students through the GBP1 billion
   Northwest Cambridge Development, achieving a key REF2014 aim.
 • Support for staff at key career transition points, including promotion and sabbatical leave.

 • A comprehensive range of compulsory and voluntary training schemes for early- and mid-
   career staff, covering research, teaching, administration, and leadership.
We recognise and reward the achievements of staff at every level. The University’s Professional
Services Recognition Scheme salutes the very best work across all professional services,

                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


including HR, finance, and facilities management. UoA2 staff have been well-represented among
the winners.




Our Nominations Committee meets quarterly to coordinate nominations for national and
international prizes, national honours, and membership of learned societies, using transparent
processes attentive to issues of EDI (Section 4.6).

2.1.3 Strengthening research leadership
We have realised our REF2014 aim of strengthening and diversifying our research leadership
by recruiting researchers with internationally recognised expertise in priority areas and by
cultivating our internal pipeline of emerging leaders. Since REF2014, we have appointed over 20
senior academics.
In line with our strategic priority areas (Section 1.4), recent appointments have particularly
enhanced health data science (e.g. Astle, Barrett, Burgess, Inouye, Jaki, Kirk, Newcombe, van
der Schaar, Villar, Wallace), clinical and molecular epidemiology (e.g. Ference, Paul), applied
health research (e.g. Adams, Dixon-Woods, Di Angelantonio, Martin, Morris, Usher-Smith,
Spathis, White), and global health research (e.g. Chowdhury, Mascie-Taylor, Oni, Unwin). The
University’s first-ever professorial appointments in Health Economics (Morris), Population
Health and Nutrition (Forouhi), and Blood Donor Health (Di Angelantonio) are evidence of our
emphasis on maximising multidisciplinary opportunities and capacity development.

2.1.4 Early-career researchers and career development
We continue to optimise our REF2014 goal of fostering an environment that attracts talented
early-career researchers and integrates training and mentoring with high-quality research.
Our approach to development is wide-ranging, enabling access to mentoring, scientific resources,
transferable skills training and career opportunities awareness.
Early-career researchers benefit from multiple initiatives and forms of support. They include the
University’s Postdoc Academy, which offers induction, professional development and training
activities, leadership and entrepreneurship training, a bespoke mentoring programme, connections



                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


to employers, and a postdoc alumni scheme. Dedicated facilities include a Post-Doctoral Centre
on our campus.

 Box 13: Examples of external awards to our early-career researchers since REF2014

  • BHF Immediate Post-doctoral Fellowship (Charlton)

  • Biometrika Fellowship (Villar, Robertson)

  • Canadian Institutes of Health Research Post-doctoral Fellowship (Hajna, Lambert)

  • CRUK Cancer Prevention Fellowship (Usher-Smith)

  • Dunhill Medical Trust doctoral Fellowship (Hartley)

  • Gillings Fellowship (Roman-Urrestarazu)

  • MRC Career Development Award (Asimit, Kiddle, Winpenny)

  • MRC-NIHR Clinical Academic Research Partnership Fellowship (S Harrison)

  • NIHR Clinical Lecturer (Ford, Mytton, Payne, Sinnott)

  • NIHR Doctoral Fellowship (Dambha-Miller, Edwards, Mavrodaris)

  • NIHR Intermediate Fellowship (Usher-Smith)

  • NIHR In-Practice Fellowship (Llawarne, Lund)

  • NIHR Methodology Fellowship (Harrison, Scott-Reid)

  • NIHR Pre-doctoral Fellowship (Ekeke)

  • NIHR School for Primary Care Launching Fellowship (Saunders)

  • Rutherford Fellowship (Surendran)

  • UK Research Innovation Fellowship (Peters)

  • Wellcome/Royal Society Sir Henry Dale Fellowship (Burgess)

  • Wellcome Clinical PhD Fellowship (Lund, Mytton, Podmore, Zhou)

  • Wellcome University Award in Bioethics (Fritz)

  • Wellcome Society & Ethics Research Fellowship (Pechey)

As a result of our efforts, we have achieved our aim of developing a large cadre of early-career
researchers through to independence. We actively identify suitable fellowship schemes or other
opportunities for early-career researchers, prepare and support them in making high-quality
applications through mentoring, feedback on draft applications and practice interviews, and provide
bridging-funding where possible.
Many have won prestigious external awards (Box 13) or have been promoted internally (Box 14).
Others have gone on to assume senior leadership positions elsewhere in industry (Section 4.2)
and academia (Section 4.3). A positive development has been the creation of new routes for
promotion of highly skilled researchers with specialist skills who enable team science.




                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 14: Examples of promotions of our senior faculty since REF2014

  • Antoniou, Professor of Cancer Risk Prediction

  • Barclay, Senior Lecturer in General Practice & Palliative Care

  • Butterworth, Reader in Molecular Epidemiology

  • De Angelis, Professor of Statistical Science for Health

  • Duschinsky, Senior Lecturer in Applied Social Science (UoA21)

  • Forouhi, Professor of Population Health and Nutrition

  • Kaptoge, Principal Research Associate in Statistical Epidemiology

  • Ong, Professor of Paediatric Epidemiology

  • Perry, Principal Research Associate in Genetic Epidemiology

  • White, Professor of Population Health Research

  • Wood, Reader in Health Data Science

  • Woodcock, Reader in Transport and Health Modelling.




2.1.5 Clinical research staff
Our strategy is to identify and support development of potential clinical academics throughout the
training and career lifecycle. We stimulate early interest in population health sciences as a career
choice through public outreach activities, including school visits and science festivals. We
educate and provide research placements for medical students, and we supervise research-
oriented medical students on joint MBChB/PhD programmes.
We host and mentor NIHR Academic Clinical Fellows, NIHR Clinical Lecturers, and recipients
of other prestigious fellowships. We support full-time NHS clinicians to transition into clinical-
academic roles, including the MRC/NIHR Clinical Academic Partnership Scheme (e.g., S
Harrison), and we contribute to the professional training of public health trainees in the East of
England region through our MPhil course in Public Health (Section 2.2.1). We also integrate and
develop clinical academics and NHS-employed active researchers through honorary clinical
contracts.

2.2 Training and supervision of postgraduate research students
We foster a vibrant training environment that attracts talented individuals, providing high-quality
education to enable excellent future contributions to science, industry, policy and practice. We
have achieved our REF2014 aim of completing a transition to four-year PhD programmes for the
majority of students. We have expanded our four-year interdisciplinary PhD programmes both
through enlargement of MRC studentship programmes and other programmes supported by
multiple sources (Box 15). Since REF2014, 113 PhD students across our centres have graduated,
with 90% completing within four years.




                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 15: Examples of externally funded interdisciplinary PhD programmes since REF2014

  • MRC PhD studentship programme

  • Data science and health (MRC Industrial Strategy fund)

  • Cardiovascular science (BHF four-year programme)

  • Health data science (Wellcome-funded HDRUK/Turing programme)

  • Population health research in cancer (CRUK)

  • Public health research allied to the Centre for Diet and Activity Research (UKCRC)

  • NIHR Collaborative Leadership in Applied Health and Care

  • NIHR School for Public Health Research

  • NIHR School for Primary Care Research

  • Wellcome Clinical PhD Fellowship for GPs



Oversight for training of graduate students (Masters and doctoral) is provided by the University’s
Graduate School of Life Sciences: which provides induction, pastoral care, core skills and
transferable skills training and career development. Students are expected to develop excellent
presentation skills and give open seminars, which are well attended by students and faculty.
Further pastoral and social support is provided through college affiliation.
We use transparent and inclusive processes to recruit the most talented postgraduate students
worldwide. We are actively involved with the University’s Postgraduate Open Day, enabling
external applicants to visit our campus and meet potential supervisors. We have been able to
attract outstanding students, many supported by competitive awards, including from the
Turing Institute, BHF, Cambridge Trust (e.g. Commonwealth, Nehru), CRUK, ESRC, Gates Trust,
MRC, NIHR/NHS, overseas governments, US NIH-Cambridge partnership and Wellcome.
Our PhD students are embedded in their primary supervisor’s research group, supported by a
wider team including senior PhD coordinators and college graduate tutors. Progress is monitored
through regular meetings, termly reviews, and formal progression points. The University’s
Disability Resource Centre provides additional support for students with disabilities.

Masters courses
We currently run three connected Masters courses: in Epidemiology (director: Antoniou), Public
Health (director: Adams), and Primary Care Research (director: Usher-Smith). We contribute
significantly to the MPhil course in Translational Biomedical Research, established with a GBP5
million Wellcome/GSK award, and to a Masters in Healthcare Data (commenced in 2019 in
conjunction with Cambridge University Hospitals and EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute). In
2020, Cambridge was competitively awarded funding by HDRUK to establish a complementary
new Masters stream in Health Data Science.
All Masters students have a named academic supervisor, drawn from faculty across our centres, to
provide one-to-one supervisions. Students attend talks given by external and internal speakers,
and develop deep networks internally and externally, for example through student exchange


                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


programmes, including our partnership with the Netherlands Institute of Health Sciences in
Rotterdam and ENSAE ParisTech, France’s leading data science university.
In autumn 2021, we will launch modularised and specialised Masters courses in thematic areas
corresponding to our strategic priorities (Section 1.4). We will also deliver short-course offerings to
new audiences, including health professionals in clinical practice, third-year University students
(including medical students), and postdoctoral and other researchers exploring discipline-hopping.




                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Income, infrastructure and facilities

Our strategy for income-generation and infrastructure-development is directly aligned with
our vision, values, and strategic priorities (Section 1.4). We seek to achieve resilience and
sustainability by diversifying our funding sources, developing infrastructure specifically
tailored to our needs, and leveraging our broader environment’s exceptional facilities.

3.1 Funding strategy and research income
We seek to support researchers to develop visionary ideas responsive to public health need,
aiming to:
 • Secure long-term strategic funding aligned directly with our vision (Section 1).

 • Attract awards that catalyse our interdisciplinary strengths and collaborations (Section 1).

 • Maximise societal and health impact (Section 1).

 • Actively promote principles of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) (Section 2).

 • Support talented individuals to secure personal funding at all career stages (Section 2).

The 170% increase in our competitive peer-reviewed funding between 2014 and 2020 is evidence
of the success of this strategy. Since 2014, we have won GBP171 million in external funds.
Sources include major grants and awards from the MRC, Wellcome, NIHR, a range of charities
(e.g. Alzheimer’s Society, BHF, CRUK, Health Foundation), NHS Blood and Transplant, European
Commission, European Research Council, US NIH, and industry (e.g. AstraZeneca, Biogen,
Merck, Novartis).

 Examples of our major funders




                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Overall, 41% of our funding derives from Research Councils, 25% from NIHR and government,
20% from charities, and 13% from EU, NIH or other competitive international sources. Notable
awards that have supported new strategic developments have included:

GBP42.5 million award from the Health Foundation
GBP17 million award from PHE and the Food Standards Agency
GBP8 million award from UKRI for global health research initiatives
GBP5 million award from HDRUK.

The MRC provides core support to the MRC Epidemiology Unit (GBP27.9 million, 2020-2025) and
MRC Biostatistics Unit (GBP16 million, 2018-2023). We also benefit from substantial portions of
institution-wide awards, including the GBP114 million NIHR award to the Cambridge Biomedical
Research Centre. Our highly engaged cross-sectoral strategy has resulted in significant
investment in externally funded senior posts (Box 16).

 Examples of our cross-sectoral partners funding faculty positions since REF2014




 Box 16: Examples of senior posts supported by external funds, illustrating
 our cross-sectoral partnerships

  • NHS Blood and Transplant has funded the Professorship of Donor Health and a Senior
    University Lectureship in Transfusion and Transplantation Data Science.
  • RAND Europe has funded the Professorship of Health Services Research.

  • The Health Foundation has funded the Professorship of Healthcare Improvement Studies.

  • The Baker Institute of Australia has funded the Directorship of the Cambridge Baker
    Systems Genomics Initiative.
  • PHE has funded a University Lectureship in Public Health.

  • A philanthropic donation and Trinity College, Cambridge have funded a University
    Lectureship in Palliative and End of Life Care.
  • Cambridge University Hospitals has funded the Florence Nightingale Foundation Chair of
    Clinical Nursing Research.




                                                                                          Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3.2 Facilities for research and research impact
We have world-class facilities designed to support high-quality research and research impact.

3.2.1 Campus facilities
Researchers in UoA2 benefit from the infrastructure and facilities of two of Europe’s leading
research campuses: the Cambridge Biomedical Campus and the Wellcome Genome Campus,
located ∼10km from each other.
UoA2 researchers are mostly accommodated on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Europe’s
largest centre for health and medical research, hosting 20,000 employees of the University,
hospitals, industry (e.g. AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline) and linked research institutes. Since
REF2014, about GBP1 billion has been invested in enhancing the campus’s physical
infrastructure, with planning permission for 75,000m2 of additional space. From 2021/22, further
space will be made available for over 100 UoA2 researchers as part of the Cambridge Heart and
Lung Research Institute (GBP60 million; Section 1.4).




From 2022, more than 100 UoA2 researchers will be based in the multidisciplinary
Cambridge Heart and Lung Research Institute, now under construction.


The Wellcome Genome Campus, which hosts our HDRUK-Cambridge centre, is home to some
of the world’s foremost data-driven research organisations, including the Sanger Institute and the
EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute. In 2019, we established a dedicated molecular laboratory
for multi-omics and microbiome assays at the Sanger Institute to support HDRUK-Cambridge’s
population health studies. Our long-term strategy is to leverage further the intellectual and physical
environment of the Genome Campus, which has seen GBP3.2 billion invested in scientific
research, infrastructure and campus development during the past two decades. In 2020, the
Wellcome Trust and local planning authorities endorsed a 25-year Vision Plan to double the size of
the 2500-person Wellcome Genome Campus.


                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Health Data Research UK’s Cambridge site is based at the Wellcome Sanger Institute,
one of several strategic collaborations between UoA2 researchers and the Sanger Institute.


Infrastructural support for IT and data
State-of-the-art secure IT, data transfer and storage infrastructure are critical for UoA2 research.
As reflected in our use of data- and biosample-rich research resources, UoA2 researchers benefit
from facilities that provide massive computational and data storage capacity, biosample facilities,
and state-of-the-art analytical tools. Since REF2014, the University has made major investments in
energy-efficient, resilient high-performance computing and data storage.
Built in 2015 (and costing GBP20 million), the West Cambridge Data Centre is the central hub for
all University research computing, including the Cambridge High Performance Computing
Cluster which we intensively access. Hosting the Peta-5 system, one of the UK’s largest and
fastest academic supercomputers, it was recently updated with EPSRC/MRC/University funding,
including an MRC Research Infrastructure Award of GBP25 million. Through HDRUK-Cambridge
at the Wellcome Genome Campus, we also access one of the largest coordinated set of
computing assets to the life sciences in the world, which includes around 200PB of data and
100,000 compute cores.




                                                                                           Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




The University’s GBP20 million data centre supports UoA2’s large-scale computational needs,
using an innovative ‘green’ energy approach.


The Clinical School Computing Service provides IT support services, including a private fibre
Granta Backbone Network connecting all UoA2 facilities. UoA2 has a dedicated secure storage
area for personal identifiable and sensitive research data that complies with the NHS Digital Data
Security and Protection Toolkit (‘Standards Met’) and has ISO27001 Certification, allowing transfer
of data from NHS Digital and PHE.

We have access to high-quality storage facilities, storing over 5 million sample aliquots (e.g.
plasma, DNA) from hundreds of thousands of participants across our studies, mostly at the
National Biosample Centre (Milton Keynes) and Fisher BioServices (Bishop’s Stortford). With
support from the Cambridge BRC, we have developed a Biosample Repository that enables
rapid retrieval/formatting of samples. With University and MRC co-funding, we are developing a
biosample storage facility tailored to the specific needs of large-scale molecular epidemiology.




                                                                                           Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



    Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Consistent with our mission, Cambridge contributions to the research base, economy and
society have been wide-ranging and impactful. They include creation of major research
platforms and assets that benefit the community at large, interventions and improvements
that benefit public health and health systems, global thought leadership, engagement with
key external stakeholders, input into strategic decisions about research funding, capacity-
building and leadership for major scientific journals.

4.1 Contributions to research base, collaborations,
    networks and partnerships
Our research collaborations and partnerships are extensive, reflecting our productive engagement
with stakeholders ranging from patients and the public through to industry and policy-makers. We
benefit greatly from our ecosystem: Cambridge is one of six nationally recognised UK Life Science
Opportunity Zones and one of the world’s most successful innovation ecosystems, hosting more
than 4,300 knowledge-intensive firms employing 60,000 people. This critical mass facilitates cross-
disciplinary collaboration with our major academic and NHS partners, industry, and broader
stakeholders.
We also benefit from multiple strategic facilitating and network-building structures, including the
University’s Centre for Science and Policy, which runs a high-profile hosting programme for
senior stakeholders from government and industry to enable policy-makers better understand,
value and marshal scientific evidence in decision-making, and the Public Health Genomics
Foundation, a not-for-profit policy institute which transferred into the University in 2018. We help
convene the East of England Academic Forum, a vehicle for collaborative public health work
involving of all universities in our region.
Researchers in UoA2 have consistently demonstrated national and international leadership in
coordinating major research collaborations and consortia that serve as multi-purpose
platforms for epidemiology, public health, health services and policy research. These
collaborations and consortia benefit the scientific community at large, and bring together
previously unconnected researchers from leading institutions worldwide. Examples include:
 • Breast Cancer Association Consortium

 • Consortium of Investigators of Modifiers of BRCA1 and BRCA2

 • Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration

 • EPIC-InterAct and EPIC-CVD

 • EU-InterConnect

 • Global BMI and Mortality Consortium

 • International Children’s Accelerometry Database

 • Ovarian Cancer Association Consortium

 • Million Hearts Project.

We are involved in multiple cross-HEI collaborative research platforms. One example is UK
Biobank (UKB). Danesh, a member of its Strategic Oversight Committee, has co-led telomere
                                                                                             Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


length assessment in all UKB participants with Leicester University. Wareham is a member of
UKB’s Enhancements Committee and chairs the Physical Activity Working group. Danesh and
Wareham were PIs in the UK Cardiometabolic Consortium, which helped to fund genotyping in all
UKB participants; Butterworth helped design the gene array used in UKB.
The Cambridge-led NIHR BioResource − which involves over 150,000 patients and healthy
volunteers across England who have provided DNA and consented to join research studies
investigating the links between genes, the environment, health and disease − has enabled
hundreds of studies nationally since REF2014. Danesh and Di Angelantonio are PIs of component
cohorts of the NIHR BioResource; Danesh also serves on the Operations Team.
We are closely involved in the national implementation projects of HDRUK, building national
infrastructure in relation to multi-omics (Butterworth, Langenberg, Wareham, Danesh), multi-
morbidity (Richardson), and natural language processing (Di Angelantonio, Collier [UoA26]). Other
examples of our wide-reaching platform work include contributions to the GBP79 million Our
Future Health cohort via its science working group (Di Angelantonio, Danesh) and gene array
design group (Butterworth), and Dementia Platforms UK, in which Brayne and Richardson are
investigators.
As described in Section 1.7, we engage with stakeholders across multiple sectors from academia,
government, policy and industry, as well as patients, patients’ organisations and the public,
illustrated by the Blood Donation/Transfusion impact case study (Box 17). Our guiding
rationale is to enrich research perspectives, co-produce studies, and maximise impact.
A longstanding example is the Cambridge Centre for Health Services Research, a ten-year
partnership between the University and RAND Europe, a not-for-profit research organisation,
focusing on research that informs health policy and practice. Another example is BigData@Heart,
a public-private EUR19 million consortium funded by the EU’s Innovative Medicines Initiative that
is developing data-driven translational research platforms, involving Cambridge, other universities,
patient-focused networks, learned societies and industry.

 BigData@Heart, a pan-European translational initiative, illustrates our multi-institutional
 cross-sectoral research approach




                                                                                            Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 17: Example of cross-sectoral collaboration: NHS Blood and Transplant
 (see Blood Donation/Transfusion impact case study)


 Cambridge researchers and NHS Blood and Transplant (NHSBT), England’s national blood
 service, have worked closely together to address the problems of the weak evidence-base for
 blood donation safety and efficiency.
 In 2015, the NIHR Blood and Transplant Research Unit in Donor Health and Genomics was
 established in Cambridge, in partnership with NHSBT, Wellcome Sanger Institute and Oxford
 University. Studies are developed and delivered jointly to provide actionable, practical findings
 that directly benefit donors, recipients, and health systems. Findings are presented regularly to
 NHSBT’s senior leadership team and to national government committees, ensuring our research
 has rapid impact.
 Our findings have changed policies and practices in the UK, USA, Canada, and the Netherlands,
 contributing to improvements in blood supply, prevention of anaemia, and efficiency of blood
 services, as well as more personalised matching of donated blood with recipients.


4.2 Contributions to the economy
Our campus provides gross added value of GBP5 billion to our regional economy (CUHP
economic modelling), drawing on the Office of Translational Research and Cambridge
Enterprise, the University’s Technology Transfer office, for comprehensive support to translate
discoveries into health and societal improvements. Our contributions to the UK and global
economy are wider-ranging, achieved through partnerships with industry, government and beyond
to improve health and wellbeing.
We have delivered substantial benefits for the NHS and UK economy by improving population
health. Our evidence-based prevention strategies for earlier detection and control of HIV, for
example, have helped the NHS save at least GBP4 million per year since 2014, reducing
healthcare costs associated with late HIV diagnoses (HIV impact case study). Our prediction
tools have allowed better targeting of chemotherapy in women with early breast cancer, sparing
11,000 women from chemotherapy they did not need and saving the NHS many millions of pounds
(PREDICT impact case study). Our development of more efficient and safer blood donation
methods have enabled collection of an additional 40,000 litres of blood annually, equivalent in
value to GBP10 million annually (Blood Donation/Transfusion impact case study).
We make multiple contributions to the economy through our extensive industry links. As well as
working with small, agile companies (e.g. Huma, Nightingale Health, VITAS), we collaborate with
and advise the pharmaceutical industry extensively, including Amgen, AstraZeneca,
GlaxoSmithKline, Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi and Takeda. We have built several
partnerships with companies in Cambridge’s innovation ecosystem, exemplified by our
partnership with AstraZeneca’s Centre for Genomics.
To tailor our industry collaborations to research needs, we have adopted different models,
including pre-competitive consortia (e.g. with Merck and Biogen to identify novel therapeutic
targets), multi-institutional public-private partnerships (e.g. BigData@Heart), and
collaboration based on exchange of data from innovative assay technologies (e.g. with
SomaLogic and Regeneron).

                                                                                           Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Further serving the needs of the economy, many UoA2-trained researchers have in recent
years been appointed to key positions in industry, including, for example: Freitag (Vice-
President, Biomedical Data Science-Bayer); Howson (Senior Director, Genetics-NovoNordisk);
Ishihara (Senior Epidemiologist-Roche); Lotta (Head, Cardiovascular /Metabolic/Musculoskeletal
Genetics-Regeneron); Paul (Director, Cardiovascular-AstraZeneca); Scott (Senior Investigator,
Genetics-GSK); D Thompson (Senior Scientist-Genomics Plc).

4.3 Contributions to research capacity-building
Through our education and training efforts, we make major contributions to economy and society
by developing highly-skilled clinicians and researchers capable of providing leadership in the
UK and globally. We have made a particular commitment, since 2014, to expanding opportunities
for clinical academic careers for nurses, midwives and allied health professionals at
Cambridge University Hospitals (lead: Deaton), including internships and predoctoral and
postdoctoral bridging fellowships.
We develop researchers through our Masters and doctoral programmes (Section 2.2.1). We
contribute to academic researchers’ professional development by hosting NIHR Academic
Clinical Fellowships in general practice, palliative medicine, and public health, and we provide
professional public health training (e.g. most of the East of England public health trainees take
our Masters course in Public Health). We lead and contribute to major international training
programmes, including the WHO/International Diabetes Federation, the Swedish National
Research School in General Practice, and multiple capacity-building initiatives in low- and middle-
income countries. Many Cambridge trainees and early-career researchers have gone on to
assume leadership positions in UK and international academia (Box 18).

 Box 18: Examples of Cambridge researchers appointed to senior positions in academia
 since REF2014

 UK                                              International

 Farquhar (Professor, East Anglia)                Ekelund (Professor, Norwegian School of Sports
                                                  Sciences)
 Kellar (Associate Professor, Leeds)
                                                  Franco (Director, University of Bern)
 Mander (Professor, Cardiff)
                                                  Lamé (Assistant Professor, CentraleSupelec,
 Payne (Senior Lecturer, Bristol)
                                                  Paris)
 Peters (Reader, Imperial)
                                                  Pindis (Assistant Professor, University of Illinois,
 Sharples (Professor, LSHTM)                      USA)
 Sweeting (Associate Professor, Leicester)        Saleheen (Associate Professor, Columbia
 Walter (Professor, QMUL)                         University, USA)

 Wason (Professor, Newcastle)                     Mukherjee Sach (Group Leader, DZNE, Bonn)

 White (Professor, UCL)                           Whitford (Professor, Dublin)
                                                  Willeit (Associate Professor, Innsbruck)
                                                  Zheng (Group Leader, Hangzhou, China)



                                                                                             Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Cambridge makes a further important contribution through THIS Institute’s national fellowship
programme, which develops research capacity UK-wide in the study of healthcare improvement.
Since 2018, it has made a substantial investment in the UK’s capability for improvement research
that benefits researchers, providing funding for stipend/salary and expenses at every level, from
PhD to professorial, in 17 universities across the UK.




4.4 Supporting policy, practice and research strategy
Globally, UoA2 researchers at Cambridge are very well-represented on the WHO and other
international bodies, where we make important contributions to science and policy (Box 19).

 Box 19: Examples of our faculty’s engagements with major international bodies

  • Member, G8 dementia research summit organising committee (Brayne).

  • Adviser, WHO HIV Modelling in Europe Group (De Angelis).

  • Member, International Diabetes Federation (Forouhi).

  • Member, European Society of Cardiology guidelines task forces (Deaton).

  • Member, WHO cardiovascular risk prediction expert committee (Di Angelantonio).

  • Member, US National Cancer Institute’s PDQ® Cancer Genetics Advisory Board (Pharoah).

  • Advisers, World Economic Forum and WHO on ageing (Van Bortel, Lafortune).

  • Member, WHO expert committee on HbA1c in the diagnosis of diabetes (Wareham).



                                                                                          Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Nationally, Cambridge has key leadership roles in major academic partnerships, including the
Turing Institute, HDRUK, NIHR School for Public Health Research, NIHR Applied Research
Collaborations, NIHR BioResource and UK Biobank.
We are well-represented on national policy bodies, enabling scientific influence and contribution
to policy-making. Our faculty have significant roles in the National Institute for Health and
Care Excellence (NICE), through membership of the Expert Advisory Group for the NICE Centre
for Guidelines (De Angelis, Pharoah, Sutton), the dementia, disability, and frailty in later life
prevention guidelines development committee (Lafortune), the technology-based interventions for
behaviour change guideline committee (Sutton), and the implementation strategy group (Martin).
We provide chairing for several guidelines committees (Mant) and the Public Health Programme
Development Group on prevention of diabetes (Wareham), as well as the vice-chair of the Public
Health Advisory Committee (Morris).
UoA2 researchers are highly active in Public Health England, including De Angelis, a team leader
at PHE in statistical modelling of blood-borne viruses and influenza pandemic preparedness. Our
researchers serve on the National Surveillance Committee (Brayne), Behavioural and Social
Sciences Strategy Group (Sutton), and Advisory Panels for NHS Health Checks and National
Diabetes Prevention Programme (Wareham). Examples of engagements with other national
bodies are listed in Box 20.



 Box 20: Examples of our engagement with government, NIHR, and NHS

  • SAGE for Covid-19 (Allara, De Angelis, Marteau).

  • SAGE for Pandemic Influenza; Scientific Pandemic Influenza Advisory Committee (De
    Angelis).
  • Infected Blood Inquiry (De Angelis, Dixon-Woods).

  • Berwick Report on patient safety; Wachter Report on IT in the NHS (Dixon-Woods).

  • Topol Review on healthcare workforce (Easton).

  • Rehabilitation Working Group for the National Stroke Strategy (Mant).

  • Cabinet Office Behavioural Insights Team; Director of DHSC-funded Policy Research Unit
    (Marteau).
  • NIHR/DiabetesUK Diabetes Research Strategy Steering Group (Forouhi).

  • NETSCC National Stakeholder Advisory Group (Martin).

  • Committee on Medical Aspects of Ionising Radiation in the Environment, DHSC (Pharoah).

  • DHSC Healthcare-Associated Infections Research Priorities Advisory Group (Sutton).




We have multiple professional leadership roles, including: Chair, British Psychological Society’s
Behaviour Change Advisory Group (Sutton); Chair, Faculty of Public Health Academic and
Research Committee; working group member for the AMS Health of the Public 2040 Report
(Brayne); President of the Royal Statistical Society (Richardson); President, UK Society for Social


                                                                                           Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Medicine (White); President, UK Society for Behavioural Medicine (White); and AMS
representative for IAP statement on dementia (Brayne, Marteau).

4.5 Contributions to funding bodies and journals
Through leadership roles, our faculty have helped to build the strategic vision for population health
research nationally and globally. UoA2 researchers have, for example, made significant
contributions to the research base through participation in peer-review, funding panels (Box 21)
and journal editorships (Box 22).

 Box 21: Examples of our leadership contributions to major funding panels

 Wellcome funding panels

 e.g. Wellcome Population and Public Health Expert Review Group Board (Brayne [Chair]),
 Population Genetics Expert Review Board (Danesh [Deputy Chair], Easton), Wellcome Expert
 Review Group on Humanities/Social Science (Marteau [Chair], Dixon-Woods [Chair]).

 MRC panels

 e.g. Strategy Board (Wareham), Population and Systems Medicine Board (Danesh, Richardson,
 Wareham), Population Health Sciences Group (Wareham [Chair], White), Infection and Immunity
 Board (De Angelis), Global Health Group (Danesh), Methodology Board (Richardson, Sutton),
 HDRUK Review Panel (van der Schaar).

 NIHR and NHS funding panels

 e.g. NHSBT R&D Committee (Di Angelantonio), NIHR Programme Grants (Mant [Chair], Sutton),
 NIHR Health Services and Delivery Research Programme (Morris), NIHR In-Practice Fellowship
 Panel (Mant), NIHR Public Health Research (Morris, Wareham [Deputy Chair], White [Director]),
 NIHR Advanced Career Fellowships (Deaton), NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research
 (Morris).

 Major charity and international funding panels

 e.g. Alzheimer's Society (Brayne [co-Chair]), BHF Chairs/Programme Grants (Wareham), BHF
 Projects Grants (Di Angelantonio, Danesh), BHF-Turing Institute (Danesh, van der Schaar), BHF
 Fellowships (Deaton), Gates Foundation Clinical Trials Advisory Board (Villar), Breast Cancer
 Now (Antoniou, Easton, Pharoah), CRUK Science Committee (Easton), Danish Diabetes
 Academy Committee (Griffin), Diabetes UK Research (Forouhi, Wareham), Genome Canada
 (Easton), German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (Sutton), Health Foundation
 (Martin), Health Research Board (Lafortune, Mant), Norwegian Health Association (Deaton
 [Chair]), Research Council of Norway (Sutton), Stroke Association (Mant).




                                                                                             Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 22: Examples of our faculty’s contributions to journal editorial boards

  • Atherosclerosis (Di Angelantonio)

  • Biometrics (Barrett, Su, Villar)

  • BMJ Quality & Safety (Dixon-Woods [co-Editor-in-Chief])

  • BMJ (Dixon-Woods [Advisory Editorial Board])

  • Diabetes (Wareham [Associate Editor])

  • Diabetologia (Wareham)

  • European Journal of Cardiovascular Nursing (Deaton)

  • European Journal of Epidemiology (Brayne, Danesh)

  • European Journal of Preventive Cardiology (Deaton)

  • Familial Cancer (Easton)

  • Human Genomics (Danesh)

  • Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology (Forouhi)

  • PLoS Medicine (Adams, Brayne, Danesh, Langenberg)

  • Statistical Methods in Medical Research (DeAngelis, Tom)




4.6 Recognition of research leadership
The achievements and standing of UoA2 researchers are recognised internationally through
invitations to give prestigious lectures – including the Harveian Oration 2018 (Dixon-Woods) and
Archie Cochrane lecture 2014 (Danesh) – election to learned societies, and major prizes and
awards (Box 23). Since REF2014, crown honours have been awarded to Marteau (DBE), Brayne
(CBE) and Richardson (CBE).
Academy of Medical Sciences fellows:
Brayne, Danesh, Dixon-Woods, Easton, Griffin, Mant, Marteau, Richardson, Wareham.
Current or recent past NIHR senior investigators:
Brayne, Danesh, Dixon-Woods, Griffin, Mant, Marteau, Sutton, Wareham, White.




                                                                                         Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 23: Examples of major prizes and awards to our faculty since REF2014

  • Académico de Honor, Royal Academy of Medicine of Spain (Mant)

  • Basser Global Prize for BRCA1/2 research (Antoniou, Easton)

  • Doctor Honoris Causa, University of Oslo (Richardson)

  • Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (Martin)

  • Helmholtz International Fellow Award (Langenberg)

  • Honorary Fellowships of the RCP and RCGP (Dixon-Woods)

  • Honorary Doctor of Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Sweden (Easton)

  • John Graunt Prize for Extraordinary Achievement in Population Sciences (Pharoah)

  • MD h.c. Honorary Doctor Umeå University, Sweden (Griffin)


4.7 Contributions to Covid-19 response efforts
Since 2020, our researchers have rapidly mobilised across our four priority areas (Section 1.4) to
make wide-ranging, timely and high-impact contributions to the Covid-19 response, in
collaboration with government and multiple partners.
Our health data science efforts have included regular statistical modelling of infections and
deaths as part of SAGE (De Angelis, a member of SPI-M), biostatistical leadership of the adaptive
trial design of RECOVERY (Jaki), and identification of early-predictors of adverse Covid-19
outcomes using machine learning (Astle). To characterise the interplay of cardiovascular co-
morbidity and Covid-19, we have created a database of five billion records on 54 million people in
England (Wood), in collaboration with the BHF Data Science Centre, NHS Digital and others.
Our clinical and molecular epidemiology efforts have helped monitor and control Covid-19,
supporting COG-UK, the world’s largest viral genome surveillance effort (Danesh). With HDRUK,
we have created a publicly accessible Covid-19 risk calculator showing how age, sex and
underlying health conditions can affect mortality rates in different scenarios (Langenberg). We
have evaluated the population performance of lateral flow tests with PHE (Kaptoge), created an
open-access platform to prioritise Covid-19 drug repurposing efforts (Pietzner), and contributed to
the global Covid-19 Host Genetics Initiative (Butterworth). We have informed optimal safe
restoration of the National Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Screening following Covid-19 disruption
(Harrison/Kim). We have re-purposed major cohorts, including INTERVAL (Di Angelantonio) and
Fenland (Wareham), to track symptoms, biomarkers, antibodies, and health records related to
Covid-19, contributing to the government’s “pillar 4” testing.
Our applied health research efforts have evaluated the impact of wearing face coverings and
other behavioural interventions as part of SAGE (Marteau, a member of SAGE and SPI-B),
developed guidance for symptom management, family/lay carer administration of end-of-life care
drugs during the pandemic (Barclay), developed new pandemic-secure pathways for obstetric
emergencies in women (Dixon-Woods) and developed evidence on remote care of people with
chronic lung disease (Martin).
Our global health research efforts have informed the government of Bangladesh’s Covid-19
response through surveillance efforts in urban-poor and rural areas (Di Angelantonio), and

                                                                                           Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


developed practice and policy recommendations to reduce the spread of Covid-19 among informal
settlements in Africa (Oni, a member of Independent SAGE).
Our Covid-19 contributions have been recognised by senior government officials including the
UK Government’s Chief Scientific Adviser (Box 24), England’s Chief Medical Officer, and Director
General of the Covid-19 Taskforce.

 Box 24: Extract from letter dated 11 June 2020 to the Vice-Chancellor from Professor Sir Patrick
 Vallance, UK Government Chief Scientific Adviser




  In our work to understand and track the spread of this new coronavirus, we rely heavily
  on the expertise of our world-leading scientific community. The support we have received
  from so many institutions and academic teams has made a decisive impact on the valuable
  scientific advice we have been providing to Government through SAGE. I am hugely grateful for
  their efforts and would particularly like to highlight the continuing contribution of Professor Julia
  Gog, Professor Daniela De Angelis, Professor Dame Theresa Marteau, Professor Sir David
  Spiegelhalter, Dr Shaun Fitzgerald and Dr Joshua Blake to the work of SAGE.




4.8 Conclusion
Our striking progress since REF2014 has led to scientific advances, societal impact and
improvements in health and healthcare for many thousands of people in the UK and
globally. Our efforts are guided by our strong values of scientific excellence, commitment
to public health and the public good, respect for patients and communities, and creation of
a positive, nurturing and collaborative research environment. Our future work will realise
our vision for improving the health of populations through creating a compelling evidence-
base in line with our strategic priorities.




                                                                                              Page 41
