Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Birkbeck University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 28 (History)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 The Department of History, Classics and Archaeology (HCA) seeks to be a world-leading centre
 for the study of the human past, from prehistoric burials to late twentieth-century politics. A
 multidisciplinary unit including 34 historians, 5 classicists/ancient historians, and 6
 archaeologists, we are by our very nature committed to interdisciplinary research. One of our
 most distinctive features is that we specialise in different disciplines yet teach and research
 together in one Department. We hold our title, HCA, as an intellectual banner: by collaborating in
 research strands intersecting all our specialisms we aim not just to range across, but also to
 rethink the disciplinary, geographical and chronological boundaries that have long ordered the
 study of the past.

 HCA is the largest department in Birkbeck’s School of Social Sciences, History and Philosophy
 (SSHP). We have research collaborations with all other departments including on urban studies
 and GIS/digital humanities (with Geography); politics and contemporary history (Politics);
 intellectual history (Philosophy); mental health (Psychosocial Studies). Beyond SSHP, we work
 with Birkbeck’s School of Law on sexual violence, and with the School of Arts (History of Art, and
 English, Theatre & Creative Writing departments), with which we established the Architecture
 Space & Society Centre (ASSC) in 2015 and the Centre for Medieval and Early Modern Worlds
 (MEMW) in 2019. We co-founded and actively participate in the interdisciplinary Birkbeck-wide
 Gender and Sexuality research forum (BiGS).

 We draw strength from three main Centres that directly feed into our research strands. The
 Raphael Samuel History Centre (RSHC) is an outreach and research centre supported in
 partnership with QMUL and History Workshop Journal, administratively located in HCA, and co-
 directed by HCA colleagues since 2009; it explores interdisciplinary and experimental history
 and encourages the widest possible public participation in historical study. The Pears Institute
 (founded 2010) is a world-renowned centre of study and teaching on antisemitism, racialization
 and religious intolerance, and an outstanding platform for public discourse. The Centre for the
 Study of Internationalism (CSI, founded 2016) supports research and knowledge exchange in
 global history and internationalist thinking and now includes some 60 affiliate members
 worldwide.

 We have long combined research excellence with inclusivity. We were ranked 70% overall 3-4*
 in RAE2008 and 85% in REF2014, with 94% staff submitted. We have grown further in this
 cycle. We expanded from 37 researchers (35.63FTE) to 45 (41.63FTE), including 8 new
 permanent appointments. REF4b data from REF 2014 and REF2021 shows our expenditure on
 external grants has increased from £2.5M to nearly £8.3M. This supported 13 major team
 projects, 67 other projects, 39 mostly ECR postdocs (including 14 independently-funded fellows
 and 22 in teams), and a thriving body of PhD students. We are a profoundly international
 department, with 22/45 colleagues coming from twelve countries across five continents and all
 colleagues participating in a rich range of international collaborations described throughout this
 document.

 1.2 Research strategy

 We set ourselves three objectives in 2014.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A. Sustaining staff in challenging times (retirements, departures, new full-time leadership roles):
    in response we developed a long-term strategy, described in section 2, of rethinking
    appointments not as replacements but as establishing bridges between areas.

 B. Achieving a long-term growth in external income in order to sustain large-scale projects and
    teams: this has been abundantly exceeded through strategies described in section 3.

 C. Communicating our research: we have achieved this through high-profile activities:
    • Conferences, including the 2014 History after Hobsbawm which attracted 300+
      participants, produced a landmark OUP reference work on history-writing in the 21st
      century, and inaugurated an annual lecture series by invited professors of global
      standing.
    • Publications: 37 books (up from 18 in the previous cycle), winning 12 national and
      international prizes; 151 articles in peer-reviewed journals (from 99); 55 edited volumes,
      journal special issues and collections of sources (from 51); and 183 book-chapters (from
      169), in 23 languages. Even considering this cycle’s longer duration, growth is
      substantial.
    • Outreach activities: described throughout this document, including those organised
      through major funded projects and Research Centres (including three created in-cycle,
      i.e. ASSC, MEMW; CSI).

 Our overall strategy is to combine diversity and collaboration in a spirit of genuine
 collegiality. We support all colleagues in their individual plans and aspirations, welcoming
 methodological pluralism without prescribing narrow themes. Collectively, we benefit from this
 range and encourage exchange across time and space as vital to innovation. Interdisciplinarity is
 fundamental and intrinsic to the very nature of HCA. We all share an interest in methods and
 theories straddling individual specialisms. For this reason, since 2014 we have been working
 along seven coordinated interdisciplinary, cross-chronological and cross-spatial strands. Every
 colleague participates in at least one, and most in more than one. Strands are sustained by
 funded projects and/or Centres and in turn nourish grant applications, organise research events,
 and attract visiting fellows/students; they also offer joint PGR supervision and reading groups.
 As explained in section 2, strands also drive staffing choices and, by integrating colleagues at all
 career levels, facilitate staff development.

 Our interdisciplinary research strands are:

    •   Conflict & Violence brings together cultural historians of violence with those working on
        institutional and state practices. Outcomes include: Wachsmann’s history of Nazi
        concentration camps (Wolfson Prize), Hide’s Wellcome-funded project on violence in
        institutions of care, Swann’s Exile, Imprisonment or Death (Society for French Studies’
        Gapper Prize), and Breithoff’s UKRI Future Leader Fellowship on the comparative
        archaeology of dictatorships in South America and SE Asia.
    •   Material Worlds integrates archaeologists and historians, notably to discuss what
        constitutes archives beyond texts, with de Vivo’s ERC-funded investigation on the
        materiality of records engaging with Baird’s and McFadyen’s work, which in turn
        generated the Archaeology and Photography volume as well as conferences on
        archaeological archives at the European Association of Archaeologists and Royal
        Anthropological Institute. A notable outcome is Trentmann’s prize-winning Empire of
        Things. Funded projects include Barron on fake epigraphies, Laube on sound,
        Trentmann’s Material Cultures of Energy, and McFadyen’s Lost Landscapes of Neolithic
        Life. Birkbeck-wide Research Centres ASSC and MEMW facilitate engagement with
        architects and art historians.
    •   Mind, Body, Sexuality & Gender has unusually strong expertise evidenced by
        Bourke’s major team project on sexual violence, medicine, and psychiatry, and Pick’s on
        the history of brainwashing in the Cold War (both Wellcome-funded). The strand
        attracted Jeffries’ British Academy-funded research on sexuality and social movements
        in late twentieth-century USA. Harding and Henderson provide medieval/early modern

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        perspectives. In 2014 modernists Cook, Laite and Brady founded a new History of
        Sexuality seminar at the Institute of Historical Research together with medievalist
        Katharine Harvey, then Wellcome and now Honorary Fellow. BiGS offers further
        interdisciplinary opportunities Birkbeck-wide. Having secured a UKRI Future Leader
        Fellowship, Marks is now leading on establishing a Birkbeck Centre for Interdisciplinary
        Mental Health Research (initial SSHP funding already secured).
    •   Cities & Urban Spaces constitutes a strong tradition in HCA, bringing together
        archaeologists and historians working from antiquity to the present. The strand
        encourages comparison through histories of religion, public health and communication
        (e.g., in ancient Greece, Constantakopoulou; Renaissance Italy, Henderson; and 15-
        20th century London, Harding, White). The strand was reinforced by Davies, director of
        the Layers of London project, and produced an EU-funded Marie Curie fellowship on the
        death industry in Naples and London and a successful application to host the Belgian
        embassy’s History Chair to study immigrants in medieval London.
    •   Difference, Race & Inequality unites colleagues researching race, racialisation and its
        intersections with other forms of difference and othering. Research encompasses
        inequalities from the medieval period (e.g. Franklin) to the modern (e.g. Feldman), and
        those between and within the global north and south (e.g. Anscombe, Breithoff).
        Sapire’s research on Africa, empire and Apartheid is particularly inspiring for all. Indeed,
        this is the largest strand, and its focus on race overlaps fruitfully with others, including
        projects on sexuality, migration and conflict. Substantial support comes from the Pears
        Institute, which brings together medieval and modern specialists on antisemitism and
        explores connections and disconnections between diverse forms of othering.
    •   Mobility & Migration recently expanded and includes: Gray, a classicist specialising in
        migration and political ideas of refugees from Hellenism to twentieth-century Germany;
        Franklin, an archaeologist of mobility and crossroads on the medieval silk-routes; and
        Viscomi, a historian and anthropologist of modern Mediterranean migrations. Laite is
        completing an AHRC-funded project on the history of trafficking and illicit migration 1870-
        2000. Hill and Feldman are about to start funded projects on migration discussed below.
        Colleagues collaborate around comparative themes, methodological approaches, and
        the present-day implications of their research for society, culture and policy.
    •   Global History & Internationalism brings together colleagues working on the
        relationship between Asian, African, American and European histories and the global
        pre-modern. The strand is anchored by the Centre for the Study of Internationalism.
        Recent/current projects include: Lovell’s global history of Maoism (Cundill Prize);
        Darley’s history of the Indian Ocean in the middle ages (BA-Wolfson); Rueger’s book on
        the Anglo-German relationship (Wolfson Prize shortlist); Sengoopta’s on post- and anti-
        colonial Indian culture; and Reinisch’s Wellcome- and HERA-funded projects on the
        histories of internationalism and the international scientific conference.

 Strands also reinforce our international collaborations. For example, Mobility & Migration
 established a partnership with the universities of Aix-Marseilles and Naples, leading to a one-
 year incoming postdoctoral fellowship and paving the way for a SSHP-wide interdisciplinary
 Mediterranean Studies Group. Global History successfully applied for a Leverhulme Visiting
 Professorship for distinguished global and Chinese historian Jeff Wasserstrom (postponed due
 to Covid). Mind, Body, Sexuality & Gender colleagues collaborate internationally, e.g. on the
 board of the ‘New Psychology of War’ research project (Copenhagen) and the Center for the
 History of Violence (Newcastle, Australia). Difference, Race & Inequality participate in extensive
 networks for example through Pears, which among other things co-founded the International
 Consortium for Research on Antisemitism and Racism. Colleagues lead or participate in thriving
 international projects and exchanges, discussed in section 4, and in this cycle we increased our
 non-UK external research income four-fold, to more than £2M. We run eleven regular exchange
 programmes for staff and students, and every year host a dozen visiting international fellows,
 from PhDs to professors. Described in section 4.3, a central plank in our international strategy is
 collaborating with colleagues in the Global South as part of a strategic commitment to engaging
 with non-Western perspectives and expanding global access to research resources.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Research objectives 2020-25

 Recognising that the Covid-19 pandemic will have significant repercussions, we will focus on
 maintaining a sustainable and vibrant research environment which fosters and develops our
 aspirations. Our primary objectives will be:

 •   Maintaining our range and interdisciplinarity to continue producing world-leading synchronic
     and diachronic interdisciplinary research of the highest level;
 •   Sustaining and, where possible, increasing research income levels to support large-scale
     international collaboration and teamwork including through digital platforms;
 •   Further diversifying our research on global history and the history of race;
 •   Attracting BAME researchers through new posts and PhD recruitment.

 These objectives are realistic:

 •   Greater institutional IT investment is increasing colleagues’ access to digital research
     resources; all our major projects have been devoting funds to enhancing platforms for online
     collaboration; HCA and SSHP together invested £10k in digital subscriptions in 2020.
 •   We have already obtained grants for large international teams starting in 2021, e.g. in the
     Mobility & Migration strand, Feldman’s AHRC-funded project on the East End and Jewish
     migration, and Hill’s 4-year Leverhulme Research Leadership grant for a long-term history of
     religious diasporas in Eastern Europe and the Americas. In Mind, Body, Sexuality & Gender,
     Marks recently started a 5-year Wellcome-funded collaboration on post-WWII Socialism,
     medicine and global health in Britain, Eastern Europe and Africa with the universities of
     Exeter, Oslo, Mexico City, Ghana, and Hong Kong.
 •   We have been consolidating long-term international links with EU and non-EU partners,
     including 11 formal exchanges, up from 3 pre-2014 (listed section 4.1).
 •   We have two new post-doctoral fellows in African history (Wellcome- and Leverhulme-
     funded) and a PhD student funded by Birkbeck’s new Diversity100 scheme supporting
     BAME PGRs, all starting in September 2020. The Difference, Race & Inequality strand
     spearheaded a UKRI Future Leader bid in the history of racialisation, also submitted in 2020.
     With Pears, RSHC and CSI, we are planning an annual public lecture series on race and
     inequalities.

 1.4 Impact strategy

 In 2014 we identified four areas where we aimed to achieve tangible impact. To realise this we
 collaborated with the dedicated SSHP Impact Officer and Birkbeck’s Public Engagement team,
 targeted follow-on external funding, and worked with our Research Centres. Our case studies
 and other examples demonstrate the success of this strategy:

 •   Public and mental health. As shown in his case-study, Pick’s research directly inspired the
     work of artist Elizabeth Burns, whose Anti-boredom Campaign and company led to
     widespread changes in tackling chronic boredom in hospital patients. He and others in strand
     Mind, Body, Sexuality & Gender (Bourke, Hide, Marks) engage with psychological and
     mental health professionals to help shape debate about treatment and care; they have
     organised/participated in more than 30 events with clinical practitioners and medical
     institutions, e.g. the Maudsley and Tavistock hospitals, British Psychoanalytical Society,
     International Psychoanalytical Association, Royal College of Psychiatrists, and the WHO.

 •   Heritage sector. Cook’s case-study ‘Re-shaping Approaches to LGBT+ History’ primarily
     focuses on museums and archives resulting for example in the National Trust’s Prejudice
     and Pride programme, which attracted over 350,000 visitors nationwide. Feldman organized
     two exhibitions in the Jewish Museum: Blood attracted 11,000 visitors then travelled to
     Warsaw’s Museum of the History of Polish Jews (45,000 visitors); Jews, Money, Myth
     (21,000 visitors) had to be extended due to demand and won the Museums Association’s


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Museums Change Lives award. Many colleagues advise museums in redesigning and fund-
     raising (section 4.2).

 •   Schools. Reinisch’s Reluctant Internationalists project, which directly fed into curricula in
     partnership with the Historical Association and led to the production of an illustrated book for
     KS1-2 children (see section 4.2).

 •   Race, minorities, identity. Pears is the only centre in the UK dedicated to promoting
     teaching and debate on antisemitism, racialization and religious intolerance, through events,
     exhibitions, media interventions and a programme of public talks/events drawing more than
     1,000 people every year.

 Our case studies have grown organically out of a rich environment in which we all share a sense
 of responsibility to making a difference in the world. Social commitment drove many of us to co-
 produce impact with communities. A notable example is the North Kensington Archive and
 Heritage Project. Following the Grenfell Tower fire, Laite worked with community groups to raise
 £100,000 Heritage Lottery funds to train/coordinate volunteers and provide equipment to create
 an archive of the community’s response to the fire, to be housed in Bishopsgate Institute and
 online. The two-year project built capacity in the community to continue to document, preserve,
 and interpret their culture, art and heritage in all its diversity for generations to come.

 We worked with our research centres as conduits for cultivating partnerships, knowledge
 exchange and public debate with non-academic stakeholders. In addition to Pears, the RSHC is
 a driving force in widening participation in historical study through educational initiatives and
 public events, including major festivals, in partnership with museums, libraries, schools, and
 other organizations. CSI advises organisations to inform policy and engages with teachers to
 shape school curricula; in 2013-17, CSI-director Reinisch joined the Humanitarian Policy
 steering group of the Overseas Development Institute, the UK’s leading thinktank on
 international development and humanitarian issues.

 We cultivate impact and public engagement through funded research projects. Even when
 impact is not a criterion, our internal grant peer-reviewing encourages applicants to discuss the
 difference their work makes – we see this as one of the reasons for our success rate. A notable
 example is Trentmann’s Material Cultures of Energy (2014–17, funded by the AHRC under the
 ‘Care For the Future’ scheme, which worked in partnership with 20 organisations, including the
 World Energy Council, EDF, DEFRA and the Institute of Advanced Sustainability Studies
 (Potsdam). Impacts included the 2015 annual Carlowitz lecture to the German government’s
 Council for Sustainability; the project also obtained follow-on funding for a joint initiative with
 curators and artists about future ways of communicating/displaying energy topics leading to a
 2018 Science Museum publication. Bourke, Laite, Pick, Reinisch, Wachsmann obtained impact-
 or engagement-oriented follow-on grants for their projects.

 1.5 Impact objectives 2020-25

 We face challenging circumstances accelerated by the Covid-19 crisis. Nevertheless, we aim to
 maintain high levels of impact over the long term through adaptability, new technologies and
 collaborative creativity. We will consolidate impact training to benefit scholars at all levels and
 will continue to invest in our Research Centres. In particular we will focus on the following areas
 and have already developed sustainable projects to:

 •   Extend collaborations with digital humanities. Funded by a £1.03M HLF grant, Layers of
     London already coordinates schools, community groups, individuals and partners such as
     the British Library, London Metropolitan Archives, Historic England, TNA, MOLA (Museum of
     London Archaeology) to crowd-source content for a geo-tagging resource mapping London
     history from the Romans to the present for the widest possible use.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Maintain our commitment to making an impact beyond Europe. Darley’s project on the
     Western Indian Ocean in Late Antiquity has already obtained BA-Wolfson support to prepare
     and translate a schoolbook in the languages of the areas she researches, including Chinese,
     Hindi, Urdu, Amharic, Arabic and Turkish. Wellcome already awarded Bourke’s SHaME
     project additional engagement funds to run public festivals of activism against sexual
     violence in Brazil with WOW/Women of the World Foundation.

 •   Continue to work with museums and heritage organizations to inform their policies
     and contribute to wider cultural life. Lovell has already secured AHRC backing to co-
     curate a major 2023 British Museum exhibition on Cultural Creativity in Qing China with a
     rich programme of public events.

 1.6 Open environment and integrity

 HCA is committed to maintaining the highest possible standards of research integrity. PGRs
 and staff are required to consider the ethical implications of their research and submit an
 application for review for all projects involving human participants, human remains or culturally
 sensitive objects and sources. Our Departmental Research Ethics Officer offers one-to-one
 consultations with students and staff on how best to navigate sensitivities, risk, data
 management/security, and informed consent, in both research and grant applications. The
 SSHP Ethics Committee reviews and approves ethics applications; proactively organises an
 annual training programme; and provides tailored guidance on methodology and approaches for
 ‘non-routine’ projects. Field-specific ethical standards are maintained through adherence to
 codes of conducts (e.g. ESRC, Oral History Society) and participation in accredited programmes
 (e.g. Institute of Field Archaeologists).

 Our archaeologists were instrumental in preparing SSHP policy requiring all students and staff
 researching objects of antiquity, whatever their discipline, to understand their provenance and
 avoid contributing to the presentation, publication or valorization of unprovenanced material in
 line with UNESCO’s Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import,
 Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property. The policy prohibits scholarly work on
 objects where there is insufficient information to establish licit provenance.

 Special training has been put in place for oral history research and the Mind, Body, Sexuality &
 Gender strand, with an AHRC-CHASE funded 3-day residential doctoral training programme in
 Ethics, Reflexivity and the Medical Humanities featuring external facilitators and practical
 workshops.

 We debate and address pressing ethical issues together. For example, in 2019 Hanley, Hide
 and Marks coordinated 4 cross-disciplinary seminars on working with sensitive sources and in
 potentially emotionally challenging subject areas (e.g. sexual violence, child abuse, racism,
 genocide). The seminars were attended by colleagues and PGRs from across SSHP and
 beyond. They discussed the ethics of working with sensitive material and vulnerable people in
 different periods, jurisdictions and regions, and discussed how researchers and institutions can
 fulfil their responsibilities to provide a duty of care to both research subjects and researchers. An
 intensive workshop on ‘Supporting Researchers Working on Sensitive Histories’ followed in
 January 2020 funded by Birkbeck’s Institute for Social Research.

 Birkbeck has solid institution-wide misconduct procedures described in the website’s research
 page with a named contact point (Innes until 2019).

 Open access. We make systematic use of Birkbeck’s outputs/data repositories (BIROn/BIRD
 and their eprints platforms). The vast majority of our outputs are green OA, and we are working
 towards complying with the Plan S principles. Many of us choose to publish on OA journals and
 platforms (including monographs, e.g. Breithoff). Reinisch advises CUP on OA strategies.
 Others have contributed to OA debates, e.g. Darley co-authored with Daniel Reynolds and Chris
 Wickham the 2014 British Academy Report on Open Access Publishing in the Humanities and

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Social Sciences which informed debate on enabling researchers to contribute non-OA
 publications to REF when this is critical to their participation in specific research communities.
 The report also called for greater recognition of the costs (monetary and otherwise) of academic
 publishing, without which enhanced OA risks increasing inequalities between institutions,
 disciplines and researchers at different career stages.

 All Wellcome-funded projects have built-in expectations and resources for OA. Others have
 made it one of their outcomes to publish large collections of sources online for free access, e.g.
 on concentration camps (Wachsmann) and early modern petitions (Waddell). We use OA to
 foster knowledge exchange with targeted groups, e.g.: De Vivo’s ARCHIves project published
 the largest anthology of sources relating to the history of Italian archives, distributed to all public
 archives and libraries in Italy by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage (also published OA on the
 Ministry’s website). Reinisch edited a collection of essays and resources distributed to every
 member of the Historical Association and published OA, ‘Exploring and teaching twentieth-
 century history’. The Pears website is a major go-to resource for free podcasts and other
 material for the study of antisemitism.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Our overall strategy is to appoint the best scholars from the largest possible pools, and to help
 colleagues at all career levels to develop and pursue their research ambitions by providing time,
 training, resources, assistance and guidance.

 •   Staffing and recruitment

 Eight colleagues left or retired, and we made eight new permanent appointments, all advertised
 internationally to recruit candidates with the greatest potential to become leaders in their fields.
 We regard new appointments not as a way of filling gaps, but as an opportunity for building
 bridges between research strands, expanding our overall strength, and opening new strategic
 areas. All new permanent colleagues work across national boundaries and specialisms.

 The vitality of our departmental culture has also been supported by 13 fixed-term colleagues
 covering for those on funded leave. Our policy is to appoint replacements to a full year so as to
 protect ECR time, and 4 were appointed for 2-4 years. Many have proceeded to permanent
 positions, here or elsewhere.

 Finally, we involve in our activities Research Fellows visiting from abroad and a small number of
 distinguished long-term Honorary Professors: Jane Caplan, Richard Evans, Michael Hunter, and
 Pat Thane. They all give lectures, staff seminars, PhD masterclasses, and exchange advice with
 colleagues at all levels.

 •   Staff development

 Birkbeck has the HR Excellence in Research Award, which shows our compliance with the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, from PhD to Professor.
 Accordingly, HCA is committed to mentoring all research-active staff, whatever their career level.
 Each colleague has a research mentor with whom they meet informally at least once a year.
 Publications and research plans are also monitored by the Unit’s Research Director and
 reviewed with the Head of Department in an annual appraisal process (which also takes account
 of teaching and other areas). Alongside this, we run an annual research review where every
 colleague is invited to present their outputs, environment and impact activities. First introduced
 in 2014 to collect data for REF, this has developed into a positive exercise for self-reflection and,
 if necessary, assistance via follow-up meetings with the Research Director. In turn, the form is
 adjusted year after year on the basis of colleagues’ feedback.


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff, visiting colleagues, and postdocs come together to discuss and support each other’s
 research in a fortnightly lunchtime seminar, PGRs may also participate. We long had a staff
 seminar for individual presentations, but in this cycle turned it into a key platform for integrating
 the community intellectually by including joint sessions by strands or project teams. Bringing
 together researchers at all career levels, the seminar fosters development and the sharing of
 good practice with sessions on training, international partnerships, refereeing, supervising,
 publishing, building impact into research and research into teaching. Co-ordinated by two
 organisers rotating every year, the seminar meets every other Wednesday. Covid slowed us
 down briefly, but we were soon back to schedule online, and now every other session discusses
 specific Covid repercussions so colleagues can share experiences and identify support.

 Probation is mandatory for all new staff members for three years. All probationary staff take the
 PGCE:HE programme if they have not already. In addition to the mentor, they have a probation
 supervisor with whom they meet at least once a term to discuss workload, challenges, and
 balance of research plans with other tasks.

 •   Early Career Researchers

 ECRs are a vital part of our community and help renew ideas, approaches and practices. 7
 colleagues submitted to REF are ECRs (17%) and 6/8 new permanent colleagues were ECRs
 on appointment. We have deliberately targeted ECR-funding schemes such as Leverhulme
 Early-Career and British Academy Post-Doctoral fellowships (14 altogether, up from 5 in the
 previous cycle). In addition, we supported 22 other researchers/assistants as part of large team
 projects with contracts ranging between one and four years. We have been improving our
 support for ECRs, providing a more structured development programme in all groups
 (permanent, fixed-term and post-doctoral). Academic ECRs have reduced administrative loads
 to enable them to familiarise themselves with the institution and develop their skills at a crucial
 but difficult time in their careers. Our in-house training includes career development, research
 funding, supervising, writing references, assessing PhDs, grant management. Institutional
 funding prioritises ECR applicants at both SSHP- (Additional funding) and HEI-level (Birkbeck
 Institutional Strategic Support Fund and Covid-mitigation funds). Birkbeck’s Research Innovation
 Fund has development grants for ECRs and staff returning from career breaks. The excellence
 of our ECR support is recognised by the number of awards we gained. In 2019 we were the only
 department to be awarded two UKRI Future Leadership Fellowships. Today, 80% of ECRs who
 held fixed-term appointments or post-doc fellowships in HCA have permanent or long-term posts
 and/or their own funded projects here or elsewhere. Of Pears’ own-funded ECR fellows, one
 secured a lecturer post, and the others won further funding.

 •   Support and promotion

 All members of staff are entitled to one term’s sabbatical after nine terms served. Sabbaticals
 are intentionally not tied to publication or external-income targets so as to help long-term
 thinking and give opportunities regardless of personal circumstances. We routinely support
 funding applications to all mainstream funders (including those providing no financial contribution
 to academic staff time). We proactively work to reduce the teaching and admin burden on grant-
 holders, over and above any duties within the grant’s terms. We help colleagues take additional
 time for research by rolling sabbaticals onto the end of grants to ensure that the grant’s outputs
 are of the highest possible standard.

 Every staff member (permanent, fixed-term, postdocs, part- and full-time) has an annual
 research allowance, which we increased in 2015 from £500 to £700. They can all apply for
 additional expenses up to £2000 from SSHP (which prioritises ECRs); 5-10 colleagues obtain
 this annually. HCA has special Research Incentive Funds (RIF) to cover other expenses for
 research events organised by staff and PGRs.

 HCA follows Birkbeck procedures for promotion, allowances, and probation. Annual processes
 are open to all. Research is one of the promotion criteria (the others are teaching, engagement

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and management). The Head of Department and SSHP Dean also conduct systematic reviews
 to encourage applications. Promotions in 2013-20 prove the effectiveness of our procedures: 7
 were promoted Senior Lecturers; 8, Readers; 9, Professors. As this shows, advancement can be
 rapid for exceptional achievement. We play a leading role in Birkbeck: Innes is Deputy Vice-
 Chancellor; Swann, Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research; and Davies, Dean of SSHP.

 •   Covid provisions

 In the last five months of the cycle, we developed Covid-support measures alongside the
 Birkbeck-wide provision covered in the institutional statement. HCA invested £5k and attracted
 further £5k from SSHP for additional digital resources. HCA supported and advised colleagues
 requesting grant extensions in line with funders’ policies. SSHP gave one extra year for
 spending internally awarded funds and released an additional application round to support
 changed needs, with greater flexibility on eligible costs. SSHP also organized a workshop for PIs
 to share best practice on adjusting/re-writing grants.

 2.2 Research students

 We have maintained a vibrant community of 80-90 students at any given time, similar to the
 previous cycle but with an increase in FT ratio in the last few years, from 27/86 in 2013 to 40/84
 in 2020. Altogether, 112 students enrolled on our PGR programmes in this cycle. In addition, we
 introduced a new MRes research-degree in 2014, which enrols on average 7-8 students
 annually.

 •   Recruitment

 We advertise and recruit nationally and internationally, and c.20% of our students come from
 abroad. Having long had a socially and professionally diverse PGR body (with a higher-than-
 average PT rate and 66% PGRs older than 30), we have developed an admission process that
 is highly selective while recognising different types of experience and non-standard
 qualifications; we place great emphasis on the interview, by a panel comprising the potential
 supervisor(s), a colleague in a related field, and a member of the Research Degrees Committee.
 Many PhD candidates come from our MA programmes (recruiting 120-150 students annually)
 and in 2014 we established the Hobsbawm Fund which supported 19 of our best MA students
 with a total £125,650; of the 17 who completed by 2020, 6 progressed to PhD.

 •   Funding and support

 We maintained numbers despite lacking access to AHRC DTP funding in 2014-18. HCA and
 SSHP compensated by raising 13 studentships internally or through donors; Pears funded 1,
 and together we secured funding from the Bonnart Trust and the Mercers’ Company for 4 more
 studentships. This represents over £1million investment, and the Bonnart has already agreed to
 £395,000 studentship funding for the next five years. Five more HCA applicants competed
 successfully for Wellcome studentships. We held 2 Bloomsbury studentships in collaboration
 with the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and SOAS. Since 2016 we participate
 in the ESRC UCL, Bloomsbury and East London (UBEL) DTP and have taken advantage of the
 new DTP2 stream in socio-economic history with 5 studentships so far. Since 2014 we have
 participated in the AHRC Consortium of the Humanities and Arts South East England
 (CHASE) DTP. We started as associate members, giving our PGRs access to training
 opportunities and specific funding. In 2019 we became full members. HCA applicants have been
 notably successful, securing 6/56 and 4/56 of the consortium total in 2019 and 2020. We also
 run collaborative doctoral programmes with the British Museum (since 2014), Oxford Museums
 (2018) and National Maritime Museum (2020). In addition, externally funded projects have
 included a total of 8 PhD studentships. Overall, 43/112 PhD students enrolled in this cycle
 received studentships.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 HCA’s Research Incentive Fund supports each PhD student with £600 research expenses over
 the course of their programme. Additionally, since 2014 26 students have received competitive
 extra funds from the Hobsbawm Fund for a total £28,394. Finally, in 2015 SSHP established a
 competitive Postgraduate Support Fund to cover training, fieldwork or conferences up to £500
 per student p.a. (in 2015-20 HCA PGRs made 24 applications, 22 successful).

 •   Monitoring progress

 Progression is overseen by the Research Degrees Committee (RDC), which includes colleagues
 at all career levels, and the Senior Tutor for doctoral students responsible for training and
 support. We have substantially improved our completion rates. A drop towards the end of the
 period arises from fewer FT enrolments in 2014-18 (due to lack of DTP funding) and from Covid-
 related breaks-in-studies. Nevertheless, annual average completions have risen from 8.4 in the
 previous cycle to 10.5 in this one (the totals are 42 in 2008-13 and 73.5 in 2013-20). This was
 achieved through a number of strategic decisions taken by the RDC since 2014. We reinforced
 the progression process through our principal means of monitoring, the annual report: requiring
 detailed descriptions of objectives (including training needs) and achievements; including
 additional input from both second supervisor and mentor; identifying needs for support. A robust
 mentoring system for all students provides neutral support and guidance on pastoral and
 professional matters. Students are expected to meet supervisors at least three times a term
 (twice if PT). We tightened procedures around supervision, requiring a brief report from students
 and supervisors after each meeting. A representative of the RDC participates in the Upgrade for
 progression to full PhD registration, held at the end of the first year (FT) or in the course of the
 second (PT). This includes the submission and discussion of a substantive research-based
 chapter, an introduction, an outline of the thesis, and a critical bibliography of both primary and
 secondary sources. Students are also required to have given an oral presentation at a research
 seminar.

 •   Training

 HCA’s extensive training programme includes a regular writing workshop, an annual series of
 Methodological Masterclasses by senior scholars including honorary fellows and visiting
 professors, courses on palaeography, archival skills, non-textual sources, and digital tools from
 GIS to bibliography. We organise professional development workshops on: giving a paper;
 writing and placing reviews; publishing; finishing the thesis; preparing for the Viva; applying for
 jobs. As well as offering Latin and ancient Greek, we have arrangements with the Cultures &
 Languages Department for German and Italian. Speakers of English as a foreign language can
 access basic courses of academic writing.

 All students can access an extensive range of further training opportunities (many available
 online) through the CHASE Essentials programme, as well as workshops covering e.g. social
 media skills and themed series, such as Material Witness. CHASE-funded students may apply
 for placements at e.g. the British Library. Birkbeck Talent also arranges paid placements for
 students at all levels and from all departments. The ESRC UBEL DTP provides training including
 quantitative methods. PGRs are invited to audit MA modules if beneficial. The Birkbeck
 Graduate Research School (BGRS) is a crucial component of students’ experience and provides
 training opportunities for both students and supervisors, such as workshops on Research Data
 management. BGRS funds have supported student-organised conferences on themes such as
 ‘Irish Militancy in Transnational Perspective’ and ‘Testing Toleration in Britain's Imperial and
 Post-Imperial World’.

 Every term PGRs organise a day-long Graduate Research Symposium with advice from the
 Senior Tutor, logistical support from the Department, and three (rotating) colleagues chairing
 panels. These student-led events offer a relaxed, supportive environment to discuss research.
 Students can participate in the lunchtime staff seminar. They also liaise with staff through
 Student Reps and in regular reading groups organised by research strands (continued online
 during Covid).

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Students also regularly give papers to seminars convened at the Institute of Historical Research
 (IHR) and the Institute of Classical Studies (ICS), and participate in the many training
 programmes offered by the School of Advanced Study. Through our networks we expanded
 these opportunities, e.g. a resident studentship with the Medici Archive Project in Florence. In
 2013-2016 we co-hosted a Marie-Curie funded doctoral training programme on Power in
 Medieval Islam and Christendom including wide-ranging training activities and job placements.

 A higher-than-usual proportion of Birkbeck PhDs are undertaken by part-time mature students
 not seeking academic careers, but many of our PGRs have secured academic posts including:
 postdocs at Sheffield, Hamburg, LSHTM, and the IHR; and lectureships at KCL, Essex, Malmö,
 and Northumbria. All substantially contributed to scholarship through their publications, including
 in 2014-20: 18 monographs and 58 journal articles/book chapters. Prizes include the 2018
 Curriers’ Company London History Essay Prize (Aaron Columbus) and 2019 Business Archives
 Council Wadsworth Prize (Brian O’Sullivan).

 •   Covid provisions

 From the beginning of the first lockdown, supervisors have been in regular touch with PGR
 students to offer support and advice in the face of challenges such as the closure of archives
 and libraries. Supervisions now take place online, as do progression Upgrades and Viva
 examinations (the latter with an independent chair responsible for monitoring technical
 disruptions and adherence to College regulations). Research events, reading groups and
 training events such as the Graduate Research Symposium continue online. To overcome
 students’ isolation, we also organise online socialising events for students and staff by areas.
 Birkbeck offers extensions to internally-funded studentships in parallel with those offered for
 UKRI-funded studentships. Self-funded students whose work has been significantly disrupted
 received fee remissions, and all students may apply for extended submission deadlines.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 We have strived to balance gender numbers and seniority profiles. Of 45 colleagues, 23 are
 women. Women play a leading role in research: 7 out of our 13 large team projects have been
 led by women, and women contributed nearly 60% of submitted outputs. Women comprise 50%
 of the UoA Panel driving our selection. We have exact gender parity among our PGRs. In terms
 of seniority, promotion figures show we have redressed historic imbalances . Women are now a
 majority of Lecturers, SL and Readers. We are keen to redress the imbalance at professorial
 level. Five colleagues have been on Advance HE's Aurora leadership development initiatives
 addressing the under-representation of women in leadership positions in the sector. Women
 colleagues Sapire and McFadyen are respectively Departmental Officer and School Assistant
 Dean for Equalities.

 Although nearly half of our staff come from non-UK backgrounds13% of our PGR students are
 BAME, a higher-than-national-average rate. In line with the sector, we are sorely aware that we
 need to reflect society more closely as well as continuing to increase the diversity of our student
 body. We are diversifying our research by expanding study at the crossroads of global history
 and the history of race. Since 2017 we have rethought our teaching curriculum to make all our
 introductory courses explicitly global, inclusive, and questioning of Western-centred narratives.
 We conducted seminar sessions open to all PGRs in response to the 2018 RHistS Race,
 Ethnicity & Equality report, authored among others by our then-PGR John Siblon. In 2019-20 we
 produced reports on the attainment gap of BAME students and have been revising our
 assessment methods accordingly. We have already attracted two post-doctoral fellowships on
 African history starting in 2020. We have a new PhD student working on Black bohemias, funded
 by Birkbeck’s new Diversity100 scheme, established to expand the proportion of BAME PGRs.
 As mentioned, we are supporting a UKRI Future Leader application in histories of
 race/racialisation and are planning an annual public lecture series on race and inequalities.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Policies. Led by the Birkbeck and SSHP Equality and Diversity Committees, we maintain the
 same balance of teaching, research and admin for all colleagues, whatever their FTE, and
 however difficult it is to fractionalise some tasks. We try to include everybody in the department’s
 collective work while also protecting individual research time and reducing loads for ECRs. We
 strive to stimulate equalities and diversity in line with the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. All staff involved in recruitment and promotions decisions receive
 training in equality & diversity and unconscious bias. Birkbeck recently renewed its institutional
 Athena SWAN award at Bronze level, and the Unit will participate in SSHP’s application in
 November 2021. We participate in Birkbeck’s staff disability network. Our own research feeds
 back into our commitment to greater diversity, especially (but not only) in research strands Mind,
 Body, Sexuality & Gender; Difference, Race & Inequality; Mobility & Migration; and Global
 History. This is also the driving commitment of both Pears and the RSHC. HCA is a leading
 centre in LGBT+ history, with notable impact as evidenced in one of our case studies, and we
 have a solid reputation for research exploring the multiple dimensions of subjectivity.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    3.1.        Research income

 In REF2014 we reported a growth in research grant expenditure from c.£400k to £700k income
 p.a., or a total of £2.6M. One of our objectives was to consolidate growth in externally-funded
 research. In fact, in 2013-20 we more than doubled expenditure to an average c.£1.18M p.a. or
 a total £8,275,197. Non-UK research grants expenditure grew from c. £550k to £2,031,909. Our
 awards grew from £5.1M in 2008-13 to £9,111,445 in 2013-20, a 27.6% pro-rata increase.

 Led by the Research Director and Research Committee, our strategy consisted in diversifying
 the schemes we targeted, encouraging a proactive culture of fundraising among all colleagues,
 scaling peer-to-peer and institutional support in the application process, and bidding for
 institutional backing. Our staff seminar helps share good practice with dedicated sessions where
 grant holders discuss their experience, and prospective applicants workshop proposals.
 Research strands act as informal sounding boards for projects, and our internal peer-reviewing
 also involves non-specialists from different strands. This works. We set no income targets, yet all
 colleagues applied for external grants; more than 85% received at least one; and we calculate
 our success rate at nearly 40% (184 applications, 70 successful). In short, more people apply
 more successfully to more kinds of grants.

 We received grants from the following funding bodies:
  UK           Wellcome Trust                                                            3,251,516
               AHRC                                                                      1,668,223
               Leverhulme Trust                                                          1,601,166
               British Academy                                                             967,620
               UKRI Future Leader Fellowships                                              752,019
               ISRF/Independent Social Research Foundation                                  48,000
               Rothschild Foundation                                                        65,000
               EPSRC                                                                        28,827
               Others                                                                       12,315
  EU           Swedish Research Council                                                    225,331
               HERA/ Humanities in the European Research Area                              206,999
               ERC–Marie Curie Fellowship                                                  150,350
               Foundation Remembrance Responsibility and Future                            131,162
  Canada       Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council                               2,917
  Total                                                                                  9,111,445

 Grants are best described by the kind of projects they enable.



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Large grants for 10 major team projects (total £5,198,042, not including 3 Wellcome- and
 ERC-funded projects continuing from previous cycle) sustaining large-scale research and
 networks, employing post-docs and/or PGRs, and resulting in multi-faceted programmes of
 events, publications, collaborations and, in some cases, impact-generating activities. Most are
 described elsewhere in this document, but other notable examples range from Sexual Violence,
 Medicine, and Psychiatry (PI Bourke, Wellcome Trust, 2018-2023, £1,237,585, an
 interdisciplinary project with 3 postdocs which studies the role of medical professionals in
 understanding and dealing with sexual violence in the UK, USA, Australia and New Zealand,
 early 19th century-the present) to The Power of Petitioning (PI Waddell, AHRC, 2019-21,
 £163,511, one postdoc, in partnership with UCL the first project to examine petitioning
 systematically at all levels of English government over the seventeenth century).

 One-to-three year-long individual fellowships (total £3,274,534): 14 incoming post-doctoral
 fellowships (not including 3 commenced before 2013); and 9 fellowships enabling permanent or
 fixed-term colleagues to take leave while launching or completing major projects/monographs
 (not including 2 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships running from the previous cycle until
 2014-15).

 It is worth noting our success in obtaining large grants aimed at ECRs and future leaders.
 A Wellcome New Investigator Award (£752,995 awarded in 2013 and so not included in the
 above table but entirely active in this cycle) enabled Reinisch to build a large team of post-
 doctoral fellows/RAs and PhD students to study the history of public health and international
 organisations, movements and experts in twentieth-century Europe. Breithoff and Marks secured
 UKRI Future Leader Awards, respectively £403,238 and £346,781. Darley’s BA-Wolfson
 (£129,439), and Hill’s Leverhulme Future Leadership Award (£959,953), were awarded in 2020
 to start in the new cycle.

 Finally, 26 smaller grants totalling £122,571 offered vital support with aspects of individual
 projects, especially but not only archaeological fieldwork.

    3.2.        Organisational infrastructure

 Birkbeck commits resources through new appointments, logistical support and effective
 research administration. The Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities (BIH) and Birkbeck Institute
 for Social Research (BISR) provide logistical and financial support for interdisciplinary
 collaborations inside and outside the institution. The BGRS supports our PGRs, oversees
 examinations and provides studentships and training opportunities as described in section 2.
 SSHP supports visiting/research fellowships, offers PhD studentships and infrastructure, and
 facilitates joint projects and collaboration. In HCA, the Research Director and the Research
 Committee, including the Head of Department and rotating representatives of research strands,
 engage inclusively with all colleagues to identify our research strategy, then coordinate and
 facilitate it. The staff seminar provides the backbone of our coordination and also acts as a
 discussion point for our research strategy (including successive drafts of this statement).

 SSHP gives logistical and financial support to our Research Centres including toward salary and
 administrative costs (in-cycle contributions: £106,500 to RSHC and £632,536 to Pears). In turn
 they fundraise to organise research activities involving many colleagues. RSHC has helped
 coordinate successful grant applications totalling £522,266 and supporting two post-doctoral
 fellows; it has organised nearly 200 workshops, talks, discussions, and other events, including
 biennial month-long public history festivals with substantial Birkbeck backing (e.g. AIDS Cultures
 and Histories; London at War). The CSI received initial support from a Wellcome-funded project
 and has gone on to raise more funds for ECRs and senior colleagues totalling £343,762,
 including follow-on engagement funding instrumental in bringing internationalism to schools; it
 has organised 19 workshops, conferences, presentations and internationalist walking tours.
 Pears has grown steadily in funding and facilities. It employs a core team of 4 permanent
 members of staff and one research fellow, and 22 other research fellows/associates in the UK
 and Europe. In 2013-2020 it hosted 14 research fellows including 2 externally-funded and 3

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 institute-funded postdocs, and 2 British Academy Visiting Fellowships; it helped raise £825,988
 of our awards, as well as £1.7M from a funder providing philanthropic support for the institute’s
 research and knowledge exchange (not included in REF4b); it has already raised £800,000 for
 the next three years. In 2013-20 Pears hosted 73 public talks/events, (attended by more than
 1,000 people each year), 27 seminars, 21 workshops and 7 conferences. It also co-organized 2
 major events abroad. The international conference Boycotts – Past and Present brought
 together 64 scholars from the Humanities, Social Sciences, International Relations and Law,
 resulting in an interdisciplinary volume. The Pears core team have published 3 monographs, 3
 edited volumes, 5 journal special issues, 4 public-policy reports and, since 2019, the new series
 ‘Palgrave Critical Studies of Antisemitism and Racism’ (3 books so far).

     3.3.       Operational and scholarly infrastructure

 We are housed in Russell Square together with our administrative team. All FT colleagues have
 their own office. PGR students have a shared space equipped with computers. The building
 houses the Dreyfus Room, over which we have priority access and where we hold our staff
 seminar, and a room for Visiting & Honorary Fellows. In the same building we have strong ties
 with the Wiener Library, Britain’s largest collection of original archival material on the Holocaust.
 We are in the same block as Senate House Library, the IHR and ICS, and in walking distance of
 research facilities on a scale unparalleled anywhere else in the UK if not the world, including the
 British Library, British Museum, Warburg Institute, and Wellcome Collection.

 Birkbeck provides managerial, financial and logistical support. Birkbeck’s Research Office has
 pre- and post-award support for SSHP grant development, submission and management.
 Birkbeck provides matched funding in internal competitions to support Leverhulme Early Career
 fellowships (c.£400,000 this cycle). In 2013-20 HCA disbursed c. £35,000 Research Incentive
 Funds to support research activities and events organised by staff and PGRs, including
 c.£14,000 for IHR/ICS seminars. SSHP competitively awarded c.£240,000 in additional research
 funding (£64,207 for HCA individual or team-projects). Colleagues (individually and in groups)
 can also apply for additional support from Birkbeck’s competitively allocated grants, including the
 Global Challenges Research QR Fund and Wellcome-supported Institutional Strategic Support
 Fund. GCRF QR funded three projects discussed below (section 4.3). ISSF funded our projects
 with £225,050, including two postdoctoral fellowships (Hide went on to bid successfully for her
 own Wellcome-funding). Since 2018 Birkbeck encouraged public engagement through £500
 awards; seven colleagues won in three years. SSHP employs an Impact Officer who provides
 regular training and individual guidance to help enhance opportunities for impact, develop links
 with stakeholders, and devise strategies for capturing evidence; the post became permanent
 and was increased 0.5 to 1FT in-cycle.

 The Birkbeck Library provides crucial access to all principal online research resources, Library
 facilities have recently been upgraded thanks to £1.3M investment. The Clore Centre and
 Lecture Theatre provide capacity for large audiences and receptions. The Birkbeck Cinema and
 the Derek Jarman Lab host events co-organized with colleagues in the School of Arts.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Support for research collaboration

 Vital to the very nature of HCA, interdisciplinary research collaboration, national and
 international, is supported through our Research Centres (all of them inherently
 interdisciplinary), funded projects, and the Birkbeck-wide institutes BIH and BISR.

 •   International exchanges. Through collaborations, we have hosted 35 non-UK
     Honorary/Associate Research Fellows visiting for 3-12 months from 17 countries, as well as
     12 Fellows in association with BIH/BISR from 11 countries. Exchange programmes led to
     tangible outcomes, e.g. Feldman organised a workshop with NYU colleagues to prepare the
     Jews, Money, Myth exhibition, and Henderson edits the Monash/Prato-sponsored Body in

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     the City Routledge series. Every year c5-10 olleagues hold visiting positions abroad, ranging
     from a couple of weeks to several months.

 •   PGR training. Our many international collaborations enable PhD students to spend time
     abroad; conversely, we attract an average of 4-5 visiting PGRs every year, who participate in
     and enrich our own students’ activities. Twelve colleagues have co-supervised students in
     other universities in the UK and abroad, from Stanford to Paris. In 2013-16 a Marie Curie
     Initial Training Network supported a collaborative training programme with seven other HEIs
     across the EU for PGRs working on the comparative study of power and institutions in
     medieval Islam and Christendom. We also established interdisciplinary doctoral partnerships
     with curators and anthropologists in the British Museum, Oxford Museums and the National
     Maritime Museum.

 •   International/interdisciplinary collaborations. Our major team projects sustain intense
     international networks, including two ERC-funded projects with SE Asia and Italy (funded
     outside cycle but active until 2015-16). Another notable example is Reinisch’s HERA-funded
     history of the scientific conference (£206,999) with medical humanities scholars in Uppsala,
     Maastricht and the Centre Alexandre Koyré (EHESS, Paris). Team projects enable
     interdisciplinary collaboration. Particularly active partnerships with psychiatrists and medical
     professionals arise from the Mind & Body strand, especially via the Wellcome-funded
     projects SHaME, Hidden Persuaders and Socialism and Global Health. An outstanding
     example in another field is Trentmann’s Material Cultures of Energy (funded by both AHRC
     and the EPSRC), a team of four historians and a geographer investigating how energy
     transformed daily life in twentieth-century Britain, Germany, North America and Japan. Their
     Scarcity in the Modern World (Bloomsbury, 2019) brought together historians, economists,
     geographers, political scientists, and anthropologists to study concerns about resource
     scarcity from the 18th to the 21st century and to challenge previous scholarship which
     separated scientific and cultural issues.


 4.2 Engagement with users, beneficiaries, audiences; impact not covered in case studies.

 •   We collaborate with teachers and schools, to inform curricula, offer resources, and
     provide training. We have run over 20 workshops in schools on migration, protest, online
     psychological manipulation, energy consumption, religious radicalism, and archaeological
     artefacts. In 2016 we set up the Birkbeck History Teachers Network for secondary school
     teachers who study/studied in HCA from the Greater London area to build networks and
     share resources with each other and with academics. A notable example of educational
     impact is Reinisch. With Wellcome public-engagement funding, she developed a series of
     activities aimed at engaging young people in the history of internationalism by influencing
     how history is taught in schools. This included a three-month teacher fellowship programme
     entitled ‘The Cold War in the Classroom’, run in conjunction with the Historical Association.
     She then edited an open-access collection of essays and resources distributed in 2019 to
     every member of the HA on ‘Exploring and teaching twentieth-century history’. Uniquely, her
     Reluctant Internationalists team also worked with/for primary schools. They supported
     children’s illustrator Francesca Sanna with a fellowship and directly informed her book, Me
     and My Fear (Flying Eye, 2018), which encourages children to think about migration, war,
     and empathy. Together, they workshopped material for the book with over 260 Years 1-2
     pupils and their teachers.

 •   We partner with museum and heritage institutions in the UK and abroad to inform
     exhibitions and advise on strategies. Hidden Persuaders organised the Wunderblock
     exhibition at the Freud Museum (7870 visitors March-May 2019) and contributed the
     centrepiece of the California’s Wende Museum ‘War of Nerves’ exhibition (2018, 5,500
     visitors).



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   We have a longstanding commitment to enhancing the public enjoyment and
     understanding of history as shown by the following national/international prizes awarded
     for combining research and readability: Wachsmann’s 2016 Wolfson Prize, Mark Lynton
     History Prize and Jewish Quarterly-Wingate literary prize; Trentmann’s Austrian Prize for
     best non-fiction book of the year 2016; Rueger shortlisted 2018 Wolfson Prize; Lovell’s
     Cundill Prize 2019. Their and other books have become publishing successes and been
     translated into many languages (e.g. Bourke, Figes, White). Such is our outreach that
     Wachsmann appeared as a character in the 2016 box-office hit Denial (played by the rather
     better-looking Max Befort).

 •   We engage audiences in diverse and creative ways. More than half colleagues regularly
     present their research in the press, radio and television programmes, both national and
     international. Memorable examples include Harding’s interviews on London history in two
     episodes of ‘Cunk on Britain’, and Pick’s ‘Freud For Our Times’, which he researched, wrote
     and conducted for BBC4 (estimated 860,000 listeners). As part of programmes on Pride and
     gender, Cook made 8 radio appearances in the UK, Norway and EIRE. Figes worked as
     historical consultant for the BBC’s 6-part dramatization of Tolstoy’s War and Peace which
     has already been aired/sold in 25 countries worldwide. The Hidden Persuaders team
     produced 6 films/documentaries and 8 radio/podcasts (including 6 for the BBC and 2 for the
     International Psychoanalytical Association), and four more videos by high school pupils that
     featured at the British Film Institute’s 2019 Young Voices Festival. Anscombe was script
     consultant for the BBC series ‘Pilgrimage: The Road to Istanbul’. Lovell acts as an
     intermediary with Chinese culture, through her books, translations and media/festival
     interventions. Other remarkable cases include Bourke, who wrote 34 press articles and gave
     36 radio/TV interviews, and Darley, who wrote on Telangana archaeology for The Hindu,
     south India’s most popular English-language newspaper with a 6-million daily circulation.
     Most colleagues use social media regularly as part of their outreach. Waddell’s Many-
     Headed Monster, a blog discussing early modern history from new research to broader
     issues of representation and teaching, has received c.440K views from 240K visitors since
     2013. Through the RSHC we support History Workshop Online (all editorial fellows are HCA
     Honorary Fellows): a site pioneering history blogging since 2008, it has published hundreds
     of articles and podcasts 2014-20, with 1M+ views and a large following on key social media,
     where it has established itself as the leading online radical history magazine.

 4.3 Evidence of unit’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 We are deeply committed to contributing to the wider health of all our disciplines through:

 •   Events organisation and participation, sustaining innovation, exchange and
     collaborative thinking. Without counting Pears-run events (above), we organised: 19
     conferences (including one or two every year with more than 25 speakers/chairs) and 26
     small-medium workshops in Birkbeck; 33 conferences/events in the UK; and 28 in a total of
     15 foreign countries across four continents. Major funded projects were particularly active in
     developing programmes of events that helped make their respective topics central to
     historians’ agenda, for example the Reluctant Internationalists project (2013-17, 14 events).
     26 colleagues co-convene regular seminars in the IHR, ICS and other institutions in London
     and elsewhere, including the annual peripatetic and interdisciplinary Venetian Seminar. 41
     colleagues were invited to give 276 keynotes and plenaries, the majority outside the UK.
     Altogether, we gave some 800 conference or seminar papers across the world.
 •   Our publications (figures above, p. 2) contain a balance of new and original research
     but also companions, reference works and editions of sources that will remain essential
     go-to texts for years. We published hundreds of book reviews, a vital form of consolidation
     and dissemination of ideas in our disciplines. Some of our projects have created resources
     that will be valuable to researchers in a variety of fields, from websites such as Layers of
     London, Petitions and Nazi Camps, to editions of classical sources, such as Seneca and
     Galen, to collections of sources that are unique in their field such as on Italian archives.


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   We invest a significant amount of time in various forms of service for our disciplines,
     including peer-reviewing for more than 50 journals and 30 publishers. 13 colleagues review
     for national research councils in the UK and abroad, including: AHRC and UKRI Peer-review
     colleges; the Belgian and Dutch Research Councils (FWO and NWO); VQR (Italy’s REF);
     British Council Cultural Protection Fund; Canada’s Social Sciences and Humanities
     Research Council. Trentmann chaired the History, Archaeology and Cultural Studies panel of
     the Norwegian Research Council’s national academic review in 2016-17. Bourke chaired the
     British Academy Modern History Panel in 2016-19, the AHRC Global Challenges Research
     Fund Advisory Board in 2016-17, and PEN’s Hessell-Tiltman History Prize in 2018.
 •   Of special note is our support for and partnership with colleagues in the Global South
     or in threatened circumstances. Baird works with the Council for At-Risk Academics
     mentoring exiled Syrian archaeologists in Turkey, leading to our hosting Syrian archaeologist
     Adnan Al-Mohamad as Honorary Research Fellow. We obtained Birkbeck GCRF QR
     institutional support for: Darley, to organise a workshop series with historian Rekha Pande
     (Hyderabad); Baird, to develop training for Syrian archaeologists in Idlib in partnership with
     NGO Syrians for Heritage; and Marks, to organise a witness seminar on histories of mental
     health with the University of Ghana and the country’s WHO office. Initiatives such as these
     demonstrate our commitment not just to engaging with non-Western perspectives but also to
     expanding global access to research resources.

 4.4 Other indicators of wider influence not already mentioned

 PhD examining. Members of the Unit invested substantial time in external examining for 174
 PhD theses, in 38 UK and 31 foreign HEIs, in a total of 18 countries in Europe, North America,
 Africa and Australia.

 Editorship. While at HCA, 29 colleagues have served on the editorial/advisory boards of 68
 journals in the UK and abroad; 12 as editors of journals (Classical Receptions, Contemporary
 European History, Early Music History, European History Quarterly, History Workshop Journal,
 Journal of Contemporary Archaeology, Journal of Hellenic Studies, Journal for Greek Political
 Thought, London Journal, Women's History Review); and 7 as editors of book series
 (Continuum's War Society and Culture; Palgrave’s Genders and Sexualities in History and
 Critical Studies of Antisemitism and Racism; Routledge’s Body in the City; Bloomsbury’s
 Histories of Internationalism). Our publications received 12 prizes/special mentions

 Fellowships. Colleagues include 22 fellows of the Royal Historical Society (including Harding
 Honorary Vice-President) and 5 Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries. Edwards was President,
 Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies 2015-18. Bourke and Lovell were elected Fellows of
 the British Academy respectively in 2014 and 2019. All colleagues are members/fellows of one
 or more of 25 learned societies. Demonstrating our interdisciplinarity, these include:
 • in the UK: African Studies Association; Association for the Study of Modern Italy; British
     Association for Slavonic and East European Studies; British Epigraphic Society; British
     Society for the History of Science; Classical Association; German History Society; Hellenic
     Society; Royal Numismatic Society.
 • Internationally: American Historical Association; Association for Slavic, East European and
     Eurasian Studies; Council for European Studies; European Association of Social
     Anthropologists; Mediterranean Studies Association; Oriental Numismatic Society;
     Renaissance Society of America; Society for Classical Studies/American Philological
     Association; Society for the Anthropology of Europe; South Indian Numismatic Society;
     Southern African Historical Society.

 Other notable awards These include Bourke’s Professorship of Rhetoric, Gresham College,
 and Global Innovations Chair, University of Newcastle, Australia. as well as the following
 prestigious fellowships: Constantakopoulou’s Harvard Center for Hellenic Studies fellowship,
 Gray’s Humboldt Foundation Fellowship, Feldman’s All Souls Visiting Fellowship; Trentmann’s
 Caltech Moore Distinguished Fellowship, and Hill’s fellowship at Princeton’s Institute for


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Advanced Study (postponed due to Covid). Laite received a British Academy Rising Star
 Engagement Award in 2018.




                                                                                         Page 18
