Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 The Open University
 Unit of Assessment:
 D29 Classics
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure
 Classical Studies at The Open University (OU) is an ambitious, pioneering and supportive
 research environment. We advance innovative interdisciplinary research in Classical Studies
 through our long-standing commitment to researching the reception of classical antiquity; our
 uniquely significant research in digital classics; and the Baron Thyssen Centre for the Study of
 Ancient Material Religion established in 2018. We are equally proud of our wide-ranging
 excellent research on other textual, literary, archaeological and historical topics. Our research
 and impact are achieved through individual work, internal teamwork and external collaborations.

 Classical Studies at the OU is thriving and the Unit of Assessment (UOA) aligns with the
 Classical Studies discipline in the School of Arts and Humanities of the Faculty of Arts and
 Social Science. The UOA has grown from 11.8 FTE in 2014 to 14.8 FTE eligible staff through
 the addition of one new Lectureship (Plastow 2017) and the inclusion of two Staff Tutors: this
 role includes significant responsibility for the organisation of teaching and reduced research
 responsibilities. Within this growth there has been staff renewal, with two retirements and two
 appointments. There are currently three Professors (Barker, Perkins, Robson), seven Senior
 Lecturers (Graham, Hope, Hughes, Paul, Rothe, Swift, Yamagata) and five Lecturers (Betts,
 Fear, Haywood, Plastow, Wilding). Three of these are also Staff Tutors (Fear, Haywood,
 Yamagata). Two of the Lecturers are Early Career Researchers (ECRs) (Plastow, Wilding).
 One further Staff Tutor, three Emeritus Professors, seven Visiting Fellows, and six Honorary
 Research Associates also contribute to the vitality of our academic community but are not
 eligible for submission. Our two retirees during this REF cycle (James, King) are now emerita
 and an Honorary Associate: both continue to research and publish.

 Research in the UOA is overseen by the four-member, gender-balanced Research Support
 Group, chaired by the Discipline Research Lead (Perkins).

 1.2 Research objectives
 Our research objectives since 2014 have been:
     • to sustain and develop our world-leading strengths by producing outstanding research
        (see REF2)
     • to openly engage our research with culture and society (see 4.3 and ICSs 1 and 2)
     • to participate in networks and collaborations and build relationships with the
        beneficiaries of our research in the creative industries and the Galleries, Libraries,
        Archives and Museums (GLAM) sector (see ICSs 1 and 2)
     • to develop the talents of Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS) to enhance their
        professional careers and sustain the discipline of Classical Studies in the future (see
        2.4).

 In 2014 we described the wide range of our research as five areas that encompassed our
 individual and collective specialisms: Classical Receptions; Digital Classics; Material Culture;
 Greek and Latin Texts; and the Ancient Body. All were inherently interdisciplinary and the first
 three were recognised as undertaking world-leading research in 2014. These research clusters
 nurtured diverse research and delivered our objectives by enabling seminars, sharing
 approaches, coordinating collaborative research and facilitating internal peer-review and
 mentoring, rather than determining what research should be done.

 Since 2014 our strategy has been to maintain our research objectives whilst allowing our
 research structures to evolve as our staffing profile has changed and research interests and

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strengths have developed, effectively sustaining our core strengths whilst flexing our
 boundaries. In the context of University restructuring in 2016, that merged the Faculties of Arts
 and Social Sciences, creating larger administrative units with reduced disciplinary boundaries,
 our strategy and structures have developed in the following ways.

 Classical Receptions has grown and become more interdisciplinary, receiving Faculty funding
 for seminars events and publications such as the inaugural series of classical reception
 seminars held at the Institute of Classical Studies in 2019. To achieve our objective of engaging
 our research with culture and society, and a wider public, we produce two thriving, open-
 access, classical reception e-journals supported by Faculty funding. New Voices in Classical
 Reception Studies (edited by Fear and peer-reviewed) showcases early career researchers
 providing a supportive route to publishing for those new to this field. It now has 13 volumes and
 additionally publishes conference proceedings. Practitioners’ Voices in Classical Reception
 Studies (edited by Hughes) engages with anyone involved in creative practices, providing a
 forum to discuss the relationship between their work and classical materials, themes and
 contexts. New talent is strongly represented in its ten volumes but highlights also include
 interviews with David Raeburn, Antony Gormley and Seamus Heaney.

 Our classical receptions research has increasingly interacted with culture and society evolving
 into ‘engaged research’ as defined and supported by our institutional research strategies (see
 REF5a 2.1 and 2.4). This is exemplified by King’s open access monograph Hippocrates Now.
 The ‘Father of Medicine’ in the Internet Age that examines popular engagements with the
 classical world and Stead’s Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship that investigated classics and
 British communism. Creating Ancient Fragments (ICS2) illustrates how one of our thriving
 collaborations with theatre companies has impacted on its professional practice, audience and
 economic vitality (see further 4.1). A highlight publication is Haywood’s co-authored Homer's
 Iliad and the Trojan War: Dialogues on Tradition.

 Another strategic aim of all our research is to participate in networks and collaborations to
 enrich our research environment. For example, reception plays a key role in the Faculty-based
 research cluster Gender and Otherness in the Humanities (GOTH) that relaunched the long-
 running Gender in the Humanities research group in 2019. Our commitment to encouraging and
 supporting research that is centred on understanding human diversity and impacts on society,
 is exemplified by The Orestes Project (Plastow). This deepens our engagement with
 performance-based theatre, exploring how storytelling and historical representation provide
 legitimacy for communities, and aims particularly to engage with LGBTQ+ artists and
 audiences. We also participate in the European network on Gender Studies in Antiquity
 (EuGeStA) an international network of researchers holding seminars and producing a journal.
 Our environment is linked to the Classical Reception Studies Network (CRSN), founded in 2004
 by an AHRC grant to the Open University, that brings together international researchers who
 share our interests in classical receptions. Paul serves on its executive committee and co-
 convened the CRSN (2017-2019) a role taken up by Stead, whilst our Leverhulme Research
 Fellow, and now as a Lecturer at St. Andrews.

 Digital Classics has made a broad contribution to the achievement of our research objectives.
 As well as producing innovative research it has had a significant impact on professional practice
 in the GLAM sector as detailed in The Pelagios Network (ICS1). Barker has led the creation of
 extensive international partnerships starting from the AHRC funded The Herodotus Hestia
 Project. This grew into the Pelagios Project, a collaboration that has developed a method to
 make digital connections between texts or objects and the places associated with them. This
 has now expanded beyond the ancient world and embraced other disciplines and periods. Our
 digital classics research has become thoroughly engaged research, impacting an international
 community of 36 partners from many disciplines and from outside academia (see 4.1 and
 ICS1). These achievements were recognised in 2020 with the award of a chair to Barker.
 Digital techniques are also integral to our archaeological work in Italy and its public presentation
 including an innovative holographic museum display of an inscription. Highlights are Barker’s


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 edited OUP volume New Worlds from Old Texts, Recogito software and Betts’ forthcoming
 open access co-publication of the Lund conference Capturing the Senses: Digital Methods for
 Sensory Archaeologies.

 Digital Classics has become a cornerstone of our Faculty-based Digital Humanities research
 collaboration that promotes and coordinates interdisciplinary digital humanities research and
 PGRS training in the University. Perkins provides strategic leadership to this initiative from the
 Classics UOA, line manages a permanent Research Fellow (in UOA D27) and facilitates
 collaborations with other Faculties and the Knowledge Media Institute (see REF5a 2.3). Digital
 Humanities has produced three PhDs with four more in progress (four supervised by members
 of UOA D29) with five externally funded studentships in all.

 Our resourcing strategy has been to diversify funders and develop philanthropic sources of
 funding and this has enabled the founding of the Baron Thyssen Centre for the Study of Ancient
 Material Religion. This research centre significantly contributes to all our research objectives
 and created new vitality as our Material Culture and Ancient Body areas largely coalesced and
 new areas of interest in ancient religion and sensory archaeology emerged. Led by Hughes
 and Betts, it provides a new intellectual and organisational interdisciplinary infrastructure with
 key partners in Religious Studies and Art History. The centre supports the systematic study of
 how ancient religion happened in and through material things and aims to bring ancient
 evidence into productive dialogue with scholarship on material religion in more recent periods. It
 produces live events (seminars, workshops, conferences), print and online publications, and
 open access digital resources. The centre has an international Advisory Board and is gaining
 international recognition for the research of its four PGRS, individual staff and collaborative
 projects such as archaeological research on sacred sites in Tuscany and The Votives Project
 (see 4.1). Highlight publications are Hughes’ Votive Body Parts in Greek and Roman Religion,
 Betts’ Senses of the Empire and Graham’s Reassembling Religion in Roman Italy.

 Research in Greek and Latin Texts underpins the achievement of our research objectives.
 Highlights are Swift’s first ever complete edition and commentary on Archilochus that is both
 philological and engaged with Swift’s creative work with theatre practitioners detailed in ICS2
 and Barker’s work on Herodotus that underpins ICS1. Our Early Career Researchers’ (ECR)
 works are beginning to open new directions for the future with Wilding’s forthcoming
 monograph Authority and Memory at the Oropian Amphiareion and Plastow’s Homicide in the
 Attic Orators: Rhetoric, Ideology and Context.

 A key part of our strategy is building pathways linking research to its beneficiaries by making
 our research openly visible through social media, blogging, podcasts and videos. One way we
 achieve this is through Classics Confidential, a website, founded in 2010 by Hughes and
 Barker, that hosts hundreds of video and audio interviews with researchers and others who are
 passionate about the classical world. Since 2017, new themed audio programmes and from
 2019 shorter ‘bitesize’ audio interviews, accompany a host of archive videos. Similarly, The
 Votives Project provides a pathway to engagement with, for example, artists who are looking to
 connect with a wider world outside of their practice. The Baron Thyssen Centre for the Study of
 Ancient Material Religion also has an ambitious and developing strategy to build relationships
 with engaged beneficiaries through hosting real and virtual open access audio discussions,
 seminars, workshops and other events. The OU’s open educational resource (OER) platform
 OpenLearn provides another route to engagement with the beneficiaries of our research which
 we will further employ to enhance our impact in the future (see REF5a 2.1). OpenLearn has had
 over 80 million visitors since its launch in 2006 and over 12.4 million in 2020. Existing
 OpenLearn resources such as Introducing 'The Histories' by Herodotus integrate and showcase
 our research as we seek to engage and educate audiences and beneficiaries (see 2.4). Further
 evidence of engagement and impact is presented in 4.

 See REF5a 2.4 for the framework for research integrity that is relevant to projects where
 humans are the subject of research, for example in gathering data from questionnaires.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3 Future research and impact strategy
 We will continue to sustain and enhance our ambitious and supportive research environment to
 produce world-class and internationally excellent research that is open, distinctive and engaged.
 We will keep our research distinctive by maintaining its variety and developing the
 interdisciplinary strengths in our research areas, collaborations and individual projects. To
 achieve this, we will pursue and develop our research objectives set out in 1.2.

 We aim to enhance our research environment by:
    • Further developing the research capabilities of our staff and research students (see 2)
    • Growing and diversifying our external research funding by increasing the frequency of
        bidding, expanding the proportion of staff regularly bidding and the range of funders
    • Linking post-doctoral research fellowships to our research centre
    • Developing new externally funded research projects and collaborations
    • Encouraging the growth of the new research areas of our ECRs and mid-career staff by
        supporting research network development, hosting developmental colloquia and
        resourcing pilot projects
    • Appointing an additional Lecturer/Staff Tutor in early 2021.

 We will increase the size and diversity of our PGRS community through redeveloping our
 successful taught MA programme to increase recruitment (scheduled for 2023) (see 2.4). We
 will increase fully funded research studentships through the Open Oxford Cambridge (OOC)
 Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) and attract more PGRS to our material religion research
 centre as it gathers momentum. The first fully funded PhD student is now in their second year, a
 second studies part-time and the third, funded by OOC, started in October 2020.

 We aim to extend the openness of our future research by:
    • Increasing the proportion of our research that is published with open access
    • Cultivating our two open access journals
    • Using open methods, tools and data in digital research.

 Our impact strategy will be to create engaged research that informs, inspires and influences an
 ever-wider range of organisations and beneficiaries. We will systematically embed the
 successful characteristics detailed in our impact case studies into our future research activity.
 This means identifying and designing potential impact at the start of projects, identifying
 stakeholders and their needs, building relationships with beneficiaries, delivering defined
 impacts, reflecting upon experiences and developing further impacts. A key element is the co-
 creation and development communities of practice engaged with our research. This approach
 has led to our research benefitting theatre companies and a variety of cultural and heritage
 organisations and their respective audiences as is made clear in the impact case studies. This
 framework for creating impact will be nurtured by systematic training by external providers and
 internal sharing of best practice through workshops and mentoring.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 Our strategy is to be open and collaborative in our work to maintain a positive, inclusive and
 high-performing culture. We actively cultivate a flexible work environment that creates a friendly,
 supportive academic community. We value diversity and seek ways to ensure equality of
 opportunity for all staff. For example, fixed-term staff receive research time, in the same way as
 permanent staff. Our staff are critical to our success and we attract excellent candidates from a
 variety of academic backgrounds who are appointed through a transparent and merit-based
 process as required by The Researcher Development Concordat (see REF5a 3.2).

 Other than individual research, our work is team-based to provide mutual support, shared
 experience and opportunities for career development through deputising for key roles. This has

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provided the UOA with resilience over the REF cycle as the demographic structure of staff has
 contributed to a high frequency of parental leave and caring responsibilities that has been
 managed by deputizing for key roles and employing staff on fixed term contracts only when
 unavoidable.

 We are strongly committed to decasualisation and valuing and developing all the staff we recruit.
 Going against the national trend, since 2014 we have managed down the number of staff on
 fixed term contracts from four to one. Within this process we have migrated five fixed-term
 appointments to permanent research and teaching contracts (Betts, Graham, Haywood (as
 Staff Tutor), Rothe, Plastow): only one remains on a fixed-term contract (Wilding). Other fixed-
 term staff have returned to Associate Lecturer roles (see REF5a 1.2) within the OU or moved to
 other institutions (Bakogianni to Massey, Bridges to Institute of Classical Studies and Oxford,
 Campbell to Exeter and Warwick, and Zuccolin to Cambridge, Harvard and Pavia).

 Staff have 44 days study leave per year rather than a teaching-free Summer and a sabbatical
 system (see REF5a 3.1). This may be taken at any time of year enabling staff to work flexibly
 around caring or other responsibilities. Exceptionally, Study Leave can be carried over from one
 year to another, for example to enable longer visiting fellowships. Additionally, one day a week is
 designated for research on a flexible basis making a total of 79 days research time per year.

 2.2 Staff Development
 The University’s staff development programme and Career Development and Staff Appraisal
 (CDSA) process ensures the effectiveness, efficiency and career development of individuals
 (see REF5a 3.1). The CDSA also provides a mechanism for strategic planning of individual and
 collective research and impact activities. This is managed by the Head of Discipline assisted by
 the chair of the Research Support Group through the regular discussion of short- and long-term
 research goals, publications and impact plans with each member of staff. Key roles in the UOA
 relating to leadership, line management, mentoring for new roles, research administration,
 research planning and management of PGRS, rotate between staff through careful succession
 planning that identifies and develops future talent.

 Reward mechanisms are managed at Faculty level (see REF5a 3.1). During this REF cycle five
 female staff have been promoted to Senior lecturer (Graham, Hughes, Paul, Rothe, Swift) and
 two staff to Professor (Robson, Barker). In keeping with our established research culture, the
 OU is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) affirming
 support for the career advancement of researchers and valuing all contributions to our research
 culture on the basis of their quality.

 Training to meet development needs is organised at UOA, Faculty or University level as
 appropriate. This includes research skills development, accessing research funding,
 administering research, communication skills, planning and developing impact and PGRS
 supervision and examination. Additionally, the UOA encourages staff to develop their own
 careers by taking up external visiting positions and Fellowships (see 4.2).

 2.3 Early Career Researchers
 Our two most recent appointments are ECRs (Plastow, Wilding). We prioritise their career
 development and they benefit from a reduced teaching load, mentoring and financial support.
 Over a four-year probationary period, all appointments receive training, professional
 development and supportive feedback. The Faculty Strategic Research Investment Fund
 prioritises ECRs, funding them to develop their ambitions and track record. We actively develop
 the careers of our ECRs by embedding them in key academic teams, for example in our Impact
 Case Studies team with responsibilities for facilitating community engagement and documenting
 impact. The same support and opportunities are available to Research Fellows. We are proud of
 the career development of our Leverhulme Early Career Research Fellow (Stead), a former OU
 PhD student, who was appointed to a Lectureship in St. Andrews in 2019. Our ECRs are
 developing strong publication records, each now with a monograph (one in press).


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.4 Postgraduate Research Students
 We strive to provide the highest quality PGRS environment. In the 2019 Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey, the OU was ranked fifth out of 103 HEIs for overall PGRS satisfaction.
 Numbers of PGRS have grown by 20% from 10 in registered in 2014 to the currently registered
 12, of whom six are fully funded and eight research part-time. Our PGRS come from a variety of
 backgrounds: many are female, mid-career professionals (e.g., teachers or museum curators) or
 have progressed from our MA programme (seven of the awarded PhDs), while competitive
 studentship holders tend to be younger with recent MAs. Our part-time provision enables
 students from across the four nations to research with us in a flexible way that suits their
 circumstances – for example those in employment or with caring responsibilities. Supervision
 may be remote or face-to-face and students benefit from our excellent remote library (see
 REF5a 4.2). Part-time students have eight years to complete and are otherwise supported in
 exactly the same way as full-time students. Our programme is therefore a hybrid of distance and
 campus-based research. We have awarded 11 PhDs (five part-time) with one further award in
 late 2020 delayed by Covid-19, an increase on the nine in the previous REF cycle. During this
 period there has been a particularly strong growth in fully funded students from one pre-2014 to
 seven who completed (by the end of 2020) and six more who are currently registered. In this
 REF cycle, one PhD student was fully funded by a Baron Lorne Thyssen-Bornemisza
 studentship, one by an Open-Oxford Michael Comber studentship, three by University
 studentships and one by AHRC. Additional financial support is available from the University and
 related funds depending on circumstances.

 Students are recruited through advertising DTP and University studentships, the Research
 Degrees Prospectus and through our highly successful taught MA that has averaged 50 awards
 per year for the last seven years. Applicants produce a research proposal that potential
 supervisors help to develop. After interview, applicants for studentships are ranked by the
 Faculty and finally selected by the DTP. We have a policy of only accepting research proposals
 that are closely related to a supervisor’s research specialism. Our PhD programme is therefore
 distinctive by its highly selective recruitment that closely aligns the supervisor’s expertise with
 the student’s topic.

 From 2014 to 2018 we participated in the Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts South-
 East England (CHASE) DTP comprising nine leading institutions. This funded four currently
 registered students – half of the total of Classical Studies students funded by CHASE. From
 2019 we transitioned to the Open-Oxford-Cambridge (OOC) partnership. In 2020/21 we won the
 first OOC Classics award, also our first Collaborative Doctoral Award student in Classical
 Studies, jointly supervised with the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge. Rothe has been a member
 of both DTP student selection panels.

 Students are supported by a team of at least two supervisors (see REF 5a 3.4). These
 arrangements often facilitate interdisciplinary research – for example with Religious Studies or
 Digital Humanities with our Knowledge Media Institute. Some students also have an external
 supervisor from another institution to provide specific expertise. Students have been externally
 co-supervised from the Institute of Classical Studies, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Bristol and Galway.
 Conversely, we have supervised students at the Universities of Amsterdam and Kent, and we
 have hosted visiting research students from the universities of Madrid and the Basque
 Country who sought our reception expertise.

 Supervisions happen at least ten times a year, or bi-monthly for part-time students. Meetings
 may be face to face or online and our flexible arrangements have enabled supervision to
 continue despite the pandemic. Students keep a written record of all supervisions and complete
 a six-monthly progress monitoring report with their supervisors.

 In our progression and examination of PGRS we aim to set standards of best practice. Our
 PGRS are initially registered to the MPhil programme and undertake a probation process that
 requires a formal presentation, a written submission of a literature review, research questions
 and a research plan at the end of their first year (second for PT). This is scrutinised in a mini-

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 viva by two academics before registration on the PhD programme. Internal examiners are fully
 trained before appointment and each viva has a trained independent Chair.

 Two staff are postgraduate convenors with responsibility for coordinating and overseeing PGRS
 matters. The PhD programme is overseen within the Faculty by the Director of Research
 Degrees, for whom Rothe deputised 2014-21.

 Our PGRS receive a broad spectrum of support that extends from individual supervision teams,
 through subject-specific training, to more generic research skills, self-development and
 personalised career development advice. This is provided by the discipline at regular work-in-
 progress seminars and mini-conferences, or School, Faculty, Graduate School Network or DTP
 events. Barker and Betts were involved in designing and delivering digital humanities training
 for DTP students that is now updated and freely available on OpenLearn.

 The PhD Student Teaching Scheme, that originated in Classical Studies and subsequently rolled
 out across the University, offers the opportunity to develop experience in distance teaching.
 Students gain this by joining a module team to participate in assessment preparation,
 administration, exam boards etc. Direct experience of module teaching is acquired through
 serving as a co-tutor in selected tutorial groups whilst mentored by an experienced Associate
 Lecturer. The scheme leads to an Applaud Fellowship - the OU’s institutional scheme for
 accrediting professional learning and Fellowship of the HEA.

 We also encourage PGRS to take appropriate work placements which they have done at the
 British Library, Ancient Itineraries and the Collaborative European Digital Archival Research
 Infrastructure. We actively support the research of past students, for example hosting the
 conference Mind, Body, Magic organised by a past (McKie) and present (Parker) PGRS. They
 may also become Visiting Fellows, thereby remaining in our research environment with
 continuing access to the Library. Our doctoral students have proved highly employable, going on
 to lectureships at Manchester (McKie) and St Andrews (Stead), a teaching fellowship at Durham
 (McKie), an Associate Lectureship at the OU (Lloyd), research fellowships at Birmingham City,
 Westminster and Reading (Wrigley), The British Museum (Garcia), appointments at Secondary
 Schools (Raudnitz, Jackson), the Cambridge Schools Classics Project (Lloyd) and a Digital
 Curatorship at the British Library (Ridge).

 2.5 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
 A commitment to equality is embedded in all that we do. As a matter of principle all staff are
 treated absolutely equally regardless of their status and characteristics in all aspects of their
 employment, for example in undertaking senior roles in the management of the UOA. We fully
 uphold and promote the University’s EDI policies. Our EDI champion (Yamagata) raises
 awareness and monitors all our activities to ensure they integrate EDI into their planning and
 delivery.

 Our implementation of EDI policies in recruitment has created a UOA that diverges from the
 national pattern being relatively young with 20% aged under 36; majority female (2:1); and 6.7%
 BAME. As regards seniority, 46% of staff are female Senior Lecturers and up to 2016 we had
 one female and one male professor, and from 2019 two male professors rising to three in 2020.
 Our Faculty strategic plan 2019-2023 includes targets to increase diversity in professorial roles
 to 40% women and 11% BAME and promote 10% more females to Senior Lecturer and
 professorial posts by 2022. A current UOA strategic priority is therefore to meet these Faculty
 targets through our staff development mechanisms (see 2.3); mentoring mid-career staff in their
 career progression (see REF5a 3.1); developing an attraction strategy to support the recruitment
 of under-represented groups and improving our ability to recruit from such groups through
 further training of selection panels.

 As part of the OU’s Equality Scheme (see REF5a 3.5), the participation and withdrawal of PGRS
 is monitored and reported on an annual basis against protected characteristics. Our staff
 composition is monitored and reported on every other year.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Being a distance learning institution, flexible and remote working is our natural mode of
 operation with or without pandemic conditions. We have offices on the Milton Keynes campus,
 but remote working is normal and three staff are designated home workers or have agile working
 arrangements. A range of measures facilitate remote working, mitigate our carbon footprint and
 promote well-being. Almost all meetings can be attended remotely; those with child-care, ill-
 health or other caring responsibilities regularly use these facilities, as do home workers and staff
 managing their workload priorities. Meetings are scheduled where possible to avoid school
 holidays, significant religious festivals and frequent travel during rush-hours. We also enable
 remote access to seminars and conferences as much as possible.

 Issues around equality and diversity are integral to some of our research. Graham’s work on
 ancient disability engages directly with diversity and indirectly with disabled communities
 themselves. The Forgotten Other: Disability Studies and the Classical Body conference
 specifically brought together scholars from Classical and Disability Studies and museums.
 Robson researches and publishes on Greek sexuality and King researches sexuality and
 women’s health. Our centre for Material Religion engages with diverse religious communities
 from the Roman Catholic church to druids, and our GOTH research cluster directly engages with
 EDI issues (see 1.2).

 This REF submission was coordinated by the four members of the gender balanced Research
 Support Group whose appointment was ratified by the Faculty and University. They were
 selected for their research and management experience (past Arts Faculty Associate Dean
 (Research) and Heads of Department) and their range of staff circumstances. All panel
 members received equality and diversity training. The significance of all individuals’ research
 responsibility and independence was assessed, following the Code of Practice, to determine
 eligibility for submission. All members of the UOA proposed up to six outputs for submission.
 From these, the panel ranked outputs in consultation with an external adviser according to an
 assessment of their potential quality. All members of the UOA were confidentially invited to
 submit individual circumstances to the University to determine any reduction in the number of
 outputs. Outputs were then selected for submission and the diversity of the authors was cross
 checked for significant variance from the diversity of the UOA to assure equality and inclusion. A
 formal record of decision-making meetings of the panel has been archived by a Faculty
 administrator.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
                                                      Income awarded to UOA (£)
                                                                                                       124236




 3.1 Research funding and strategies for
                                                     140000
 generating research income
 Our strategy to generate research funding is to     120000
                                                                                                                91496
                                                                                       88220

                                                                                               87125




 encourage and support individuals and groups
                                                                       74155




                                                     100000
                                                               61698




 to seek resources that enable their research and     80000
 impact to be most effective. We act strategically,
                                                      60000
                                                                               32898




 forming excellent collaborations and targeting
 bidding. The UOA’s Research Support Group,           40000
 that includes experienced peer-reviewers, and        20000
 the Faculty Research Office provide advice and
                                                          0
 mentoring throughout the process, starting by
 identifying the most appropriate source to match
 the project and its requirements. We then
 meticulously develop high quality bids,
 benefitting from excellent administrative support,               Income (£)        Trend
 that enable us to deliver our research plans. In
 this way we maximise the returns from the investment in bid preparation. This strategy has led
 us to a success rate of 44% in seeking external income and the UOA has received 16 external
 awards totalling £673,124.


                                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Awards from prestigious international funding bodies have enabled our digital classics research
 to thrive and to increase the significance and global reach of its research and impact. Building on
 the initial AHRC funding (with Hestia 2 ending in 2014), as well as funding from the Andrew W
 Mellon Foundation (Pelagios 3 & 4 ending in 2015) there were two further successful bids
 (Pelagios 6 & 7). This research has evolved from being a funded project to become an
 independent legal entity (see 4.1 and ICS1). Subsequently, the methodology and technology
 developed are being implemented in a next generation of projects with Digital Periegesis, a
 Swedish collaboration funded by the Marcus and Amalia Wallenberg Foundation and Linking
 Islands of Data an international collaboration funded by a UK-US networking grant from the
 AHRC that enables work with cultural heritage organisations. We have received significant
 funding from the Leverhulme Trust with an Early Career Fellowship Brave New Classics that
 investigated classics and British communism (Stead) and a Philip Leverhulme Prize that funded
 Swift’s Fragments and key aspects of realising its impact. This led to a British Academy Rising
 Star Engagement Award The Art of Fragments in 2018 to bring together academics and creative
 practitioners on the theme of ‘The Fragment’. This impact was also enabled by funding from Arts
 Council England and ESRC Knowledge Exchange Dialogues Scheme grants (see ICS2). This
 research engages with theatre practitioners and continues to develop with the Making Theatre in
 a Time of Covid project funded by a British Academy Special Research Grant in 2020. We aim
 to replicate these funding trajectories in the future.

 We work strategically with the University’s Development Office to secure philanthropic
 donations. A first gift secured two lectureships in Roman material culture, initially fixed-term and
 now permanent and a PhD studentship. A further donation enabled us to create our new
 research centre, the Baron Thyssen Centre for the Study of Ancient Material Religion (see 1.2).
 This significant investment in organisational infrastructure enhances our research environment,
 outputs and impact. Philanthropic donation also plays a role in our collaborative archaeological
 research in Italy, where it contributes to training students to excavate.

 Our strategy is to seek support from a wide range of sources at different scales to match
 individual projects. For example, a grant from Mouseion for $20k Canadian enabled the
 organising of the Moralizing Strategies in Early Greek Poetry conference in Newfoundland and
 subsequent publication of a co-edited volume (Swift). Small grants have enhanced research
 capabilities, for example from the Council for British Research in the Levant to enable intensive
 Arabic language learning in Beirut and excavation in Jordan (Rothe).

 Some forms of research such as networking and conferencing that are less resource intensive
 are supported by internal funding, ideally creating a pathway for developing larger projects and
 securing external income. The Faculty Strategic Research Investment Fund supports research
 groups and provides seed-corn funding for individual and collaborative research projects
 granting £9,546 to the UOA since 2016. Internal funding and research time allocation also
 facilitates individual research, for example with external library access and travel. The UOA has
 prioritised support for conference and seminar organisation and attendance, and for networking
 opportunities to promote collaborations and partnerships, particularly for career young
 researchers. Additional internal funding is available from the School for the organisation of
 seminars, workshops, conferences and fieldwork. Since 2014 internal funding of research
 activities has totalled £67,960 plus £17,500 for interdisciplinary Digital Humanities: some of this
 resource partially enabled two ECR appointments (Plastow, Wilding).

 3.2 Research infrastructure and facilities
 The Faculty Research Board, chaired by the Associate Dean for Research, Enterprise and
 Scholarship, takes a strategic overview of research, impact and PGRS. The Director of
 Research in the School sits on this Board and feeds back to the Discipline Research Lead.

 The Faculty Research Office supports a wide range of research activities, committees and
 groups, providing advice and high-quality administrative support. It interfaces between the UOA
 and the University’s Research and Enterprise Office and Graduate School. The Research Office
 has a team of 20 who provide pro-active support in research bid development, knowledge

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exchange, impact activity and HEIF funding support. The team administers funding awards,
 research student administration, research groups, visiting academics and coordinated the REF
 submission. Academics receive one-to-one support at each stage of the bidding process and
 grant maintenance from an assigned Research Manager to ensure compliance with financial and
 legal regulations. The Awards Management System database tracks and maintains all aspects
 of evidence relating to research. The team also provides training workshops, research induction
 sessions and facilitates cross-faculty initiatives.

 Our world-leading remote access library is described in REF 5a 4.2. Staff also use the national
 infrastructure of the Institute of Classical Studies library and SCONUL Access. The University’s
 repository, ORO, documents all Classical Studies’ publications, 464 items as of December 2020,
 and where possible, the full-text content is freely available (see REF 5a 2.3).

 3.3 Impact Infrastructure
 The Research Support Group provides leadership, facilitates mentoring for impact and advises
 on integrating impact with research as part of the annual individual CDSA process (see 2.2 and
 REF 5a 3.1). For example, Swift, with her experience of securing funding and achieving impact
 (see ICS2), is mentoring Plastow (ECR) in a new knowledge exchange and impact-oriented,
 internally-funded pilot project Mythology LIVE with the By Jove Theatre Company, producing
 weekly livestream shows with academics, theatre practitioners and other creatives coming
 together to analyse a different myth each week with the longer-term aim of securing external
 funding. Capabilities and understanding of impact have been significantly enhanced by training
 from the external provider Fast Track Impact. Impact is strongly supported in operational
 structures at Faculty level by a full-time Impact, Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange Manager.
 Our reach is enhanced by the FASS Comms team who provide support for research websites,
 social media platforms and the design of online engagement to capture impacts in addition to the
 social media activities undertaken and online resources created by individuals and projects in
 the UOA.

 A unique facility that provides reach and a medium through which impact can be achieved is
 OpenLearn (see 1.2). Getting started on classical Latin is consistently in the top twenty of
 OpenLearn courses, currently 13th, reaching 55,796 unique visitors from 193 countries in
 2019/20, 25,367 enrolled learners since its start and benefitting 4,134 with course awards.
 Discovering Ancient Greek and Latin had 16,146 unique visitors in 2019/20. Both are
 underpinned by research-led pedagogy. Latin pedagogy is being further researched by Robson
 and Lloyd with a British Academy grant (2018-20). For further evidence of the effectiveness of
 our impact infrastructure see 4.3 below.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations
 Collaboration is integral to our research strategy: it creates synergies and enables us to conduct
 complex, interdisciplinary and transformative research (see ICSs). We collaborate with other
 universities, cultural institutions, public bodies, creative organisations and individuals to enhance
 the vitality of our research and increase its impact. Our collaborations are highly international
 and have varying degrees of complexity and formality suited to each individual project.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Locations of collaboration partners.

 We are a founding partner of Pelagios, a formal network of equal and independent partners and
 a community of practice that benefits from its research (see 1.2 and ICS1). As ‘Community
 Manager’, Barker has led the building of its extensive collaborations that join 36 organisations
 and institutions through memoranda of understanding creating a Charitable Association, the
 Pelagios Network, of which Barker is now elected General Secretary.

 Our research environment is further internationalised by collaboration in archaeological fieldwork
 and public engagement. A long-established collaboration with the Mugello Valley Archaeological
 Project (Perkins and Betts) researches in northern Tuscany, Italy, with Franklin University
 Switzerland, the University of Florence, the Archaeological Superintendency of Tuscany, The
 University of Texas at Austin and Franklin & Marshal College. Excavations, first at the Etruscan
 sanctuary and settlement of Poggio Colla and then the Etruscan sacred lake at Albagino,
 engage with the local communities through raising awareness of their local heritage and how it
 can be enriched and protected. A dual strategy provides opportunities for high school students to
 participate in excavation work and creates public exhibitions of the research in local museums
 with the support of the government of the Region of Tuscany. These have been linked with the
 annual ‘Day of the Etruscans’ celebrations in Tuscany. Exhibitions have been held in Florence,
 Artimino and Vicchio in 2016-8 and in 2019 in Florence, Vicchio, Firenzuola and Palazzuolo sul
 Senio.

 Similarly, we collaborated with the German Protestant Institute of Archaeology in 2014,
 excavating a late Roman monastery on Tall Zira’a in Jordan with a subsequent public
 engagement event (Rothe).

 We also collaborate with theatre companies, directly connecting research with developing
 dramatic productions and public performance. The Orestes Project (Plastow) collaborates with
 Hamilton College, NY and the By Jove Theatre Company to explore the theatrical reception of
 the Orestes myth and is developing plans for public engagement and impact underpinned by a
 forthcoming edited volume: Greek tragedy, politics and education on the 21st century stage.
 Swift has a long-running multiply funded collaboration with Potential Difference that began life in
 the 2014 Being Human Festival (see 1.2 and ICS2). This successful combination of collaboration
 and funding has created impact and enriched our environment through deepening our
 engagement with creative professionals.

 A more informal collaboration by Yamagata involves breaking the language barrier and building
 understanding between Anglophone and Japanese scholarship in Classics, communicating

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research on Homer to a diverse audience and stimulating intercultural exchange. Yamagata
 collaborated with 13 Japanese colleagues to publish An Invitation to Homer’s Iliad (Tokyo 2019)
 in Japanese; lectured on Homer’s Iliad (in Japanese) at Keio University, Tokyo (2016) and
 subsequently published this work, promoting understanding of European and Mediterranean
 cultures in Japan. Conversely, Yamagata translated into English a Japanese monograph, A
 New Interpretation of Sophocles’ Oedipus Tyrannus: In the Light and Darkness of Apollo (2014),
 promoting outside awareness of Japanese research.

 4.2 Contributions to research base
 We influence the development of the research base through peer-reviewing for diverse national
 and international organisations. Barker and Perkins are members of the AHRC Peer Review
 College, reviewing for Classics, Digital Humanities, and Archaeology. Graham reviews for the
 Leverhulme Trust, Hughes for the Institute of Classical Studies public engagement grants and
 Robson chairs the Classical Association’s small grants committee.

 Collectively we make a strong contribution to the European research base by peer reviewing for
 the European Research Council (Graham) and the European Commission fellowships (Rothe).
 Members of the UOA have reviewed for the Austrian, Belgian, German, Irish, Netherlands and
 Romanian national funding agencies. In North America we have provided expertise to the
 National Endowment for the Humanities (US), the National Geographic Society (US), the Social
 Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada and the Etruscan Foundation. We have
 also peer reviewed professorial appointments for Kings College London, University of California
 Los Angeles, University of California and University of Naples.

 Our peer reviewing extends into publishing with individuals deploying their expertise on editorial
 boards of journals and a series (Studies in Ancient Disabilities for Routledge Graham). Members
 of the UOA review for academic publishers including Oxford University Press, Cambridge
 University Press, The British Museum Press, the Swedish Institutes at Athens and Rome, and
 Michigan University Press. We have also provided expertise to major commercial publishers
 such as Bloomsbury, De Gruyter and Routledge. We maintain the highest standards of research
 by peer reviewing for the best-known journals as well as international and more specialised
 journals based in the UK, Europe and the US. We also edit reviews for the Journal of Hellenic
 Studies (Haywood), Material Religion, and The Jugaad Project (Hughes) review regularly on
 reception for Greece & Rome (Paul) and selectively review other books.

 We support PGRS nationally through thesis examination in the UK for PhDs at Durham,
 Edinburgh, Kent, King’s College London, Leicester, Liverpool, Roehampton, Royal Holloway,
 and University College London and an MPhil in Warwick. Internationally, we have examined
 PhDs for Madrid, Florence, Bergen and Uppsala and an MPhil at Queensland.

 We play various roles in research organisations and members of the UOA sit on The Institute of
 Classical Studies Research Promotion and Facilitation Committee (Barker), the Virgil Society
 Council (Yamagata), the Council of the Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies (Plastow)
 and the Archaeology Committee of the Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies as Vice
 Chair (Rothe). Plastow is treasurer of Women’s Classical Committee, Paul is chair of the
 CUCD education committee and Robson is Honorary Secretary of the Classical Association
 (CA).

 The collaborative ethos extends to conference hosting and organization that has led to the
 production of eight edited volumes since 2014 with two more in progress. In 2017 the OU co-
 organised the Classical Association Conference, the leading national Classics conference, with
 the University of Kent. In other major conferences Robson joined the organising committee and
 national committee for FIEC/CA 2019 and Rothe is a co-organiser of the postponed 2020
 Roman Archaeology Conference. Members of the UOA regularly attend conferences in the UK
 and abroad, presenting invited papers, including keynotes, most recently at Sensual Reflections:
 Re-Thinking the Role of the Senses in the Greco-Roman World, Cambridge (2018).


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We contribute to the organisation of scientific meetings and workshops including Linked Pasts,
 an annual public symposium that brings together researchers, data scientists and cultural
 heritage groups to address challenges to digitally interlinking historical resources. It has been
 held at London, Madrid, Stanford, Mainz, Bordeaux and virtually. Barker supports
 interdisciplinary national and international research priorities through multiple European and US
 working groups setting the agenda and developing digital infrastructure related to Classics and
 the Humanities, including Europeana Research Infrastructures for Humanities Research; ERC-
 funded Spatial Humanities: Texts, GIS, Places and Linked Data and Digital Pedagogy in
 Classical, Islamic and Mediaeval studies at Tufts.

 Our research achievements have been recognised by the award of numerous fellowships
 to enhance research at major overseas institutions. Since 2014 positions have been held at the
 Freie Universität Berlin (Barker), National Hellenic Research Foundation, Athens (Barker);
 British School at Rome (Perkins, Rothe); Université Paris X Ouest-Nanterre (Robson); Keio
 University (Yamagata) and The Australian National University, Canberra (Yamagata). In 2015
 Swift won a Philip Leverhulme Prize, awarded by the Leverhulme Trust to 'recognise the
 achievement of outstanding researchers'.

 4.3 Contributions to the economy and society
 Our engaged approach to research yields social and economic benefits beyond those detailed
 above and in the ICSs. The Place of Uni exhibition held in the Museo Archeologico in Artimino in
 2017, was designed to illustrate the social, cultural and economic functions of the Etruscan
 sanctuary at Poggio Colla and build public understanding of cultural heritage. One of the
 exhibits, an image of childbirth (published by Perkins in 2012), independently inspired a
 theatrical production of an especially written drama about ancient Etruscan and modern
 childbirth, Hellebore, the gold ingot, and the charm on the heart: the story of Ache, the midwife of
 Poggio Colla. Written by Simone Bellucci, it has a simultaneous archaeological commentary by
 Giuseppina Carlotta Cianferoni, the ex-Superintendent of Archaeology in Tuscany and Curator
 of the National Archaeological Museum in Florence. It was performed by the company
 Archeologia Narrante in the town square of Artimino and subsequently at Castelnuovo di Val di
 Cecina and Dicomano and is viewable on YouTube. Another aspect of this research relating to
 culture, traditions, food and diet benefitted a different audience, featuring in etruscans@expo
 hosted by the University of Milan, part of the Universal Exposition Expo 2015 the theme of which
 was "Feeding the Planet, Energy for Life".

 In a different vein, Swift’s 2016 book Greek Tragedy: Themes and Contexts contributes to
 secondary education, feeding directly into Greek Theatre and Imperial Image, a 2017 textbook
 co-written with schoolteachers, that supports the specification for the OCR AS and A-Level
 Classical Civilisation syllabus and is published by Bloomsbury. We are a partner in Advocating
 Classics Education and provide research-derived school outreach activities such as talks and
 events, along with many open access educational resources available from our webpages.
 Topics taken to schools include togas, dress and Roman society, beauty, sexuality and desire
 and Homer. These are complemented by online lectures on MASSOLIT (Barker, Robson,
 Swift), enabling our research to impact upon school audiences yet more widely.

 Consequent to our strategy to undertake engaged research, we conduct a range of activities that
 communicate the outcomes of our research to a wider public. We do this through specific
 events, engagement with social media and using the OU’s institutional platforms for providing
 research led OER. Some of these events are integral to research projects and constitute
 pathways to impact. For example, in 2017-19 Barker organised Recogito workshops at: Historic
 England, London; Getty Institute on Ancient Itineraries, Athens; the Society for Classical Studies,
 San Diego; Library of Congress, Washington DC; Ashmolean Museum; and the Fitzwilliam
 Museum. The Votives Project led by Graham and Hughes, is a virtual network of people from
 different backgrounds who study, create or use votive offerings that facilitates dialogue between
 academics and religious practitioners. The Dr Toga website channels Rothe’s expertise to
 provide information and help on Roman costumes for TV, theatre, reconstruction groups.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our media work is coordinated at Faculty level by an Open Media Fellow, currently Paul (from
 2019), who liaises with communications and media units within the University and provides a
 bridge to BBC production teams, our free online learning platform OpenLearn and other OER
 teams. This enables our research expertise to inform TV, radio and online learning provision for
 wider societal benefits and impacts. We use our unique reach and infrastructure to channel our
 research into OER that are freely available to all on the internet. These have a variety of levels
 of complexity and formality ranging from: a full-scale FutureLearn MOOC Health and Wellbeing
 in the Ancient World, derived from King’s research, to short courses on OpenLearn such as
 Introducing Homer's Iliad (Plastow) (see 3.3). In partnership with the BBC, TV programmes
 benefit from our academic input, channelling our research into, for example, Ancient Greece:
 The Greatest Show on Earth (0.4 million viewers). We also create videos, animations such as
 Lysistrata by Aristophanes and write articles for The Conversation such as ‘What the Romans
 can teach us on immigration and integration’. The most read is ‘The obscure history of the
 ‘virgin’s disease’ that could be cured with sex’ by King who has had 985,926 hits on her 12
 articles to date. We have contributed research led OER on a huge range of topics including myth
 (James, Hughes), the body in antiquity (Rothe), women’s health (King), comedy (Robson) and
 Rome (Betts, Graham), in all generating 51,003 enrolments and 13,309 awards on OpenLearn
 courses as well as 247,211 unique views of articles.




                                                                                           Page 14
