Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London South Bank University

 Unit of Assessment: 24 - Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Unit Context

 This submission presents the research activities of the Sport and Exercise Science Research
 Centre (SESRC) established at London South Bank University (LSBU) in 1994. SESRC’s long-
 term strategic vision is to conduct and promote research in Sport and Exercise related Sciences
 that is scientifically excellent, innovative and rigorous, as well as relevant and impactful on our
 communities and stakeholders. In the pursuit of achieving this vision, SESRC undertakes
 activities that address major scientific priorities and societal challenges related to sport
 performance, physical activity and health, sport and exercise behaviours and related
 technological innovations.

 Led by 5-year research and impact strategies, aligned to LSBU Corporate Plans and supported
 by steadily increasing income and capacity, SESRC has built a thriving research environment
 and achieved sustained international recognition as a hub for excellent and impactful
 fundamental research in Sports and Exercise Sciences. SESRC research quality, volume and
 intensity achieved consistently high and increased rankings in the Research Assessment
 Exercises from 1996 onwards (RAE1996; RAE2001; RAE2008). Moreover, in REF2014 SESRC
 submitted 100% eligible staff and received a 75% internationally excellent (3*) rating for its
 Research Environment and 90% for Impact, with 67% of outputs rated at world leading (4*/3*)
 level. In the REF2021 cycle, our strategic investment in research expertise, doctoral
 scholarships, high-profile collaborations and infrastructure stimulated substantial increase in the
 volume, quality and outreach of our research activities that exceeded our targets set in 2014.
 The team has grown by 13% and attracted 50% more income from research grants compared to
 REF2014. In collaboration with 90 partner universities we published 155 research outputs (14
 outputs/FTE), 36% of which rank within the top 25% Field-Weighted Citation Percentile. The
 team supervised 2.5-fold more PhD students and doubled the doctoral degree awards that were
 supported with full and matched-funded scholarships with partner organisations. SESRC
 researchers won esteemed advisory positions and prizes and contributed to the economy and
 society via partnerships with more than 20 business and non-profit organisations.

 b. Unit Structure and Research Approach

 SESRC is hosted within the Division of Human Sciences (DHS) of the School of Applied
 Sciences at LSBU. DHS has a tradition for delivering research-informed teaching and on the
 REF census date (31-July-2021) comprised 19 (17.6FTE) academic staff, of whom 15 (13.6FTE;
 77%) are independent researchers with significant responsibility for research. Of them, 12
 (10.6FTE) conduct research within the UoA24 domain descriptor and all (100%) are core
 SESRC members who have been returned in this submission. These include three Professors:
 Karamanidis, Mileva, Raab; three Associate Professors: de Oliveira, Gaoua, Hunter: four Senior
 Lecturers: Borges, Epro, James, Seeley; and two postdoctoral Research Fellows: AminiAghdam,
 Zaidell. In the REF2021 period, five leading researchers (5FTE, 47%) from research-intensive
 international organisations (2-Germany, 1-Iran, 1-Portugal and 1-Qatar) joined the team. These
 appointments were strategic and allowed SESRC to enhance its international standing not only
 in areas of traditional strength [neuromechanics (James, Mileva, Seeley), exercise physiology
 (Hunter, Zaidell) and sport psychology (de Oliveira, Raab)] but also in areas of emerging
 significance, such as musculoskeletal biomechanics (AminiAghdam, Epro, Karamanidis)
 environmental psychophysiology (Gaoua) and sports coaching (Borges)].

 Five field experts were appointed as Visiting Scholars to augment our expertise with
 complementary skills and disciplines. These are: in musculoskeletal and clinical biomechanics
 Dr Cook (Head Coach, Norwegian taekwondo team) and Professor Solan (Consultant Trauma

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Orthopaedics surgeon at Royal Surrey County Hospital and the London Foot and Ankle
 Centre); in environmental sport psychophysiology Professor Racinais (Head of Research in
 Aspetar, Qatar) and Associate Professor Girard (University of Western Australia); and in sport
 coaching and performance Dr Cooke (Senior Leader for High Performance Sport, Western
 Australia Institute of Sport).

 Since REF2014, SESRC research has been consolidated around two multidisciplinary themes,
 which are distinctive in their methodological approaches but are united by SESRC’s mission to
 conduct excellent and impactful research in sport performance, physical activity and health:

 Mind and Motion (Raab leader). The research conducted under this theme focuses on the
 reciprocal interactions between perception, action and cognition and their implications in sport
 and exercise settings. In collaboration with national and international partners, our experts in
 embodied cognition (Raab), perception-action (de Oliveira), cognitive psychology (Gaoua),
 coaching (Borges), elite athletic performance (Epro), exercise physiology and metabolism
 (Zaidell), strength and conditioning (Hunter) and motor control (Mileva) apply behavioural and
 psychophysiological methods to investigate the role of environment in the development and
 maintenance of expert decision making and healthy-lifestyle behaviours. The most prominent
 theoretical, methodological and empirical innovations that have emerged from the research
 programmes run during the REF2021 cycle align within three major dimensions:

       Understanding mechanisms of human behaviour from an embodied cognition
        perspective.
       Exploring person-environment interactions from an ecological rationality perspective.
       Examining human behaviour and performance from a psychophysiological perspective.

 The integration of perspectives from core disciplines like psychology, physiology and
 neuroscience enables our projects to advance fundamental knowledge across theoretical
 borders and formulate research perspectives and recommendations for sport practice and
 physical activity promotion, as evidenced in our REF2021 Impact Case Study ‘This Girl Can
 Lambeth’ (section 1e).

 Body and Movement (Karamanidis leader). Under this theme, we conduct research that aims to
 improve understanding of the plasticity of the neuro-musculoskeletal system due to physical
 activity, injury, ageing and pathology. This is achieved by integration of general expertise in
 Sport and Exercise Sciences with specialisms in gait biomechanics and trunk posture
 (AminiAghdam), muscle-tendon neuromechanics (Epro, James, Karamanidis), cortical (Seeley),
 sensorimotor (Mileva) and visuomotor (de Oliveira) control of movement. In a collaborative
 environment, the team combines knowledge and experimental techniques from biomechanics,
 motor control, physiology and neuroscience to study the complex interactions between the
 constantly adapting neural and musculoskeletal systems along three dimensions:

       Exploring skeletal and muscle-tendon mechanosensitivity from the perspective of
        physiological, structural and morphological changes across adulthood.
       Understanding the dynamics of neuromuscular and mechanical interplay that govern
        effective and stable human movement.
       Investigating the aetiology, prevention and rehabilitation of musculoskeletal injuries in the
        fields of sport and physical activity.

 The projects completed and the outputs published with this approach have brought international
 recognition to the team for its insights into the mechanisms underlying the plasticity of human
 movement control and regulation in healthy and pathological conditions. Based on this
 knowledge the team has developed strategies for improved performance and health across the
 adult lifespan and generated practical recommendations for sports, clinical settings, communities
 and the ageing individual. Our REF2021 Impact Case Study ‘Temulab’ illustrates how the



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research under this theme has driven technological innovation for enhanced sport performance
 (section 1e).

 c. Research Strategy and Achievements

 In its REF2014 submission, the SESRC set the following strategic aims for the succeeding five-
 year period: i) grow the volume and vitality of the team; ii) strengthen our scientific reputation,
 research power and international footprint; iii) enrich our research infrastructure through
 increased income, partnerships and facilities; iv) enhance the impact from our fundamental and
 applied research. To achieve these aims, the 2015-2020 SESRC Research Strategy focused on:

 AIM 1. Enhancing the team’s research excellence to facilitate strategic scientific and
  industrial collaborations and partnerships. In the REF2021 cycle, the team has grown by
  13% compared to REF2014 (10.6 FTE vs 9.4 FTE) and achieved five (47% FTE) strategic
  appointments and seven (66% FTE) staff promotions. The team has implemented a new
  publication strategy informed by annual internal and external evaluations conducted by 11
  external field-experts (four from UK and seven from leading EU universities). Consequently, the
  quality of our research outputs has significantly increased. The team has published 155 peer-
  reviewed research outputs (118 original research; 37 editorial, review and perspective articles,
  books and book chapters; an average of 14 outputs/FTE), 36% of which rank within the top
  25% Field-Weighted Citation Percentile (7% in the top 10 percentile) and 32% attained an
  above the field-average Field-Weighted Citation Impact (FWCI>1) with a peak of FWCI=7.5.

  82% of SESRC outputs apply multidisciplinary methodologies and 91% are co-authored with
  scientists from 90 UK, EU and worldwide partner universities and organisations (on average by
  five co-authors, 77% co-authored with researchers from outside of the UK). Through dedicated
  support for exchanged visits (Table 1.11-12), co-production of research outputs, joint funding
  bids, PhD co-supervision and seminars, SESRC has achieved recognition as a favoured
  partner for research expertise, innovation and policy consultancy. This is evidenced by SESRC
  members being: elected to national and international advisory and management boards of
  scientific and professional institutions and government agencies; awarded honorary positions;
  and invited to chair sessions, deliver keynotes and organise international scientific forums
  (Table 1.1-3). These achievements have allowed the team to contribute to new trends in
  research and to inform new sport and physical activity practices, policies, and programmes.

 AIM 2. Securing funding support for interdisciplinary fundamental research with high
  translational potential to advance knowledge and underpin innovative solutions and
  recommendations to healthcare and sports performance problems. Since 2016 and in
  recognition of its high performance, SESRC has earned considerable autonomy within LSBU to
  manage its own income streams and invest the annual budget according to strategic priorities.
  By following a mixed strategy of undertaking both high and medium risk bidding opportunities
  combined with doctoral research fully or matched-funded with external partner-organisations,
  the team has earned £1,835,251 of research funding (20% increase compared to REF2014) to
  invest within our research environment (section 3a). Both SESRC Research Fellows (one per
  research theme) are also fully or co-funded by external partners (AminiAghdam –
  OrthoSportLab GmbH; Zaidell - Sport England).

 AIM 3. Investing in world-class facilities and research techniques. Since 2014, SESRC has
  invested £808,701 to modernise and augment the research infrastructure available to the team
  for research, innovation and teaching. With dedicated grants for research capital from external
  partners (£300,000) and LSBU QR funding (£304,313), SESRC established two brand new
  laboratories equipped for advanced research in Neuromechanics of Human Movement and
  Environmental Psychophysiology. Income from the London Agri-Food Innovation Clinic project
  (LAFIC, see section 3a) and a HEFCE Catalyst grant (£204,388) supported the modernisation
  of the extant (Gait analysis, Elite Human Performance, Exercise Physiology and Nutrition and
  Neuromechanics) laboratories with state-of-the art technology (section 3b).


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 AIM 4. Increasing the vitality and sustainability of our research by increasing the number
  of doctoral, postdoctoral and visiting researchers. In the REF2021 cycle, the team
  supervised 2.5 times more PhD students (25 vs 10) and achieved 1.9 times more completions
  (10 vs 5.2) compared to REF2014. In addition to the 25 students registered at LSBU (2.4/FTE;
  11 International and 14 UK), the team co-supervised further eight PhD students (six awards)
  based at partner-universities (Table 1.8). Since 2014, SESRC also hosted 10 international
  scholars from the UK, EU, Saudi Arabia, Brazil and Russia for postdoctoral training and
  professional career development. In 2017, SESRC won support from the UK Fulbright
  Commission and the US Department of State to host a Fulbright Specialist from Long Island
  University in New York. This project yielded a lasting research partnership and facilitated the
  international translation of our ‘This Girl Can Lambeth’ project design in the USA.

  SESRC attained an increased capacity and competency for doctoral supervision via staff-
  development and mentoring initiatives, supported by LSBU’s Researcher Development
  Concordat and the Visiting Scholars as external PhD supervisors and staff mentors. As a
  result:
     45% of the 155 research outputs published by SESRC in the REF2021 period have
         resulted from doctoral research and were co-authored with PhD students.
     Our PhD students won 13 prestigious national and international awards for best research
         and innovation (Table 1.4).
     All 10 PhD students who graduated since 2014 have progressed in the year of their
         completion into competitive postdoctoral, professional and academic positions at LSBU
         (Epro), national (e.g., University of East London, British College of Osteopathic Medicine,
         Guy’s and St. Thomas’s NHS Foundation Trust, Astellas Pharma, Fortius Clinic) and
         international (e.g., Frontiers Media, SmartStep Consulting GmbH) organisations.

 d. Facilitating and Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 Our philosophy. SESRC’s thematic and project-specific, rather than disciplinary and group-
 based approach to research follows a 27-year tradition of facilitating and supporting
 interdisciplinarity, multidisciplinarity and transdisciplinarity. We define interdisciplinarity as an
 approach that goes beyond multidisciplinarity by seeking to analyse, synthesize and harmonise
 links between research disciplines into a coordinated and coherent whole. We apply
 transdisciplinary approaches to project design to move beyond the traditional boundaries
 between natural, social and health sciences. This philosophy has enabled us to create a vibrant
 research environment, underpinned by a culture of integrity and support between members with
 expertise spanning the core disciplines of Sport and Exercise Sciences and operating in
 multidisciplinary labs and interdisciplinary PhD offices to run transdisciplinary fundamental and
 applied projects. This environment has facilitated SESRC’s ability to generate insights that
 respond to the needs of the sport and public health domains and transform the lives of
 individuals, communities and businesses.

 Our achievements. To fulfil its philosophy, SESRC has fostered strategic relationships with, and
 worked alongside, researchers from other universities and disciplines as well as public and
 professional stakeholders. We have achieved:

       Increase of international research collaborations with world-leading scientists and
        teams, which facilitated the production of excellent interdisciplinary research outputs and
        doctoral projects, impactful funding proposals, joint seminars and colloquia, and staff and
        PhD exchange visits (Table 1.11-12). Raab and de Oliveira are part of a large-scale
        consortium of universities set to improve understanding of multi-task integration in implicit
        motor learning and performance, and the psychophysiological correlates of core
        executive functions. Karamanidis, Epro and Seeley work with leading teams from
        Humboldt University Berlin, Liverpool John Moores University and Koblenz University
        among others, in the fields of muscle-tendon unit adaptations with ageing and during
        rehabilitation from sport related injuries, as well as dynamic postural stability training for
        fall prevention. AminiAghdam and Karamanidis collaborated with the Friedrich Schiller

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        University in Jena to study the role of trunk orientation on the kinetic patterns during
        locomotion on uneven ground and gait perturbation. Mileva explored the
        neuromechanical and metabolic determinants of fatigue during exercise and
        immobilisation (with University of Exeter) and in response to different training loads in
        elite cyclists (with British Cycling) and varying levels of gravitational unloading (with
        King’s College London, the Institute of Movement and Neurosciences at the German
        Sport University and the European Astronaut Centre in Cologne). With partners from the
        University of Western Australia, Murdock University and The Altitude Centre, Gaoua and
        Hunter gained insights into the benefits of hypoxic training in exercise programmes for
        overweight-to-obese individuals. Joint projects with clinical experts identified
        biomechanical gait parameters that inform rehabilitation practice for stroke survivors
        (James with King’s College London and Guy’s and St Thomas’s Hospital London) and
        optimised the use of neuromuscular electrical stimulation as an adjunct therapy for hallux
        valgus deformity (James, Mileva and Karamanidis with Royal Surrey County Hospital).
       Expansion of methodological capacity of our on-campus laboratories by winning
        grants for use of national facilities (£17,700; Diamond Light Source, Ltd; Science &
        Technology Facilities Council) and gaining access to exclusive research facilities and
        expertise based at partner-organisations. These include: fMRI at the University of Exeter;
        Indoor Olympic cycling track at the British National Cycling Centre in Manchester;
        Environmental chambers in FIFA’s Medical Centre of Excellence Aspetar in Qatar;
        Vertical treadmill in the Institute of Aerospace medicine in Germany; Motion Analysis
        systems at the Institute of Biomechanics and Orthopaedics at the German Sport
        University.
       Integration of SESRC scientific expertise with practical perspectives from elite sport
        and clinical environments by engaging Visiting Scholars (section 1b) as external doctoral
        co-supervisors. In the REF2021 period, these interdisciplinary teams co-supervised six
        PhD projects (two completions), co-authored 12 peer-reviewed publications, and
        attracted £110,000 in funding from sport and health business and non-profit
        organisations in the UK (The Altitude Centre, British School of Osteopathy, Guy’s and St.
        Thomas’s NHS Foundation Trust, English Institute of Sport, and British Orthopaedic Foot
        and Ankle Society) and the EU (BodyCap Ltd, France).
       Implementation of a research co-production approach by engaging with external
        stakeholders in the design and the delivery of our projects. This approach has facilitated
        direct translation of SESRC fundamental research into: i) new product design and
        development; ii) methodological innovation; and iii) recommendations for improved
        practice of policy makers, local governments and sport and health practitioners (section
        1e). In July 2020, a partnership of five LSBU research centres, including SESRC, won
        approximately £1,500,000 award from NIHR to form one of the four national Public
        Health Intervention Responsive Studies Teams (PHIRST–London), which is tasked with
        evaluating local government schemes aiming to influence public health and health
        inequalities. This is an outstanding example of success in fostering interdisciplinarity and
        building research and civic partnerships.

 e. Impact Strategy

 SESRC’s vision for contributing to the economy and society is realised by working closely with
 external stakeholders. Our targeted beneficiaries are local communities, athletes and sports
 practitioners, clinicians, the health and sports services and industry, and policy makers. We offer
 them high research standards and high-level expertise, and we support them with
 internationalisation, an understanding of benefactors’ needs, and public engagement and
 dissemination. Our research engages vulnerable, marginalised, excluded or hard-to-reach
 groups to investigate the barriers to sustainable engagement in sport and exercise and inform
 communal sport and fitness programmes. Research involving elite and recreational athletes
 informs the development of biotechnologies that improve the practice of sports and physical
 activity and lead to optimised sport performance and quality of life.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Key to SESRC’s Impact strategy are: i) building national and international strategic
 relationships, partnerships and collaborations; ii) staff competence development and mentoring;
 iii) planning for and monitoring the impact component in funding applications; and iv) stakeholder
 engagement. Since 2008, the establishment of SESRC’s Human Performance Centre has
 facilitated impact by identifying, from the team’s research, the activities and ideas with impact
 potential and providing effective pathways for their development. Our major pathways to
 impact are:

       Engagement of SESRC members as scientific advisors to regulatory agencies, health
        and sports organisations and public bodies (Table 1.1).
       Implementation of research-informed diagnostic technology and software assisting
        training programmes for athletes and clinical decisions for prevention and rehabilitation
        from injury.
       Facilitation of practitioners’ use of research outcomes in conducting their work.
       Influencing adoption of research evidence in the practice of local government, NHS
        Clinical Commissioning Groups, sports/leisure providers and education institutes.
       Raising awareness of the individual and community benefits from engaging in sport, and
        following healthy and active lifestyles (Table 1.10).

 Key to realising impact from these pathways is SESRC’s engagement with stakeholders for
 designing practice-informed research projects that allow the simultaneous advancement of
 knowledge and achievement of impact. Our REF2021 Impact Case Studies, presenting the ‘This
 Girl Can Lambeth’ and ‘Temulab’ projects, are significant testimonials for the mutual benefits
 from this approach. Combined, these projects have attracted £556,000 investment into SESRC
 research.

 The first project (Mileva, de Oliveira and Zaidell) formulated recommendations for effective
 strategies to engage young women in sport and physical activity that have: i) informed Lambeth
 Council’s approach for future service commissioning and sport and leisure provision; ii)
 influenced Sports England’s 10-year community sports vision, Uniting Movement; and iii) were
 internationally translated. The findings from the research projects conducted by de Oliveira,
 Mileva and Zaidell in collaboration with Lambeth and Southwark Councils and local charities
 (Table 1.9) were referenced in the recommendations on how to get the nation moving through
 sport and physical activity, submitted by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences
 in December 2020 to the House of Commons’ Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select
 Committee. In 2017, Borges, Gaoua and Mileva set a partnership with member-organisations
 from the UK Sport for Development Network to explore how sport-based activities can facilitate
 community development and prevent young people’s involvement in antisocial behaviours. The
 research findings were outlined in a response to the recent call from the House of Lords’
 Committee on a National Plan for Sport and Recreation for evidence on “How can we lead more
 active lifestyles?”

 The second project, led by Karamanidis and Epro, realised impact on coaching practice for
 preparation of elite athletes for major competitions by the developed and patented mobile device
 Temulab®. The device instantaneously diagnoses athletes’ susceptibility to Achilles tendon
 overuse injury. It has also been adopted in private medical practice (Lanserhof at the Arts Club
 London) to enhance interventions that involve therapeutic exercises for knee osteoarthritis,
 Achilles tendinopathy, Anterior Cruciate Ligament rupture and fall prevention. Lanserhof has
 also implemented use of software developed by the SESRC team in their practice, in
 collaboration with OrthoSport GmbH, for automated analysis and enhancement of muscle-
 tendon structure and function in recreational athletes. The cooperation with the company
 Protendon GmbH & Co.KG led to the development of several other products including Temutrain
 and Temuplate. The German Olympic Athletic Training Centres in Rhineland and Hessen are
 using these devices to analyse muscle-tendon structure and function in elite track-and-field
 athletes. The knowledge accumulated via these partnerships has opened pathways for further
 clinical applications of these devices; for example, to study mechanically- and virtually- induced
 perturbations to gait in order to test and improve fall-resisting skills in the healthy and in

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pathological conditions (collaboration between Karamanidis and German Social Accident
 Insurance).

 f. Research Governance

 SESRC is managed by a team led by Mileva since 2013. It develops SESRC research and
 impact strategies and monitors their delivery. The Theme Leaders (Raab and Karamanidis)
 oversee the implementation of the research strategy and facilitate interdisciplinary research
 activities. The Impact Leader (James) interacts with the Theme Leads to facilitate and monitor
 the implementation of SESRC Impact strategy. All members fulfil task-management roles to
 monitor progress with grant proposals and delivery, publications, partnership and infrastructure
 developments, esteem and dissemination activities. The executive team works closely with the
 School of Applied Sciences’ Director of Research and Enterprise and LSBU’s Central Research,
 Enterprise and Innovation Department. In the annual SESRC review and half-yearly 360°-
 monitoring meetings, the SESRC members reflect on achievements and research priorities.
 Monthly PhD and staff research presentations, interdisciplinary seminars and invited-guest talks
 facilitate development of a collaborative culture via task- and person-oriented research
 management. All senior researchers contribute to the School’s mentoring program (section 2a).

 g. Research Strategy 2021-2026

 From 2021 onwards, SESRC is modernising its research structures in response to the enhanced
 research capability of its members, the improved facilities and the expanded and strengthened
 network of stakeholders and international collaborators. Three new and distinctive research
 themes have emerged: i) Performance and Exercise Psychology; ii) Musculoskeletal
 Biomechanics; and iii) Environmental Physiology. The shift to more specialist themes will further
 strengthen SESRC’s research output quality and the focussed recognition of SESRC’s expertise
 by the wider research and professional community. Specific topics (e.g., fatigue, sports
 performance, ageing) will facilitate collaboration between and beyond the three themes and, in
 addition, will enhance the Human Performance Centre’s ability to attract stakeholders, develop
 sustainable projects and meet client needs. Our focus for 2021-2026 will be to consolidate the
 three interdisciplinary research themes through an optimised governance structure and
 infrastructure that delivers world-leading research, societal impact and innovation.

 Our strategic aims for 2021-2026 are to:
     Enhance the rigour, significance and impact of our research outputs by employing
        advanced fundamental and applied approaches to investigate and address real-world
        challenges in the areas of sport performance, physical activity, ageing and health.
     Enrich our research environment by increasing the vitality of our postgraduate and
        postdoctoral research, and supporting the research career development of staff.
     Increase the translational impact of our research by developing new and existing
        partnerships for consultancy and innovation to improve sport performance, medical
        practice and health in our communities via our Human Performance Centre.

 To achieve these aims, SESRC will nurture a more equitable, supportive and inclusive
 environment. Hence, we are committed to achieving the following activity targets:
     Enhance our research productivity through mechanisms such as staff development and
        sabbaticals, funding support for early career researchers and recruitment of high-quality
        staff from all career stages based on research fit, record of accomplishment and
        potential.
     Increase our scientific influence and recognition through publishing at least two outputs
        per FTE per year of international significance in collaboration with leading scientific
        partners as well as by organising annual joint research symposia and exchange training
        programmes.
     Attract higher income (at least 30% per FTE) from key funding bodies, research contracts
        and grants for doctoral scholarships and postdoctoral fellowships, with a specific focus
        on the Big Science research agendas related to physical activity, health and ageing.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Focus on recruitment of high-quality postgraduate research students by developing new,
        internationally competitive PhD research projects with high-profile partners and world-
        leading research departments (two new studentships per year).
       Strengthen and expand our collaborations with key local and international stakeholders in
        our research by instigating joint projects and funding bids, translation into practice and
        dissemination of our research insights.
       Align the activities of the Human Performance Centre with the three new research
        themes to ensure that our research results in clinical and sports application.

 2. People

 a. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 At the REF2021 census date, SESRC comprised 12 academic staff members (10.6FTE), with
 100% eligible staff returned in this submission. Of them, four were returned to REF2014 (de
 Oliveira, James, Mileva, Raab). During the REF2021 period, seven staff left LSBU to take on
 more senior positions in other academic and business organisations. This has allowed the unit to
 make strategic enhancement of expertise that aligns better with the priority research themes.
 The SESRC staffing strategy employed the following mechanisms to enhance research capacity
 and support academics in realising their potential:

       Recruitment of experts from international research-intensive organisations at various
        stages of their career with competences aligning to, or strengthening, our interdisciplinary
        research themes (section 1b).
       Career development support to SESRC members wishing to enhance their research
        portfolio and gain promotion. The SESRC provides members with career mentoring and
        assistance to engage in collaborations; covers open access publication fees and
        facilitates opportunities to win seed-corn funding for small pilot projects; reduces teaching
        and administrative loads; and arranges access to unique equipment. All newly recruited
        staff and those returning after prolonged leave receive seed-corn funding as well as
        mentoring support by an experienced SESRC member. This includes, but is not limited
        to: discussions around career development; familiarisation with the research environment
        and processes at LSBU; and joint development and reviewing of grant applications and
        research publications.
       Promotion of a thriving and inclusive research culture via mentoring to facilitate
        independence in research by writing research papers, developing funding applications,
        gaining supervisory experience and/or a doctoral degree. Since 2014, two academics
        from DHS with expertise in sport and exercise science but without Significant
        Responsibility for Research (SRR) in their workload (Hunter, Seeley) and one early
        career researcher (Zaidell) met the LSBU SRR criteria and became core SESRC
        members. Three further academics have enrolled on part-time PhD studies at SESRC.

 To develop their research management skills, SESRC members have access to centrally
 organised training and gain hands-on experience by involvement in PhD supervisory teams led
 by a more experienced member. SESRC also facilitates staff engagement in networking by
 funding presentations at scientific events, exchange visits for training, setting up collaborative
 projects and development of joint publications. SESRC offers mentoring to PhD students
 seeking postdoctoral positions after completion. Since 2014, career development of SESRC
 members was supported with £741,202 funding from LSBU QR and members’ external income.
 Overall disbursement was £354,854 as PhD fee-waivers and matched-funding, £304,313 for
 research equipment, £62,035 seed-corn funding and £20,000 for open access publications. This
 strategy has resulted in the promotion of eight SESRC members (67%) across all career stages:
 Mileva to Professor A; Karamanidis to Professor B; de Oliveira, Hunter and Gaoua to Associate
 Professor; Borges, Epro and James to Senior Lecturer.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b. Research Students

 In 2013/14 SESRC had 4 students (2.5FTE) studying for a doctoral degree, which increased by
 4-fold to 16 (14FTE) students (12 studying on full-time and 4 on a part-time basis) in 2019/2020.
 In the REF2021 cycle, overall 25 PhD students were enrolled (2.4 per staff FTE) and 10 doctoral
 completions achieved. Compared to REF2014, this represents a 2.5-fold increase for registered
 PhD projects and 60% more completions. SESRC trained 11 overseas (7-EU; 1-USA; 3-Asia)
 and 14 UK PhD students, which created a thriving multicultural postgraduate research
 community of students studying on either a full-time (16) or part-time (9) basis. Of the trained
 PhD students, 48% gained scholarships matched-funded by external partners (section 3a), 32%
 won full scholarships from SESRC and the School of Applied Sciences, and 20% were self-
 funded. Since 2016, our PhD students won 13 prestigious awards for best research and
 innovation at national and international events (Table 1.4). These achievements establish that
 the SESRC has successfully created a research environment that fulfilled its strategy for growing
 the size of our PhD community and the team’s international reputation for excellent postgraduate
 education.

 To attract the best candidates, in addition to the standard approach for student recruitment on a
 competitive basis, we advertise and promote open PhD positions at SESRC by staff
 presentations at our partner universities worldwide. This approach and the provision of PhD
 scholarships has attracted strong international PhD students. Dedicated multidisciplinary teams
 of minimum two staff members from each research theme supervise each student to stimulate
 an interdisciplinary approach and incorporate both mechanistic and applied aspects of the
 investigated topics. Consultants from the external partner-organisations also actively contribute
 to project supervision, student training and dissemination activities, which has increased their
 competencies and employment prospects.

 The School of Applied Sciences has a dedicated Director for Postgraduate Research
 (Karamanidis since 2019), who works closely with the elected student representative.
 Karamanidis, Mileva and the student representative are members of the Research Board of
 Study, which manages postgraduate training at LSBU. SESRC supports, from its own QR
 budget, the additional needs of all students for research expenses, project-specific training,
 networking and small-scale equipment. Our postgraduate students occupy two fully-equipped
 open-space offices and share two common rooms with staff and other PhD students, facilitating
 informal meetings and research discussions.

 To enhance their scientific competencies and communication skills our PhD students present
 their work at the bi-monthly SESRC research seminars, the bi-annual School postgraduate mini-
 conference, the annual LSBU postgraduate conference organised by LSBU’s London Doctoral
 Academy and the PhD colloquium (webinar) co-organised with Humboldt University in Berlin.
 They also receive annual travel grants to present at national and international scientific
 conferences. Strategically, our supervisors engage PhD students in writing research bids and
 submitting research manuscripts to high-quality peer-reviewed journals. Our PhD students are
 co-authors on 45% of SESRC’s 155 outputs in the REF2021 period and have won awards as
 lead authors of research papers, young investigators and three international prizes for best
 thesis (Table 1.4). The students are also encouraged and supported by staff to teach on our
 undergraduate courses, engage in knowledge transfer and gain work experience via our
 collaborations with the sports and health industries, clinical and community settings, and elite
 sport organisations. They have visited and run studies alongside experts at the Olympic Training
 Centre Rhineland, German Social Accident Insurance, the FIFA Medical Centre of Excellence in
 Qatar, the national centres of British Swimming in Loughborough and British Cycling in
 Manchester, and the medical centre of Lanserhof at the Arts Club, London (among others).

 c. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 Since its establishment, SESRC has been fully committed to excellence in research and
 research training by creating an environment that fosters equality, diversity and inclusivity of all

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 members. SESRC membership consists of 12 (10.6FTE) independent researchers (67% men,
 33% women) and a balance across career levels - three senior, five mid-career and four early-
 career researchers. Staff is aged between 30 and 70 years (mean 45) and holds membership
 over 2 to 25 years (mean 9.5). Currently, 17% of SESRC members identify themselves of mixed
 ethnicity, 8% – BAME, 50% – white/non-British and 25% – white/British ethnic origin. Of our 25
 PhD students: 12 are female (48%) and 13 (52%) male (52%); 19% are of BAME, 7% of mixed,
 37% of white/non-British and 37% of white/British ethnic origin.

 We respect the impact of personal and professional factors on individual experiences. This
 philosophy has promoted staff affinity for projects requiring elevated levels of social engagement
 and understanding of multicultural dynamics. LSBU EDI Policy and The Concordat for
 Researcher Development are fully integrated in our strategy and processes for supporting,
 monitoring and developing members’ careers at any stage. Mileva is the School’s representative
 to LSBU’s Researcher Development Group, established in 2014 to oversee actions and promote
 good practice, for which LSBU gained four EU HR Excellence in Research Awards (2014, 2016,
 2018, and 2020). Staff and PhD research projects are ethically scrutinised by the School’s
 Research Ethics Committee, chaired since 2019 by de Oliveira, who is also a member of the
 University Research Ethics Panel. All members receive training on research ethics and review
 ethics applications. All members have been informed of the principles that define staff return to
 REF2021 assessment and the output evaluation and selection approach set out in the LSBU
 REF2021 Code of Practice. The Equality Impact Assessment of SESRC outputs submitted to
 REF2021 has confirmed that the output attribution to individual members is not biased and that
 the distribution of selected outputs among staff broadly reflects their characteristics.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Income

 The income earned by SESRC in the REF2021 period totals £1,835,251 (£173,137 per FTE;
 £262,179 average annual income), which represents a 20% increase compared to REF2014 and
 has been invested in expanding our research capacity by strategic appointments, new and
 modernised facilities and methodological base. SESRC implemented a strategic approach to
 diversify the income streams with consideration of the changing external funding environment for
 Sport and Exercise Sciences. SESRC income comprises: i) competitive external grants,
 research contracts and in-kind income (£909,661, a 50% increase compared to REF2014); ii)
 £508,701 investment in research capital from HEFCE Catalyst and LSBU QR funds; iii) internal
 QR funding for seed-corn grants (£62,035); and iv) PhD scholarships (£354,854).

 In the REF2021 period, SESRC made a significant investment (£354,854) into full or match-
 funded scholarships additionally supported with £197,000 by external partner organisations.
 Funding partners include the sports and health industries, governmental and charitable
 organisations from the UK (e.g., Sport England, Lambeth Council, British School of Osteopathy,
 Guy’s and St Thomas’ Trust; Active Community Networks, The Altitude Centre, OrthoSportLab)
 and EU (e.g., Body Cap Ltd, France; German Social Accident Insurance). Beginning 2019,
 German Social Accident Insurance has committed £450,000 over six years for research and
 consultancy into falls and occupational safety supported via four bespoke PhD scholarships.

 SESRC won £372,733 funding support from UK and EU health and sport businesses and non-
 profit organisations to conduct a series of contracted research projects. These include:
 development of a new method and prototype orthotic for strengthening the foot musculature
 (James and Mileva; British Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society), collaborative study of the
 impact of coach migration on their performance with the Football Federation in Portugal (Borges,
 UEFA), studies of the benefits from therapies using various physical modalities (e.g., electrical
 muscle and brain stimulation - Mileva and James, whole-body and local vibration - Zaidell,
 cooling strategies and hypoxic exposure - Hunter and Gaoua, and micronutrient intake for faster
 recovery from intensive exercise, preventing sarcopenia, and improving performance and body
 composition – Mileva).

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In 2018, LSBU won two six-year research and enterprise projects, co-funded by the European
 Regional Development Fund (ERDF). The London Agri-Food Innovation Clinic project (LAFIC,
 £2,000,000) supports and promotes research and innovation in London's food businesses, and
 the Simulation for Digital Health project (SimDH, £3,000,000) health technology start-ups and
 SMEs in innovation, development and delivery of new products and services. SESRC
 engagement in the design and delivery of these two projects has so far brought in £126,000 of
 research income.

 Between 2016 and 2019, de Oliveira, Mileva and Zaidell completed a multi-partner project
 funded by a £636,215 grant from Sport England and Lambeth Council to support the design,
 delivery and evaluation of a large-scale community-based intervention programme. The project
 ‘This Girl Can Lambeth’ engaged 5,329 young women (14-25 years old, >50% BAME, 10% with
 disability) and produced rich research data about the benefits, facilitators and barriers to young
 women’s participation in sport and the cost-effectiveness of service commissioning and delivery.

 In 2018, Karamanidis won three research contracts with a cumulative value of £598,000. Over
 three years these contracts invested in: i) SESRC facility development, match-funded PhDs and
 a fellowship position for research into sport injury diagnostics and prevention (Lanserhof at the
 Arts Club, London); ii) development of fall-resisting skills via mechanically- and virtually-induced
 gait perturbations (Koblenz University of Applied Sciences, Germany); and iii) assessment of
 muscle-tendon units for prevention of tendon injuries (OrthoSportLab GmbH).

 b. Infrastructure and Facilities

 Traditionally, SESRC research and innovation activities took place in research laboratories,
 specialising in the main disciplines within sport and exercise science. Since 2014, and in line
 with our strategy for building research with a multidisciplinary thematic focus, SESRC has fully
 reorganised its research and methodological base. A dedicated sport science technician
 manages our lab infrastructure with support from Central Technical Services who offer workshop
 use and a variety of expertise for manufacturing bespoke research devices.

 Two new laboratories with state-of-the art equipment were established to facilitate research
 under our two research themes. The Neuromechanics of Human Movement lab is dedicated to
 studying human locomotion, balance, gait perturbations and neuromechanical properties of
 muscle-tendon units. It is equipped with a motion capture system with 16 infrared cameras
 (Qualisys), ten muscle-tendon training devices TEMUTRAIN, four 16-channel analogue-to-digital
 converters, three force plates (Kistler), two sets of augmented and virtual reality glasses, two
 custom-made pneumatic-driven gait perturbation devices, two mobile ultrasound devices
 (ESAOTE MyLab Gamma) and singles of a Lode Sport 2XL treadmill, state-of-the-art
 overground safety harness rail, HUMAC isokinetic dynamometer, tendon-muscle analysis device
 TEMULAB, custom-made mobile force plate for assessing posture and balance, peripheral
 nerve stimulation device (Digitimer) and a multichannel EMG system. The Environmental
 Psychophysiology lab is set up for studies of human interactions with the physical environment
 using various equipment: mobile hypoxicators, a hypoxic chamber, Doppler ultrasound, laser-
 Doppler flowmetry and imaging, near-infrared spectroscopy systems (Hamamatsu and Moxy),
 and a suit for cardiorespiratory and metabolic measurement. A new environmental chamber has
 a cardiopulmonary system (Cortex), eye tracking and mobile EEG (Emotiv) systems, virtual and
 augmented reality glasses, prism goggles, an iCool icebath, and software for assessing
 emotional health and cognitive function (Cantab).

 With investment from research capital, the facilities in the other four laboratories (Gait analysis,
 Elite Human Performance, Exercise Physiology and Nutrition, Neuromechanics) were improved
 via acquisition of new systems for laboratory and field studies. Examples include: a 24-camera
 clinical gait analysis system (Vicon), five force platforms (Kistler), four Watt bikes, two isokinetic
 dynamometers, two medical scales for body composition analysis (Tanita) and singles of a two-
 metre plantar pressure mapping system, transcranial direct current stimulating device

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Neurostim), transcranial magnetic (Magstim) and peripheral nerve stimulation (Digitimer)
 systems, high-density EMG system (Quattrocento, OT Bioelettronica), Wahoo Smart Trainer and
 NordBord hamstring testing system, The University encourages internal partnerships and shared
 use of facilities with other LSBU research teams (e.g., Engineering - UoA12). Through
 collaborative arrangements with external research partners SESRC also has access to off-site
 facilities (section 1d). This approach enabled SESRC members to incorporate advanced
 methodological approaches into excellent research outputs published in high-impact journals,
 complete prize-winning PhD projects and attract funding and partnerships with esteemed teams
 across the world

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 a. Our Approach to Research Partnerships

 SESRC has successfully maintained and expanded its external collaborations to support
 excellent research for advancements in science, economy and professional practice. SESRC
 strategically invested in exchange research visits, joint publications, research bids and PhD
 project supervision, which allowed for combination of competence, expertise and research
 infrastructure for the benefit of larger multidisciplinary projects (section 1c). Our philosophy for
 conducting interdisciplinary thematic research (section 1d) as well as our effective Impact and
 dissemination strategy (section 1e) resulted in enhanced visibility of the SESRC and scientific
 and social recognition for expertise and influence (Table 1). SESRC established a global
 network of academic and professional partnerships with scientists from more than 100 UK, EU
 and worldwide partner-universities and research organisations. The vitality and sustainability of
 our approach is evidenced across the whole spectrum of SESRC research activities.

 b. Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement and Impact

 In the REF2021 cycle, SESRC has strengthened its traditional reputation for problem solving,
 socially- and commercially-focused approaches to research, underpinning our contribution to
 economy and society. To respond to national priorities and global challenges we sustained our
 previous links and built more than 20 new productive collaborations with commercial and
 governing organisations, local authorities and charities related to sport, physical activity and
 health (Table 1.9). Our co-production approach to development of funding bids (section 1d)
 created contemporary topics for research, PhD projects, training and learning opportunities and
 joint events and seminars for engagement with key research users and beneficiaries (Table
 1.10). Section 1e provides examples of the impacts of SESRC research.

 To enable contribution to science, economy and the society, SESRC fully complies with LSBU’s
 Policy on Open Research Data. In the REF2021 period, SESRC has invested circa £20,000 of
 our income to support the open access publication of 15 outputs and a further £30,000 in
 stakeholder engagement and the dissemination of research findings to scientific, professional
 and public audiences. This has stimulated dynamic knowledge exchange, public engagement
 and dissemination with/via national and international scientific and business partners (Table 1).

 Table 1. Indicators of engagement with stakeholders and contributions to and recognition by the
 international scientific community
   Category                SESRC member       Examplars
   1. Leadership and       de Oliveira        General Secretary European Federation of Sport
   membership of                              Psychology (FEPSAC)
   scientific and          Gaoua              Expert Advisory Panel to the African Federation
   advisory boards                            of Football, 2018
   and committees          Karamanidis        Editorial boards: 36th (New Zealand, 2018), 37th
                                              (USA, 2019) and 38th (UK, 2020) International
                                              Conferences on Biomechanics in Sports;
                                              Accreditation: Undergraduate Programme of


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                              Physical Education and Sport Science, University
                                              of Thessaly, 2019
                        Mileva                Grant reviewer: Biotechnology and Biological
                                              Sciences Research Council; The University of
                                              Rome “Foro Italico”;
                                              Expert Advisory Board: InnovaSpace - Space
                                              Without Borders; Valkyrie Industries Ltd.
                                              Expert opinion: Advertising Standards Agency
                                              and the Charity Commission, UK; Food and Drug
                                              Administration, USA; Therapeutic Goods
                                              Administration, Australia
                        Karamanidis, Mileva   External reviewers for senior academic
                                              promotions: Liverpool John Moores University;
                                              University of Memphis; Koblenz University of
                                              Applied Sciences; Humboldt University Berlin; St
                                              Mary's University, Twickenham
                        Raab                  President of FEPSAC; Vice-speaker for the Sport
                                              Psychology section of the German Society of
                                              Psychology
  2. Honorary           Karamanidis           Visiting Professorships: Department of Exercise
  appointments                                and Sport Science, LUNEX International
                                              University of Health, Exercise and Sports,
                                              Luxembourg; Institute of Sport Science,
                                              University of Vienna
                        Mileva                Honorary Academic Research Fellow: Sport and
                                              Health Sciences, College of Life and
                                              Environmental Sciences, University of Exeter
                        Raab                  Visiting Professorships: Wingate, Israel;
                                              Melbourne, Australia; Hamilton, New Zealand
  3. Invited keynotes   Epro                  Estonian Athletics Association, Pärnu, 2018
  and lectures,         de Oliveira           Conference of the European Network for Young
  chairing and                                Specialists in Sport Psychology (ENYSSP), 2019
  organising            Hunter, Mileva        Institute of Sport, Ural Federal University, Russia,
  symposia                                    2014
                        Karamanidis           Organising Committee: International Autumn
                                              Schools on Movement Science, Humboldt
                                              University Berlin, 2016, 2017; 20th anniversary
                                              MOBEX, Stuttgart, 2017; Qualisys virtual
                                              undergraduate meeting, UK and Ireland, 2020;
                                              23rd (2018, Dublin) and 24th (2019, Prague)
                                              Congresses of ECSS; ISPGR World Congress,
                                              Edinburgh, 2019
                        Mileva                SIRACH network workshop at Rutherford
                                              Appleton Laboratory, 2017
                        Raab                  Organising Committee: World Congress of
                                              Performance Science, Kyoto, 2016; International
                                              Congress of Applied Psychology, Montreal, 2018;
                                              European Society of Vision, Trieste, 2018;
                                              German Association of Sport Science, 2018
                                              Scientific committee: European Sport Psychology
                                              Congress, Muenster, 2019
                                              Congress president and program director of the
                                              sport psychology congress ‘Psychophysiology of
                                              action’
                                              Keynotes: Sport Science conference, Germany,
                                              2019; Turkey Sport Psychology Congress, 2020;

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                              ENYSSP Congress for sport psychology,
                                              Belgium, 2020; Wingate Business Congress and
                                              Beer-Sheva Business School, Israel
  4. Prizes             Epro (Karamanidis)    Runner-up in the 2017 Journal of Experimental
                                              Biology Outstanding Paper Prize; Best Student
                                              Poster Presentation, BASES Biomechanics
                                              Special Interest Group meeting, UK, 2017; Equal
                                              5th Young Investigator Award, 23rd annual ECSS
                                              Congress, 2018; Winner Best Paper Award, 8th
                                              World Congress of Biomechanics, German
                                              Society for Biomechanics, 2018; Most significant
                                              scientific research, Estonian Academy of
                                              Science, 2018
                        Koening               New Investigator 2nd Poster Presentation Award,
                        (Karamanidis)         35th International Conference on Biomechanics in
                                              Sports, Cologne, 2017; 2nd Best Student Oral
                                              Presentation Award , BASES Biomechanics
                                              Interest Group meeting, UK, 2017; Equal 5th
                                              Young Investigator Award, 24th annual ECSS
                                              Congress, 2019
                        McCrum                Best Journal Paper Prize from the European
                        (Karamanidis)         Review of Aging and Physical Activity, 2017; 1st
                                              PhD Thesis Prize, Dutch Society for Movement
                                              Sciences, 2019
                        Attias (Mileva)       1st PhD Project in Human Physiology Prize,
                                              German Aerospace Centre (DLR), Cologne, 2017
                        Ottersen and Perez    Gold Rob Clarke Awards for Young Researchers,
                        (James, Mileva)       The Physiological Society, 2017 and 2018
  5. Accreditation by   de Oliveira, Hunter   BASES
  professional          de Oliveira, Gaoua    British Psychological Society
  Societies
  6. Memberships of     de Oliveira, Raab     FEPSAC, German Psychology Association;
  learned societies                           German Sport Psychology Association
                        Karamanidis           International, European, German and Hellenic
                                              Societies of Biomechanics; International Society
                                              of Posture and Gait Research; German-Austrian-
                                              Swiss Society for Orthopaedic Traumatology and
                                              Sports Medicine
                        James, Mileva,        The Physiological Society
                        Seeley, Zaidell
                        All SESRC             ECSS
                        members
  7. Journal            de Oliveira, Gaoua,   Frontiers in Psychology
  Editorships           James, Mileva,
                        Raab
                        James,                Frontiers in Sports and Active Living
                        Karamanidis, Mileva
                        Mileva                Human Sport Medicine Journal, Russia

                        Raab                  Psychology Sport and Exercise; Journal of Sport
                                              and Exercise Psychology; Sport Exercise and
                                              Performance Psychology; International Journal of
                                              Sport and Exercise Psychology
                        Karamanidis           Applied Bionics and Biomechanics; European
                                              Review of Aging and Physical Activity; Frontiers
                                              in Physiology

                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                Guest Editor: Specialist research topic, Frontiers
                                                in Physiology, 2018
  8. Formal PhD co-      James, Mileva          King’s College London
  supervision at         Mileva                 University of Exeter
  partner-universities   Karamanidis            Maastricht University
                         Gaoua                  Paris-8 University
                         de Oliveira,           German Sport University; Augsburg University
                         Karamanidis, Raab
  9. Key industrial      Sport, health and      Actegy Ltd; Brandhandling Ltd; Lanserhof at the
  partners               wellness industry      Arts Club; The Altitude Centre; BodyCap Ltd;
                                                Horseware Ltd; McLaren Ltd; Mineks
                                                International; OrthoSport GmbH; Protendon
                                                GmbH & Co.KG; German Social Accident
                                                Insurance; FIFA Medical Centre of Excellence
                                                Aspetar, Qatar
                         Charitable             Active Communities Network; Silverfit;
                         organisations          Fight4Change; Guy’s and St. Thomas’s NHS
                                                Foundation Trust; British Orthopaedic Foot and
                                                Ankle Society
                         Sport governing        British Cycling; British Swimming; Sport England;
                         bodies                 English Institute of Sport; FIFA Medical Centres
                                                of Excellence in Algeria, Qatar and UAE; Football
                                                Federation, Portugal; African Confederation of
                                                Football; German Olympic Athletic Training
                                                Centres in Rhineland and Hessen
                         Local government       Lambeth and Southwark councils and NHS
                                                CCGs
  10. Engagement         All members            Organisers: ‘Serious Sport’ conferences at LSBU,
  with key research                             2013, 2014 and 2015
  users and              Hunter, Mileva,        “The truth about cosmetic treatments”, BBC1,
  beneficiaries          Zaidell                2020
                         Borges, Gaoua,         Scientific board: 9th annual conference of the UK
                         Mileva, Zaidell,       Sport for Development Network: “Sport for
                                                Development – What are we developing?”,
                                                LSBU, 2019
                         de Oliveira, Mileva,   Organisers: Panel-based debate “Can we break
                         Zaidell                barriers in sport”, co-funded by the UK Fulbright
                                                Commission, LSBU, 2018
                         de Oliveira, Zaidell   Organisers: “This Girl Can Lambeth – what did
                                                we learn?” – webinar with public stakeholders,
                                                2020
  11. Invited            Karamanidis            Brunel University London (Dr Mohagheghi);
  research visits to                            Humboldt University Berlin (Prof Arampatzis);
  key research                                  Manchester Metropolitan University (Prof
  partner universities                          Reeves); Liverpool John Moores University (Prof
                                                Maganaris); Koblenz University of Applied
                                                Sciences (Prof Hartmann); German Sport
                                                University Cologne (Prof Potthast)
                         Gaoua, Hunter          Orthopaedic and Sports Medicine Hospital,
                                                ASPETAR, Qatar (Prof Racinais); China; Federal
                                                University of Pernambuco, Brazil
                         Mileva                 University of Exeter (Prof Bowtell); European
                                                Space Agency (Prof Rittweger); University of
                                                Oulu (Prof Tulppo); Ural Federal University,
                                                Russia


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                     Borges                 Football Federation, Portugal
                     de Oliveira            German Sport University
  12. Invited        Prof Harridge          King’s College London
  research visits    Prof Maganaris, Dr     Liverpool John Moores University
  from partner-      O’Brien
  universities       Prof Arampatzis        Humboldt University Berlin
                     Prof Hartmann          Koblenz University of Applied Sciences,
                                            Germany
                     Dr Powell              University of Memphis, USA
                     Dr Kunz, Dr Yildirim   OrthoSport GmbH, Germany
                     Dr Ditroilo            University College Dublin, Republic of Ireland
                     Prof Ellaway           Imperial College London
                     Prof Wilson            University of Exeter
                     Prof Maffiuletti       Schulthess Clinic, Zurich, Switzerland
                     Prof Millet            University of Lausanne, Switzerland
                     Prof Barros            Federal University of Pernambuco, Brazil




                                                                                        Page 16
