Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: King’s College London

  Unit of Assessment: UoA 8 (Chemistry)

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1.Unit context
The UoA submission comprises our new Chemistry Department, which has only been in existence
since 2012. The department has witnessed an extraordinary period of development from a zero base
to 18.5FTE permanent Principal Investigators (PIs); more than doubling in size over the REF period
(fig.1). Our REF2020 UoA submission consists of 19FTE (table1).


                                                              Chemistry              July       July
                                                              Department             2013       2020
                                                                   PIs               7.5*       18.5*
                                                         FTE returned in UoA8          0         19†
                                                                 PDRAs                 3         19
                                                                  PGRs                 0         50
                                                         Total research funding      £2M        £21M


   Fig.1_Chemistry Department growth.                   Table1_Growth over REF period *Eggert
   PDRA=postdoctoral research assistants,               0.5FTE joint appointment, returned in UoA5,
   PGR=postgraduate student.                            †
                                                         18PIs plus 1 independent researcher Findlay.


We are a growing, dynamic department that is smaller, younger and more gender diverse than UoA8
norms. The mean age of PIs returned in our UoA is 43 and 50% started their first permanent
academic appointment in the assessment period, over which time our average size has been ~16
PIs. Our open, inclusive working environment has helped us achieve gender representation above
national averages for chemistry, e.g. 50% female professors c.f. 9% nationally (section-2.10, fig.10).
Our re-launch began with a nascent department in King’s Health Partners (KHP) led by Morris (then
Head of the School of Biomedical Sciences, now Emeritus Professor) with a 25% interim Head of
Department (HoD) (Blower, also Head of Imaging Chemistry and Biology). In 2014 we became a
cornerstone of a strategic expansion of physical sciences in the university. King’s acquired and fully
refurbished a stand-alone, 4-storey chemistry research building, “Britannia House” (fig.2) and the
department moved into the Faculty of Natural and Mathematical Sciences accompanied by the
appointment of a full-time Head, Booth. Our success presaged further large-scale development of
science at King’s alongside the re-start of an Engineering Department. The faculty is thus now
Natural, Mathematical and Engineering Sciences (NMES). We profit from our position in central
London and opportunities afforded by King’s partnerships with the Francis Crick Institute (the
Crick), Rosalind Franklin Institute (RFI) and London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN)
(REF5a,1.5).
Our friendly, vibrant department has flourished over the REF period. We have achieved the
remarkable objective of creating a contemporary, research-active Chemistry Department that
enshrines the rigour of the discipline but is free of conventional subject constraints. We have
exploited our inherent positioning at the physical and life science interface to instil a clear identity
and have become renowned for the chemistry of life. Moreover, we have seeded areas for future
growth in chemical biotechnology and bioelectricity, as part of King’s propitious engineering
rejuvenation.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




         Fig.2_Britannia House chemistry research building on Guy’s Campus
         with King’s campus map (institutional statement REF5a,1.3)

1.2.The interdisciplinary landscape of Chemistry at King’s

A central goal of the department is realising the transformative power of chemistry across discipline
boundaries against the commanding interdisciplinary landscape of King’s. King’s “Vision 2029”
(REF5a1.4) to “deliver world-leading research focussed on meeting societal need” lies at the heart
of the department’s development. We also take advantage of the PLuS Alliance (REF5a,4.5)
between King’s, Arizona State University and University of New South Wales, whose mission is
“Global solutions with impact”.
King’s global reputation in translational
medicine underpinned by strong biomedical
science,      embodies        the     university’s
interdisciplinarity. A focal point is KHP, which
is 1 of 8 accredited UK Academic Health
Sciences Centres (REF5a,1.5). The opening
of the Crick in 2016, with King’s as one of the
3 university partners (together with University
College London (UCL) and Imperial College
(Imperial)), contributes further word-leading
expertise.
King’s biomedical environment provided
fertile ground for our embryonic department.
We pioneered a new direction afforded by
the rich sophistication of chemistry to
advance understanding of life at the
molecular level, embodied in our chemistry
of life research. We are well placed to work
collaboratively across King’s to develop new
therapeutic molecules, materials and
healthcare tools. We have fulfilled the twin
goals of re-introducing a home for
fundamental chemistry, as well as providing
a central hub for physical-life science              Fig.3_King’s Chemistry Department as a
collaborations (fig.3). As such, Chemistry at        fundamental “central science” hub.
King’s reaches beyond the department                 FoLSM=Faculty of Life Science and Medicine
linking with Physics (notably Biophysics and

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Soft Matter, Garcia-Manyes UoA9) and Cell Biology (Randall Centre for Cell and Molecular Biology,
Eggert UoA5), through analytical science (mass spectrometry (MS) of King’s Forensics, Analytical
and Environmental Sciences, UoA24) to applications in Imaging Chemistry (Biomedical Engineering
and Imaging Sciences, Blower UoA12) and Pharmaceutical Chemistry (Institute of Pharmaceutical
Science, UoA3). We have also forged links with the Crick, with Booth heading “King’s Chemistry
at the Crick” (KemCrick).

1.3.Strategy for the renaissance of King’s Chemistry
The start of the REF period coincides with a pivotal point in our development: the arrival of our
inaugural Head, Booth, our move into Britannia House and the launch of our ambitious strategic
vision:

                                    KING’S CHEMISTRY VISION
                  Create an international centre of excellence recognised for
                          transcending the boundaries of chemistry
                        Forge new frontiers at discipline interfaces and
              deliver fundamental solutions for a sustainable and healthy society
                                          Strategic Strands
                                New chemical frontiers through research
                                  A new generation of scientists
                                    Re-imagining how we work


We embraced the unique opportunity to rebuild afresh          Total number of papers     494
from a blank canvas and invested in young, visionary
scientists. Our publication record is notable for such a   Modal journal impact factor   14.7
young department and mirrors our interdisciplinarity               Total citations       9917
(table2). Aside from core Chemistry journals, (Angew
Chem, Nature Chemical Biology and Nature                   Average citations per paper    20
Chemistry) we publish in life science (eLife),                % collaborative papers      78
nanoscience (Nano Letters, Nature Nanotechnology),
prominent science journals (Nature, PNAS, Science)          % interdisciplinary papers    69
and contribute invited reviews and methods papers             (Scopus classification)
(e.g. Current Opinion journals and Nature Methods).
                                                              Table2_UoA publication record
We have been ranked as the top Chemistry                      over REF period
Department in London by the Guardian league table
for the last 3 years. We have also risen rapidly up the
Complete University Guide (being 15th in 2021, 2nd in
London behind UCL).

1.4.Research Themes
We harness our interdisciplinary skills in 3 research
themes (fig.4). A goal of our chemistry of life research
is to usher in a new era of functional biology by moving
from a descriptive picture of life sciences to a quantitative
understanding using chemical principles. Our biological
wisdom augments our chemical research and we are
exploiting this through novel biocompatible components
and approaches to sustainable science in themes 2 and
3. To avoid diversifying too early in a small, evolving
department, a key objective was to establish ourselves Fig.4_Overlapping research themes.
with a distinctive research focus on theme1, whilst laying Highlighting UoA PIs main area of
foundations for our 2 additional themes.                      research over the REF period


                                                                                          Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Theme1.Chemistry of life across scales - a new era of functional biology
In REF2014, the proto-department of 7.5FTE was split across UoAs3&5 with no UoA8 submission
from King’s. Continuing with the 2014 statement of intent to grow chemistry in a biomedical context,
we have built critical mass with 15 of our 19FTE working on the chemistry of life.
We take a whole-scale view to understand how molecules work together to generate cellular life,
combining chemical and synthetic biology with biophysical, computational and synthetic chemistry.
7FTE focus on biomembranes that are fundamental to cellular life; devising new tools for their study,
investigating their biosynthesis and regulation, breaching membranes with de novo antimicrobial
peptides and reconstructing them in artificial cells (e.g. Ulmschneider-Nature Comms:2016 and Eve
BioTek start-up drug-development platform). Another core area of 8FTE centres on bioactive
compounds: exploiting their biosynthesis, devising novel chemical/semi-synthesis and uncovering
biomolecular recognition mechanisms (e.g.Cobb-JACS:2020, Müller-Nature:2017).
Over the next 5 years we aim to coalesce our research around our fundamental chemistry for a
healthy society vision, laying foundations for therapeutics targeting antimicrobial resistance
(AMR) and diseases arise from membrane protein misfolding or protein backbone post-
translational modifications.
Theme2.Chemical biotechnology - interfacing biology with materials
Biotechnology harnesses biological processes in the development of new technologies. We are
using our combined biological/chemical knowledge to introduce novel chemical angles. For
immediate impetus, we exploited expertise of 4FTE of theme1 to address key challenges around
the behaviour of “soft” biology (proteins/biomembranes/cells) at interfaces with synthetic “hard”
materials and electronics. This is exemplified in Surman’s systems chemistry (PNAS:2019) and
Brogan’s development of non-aqueous, environmentally-friendly biocatalysts (Nature
Chemistry:2018). New appointments in 2020 will allow us to provide novel electronic materials
through metallopolymers (Musgrave-Nature Chemistry:2012) and organic semiconductors (Bojdys-
Advanced Materials:2017).
Theme3.Bioelectricity - clean sustainable energy
We aim to adapt reactions to interface with the environment by capitalising on our expertise with
biocompatible components. This theme is underway with concurrent research and impact
development. Through King’s PLuS Alliance, Aldous has developed an electricity-generating
thermogalvanic brick (featured on BBC “Inside Science”) and will progress this over the next 5 years
via a new start-up company VBeck LLC (USA patent application 62/747595) alongside wearable
thermocells (Advanced Energy Materials:2020). Bojdys will be scaling-up his licensed rechargeable
battery raw materials (section-4.4).
A future goal is to expand our computational provision (section-3.5) to underpin all 3 research
themes, led by Ulmschneider who is trialling a carbon-neutral High Performance Computing (HPC)
cluster on an offshore windfarm.

1.5.Developing Impact

Being mindful of our infancy in relation to the time required for impact development, we have laid
foundations in 3 areas, towards therapeutics, analytical science and sustainable energy by:
• gaining first-hand experience of successful impact from chemistry research embedded in King’s
  applied interdisciplinary research centres e.g. IPS and King’s Forensics (section-1.2, Impact
  Case Studies REF3), exemplified by Hider’s original development of β-thalassemia drug,
  Deferiprone (valued at £26.2M in 2018) and next generation hydroxypyridinone therapeutics.
• cultivating home-grown impact, learning from Blower’s exploitation of fundamental chemistry in
  the commercialisation of new radiopharmaceuticals (REF3). We have incorporated impact
  development into our research themes, seeding areas of future potential with industry
  partnerships and impact accelerator awards (IAAs) (REF5a,4.2 and sections-2.4&4.4);



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
• investing in unique analytical capabilities, notably hydrogen-deuterium exchange (HDX) MS
  for membrane proteins (Booth/Borysik/Politis/Reading). The potential for impact from
  analytical chemistry research is demonstrated by King’s Forensics Drug Control Centre (DCC)
  (REF3). The DCC’s world-leading MS expertise has provided outstanding infrastructure and
  support for us to equip and maintain a core MS facility and our advanced HDX-MS research
  suite.
Furthermore, we have instigated Science-Art and “Invisible Careers in Science” initiatives to
engage broader communities.

1.6.The future


                            REALISING KING’S CHEMISTRY VISION
                                       New chemical frontiers
                 We will cross new interfaces by expanding our research themes.
     Advancing our fundamental chemistry for a healthy society vision, a strategic priority
     for NMES is to exploit Chemistry’s central positioning in the King’s interdisciplinary
     landscape (fig.3) to create a new Research Centre for Physical Science of Life (co-led
     by Booth and Garcia-Manyes). The centre will serve as a nucleus for fundamental science
     driving new discoveries and innovations in biomedicine.
     Advancing our fundamental chemistry for a sustainable society vision, we will build
     capacity in chemical biotechnology and bioelectricity notably with King’s Engineering in
     the space of low carbon futures.
                                   A new generation of scientists
     These new chemical frontiers will be underpinned by doubling our size to 40PIs over the
     next 10 years, investing in inventive chemists who are comfortable working across
     traditional boundaries. We will expand PGR and PDRA training and inspire researchers to
     tackle emerging challenges in modern society providing therapeutic, analytical science
     and low carbon solutions.
                                     Re-imagining how we work
     Our aim is to develop a new norm for Chemistry, making the most of the dynamic research
     environment at King’s and across London. We will continue towards our goal of challenging
     perceptions of chemistry, advancing our Science-Art and Invisible Careers in Science
     initiatives and augmenting our notable gender diversity to enrich our inclusive, supportive
     departmental culture.


1.7.Open research
A feature of the Open Research culture at King’s (REF5a,2.3) is good engagement with faculties
through regular meetings with King’s Open Access Research Group Initiative (KORGI). We advocate
Open Access (OA) publishing in line with King’s, funder and REF policies and our grant application
procedure ensures OA requirements are met, data management plans properly formulated and OA
costs requested or King’s OA block grant used. King’s Libraries and Collections provide an excellent
service with centralised quality control and updating of King’s Pure repository, generating automated
reminders to PIs. PIs access online training provided by KORGI on research data management, use
of Pure and REF compliance. Our department computing committee has engaged with KORGI to
inform King’s Research Data Management Roadmap.
PIs deposit data in open access public databases (Small Angle Scattering Biological, Biological
Magnetic Resonance and Protein Databanks, Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre and
dichroweb). We use preprint servers (BioRXiv, ChemRXiv, zenodo.org) to enhance open access.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.8.Research integrity

We have instilled research integrity as we grow, embedding instructions into PI, PDRA and PGR
inductions. We have focussed on good practice in data reproducibility. All PGR first year vivas
include discussions on data presentation and reproducibility and we emphasise raw data publication
in supplementary information and PhD theses’ appendices. Ulmschneider has worked with NMES
to ensure the King’s centralised data storage (employing Ceph) is suited to our needs and we have
additional in-house storage. Our next step is to increase training as King’s Centre for Research Staff
Development (CRSD) and Centre for Doctoral Studies (CDS) enhance their provision (REF5a,2.2)
and researchers are now attending courses such as Managing Your Research Data, Producing High-
Quality Figures with Integrity and Research Integrity. Our Integrity Advisor (Wallace) provides
support and works with the NMES Research Integrity Champion to ensure we meet UKRI Policy.

  2. People

2.1.Collegial community

The department is led by Booth with Ulmschneider
as Deputy Head. We empower our young team
(fig.5) with Early Career (EC) staff playing key roles
in shaping the department. Only 20% of our
Leadership Group and 18% of our Management
Group are Professors (67% and 50%, respectively
are female). Communal PI working is the norm.
Laboratories and offices are shared with flexible
use of space and we have on-site break-out
spaces, café and garden, all of which facilitate
exchange of ideas, good practice, interdisciplinarity
and mutual support for growing research groups.
We profit from an engaged Scientific Advisory
Board for which we hold a biennial Research Fig.5_Career stage of our UoA8 18 PI’s (2020)
Showcase.

2.2.Effective recruitment strategy

Staff are attracted by our friendly, dynamic atmosphere and the chance to play a central role in
creating a new department. We have an informal recruitment-consultation group with direct input
from EC PIs and open dialogue during applicant visits. We look beyond conventional metrics for
research creativity especially across discipline boundaries.
As a department with ample room for expansion we have advertised across the breadth of chemistry
to identify talent, whilst exploiting our agility to seed areas judiciously (e.g. themes2&3) and build
up clusters of expertise, e.g. HDX-MS (sections-1.5&3.4)
Our vision has yielded international “reach” with ~45% of PIs recruited from abroad. Several PIs
hold international visiting appointments including Bojdys and Díez-Pérez as Visiting Professors at
Humboldt University, Germany and Weizmann Institute, Israel, respectively. Aldous is a PLuS
Alliance Fellow. We have hosted 10 visiting research fellows/associates from abroad as well as a
visiting professor from Chile and lecturer from Ireland.
We place considerable emphasis on inclusion (section-2.10), using inclusive language and gender
de-coding in all staff and PGR adverts, gender-balanced panels and requesting an inclusion
statement for PI roles. We check issues such as accessibility and have readily accommodated
applicants who use wheelchairs, assisting with travel in London. All staff and PGR recruitment
follows King’s guidance on equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI, REF5a, 3.5) to safeguard
against bias and all PIs take King’s CRSD “Diversity Matters” training.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.3.Research Fellows

We are keen advocates of research fellows, providing a mentor for all internal and external
applications and job security with proleptic permanent lectureships that are taken up at the
completion of an independent PI fellowship (table3). Thus all our category A staff, bar 1, are on
permanent contracts. Findlay is on an open-ended contract (per King’s policy for researchers with
fixed-term contracts >4 years). Additionally we are successful with postdoctoral fellowships (section-
2.7).

              Year     PI                  Fellowship                        Amount
              2014     Suntharalingam      Leverhulme Early Career           £0.09M
              2016     Müller              Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale     £1.06M
              2018     Rosta               EPSRC Early Career                £0.82M
              2018     Salehi-Reyhani      EPSRC Innovation                  £0.57M
              2019     Reading             UKRI FLF                          £1.11M

               Table.3_UoA Independent Research Fellows over the REF period.
               All with permanent departmental appointments
2.4.Impact development and industrial engagement
King’s provides an inspirational environment (REF5a,4.3&4.5), reflected in the university ranking in
the top 10 globally in the Times Higher Education Impact League Table. Our impact lead Bojdys
contributes to our NMES Enterprise and Engagement (E&E) ecosystem (fig.6) and staff engage
via monthly “Encouraging Enterprise” events. We employed an in-house expert, Teague to embed
impact early in the department and placed emphasis on building industry relationships via IAAs
(sections-1.5&4.4) and PhD studentships, securing 9 CASE awards (primarily EPSRC or BBSRC).
Surman and Ulmschneider also supervise students on King’s “Entrepreneurial Mindset” programme.
Our strategic project manager (SPM) supports industrial engagement and is planning a “Chemistry
Business Club”, exploiting CASE/industry relationships and “MedCity” (REF5a,1.5). We also involve
King’s Fundraising and Alumni Office.




               Fig.6_ Research, impact and professional development support


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.5.PI development

We inspire and build the confidence of staff, instilling an ethos of collegiate responsibility. We have
a shared, dynamic leadership approach with mutual mentoring and counselling from our HoD,
Deputy, Blower and Morris. A large proportion of our junior staff (68%) progress to departmental and
faculty leadership roles and mentor the next EC generation (e.g. Reader Ulmschneider-Deputy
Head; Lecturer (Academic Education Pathway, AEP) Coulshed-NMES EDI Chair). All new joiners
are assigned a mentor to help them flourish and create personal development plans, with regular
formal and informal meetings. All staff take part in an annual “Performance Development Review”
(PDR), with additional individual meetings with the HoD.
We engage proactively with King’s professional development, with all PIs taking CRSD courses on
topics such as PhD supervision, group management and safety. Over half our staff have participated
in King’s Talent Leadership Programmes (fig.6) (REF5a, 2.1&3.4). The emphasis we place on
well-being is reflected in 3 of our PIs (Booth, Isaacson, Sanz) being Higher Education Mental Health
First Aider Champions.
Our PIs are superbly supported by our chemical education team of 3 permanent (a 4th in 2021) and
2 fixed-term AEP staff (REF5a,1.2) who spearhead laboratory design, teaching innovation and
practice, led by our Deputy Head (Education), Collier (AEP Senior Lecturer). All PIs attain Fellowship
of the Higher Education Academy and can complete a Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice
(e.g. Aldous). We have 2 NMES-funded chemical-education PhD students (2 more in 2021).

2.6.Recognition and promotion

We are proactive in staff career progression, recognising research and impact achievements as well
as emphasising good citizenship. We hold an informal advisory round for King’s annual promotion
cycle, considering all staff alongside self-nominations and assigning a mentor to help develop cases.
Almost half our staff have been promoted since 2014 (2 promoted twice), with an 88% success rate
for women overall and 100% for all staff nominated in 2019-20.
Our supportive process is illustrated by Isaascon who joined as lecturer in 2012, took 2 periods of
maternity leave (2012 and 2014), was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2016, Reader in 2019 and is
NMES Associate Dean for Doctoral Studies.
NMES recently implemented a research overheads incentive scheme (ROIS) which returns a
small % of grant overheads back to departments. We take collective decisions on ROIS, our capital
budget (section-3.4) and space usage for strategic grant applications and equipment provision,
encouraging PIs to develop our research themes and customise our research environment. We are
also working to introduce protected time for research and impact development and a sabbatical
mechanism, as staff numbers increase.

2.7.PDRA development

Our PDRA numbers have increased >6-fold over the REF period (table1) forming an active
community “ChemComm” who run monthly lunches, regular research/career development events,
annual PDRA-invited lecture, supervisor-free fortnightly PDRA/PGR seminars and “PDRA of the
year" award. Our PDRA Tutor Reading chairs a PDRA committee and we have formal “Assistant
Supervisor" status for significant supervision by PDRAs. All PDRAs partake in annual PDR and are
upgraded as necessary in recognition of their experience. All eligible PDRAs have progressed to
lecturer-level grade and open-ended contracts. King’s fully implement the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers (Ref5a,3.3). Every PDRA takes a minimum of 10-days
professional development annually via CRSD courses e.g. grant preparation, pitching for funding
and project management, or externally from EMBO in “laboratory management.” We have a “PDRA
mentoring network” to advise on well-being, careers and fellowship applications. EC PIs provide
invaluable insight e.g. Musgrave held concurrent Marie-Curie and Harvard Environmental
fellowships.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The value of our approach is shown by the success of
our PDRAs, notably with 10 achieving assistant
professorships abroad (fig.7). Reading exemplifies
our home-grown talent; a PDRA in 2014, he won a
postdoctoral BBSRC FLF (£0.3M, now Discovery) in
2016, followed by a lectureship then inaugural UKRI
FLF in 2019.

2.8.PGR funding

We have a thriving PhD community that has grown
over the REF period from zero to 50 current students          Fig.7_PDRA career destinations.
(table1) funded from a range of sources (fig.8). 25           Academic=assistant professors/
students have completed their PhD (100% within 4              fellowships/research manager
years). As a new department, we have been well
supported by King’s with start-up studentships for all
staff, annual Faculty Scholarships and NMES EPSRC
DTP positions. We have used these resources to
establish a “Chemistry for a Healthy and
Sustainable Society” (ChemSustain) centre for
doctoral training (CDT), leveraging additional
resource e.g. Chinese Scholarship Council (CSC).
We have joint King’s-Crick studentships and co-
supervise on King’s CDTs, e.g. EPSRC Smart
Medical Imaging.
Our alliances across King’s have come to fruition in
the form of 2 new CDTs with biophysics (not shown in
fig.8 as the first cohorts are about to start);           Fig.8_PhD Funding sources. 75
Leverhulme Trust “Mechanics of Life” Doctoral             studentships have been funded in the
Scholarship Programme (DSP) (£1.35M, Director             department from 81 sources (some
Garcia-Manyes) and “Biological Physics Across             have joint funding). BBSRC, including
Scales”, BiPAS (1 of King’s 3 internal CDTs to seed       CASE   are funded by LIDo.
future EPSRC CDT applications; £1.05M, Deputy
Director Díez-Pérez). We also have increased participation in the BBSRC London Interdisciplinary
Doctoral Training Partnership (LIDo) renewal, which is now the largest BBSRC DTP (£21.7M total).
We intend to expand ChemSustain and BiPAS over the next 5 years to secure additional CDT
funding. Concomitantly, we are launching an MRes programme that can flow directly into our CDTs.
Depending on the doctoral training scheme, PhD students either apply to specific projects or choose
projects once accepted onto a scheme, with all projects on offer being selected by an impartial,
gender-balanced panel.

2.9.PGR development

All students are jointly supervised and have a thesis committee (supervisors plus additional PI) that
supports personal development, meets regularly with the student, undertakes formal monitoring, first
year upgrade viva and assists with thesis development and completion plans. Our PGR Tutor meets
individually with students on a regular basis, and our department PGR officer provides daily support,
enhanced by our PGR-Staff Liaison Committee. As PGR Tutor, Isaacson provided clear leadership
around harassment, student well-being and sensitive support of students with personal issues.
PGR development is coordinated centrally by the King’s CDS with a student-supervisor agreement
and quarterly reporting. All students take at least 10 days of transferable skills training p.a., using
CDS courses including communicating to a lay audience, leadership skills, data management and
presentation. Health and Safety training is provided by our in-house technical team. Students attend
our departmental seminars, participate in the NMES annual poster competition and international

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conferences. Several have won best poster prizes e.g. at a Gordon
Research Conference and Colloquium on High-Resolution Molecular
Spectroscopy. Students are successful, going onto careers in industry
or continuing in academia (fig.9)
Our energetic PGR community contribute as members of our EDI
committee, running social events, hosting an annual guest lecture and
participating in outreach programmes. Many are enthusiastic
educators and we provide support and training via our AEP team and
Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) Tutor.

2.10.EDI                                                           Fig.9_PGR career destinations
Our gender balance is striking for a science discipline.
Our female representation is above chemistry averages
from undergraduate (UG) to Professor (fig.10), with a
62% female technical team. We hold an Athena SWAN
Bronze Award.
Booth sits on Academic Board, King’s EDI Committee
and King’s Promotions Panel as Senior Peer. We have
the most female academics of any department on
NMES Executive Board (Booth, Coulshed and
Isaacson). Within the department, women have held
HoD, Deputy Head (Research), Deputy Head
(Education), PGR Tutor and Senior Tutor. Our proactive
searching for female candidates, sending personal            Fig.10_Gender balance in King’s UoA8
invitations to tens of potential applicants per PI post, has at different career stages, with Russell
resulted in 57% female appointees across all                 Group (RG) comparison. Eggert (female)
appointments over the assessment period. We have 0.5FTE Prof not included
50% female PGR and good representation from groups
with protected characteristics (data protected), with for example “White British” being in the minority
in the 2020 BiPAS intake.
We promote a flexible working environment. Our 2020 annual staff survey showed 88% of all staff
(100% with caring responsibilities) work flexibly, 92% of staff felt supported by colleagues and 88%
were satisfied with work-life balance. We created a parental leave handbook, including procedures
for pregnancy and laboratory working, that has become the basis of King’s Parents and Carers’
(P&C) guidance. All our eligible staff take parental leave and 1 male PDRA has twice taken shared
parental leave. We ensure staff are not disadvantaged with respect to promotion, leadership roles
(evidenced by Isaacson) or international meeting attendance. 3 female department PIs used King’s
P&C Fund (Ref5a, 3.4) and have given ~100 invited lectures since 2014. Staff use 10 “keeping-in-
touch” days whilst on leave and we help plan their return with lightened workloads and perform PDR
within 6 months. We have secured cover or contract/studentship extensions for PDRAs/PGRs on
parental or long-term sick leave. We maintain core hours (1000-1600) for meetings and seminars
with protected lunch breaks and “meetings-free” Fridays.
Together with Informatics and War Studies, we developed a student module “Professional Skills for
a Globalised World” covering sexism, racism and microaggressions that has been taken by 2500
students. EDI is a faculty priority with the NMES EDI Chair attending Faculty Executive Board to
formulate strategic priorities including increasing BME academics, creating a EDI student forum and
Women in Science (WiS) week. We fully engage with such initiatives, with 3 staff in the first cohort
for forthcoming ally training and our EDI committee are expanding anonymous harassment reporting,
surveys and instituting a bullying awareness day.
King’s is proud to hold a Race Equality Charter Bronze Award, is a member of Stonewall Diversity
Champions and the Business Disability Forum. King’s hosts The Global Institute for Women’s
Leadership and networks in which we participate, e.g. “Elevate” (gender equality), “Race Equality”.
We serve on “Proudly King’s” (LGBTQ+) committee and Booth is a mentor for “More Than Mentoring”
and B-Mentor (Ref5a,3.4).

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.11.Gender analysis
Our proactive EDI committee undertake extensive analyses. 60% of our “Daniell” lecturers (since
2014) (section-4.6) and 41% of our seminar speakers (since 2015) were female (above RG
chemistry average, fig.10). In line with King’s REF code of practice, our REF group has gender and
career-stage representation (including PDRA). The group selected outputs via blind ranking
following 3 independent scores, which resulted in ~1.5 outputs returned per female PI and ~2.4 per
male. The slight differences likely reflect a known gender-gap in publishing, more parental leave by
our female PIs than male and errors arising from our small numbers.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Research funding and strategies

Our total research funding has grown on a steep trajectory, increasing >10-fold over the REF period
(fig.11 and table1). This exceeds our targets that were based on REF2014 Chemistry UoA income,
for a department of our size (see fig.12).




Fig.11_Increase in research funding.                  Fig.12_Funding comparison with REF2014
Awarded=new grants; active=ongoing grants,            UoA8 return. Data for King’s are annual
total represents the cumulative total over the        awarded grants as our PI numbers have
REF period and thus includes expired awards           grown. (Lines of best fit illustrate trends.)


REF2014 returns illustrate how grant awards/FTE rise with increasing FTE (Fig.12), with larger UoAs
of >40FTE achieving ~£200K/FTE but a smaller UoA of 19FTE reporting ~£100K/FTE. Although not
an exact comparison, our annual awards consistently lie above the trend of funding versus FTE size
(Fig.12) and in 2019/20 our annual awards were ~150K/FTE (for 19FTE). Our awards are
~£190K/FTE when taking into account our average size of 16FTE over the REF period,.
Our research growth reflects the informed research culture we instigated in 2015, with a grant
application procedure and checklist, and our Departmental Research Officer as a single point of
contact. This good practice has been rolled out across NMES. Booth used her extensive grant panel
experience to lead grant writing workshops and arrange
tailored funding body visits, e.g. EPSRC visits, mock
panels and 1-to-1 Wellcome Trust clinics. PIs have
annual individual meetings with our Deputy Head
(Research) Wallace to formulate personal research and
impact development plans.
Analysis of our department grant portfolio (fig.13) reveals
success with ERC awards at all career stages (1
Advanced, 3 Consolidator, 1 Starting) and varied funding
sources reflecting the interdisciplinary nature of our
research. BBSRC and Wellcome Trust awards have
                                                                   Fig.13_Funding portfolio

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
enabled us to advance theme1, e.g. exploiting biosynthetic routes to biocatalysts (Barry-
JACS:2020), developing novel “de-toxification” approaches for potential cancer therapeutics (Müller-
JACS:2014) and pioneering methods for membrane protein folding (Booth/Findlay-PNAS:2018).
Our total grant portfolio over the REF period is £20.6M. (This includes 50% of our joint appointment
Eggert’s awards and those of King’s Centre for Ultrastructural Imaging (CUI) Director Fleck (see
section 3.5) who is affiliated to Chemistry and returned under UoA5. Our department administers
Fleck’s grants that include equipment awards with UoA8 PIs). Collaborative awards of UoA PIs
account for £5.2M (including £2.6M with industrial partners). A third of our PIs have held independent
fellowships (table3) or 5-year grants or over the REF period, accounting for ~£12.4M of our total
income and ~47% of our submitted outputs, including 4 Nature, 1 Nature Nanotechnology, 1 Science.
Bojdys who joined in 2020 holds an additional ERC consolidator grant (held at Humboldt, Berlin) and
an ERC Proof of Concept award for pre-competitive development of his battery raw materials
(section-4.4).
Our PIs exploit our fellowship/5-year grant knowledge base to apply for long-term awards to tackle
large-scale problems. As our research expands further into themes2&3 we are focussing on EPSRC
funding, with 3 lecturers who started within the last 2 years applying for New Investigator Awards. A
strategic aim over the next 5 years is to grow our 3 research themes, with priorities being UKRI
equipment grants and EPSRC programme or BBSRC sLoLa awards. Led by 2 PIs (one being EC)
each research theme is formulating collaborative proposals with the goal of 1 such award over the
next 3 years. Concomittantly, we aim to secure additional funding for our ChemSustain CDT. We are
currently working with NMES to secure funding for our Physical Science for Life Centre (section-
1.6). Impact development will be a core aspect of this centre, especially around new analytical
methods and Science-Art initiatives. The centre will effectively couple with KemCrick, our
Leverhulme Mechanics of Life DSP and links across King’s with Imaging Chemistry, IPS, King’s
Forensics and The Randall (fig.3).

3.2.Supporting WiS

Our high proportion of female staff (fig.10) reflects the supportive and inclusive environment we have
embedded (section-2.10), cultivated by Booth as HoD and Eggert as first Deputy Head (Research).
Female PIs account for ~60% of our total grant funding over the REF period, indicating no
disadvantage.

3.3.Operational infrastructure

We work collaboratively with our professional services (PS) staff. Our Department Manager heads
a team of 6, and our SPM manages growth and industrial strategy and supports strategic grant
applications. Our 7-strong technical team, led by our Technical Services Manager, manage space
and shared laboratories with specialised technicians supporting in-house facilities. We have 2 further
electronic workshop positions and advocate the King’s technical apprenticeship scheme. We have
excellent computing support from 12 NMES staff that includes our Chemistry Systems Administrator.
Our department academic leads and PS teams work effectively within the excellent NMES
framework for research and impact development (section-2.4, fig.6). In particular we exploit:
• NMES20 that provides bespoke provision to annual PI cohorts (Sanz currently participating)
• Network of Fellows to develop strategic applications through our 7 “fellows”
• E&E ecosystem.

3.4.Organisational Infrastructure

There was no legacy of staff, space or facilities from King’s original Chemistry Department that
closed in 2003. Our new beginning has been vigorously supported with ~£50M investment from the
university (£~46M over the REF period), including a capital equipment budget of £4M since 2015.
We also won a £4.5M HEFCE STEM capital grant.
As a result Britannia House (fig.2) is configured for our interdisciplinary research with modern
chemistry laboratories, fume hoods, a computational laboratory, specialised equipment, analytical

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and laser laboratories, a low vibration room and workshop space. Additionally we have a floor
devoted to biochemical laboratories, comprising separate cell culture and yeast rooms, cold room,
biophysical, protein purification and preparation suites and a radioactivity room. We hold a Gold
Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework (LEAF) award.
Our astute, inclusive use of capital has led to 7 in-house facilities tailored to our research and
impact development: Analytical Characterisation, Cell Culture, HPC (70 GPU-nodes);
Microfabrication, MS, NMR and Protein Production.
An accomplishment of our recruitment strategy (section.2.2) has been the creation of our advanced
HDX-MS suite, which houses a SynaptG2-Si and an automated HDX XevoG2-XS. Our “cluster of
expertise” approach enabled us to assemble 4FTE combining the requisite biological sample,
analytical, computational and physical technology skills. We have significantly advanced dynamic
studies of physiologically important membrane proteins, reflected in 11 of our REF outputs and
additional methods articles. Using £1.2M from start-up and our capital budget (section.3.4) this
HDX-MS team have leveraged £4M in research funding, £35K in-kind contribution from Waters and
3 CASE awards. One CASE student was involved in building the new Waters Cyclic Ion Mobility
Mass Spectrometer.

Additional gifts to the department include a scanning tunnelling microscope (£70K) to Díez-Pérez
(from the University of Barcelona) and 200g uranium metal to Musgrave (from Cloke, Sussex).

3.5.Specialist facilities

To advance our research and impact we utilise a range of King’s, London, national and international
facilities (REF5a,1.5, 4.4) with some present and future examples highlighted in fig.14.




                                   Fig.14_Specialist Facilities
We benefit from King’s specialist centres adjacent to us on Guy’s campus including the only UK
Nikon Imaging Centre (REF5a,4.4) that offers the latest microscopes with >£6M of investment from
Nikon since 2014. This has enabled Wallace to advance his label-free imaging work of theme1 into

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
artificial cell activities, which together with the Microscopy Innovation Centre has underpinned
~£500K of our industrial funding (Wallace Ipsen Biopharma, Müller Fluidic Analytics). King’s JEOL
CUI has >£7.5M invested in electron microscopy (EM). Booth and Isaacson work with the CUI to
optimise samples for high-resolution cryoEM at LonCeM to gain molecular insight into complex
protein and biomembrane samples. Findlay develops synchrotron circular dichroism tailored to
these biomembrane samples, working with ANKA beamline scientists.
We employ specialist facilities strategically to lay foundations for our future goals. For example
Wallace serves on the management board of the LCN that offers excellent resources for our bio-
interface research. Bojdys and Díez-Pérez intend to exploit this expertise, alongside that of the
Thomas Young Centre to reinforce our bioelectricity impact development. There are also
opportunities to explore at the RFI (section-1.1) via our links developing correlated imaging (Fleck)
and “Next Generation Chemistry” (Booth).
Rosta (funded by ERC Starting Grant/EPSRC EC Fellowship) and Ulmschneider (funded by BBSRC)
have advanced their simulation methods (e.g. Ulmschneider-JACS:2019) and therapeutic studies
using King’s e-Research Rosalind HPC (recently upgraded with £1M) together with ~£130K in-kind
HPC time on national facilities (e.g. Archer). Building upon this expertise base, in the next 5 years
we aim to create an excellence cluster in computational chemistry and Artificial Intelligence (AI)
to underpin expansions of all our research themes (section-1.4). We will align with the recent £10M
King’s-led, London Medical Imaging & Artificial Intelligence Centre for Value-Based Healthcare
(Ref5a,1.1) and its Nvidia “Cambridge-1”, the UK’s largest dedicated healthcare supercomputer.
Our 5 KemCrick PIs who work part-time at the Crick on King’s attachment programme (section-4.1,
REF5a,1.5) are exploring novel research underpinning potential therapeutics using several of the
Crick’s outstanding 17 Science Technology Platforms (STPs). This is illustrated by Reading who is
pioneering new HDX-MS approaches for AMR working in partnership with the Crick state-of-the-art
MS/proteomics STP.


  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1.KemCrick

We have engaged proactively with the Crick, notably around chemistry of life. Booth (with Garcia-
Manyes) leads an inaugural King’s-Crick satellite group, Rosta started her satellite group in 2018
and Borysik, Politis and Reading will lead one of the foundational programmatic satellite groups in
2021 linked to the proteomics STP. Findlay managed the first KemCrick satellite laboratories and is
a “visiting scientist” acting as our central on-site contact. Additionally, we are regular visitors for
seminars, Special Interest Groups and King’s/Imperial/UCL “London Chemical Biology” events.
Success from our satellite groups is apparent e.g. Rosta-Science:2020 and Booth is developing new
technologies for membrane protein misfolding studies using single molecule force methods (with
Garcia-Manyes, Molloy-Crick, Maillard-Georgetown, USA) and high resolution and solid-state NMR
(Cabrita/Christodoulou’s (UCL) satellite group),
In 2021 we are joined by 2 new permanent PIs as joint King’s-Crick Group Leaders. Hess increases
our theme1 research and therapeutic impact through her innovative combination of inorganic and
medicinal chemistry, and McTernan brings a new area of artificial molecular machinery to span
themes 1 and 2.

4.2.Engagement

We have developed relationships with a range of research users and beneficiaries through
research/industry collaborations, science advisory boards, industrial consulting, participating on
funder panels and contributing to learned societies. We also undertake extensive schools and public
engagement with some thought-provoking arts and diversity projects. A selection of these activities
are outlined below.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.3.Research collaborations

We make the most of collaborations across London. Booth is on the Scientific Advisory Board of the
Imperial Institute of Chemical Biology CDT and her long-standing collaboration with Ces (Imperial
Head of Chemistry) led to a virtual centre for artificial cell design (fabriCELL) in 2017, advancing
theme1 goals. We have 3 joint PhD studentships with Salehi-Reyhani, following his move to Imperial
Department of Surgery and Cancer to advance healthcare technologies. Further close
interdisciplinary links stem from Rosta (now UCL Physics) with Cobb on coronavirus therapeutic
design, funded by “King’s Together” (REF5a,4.2) and Hogarth with UCL Critical Healthcare.
Selected exemplars of interdisciplinary partnerships that advance research and impact development
of our PIs include:
• artificial cells; Booth co-founded the Bristol BrisSynBio Synthetic Biology Centre (£13.5M
  EPSRC-BBSRC, 2014-19).
• designer peptide synthesis in the development of therapeutics for Duchenne Muscular
  Dystrophy; Cobb with Foster, Reading (£150K Harrisons Fund).
• bacterial gene expression underlying infection; Isaacson with Camp Mt.Holyoke, USA (~£900K
  BBSRC).
• novel broadband rotational spectroscopy in odorant design; Sanz with Swiss fragrance
  company, Firmenich (Royal Society International Exchange Grant £12K).
• theme3 bioelectricity work on biomolecular electron conduction; Díez-Pérez is advancing his
  ERC-funded programme via King’s Dresden-TransCampus (£20K King’s-TUDresden fund)
  (REF5a,1.4) and Coote (Australia National University; Nature:2016)
• Our HDX-MS expertise has initiated international collaborations, illustrated by
  Booth/Findlay/Politis and Tajkhorshid (Illinois, USA; Nature Comms:2020).

4.4.Impact development and economy

Our impact development strategy is paying off (sections-1.5&2.4, fig.6) evidenced by the 21 patents
we have filed over the REF period, with 7 being licenced (e.g. 1 sold to Oxford Nanpopore
Technologies for £10K). 37% PIs have active industrial collaborations resulting in £560K funding
directly from industry and £2M in grant awards with industrial collaborations. Our 3 target impact
areas have advanced as outlined below.
Towards therapeutics We have built industrial relationships via consultancies to Oxford Nanopore
Technologies, Ipsen Biopharma, Walters, and GW Pharmaceuticals and exploited patents to found
start-ups; AnywhereHPLC (Salehi-Reyhani) and Eve BioTek(Ulmschneider). 6 PIs have won King’s
IAAs (section1.5), incIuding £80K R&D Challenge Fund Awards to both Barry and Politis. External
IAAs provide additional resource e.g. Wellcome Trust SEED Award (Politis/Booth;£100K, 2016-17).
These IAAs have both initiated impact development and enriched our research environment by
enabling new PIs to establish their groups and start effective collaborative projects.
Analytical science applications Our HDX-MS expertise facilitates both our theme 1 research and
impact development. We followed the King’s Forensics’ approach, exemplified by the DCC (REF3)
of developing MS methodologies with the instrument manufacturers (section-3.4). Next steps
include exploiting our expertise towards applications, developing novel workflows for the
pharmaceutical industry, advised by the DCC and IPS. Moreover, the programmatic satellite at the
Crick (section-4.1) will enable additional biomedical methodology development.
Sustainable energy Impact development is a key priority of theme3 bioelectricity. Following
success with his thermogalvanic brick and start-up VBeck (section-1.4) Aldous is initiating a joint
project with the department of engineering on affordable batteries. Bojdys engaged industry and
policy stake-holders through his membership of the Young Leaders in Science World Economic
Forum that resulted in the sale of his high-capacity anodes patent (WO2020216408A1) in 2018 to
Inuru GmbH and they are currently scaling up production for assembly of rechargeable batteries.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4.5.Society

Science-Art initiative A project that epitomises our approach to challenging misconceptions about
scientific creativity is led by Isaacson. “Viewing the Invisible” is a multi-media collaboration
exploring common methodology between arts and sciences. Portraits of scientists (fig.15) were
painted whilst conversations between artist and scientist were filmed, attracting >15000 views on
YouTube.




                              Fig.15_Viewing the Invisible portraits

The project launched in 2019 at the National Portrait Gallery, King’s Cultural Institute and London
Fine Art Studios, and featured in PLOS Biology. Isaacson has a unique chemistry and english
literature research profile and appears regularly on podcasts e.g. Babbage, The Economist,
BBC/ABC radio. Isaacson and Booth have both participated in ScienceFoo at GooglePlex, California;
an invitation-only “unconference” across science, art and media. Barry appeared on Radio 4 “In our
time” featuring her work on chemistry of life.
We are exploring possibilities for an “Artificial Life” project with Ces, Imperial College Advanced
Hackspace, the Royal College of Arts, OpenCell biotech labs and King’s Science Gallery London
(REF5a,2.1).
Invisible Careers in Science We have developed a programme around 5 activities highlighting
“invisible” careers linked to physical sciences and the power of interdisciplinary approaches in
addressing global problems.
• Discover Science. Pupils interact with a wide range of academic and industrial scientists;
  ~100 students from ~30 schools attend annually.
• Summer school for pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds, attracting ~50 students p.a.
  Success is apparent in our UG population (50:50 male:female, 70% BAME).
• Open Access labs has welcomed 355 students from 11 schools to our teaching labs linking
  their curriculum to the breadth of possibilities arising from chemistry.
• #outtheboxthinking is our flagship “lab-in-a-box” programme presented at “DryLabs”. In 2020
  we delivered 50 at-home-boxes to pupils, school-boxes for 2070 students and 9000 “PyMol”
  computational kits.
• Public engagement staff and students are avid communicators, participating in the Brilliant
  Club, Thames Plastics Festival and working with our local Coin Street Community
  Playscheme.

4.6.Sustainability of Chemistry

New beginnings Our restoration of King’s Chemistry Department is a significant boost for the
health of UK Chemistry. Our UG numbers are buoyant and have grown to our target intake of 110,
with demand increasing every year. We run 4 BSc/MSci RSC-accredited UG programmes,
including “Chemistry with Biomedicine”. Our first BSc students graduated in 2015. Interdisciplinarity
is apparent in our degrees and “Integrated Chemistry Laboratory” modules. We expose UGs to
research via a “research methods” module and summer studentships, supporting 47 UGs via
King’s Undergraduate Research Fellowships Scheme (REF5a,3.1) or sources such as RSC

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
bursaries. MSci students pursue 9-month research projects, which have led to11 student co-
authored publications. Our MSci numbers have more than doubled to ~25, since the first cohort in
2015.
Chemistry’s rich heritage We link the future potential of chemistry to its illustrious past at King’s,
exemplified in our modern re-incarnation of the RSC Daniell Lecture, named after the first HoD at
King’s in 1831. Professor Dame Carol Robinson re-inaugurated this annual public series at King’s in
2014. Over 200 students regularly attend the associated open day and lectures, which have
encouraged students to think about the future of chemistry with “Challenge Chemistry” in 2015. Other
topics covered include “Chemistry for a Cleaner World”, “The Climate System”, and the “Cutting
Edge of Forensic Science”. We marked the 25th Daniell Lecture in 2019 with Prof Saiful Islam
speaking about batteries, in honour of the invention of the “Daniell Cell”. 10 Daniell descendants
attended and bequeathed a bust of Daniell and his Royal Society Medals to join the original Daniell
Cell at King’s.
In 2016 we re-instated the Burton Lecture to showcase cutting-edge chemistry in a prominent annual
King’s Public Lecture.

4.7.Wider research influence

We are a young community that is beginning to make its mark. Much of our activity over the REF
period has centred on raising our profile, emphasising that “King’s Chemistry is back”. Booth led the
way taking advantage of her numerous leadership roles: BBSRC Appointments Board, EPSRC
Strategic Advisory Network, Diamond Membrane Protein Laboratory Advisory Board, 2021 Chair of
RFI “Next Generation Chemistry” Advisory Panel and member of REF2021 Assessment Subpanel
5. Her abundant grant and interview panel work over the REF period (BBSRC, EPSRC, ERC and
Wellcome Trust) has inspired others to join grant panels e.g. Eggert, Reading, Wallace for
Wellcome Trust, BBSRC and EPSRC; Müller on the international Schmidt Science Fellows Panel
and Brogan for the Polish National Science Centre. Isaacson serves on the EPSRC Physics of Life
network steering group, Eggert on the Scientific Advisory Council of the Berlin Institute for
Molecular Pharmacology, Bojdys guides science policy via his role at the World Economic Forum
(section-4.4) and Reading sits on the UKRI Foundation Future Leaders committee.
Our EDI prowess is illustrated by the unique international
project “Catalyzing change-a diverse view of science”
(fig.16), co-led by Bojdys with 5 co-publications including
Nature Chemistry and JACS in 2020 together with a Nature
community blog. Booth sat on the PLuS Alliance science
working group “Transforming Women’s Leadership
Pathways”, and Suntharalingam was part of the RSC diversity
“175 Faces of Chemistry”.
We engage with learned societies as members of Executive
Council of US Protein Society (Booth), British Biophysical
Society (Wallace) and RSC Chemistry Biology Interface
Division Council (Eggert). Many PIs are members of RSC
Special Interest Groups, Barry is secretary for “Chemical
Biology and Bioorganic” and Sanz for “Spectroscopy and           Fig.16_A diverse view of science
Dynamics”. Hogarth sits on the Accreditation and Validation
                                                                          photo abstract
Committee.
Our PIs have been recognised with independent research fellowships (table3). Reading was
nominated by the Royal Society to attend the 2017 67th Lindau Nobel Laureate meeting. We are
working to increase our prize nominations to add to our growing list of awards that includes:
International Society of Electrochemistry Jaroslav Heyrovsky Prize (Díez-Pérez), RSC Norman
Heatley Award (Wallace), Royal Australian Chemical Institute Alan M. Bond Award (Aldous).
We are active in international meetings with UoA8 PIs giving >300 lectures over the REF period
and we are contributing to organisation: Biochemical Society Meeting (Politis, Reading), Gordon
Research Conference (Booth), International Conference on HDX-MS (Politis), International Union of

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Pure and Applied Biophysics Annual Meeting (Wallace) and Annual RSC Chemical Biology
Symposiums (Barry, Eggert). We serve on Journal Editorial Boards e.g. Current Opinion in Green
and Sustainable Chemistry (Aldous), Biochemistry (Eggert), Emerging Topics in Life Sciences
(Booth), Frontiers in Molecular Biosciences (Isaacson), Royal Society Interface Focus (Booth) and
RSC New Journal of Chemistry (Cobb).
We encourage collaborative PGR training and a third of our PhD students are jointly supervised
with other UK Universities. LIDo for example encompasses 8 London institutions and we aim to
increase our participation in King’s international schemes, including A*STAR (joint PhD programme
with Singapore institutions), CSC and exploit Bojdys’ links as Visiting Professor at Humboldt Berlin
via the NMES-Humboldt joint studentships programme.



                      King’s Chemistry – linking the past with the future




 King’s Principal & President          Celebrating our first            #outtheboxthinking
   accepts Daniell bequest               BSc graduation




                                                                                           Page 18
