Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln


 Unit of Assessment: 4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 This UoA comprises the School of Psychology (SoP) at the University of Lincoln (UoL), and
 encompasses all research activity in the School, which includes social, developmental, cognitive,
 biological, forensic and clinical psychology, as well as cognitive, computational and molecular
 neuroscience. The SoP has been offering British Psychological Society (BPS) accredited
 undergraduate programmes at the UoL since 1991, as well as taught and research master’s
 degree programmes and doctoral qualifications including PhD and DClinPsy. The School has
 grown throughout this period and now offers programmes to more than 1000 undergraduate and
 postgraduate students taught by staff from a variety of academic and professional practice
 backgrounds. The School is part of the College of Social Science (CoSS), which is one of four
 Colleges within the University (see institutional statement). The SoP has 30 (headcount)
 Category A staff with significant responsibility for research (see Section 2).


 The UoA has benefitted from substantial investment and as such has developed at a rapid pace.
 Since REF 2014 we have more than doubled the number of staff submitted in the unit from 12.8
 to 29.4 FTE, increased the number of PGR students at the census point from 16 to 88,
 increased our research income fivefold from £283,000 to £1,468,740 and invested substantially
 in new facilities including the new £18.5m Sarah Swift building that now houses 22 specialist
 research labs in addition to staff offices and PGR spaces for the SoP. With this new investment
 our vision is to deliver world class, impactful research with relevance for modern society in key
 areas of particular strength. These include face recognition, animal behaviour and human-animal
 interaction, gambling, sleep and cognition, child protection and mental health therapies.


 Achievement of Previous Strategic Aims


 Research
 This has been a period of extraordinary growth and development within the UoA, and this
 development is reflected in the achievement and surpassing of our previous strategic aims. In
 our REF 2014 submission we set out four key aims for research:-
    •   To further increase the proportion of academic staff producing research of international
        quality by investing in and mentoring all academic staff.
    •   To recruit new academic staff at all levels of experience to augment quality and breadth
        of research activity across the research groups.
    •   To sustain and expand research activity by increasing research income (target total
        confirmed research income from all sources during the period to exceed £1,000,000).
    •   To increase numbers of PhD students over the next five years, rising to an average of
        one PhD student per staff member.
 All four of these aims have been achieved:-
    •   We have increased the proportion of staff publishing in Q1 journals within their field, as
        well as substantially increasing the overall number of citations for staff in the UoA. We
        have implemented mentoring programmes as well as investing in staff and facilities
        which have helped to achieve this.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •     We have increased the overall number of staff with significant responsibility for research
          by over 30% (from 23, of whom 13 were submitted last time, to 30 all of whom are
          submitted this time), including two new appointments at Professorial level and one at
          Associate Professor, with a further two internal promotions to Associate Professor and
          one to Professor (see section 2 for more details).
    •     We have increased our research income fivefold to £1,468,740 from £283,000 previously
          and comfortably exceeded our target figure of £1,000,000 for this period (see section 3
          for further details).
    •     We have increased our PGR students at the census point more than fivefold from 16 to
          88, which is more than double our target of an average of one per staff member.


 Impact
 As well as contributing to the knowledge base through research, this unit has a strong focus on
 making a wider contribution through the impact of research on society. As such, we also outlined
 two strategic aims for impact in our previous submission (in the impact template):-
    •     To maximise the potential social, economic and health benefits of research in the unit.
    •     To influence policy and practice and enhance public awareness and understanding of
          psychological science through our research.
 We have achieved these aims by keeping impact very much at the centre of our approach to
 research, utilising an impact champion and supporting staff in their research activities. This has
 led to some notable outcomes (see also our impact case studies):-
    •     During this period, research from the unit has directly led to social and regulatory change
          (e.g. the work of Parke and Roberts in highlighting the problems with fixed-odds betting
          terminals leading to changes in the regulations in this area), and health benefits (e.g. the
          work of Hudson and Pollux on the Cognitive Daisy project which has been used to
          improve the treatment of people in residential care with dementia).
    •     Research from the unit has also led to policy and public awareness change (e.g. the
          work of Majolo and Marechal on the conservation of the Barbary Macaque, which has led
          to changes in international trade laws, an updated assessment of conservation status
          and greater public awareness with regard to eco-tourism).


 Future Strategic Aims
 Following the achievement of the previous REF2014 strategic aims, we will consolidate these
 improvements by setting a number of important strategic goals, for both research and impact.
 These are as follows:-
 Research
    1. Increase the number of research outputs produced within the unit to average over 100
       per year, with at least half meeting the criteria for international excellence.
    2. Increase the research funding obtained to at least £2m during the next five years, with
       funding obtained in all of the specialist research areas to sustain this activity.
    3. Increase PGR completions to at least 100 during the next five years, with PGR students
       recruited in each specialist area.
    4. Increase the number of staff with significant responsibility for research to at least 40
       within the next five years with a particular focus on key priority areas to increase their
       vitality.
    5. Further develop collaborative research links for all staff in the UoA to increase the range,
       complexity and quality of the work undertaken.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact
    1. Increase the proportion of staff engaged in significantly impactful research (with impact
       case study potential) to at least half of all UoA staff in order to achieve our goal of
       carrying out impactful research with relevance for modern society.
    2. Develop systems to monitor the economic, social, health and policy benefits directly
       arising from impactful research carried out within the UoA.
 In our research and impact strategies below, we outline some of the ways in which we propose
 to achieve these targets.


 Research Strategy
 Successful research requires personnel, facilities, funding, time and collaborators. Our strategy
 therefore needs to operate across a broad range of areas. These include: (1) Establishment of
 supportive research structures; (2) Investment in and development of research staff; (3)
 Investment in and development of PGR students; (4) Investment in and maintenance of high
 quality research facilities and infrastructure; (5) Support for obtaining research funding; (6)
 Supportive policies to provide time for research activities; (7) Support for interdisciplinary
 research; (8) Support for open research; and (9) Support for research integrity. Below we outline
 how each of these will be achieved.


 (1) Supportive Research Structures
 The UoA has a well-developed organisational structure to support research activity. Researchers
 are organised into three research groups: (a) Perception, Action & Cognition (led by Bourke),
 which includes areas such as face perception; (b) Developmental and Social Behaviour (led by
 Majolo), covering areas such as language development and human-animal interaction; (c)
 Forensic and Clinical Research Group (led by Bartels), which includes research on gambling
 and prevention of online child exploitation. These groups meet on a weekly rotating basis in a
 fixed slot which enables interested colleagues from other groups to join. The groups provide a
 supportive environment for researchers in a given field, but due to their size and breadth also
 provide opportunities for cross-skill collaborations. For example, Pennington and Durrant have
 collaborated on research looking at the impact of genetic variation on emotional memory
 consolidation during sleep, using their respective expertise in molecular neuroscience
 (Pennington) and polysomnography (Durrant).
 Research within the SoP (and hence this UoA) is overseen by the School Research Committee,
 which is chaired by the School Director of Research (Durrant) and includes two Deputy Directors
 of Research (Pennington and Ritchie), three research group leads (Bourke, Majolo and Bartels),
 the impact lead (Hodgson), and representatives for ECRs (Ritchie), mentoring (Meints),
 DClinPsy (Moghaddam) and a PGR student, as well as CoSS research officers. The committee
 is responsible for overseeing research activity within the School (such as monitoring
 membership of the research groups) and developing policies (such as the research workload
 policy).
 Finally, the University supports the development of interdisciplinary research centres. This
 includes the Autism Research and Innovation Centre (ARIC) and the Lincoln Sleep Research
 Centre (LiSReC), both of which involve staff from different Schools and Colleges within the
 University including members of this UoA (see point (7) below).


 (2) Investment in and Development of Research Staff
 There has been significant investment in research staff within this UoA and we aim to continue
 this during the next five years. The specific strategy for staff recruitment and development is
 outlined in section 2.



                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (3) Investment in and Development of PGR Students
 The number of PGR students in this UoA has risen dramatically during this census period and
 we aim to continue this rise by recruiting students opportunistically, actively seeking PGRs in
 target research areas and developing research funding to include more studentships. The
 specific strategy for growing the number of PGR students and ensuring that the students are
 able to perform to the best of their ability is outlined in section 2.


 (4) Investment in and Maintenance of High Quality Research Facilities and Infrastructure
 The substantial investment in infrastructure and facilities that has taken place in this UoA is
 outlined in section 3. Support for sustained development of this comes from a number of
 sources. The SoP has research and equipment budgets to support research facilities within the
 UoA. For larger items of expenditure, the CoSS and the University Research Office offer support
 on a case-by-case basis and have previously supported expenditure in this UoA (e.g. £25,000
 each for the purchase of a new Biosemi ActiveTwo EEG system to support investigations of the
 effect of eye movements on EEG rhythms using integrated eye-tracking).


 (5) Support for Obtaining Research Funding
 Research funding is another area that has seen substantial development during the current
 census period, but also an area where further substantial development is necessary to support
 development. As such, we have a number of mechanisms in place to support funding bids to
 develop research income. These are outlined in section 3.


 (6) Supportive Policies to Provide Time and Seed Funding
 Sufficient time for research is one of the most important components of a successful research
 strategy and staff research time must be proactively protected in an HE environment of
 increasing demands. Our strategy utilises two policies (see section 2): (1) a sabbatical scheme
 providing one semester of leave for up to three staff members per year for large scale research
 activities; and (2) a research workload policy providing ongoing time for general research
 activities.
 Seed funding is also essential to maintain and develop new areas of research, and two types are
 offered in this UoA. The School Research Committee oversees a School research budget. This
 provides a fixed annual baseline amount, along with additional funds proportionate to outputs
 produced, to facilitate research on the basis of productivity. Funds in the scheme may be carried
 over for one year and yield a maximum of £2,600 per staff member. They may be used for any
 research-related purpose. Staff who require a larger amount can apply to the research
 committee for additional funds on an ad hoc basis.
 Early- and mid-career staff within the UoA can apply to the CoSS Research Fund (CRF) for seed
 funding of up to £3,000 to carry out pilot work prior to an external funding bid, or to undertake
 research networking. Staff at all levels can apply for PhD studentship funding within the College.
 One of the key criteria for both of these schemes is the extent to which the work is
 interdisciplinary (see point 7 below). PhD funding, for example, was awarded for work using
 virtual reality to explore visual trigger conditions for migraine using EEG, which combines
 expertise from the SoP within this UoA (O’Hare, with EEG expertise) with other researchers in
 the fields of healthcare (to provide migraine expertise) and computer science (for VR).


 (7) Support for Interdisciplinary Research
 The CRF scheme outlined above is one example of a structure designed to support
 interdisciplinary research. Interdisciplinary work of this nature is actively promoted across the
 College and University. School DoRs are brought together in the College Research Committee
 and the College DoR forum, providing platforms for interdisciplinary research discussion.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Similarly, College Away Days are organised to enable staff from different schools to meet and
 develop plans to work together. College research seminars have an explicitly interdisciplinary
 focus and staff are able to request seminars in specific areas to help them develop an
 interdisciplinary project. The CoSS runs an annual Research Showcase event at which
 researchers from across the College can see their colleagues’ research and develop knowledge
 of what research expertise is available for interdisciplinary projects.
 Collaborations within the SoP are promoted through an external seminar series with guest
 speakers invited by staff and an internal seminar series featuring staff presenting their work to
 colleagues. An annual School Away Day facilitates team building and exchange of ideas. Cross-
 school collaborations are supported by College research seminars, internal seed funding
 opportunities and interdisciplinary research centres. The Lincoln Sleep Research Centre
 (LiSReC), for example, is led jointly by researchers from this UoA (Durrant) and the School of
 Health & Social Care. LiSReC draws core membership from Schools across the University,
 including Computer Science, Chemistry and Pharmacy as well as Health & Social Care and
 Psychology and incorporates sleep researchers from a nearby HE institution (Bishop
 Grosseteste University). Projects typically involve a combination of disciplines, e.g. work on the
 neuroscience of sleep involves psychologists (Durrant) providing data from Sleep Laboratory
 recordings, medical statisticians providing data analysis support, and computer scientists
 engaging in computational modelling. Set up during this census period, LiSReC represents a
 significant step forward by embedding interdisciplinary research within the research structures of
 the unit.


 (8) Support for Open Research
 In line with University policy and UKRI guidelines, members of the UoA have embraced open
 access for both outputs and research data. Open access outputs are supported by the ePrints
 institutional repository and made available in accordance with their open access agreements.
 The cost of open access publication for staff is covered via an agreement with some publishers
 (e.g. Springer) and a fund to pay for UKRI-funded open access charges. Researchers are
 trained and encouraged to make data open access where appropriate using Open Science
 Framework (OSF), with a number of members of the UoA doing so (e.g. Ritchie hosts seven
 projects there; https://osf.io/j5rdk/). Open research is an essential part of the strategy to achieve
 wider dissemination of research findings, increased impact and more collaborative opportunities.


 (9) Support for Research Integrity
 Research integrity is taken very seriously within this UoA and supported in several ways. During
 this census period, the UoL has appointed a research governance manager and implemented an
 institution-wide ethical review system to ensure consistency. All staff research led from the
 institution undergoes ethical review while research with ethical approval granted from an
 external body (e.g. NHS or another HE institution) is registered. Compliance with legal and
 regulatory frameworks such as GDPR is ensured by the involvement of data compliance officers.
 An ethics lead within the SoP (Marechal), and a representative on the institution-wide system
 (Roberts), ensure compatibility with BPS regulations and provide support for all colleagues
 within the UoA. In recognition of the replication problem in many areas of science (including
 those covered by UoA4) one of the functions of the review process is to ensure that research is
 sufficiently powered to generate reliable data. This is achieved by requiring justification of
 research designs and sample sizes used through power analysis or precedent. Peer review of
 proposed research studies also supports the development of high quality and replicable
 research.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact Strategy
 In line with the University’s research strategy, this UoA places research with impact at the centre
 of its mission. Staff are encouraged to think about impact potential at all stages of their research
 and this is formalised by the explicit adoption of an OPEN strategy: (1) Openness to
 engagement beyond academia; (2) Participation in events and organisations; (3) Extending
 reach through specific activities; (4) Nurturing staff to develop impact through support and
 advice. This strategy is implemented through a number of specific measures:-
    •   Appointment of an impact lead within the SoP (Hodgson). The School impact lead works
        closely with the University impact lead and ensures that institutional support for impact is
        made available in the UoA. All of the impact case studies in the UoA were reviewed and
        supported by the impact lead.
    •   Weekly impact clinics in which staff can discuss their research and look for evidence of
        impact. For example, the impact potential of face recognition work (Ritchie, Kramer,
        Flack) was recognised and developed during a weekly impact clinic and has supported
        subsequent applied research within this area.
    •   Creation of the Lincoln Impact Literacy Institute, with which colleagues are encouraged to
        engage.
    •   Access to impact funds at both School and College level. For example, the Cognitive
        Daisy project (Hudson, Pollux), which is an assessment and visualisation tool for
        cognitive impairment, benefitted from funding to manufacture specific toolkits for
        distribution to partners in order to evaluate their impact within care homes. Travel and
        conference funding was provided to support the Online Protect impact case study
        (Merdian).
    •   Support for postgraduate researchers where these are clearly needed; for example, the
        Conservation of the Barbary Macaque impact case study (Majolo, Marechal) benefitted
        from PhD studentships funded by the College.
    •   Creation of forums where partners for impactful research can be found. For example, the
        ENRICH forum links care home providers and researchers and provided an opportunity
        for the Cognitive Daisy project (Hudson, Pollux) to find interested care homes to work
        with.
    •   Allocation of College staff to monitor and collate the impact of research. For example, the
        ComPACT project (Dawson, Moghaddam), developing a tool for measuring
        psychological flexibility, has been widely adopted throughout the world in a way that only
        became apparent as a result of this monitoring.
    •   An annual impact away day in which all researchers within the UoA receive training,
        share experiences and expertise and discuss ways in which impact can be further
        developed.
    •   Specific time allocation within the workload for impact-related activities, which enables
        ongoing impactful research. For example, work on the Blue Dog bite prevention project,
        which was an impact case study in REF 2014, has continued throughout this census
        period (such as in development of a new app) and time has been made available for this.
    •   Institution-led public engagement events. These include European LiGHTS night and an
        annual summer scientist event for children, both of which lead to greater public
        awareness of research from the UoA.
    •   Practical support for impact-generating events. For example, the Harm Minimisation in
        Digital Gambling Forms (Hodgson, Roberts) case study has benefitted from practical
        support in holding conferences in Lincoln and from the Lincoln Parliamentary Research
        Centre in engaging with Parliament to promote changes to gambling laws.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The effect of these measures is that impact has become more tightly integrated into the research
 process for staff in this UoA and our strategy now focuses on impactful research with relevance
 for modern society.


 2. People
 Staffing Strategy and Development
 The School has witnessed a rapid expansion of its research-oriented staff since 2014, with
 submitted FTE more than doubling from 12.8 to 29.4 (with a headcount of 30) in the current
 submission. Staff are strategically recruited in areas of strength, with a strong research profile in
 terms of outputs, research income and impact as key hiring criteria. For example, face
 recognition is a key strength within the School and three new members of staff (Ritchie, Kramer
 and Flack) have been recruited in this specific field and formed a successful face lab under
 senior staff mentorship (Guo). Recruitment has taken place at all levels since 2014, but with a
 particular emphasis on ECRs, reflecting a strategy whereby talented staff are recruited early in
 their careers and encouraged to develop and grow along with the School. This strategy has
 been successful, with two staff promoted to Associate Professor (Merdian, Ziegler) and one
 awarded a personal Chair (Guo).
 Staff development is supported in many ways within the SoP and the CoSS:-
    1. An annual development appraisal with a senior staff member. This is an opportunity for
       staff to review their progress, identify needs and discuss career plans with a view to
       future development and targeted support.
    2. An annual research planning meeting with a senior researcher. All aspects of research
       are discussed at this meeting, including outputs, income, impact and professional esteem
       activities, and staff are encouraged to outline specific research plans for the next three
       years.
    3. Access to the UoL Continuing Personal and Professional Development (CPPD)
       framework, which offers courses targeted at research including development of research
       data management plans and research risk assessments.
    4. A SoP research mentoring programme. All staff are offered a research mentor from
       senior staff and encouraged to have regular meetings. Research mentorship provides
       early career staff with advice and knowledge of professional opportunities and in some
       cases useful contacts and networking opportunities.
    5. Restricted teaching loads for ECRs, allowing them more time to focus on research. This
       is achieved by automatically allocating ECRs the maximum research workload time,
       which for other staff is directly related to research productivity measures (including
       outputs, funding bids and impact activities).
    6. Start-up support for new staff in terms of funds or equipment to enable them to establish
       their research. For example, a new member of staff in 2018 (Craddock) was supported
       through the purchase of a new Biosemi Active Two EEG system allowing the
       development of his research programme in this area.
    7. An annual sabbatical scheme which enables up to three members of staff within the
       School to have a semester free of teaching and administration to focus exclusively on
       activities such as grant writing, impact development or extended research visits. For
       example, Merdian developed an impact case study (Online Protect) during a period of
       research leave, while Pennington secured external PhD studentship funding from The
       Mindfulness Association.
    8. A policy of providing leadership role opportunities for early- and mid-career staff. For
       example, Bourke and Bartels have taken leadership of the Perception, Action &
       Cognition and Forensic and Clinical research groups respectively. Senior staff continue



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        to mentor these more junior staff with the aim of ensuring that the roles are carried out
        effectively. This policy enables staff to gain vital leadership experience.


 PGR Students
 An integral part of the research strategy in this UoA is the development of a vibrant PGR culture.
 88 doctoral PGR students in this UoA at the census date are split between PhD and DClinPsy
 programmes. The DClinPsy students are part of the Trent Clinical Doctorate programme, run
 jointly with The University of Nottingham; the students included here are only those who
 graduate specifically from UoL.
 The vibrancy of the PGR culture in this UoA is reflected in the growth of PGR numbers. The 88
 current PGR students are in sharp contrast to just 16 enrolled at the REF 2014 census point.
 Similarly, the number of completions has more than doubled from 32 in in the REF 2014
 submission to 71 during the current period. The increase in the number of students has been
 driven by four key mechanisms:-
    1. Funding for PGR students in Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience has increased
       substantially. The UoL was a founder member of the Doctoral Training Alliance (DTA; a
       PGR funding programme) and invested in a subscription which funded PGR students in
       Applied Biosciences for Health (e.g. two supervised by Pennington). In addition to DTA
       funding, institutional funding has been provided by the CoSS, with up to three students
       per year funded within the UoA (and a total of ten within this census period). The SoP
       funds a full studentship each year for graduates from any of its taught programmes, and
       offers part-time Graduate Teaching Assistantships to a number of additional students.
       Finally, increased external income has included provision for PGR studentships (e.g. to
       Meints).
    2. A new PGT programme offering an MSc in Psychological Research Methods was
       established in 2016. This programme provides training in research methods and
       prepares students for postgraduate research.
    3. The substantial increase in research-active staff has increased the number of
       supervisors and the range of topics available. The increased international research
       profile of the UoA has led to an increase in visibility and applications from international
       students. Positive feedback from existing students has directly led to applications from
       other students (e.g. five PGR students from Saudi Arabia).
    4. The substantially improved research facilities available in the Sarah Swift building (see
       Section 3) have made the SoP attractive to potential students, including those who self-
       fund. The new building has also enabled all PhD students within the School to have their
       own desk in dedicated PGR rooms, developing a PGR community and ensuring that they
       feel part of the School.
 Support for postgraduate research is led by the SoP Director of Postgraduate Research (Majolo)
 and the School Postgraduate Research Committee which includes staff and PGR
 representatives. All PGR students have at least two supervisors, one of whom must be
 experienced with previous PGR completions. They can access School and College funds to
 support, present and publish their research (e.g. one of Durrant’s students presented at the
 international SLEEP2017 conference and published his work in the high impact journal Cortex).
 An annual postgraduate conference is organised in order to give students conference
 experience and boost their confidence for external conferences.
 The Researcher Development Programme (RDP) from the Doctoral School ensures that all PGR
 students obtain the skills necessary to succeed in PGR work and the transferrable skills needed
 for their future careers, with the training needs of each student determined annually. Together
 with mandatory supervisor training every four years, these mechanisms have ensured 85% on-
 time completions during this census period.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and Diversity
 The UoA has a headcount of 30 staff members, with an even gender balance (15 female, 15
 male), with 17 born outside of the UK. The gender balance is preserved at more senior levels,
 with half (5 out 10) of senior staff (Professors and Associate Professors) identifying as female.
 Currently 13.3% of staff members identify as BAME; this is substantially higher than the
 Lincolnshire average of 5.3% and broadly in line with the national population average. We are
 actively encouraging BAME candidates to apply for all vacancies through the use of an
 inclusivity statement in all advertisements:-
 “The School of Psychology recognises the positive value of diversity, promotes equality and
 proactively works to make our School an inclusive environment. We welcome and encourage job
 applications from people of all backgrounds. We particularly welcome applications from disabled
 and Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) candidates, as these groups are currently
 underrepresented at this level.”
 The Psychology Athena SWAN Working Group was established in 2013 to facilitate the
 promotion of good practice within the School. The School was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze in
 2016 and Silver in 2020, with commendation on a number of areas of best practice. This working
 group is now the School of Psychology Equality Committee (SPEC) which has standing agenda
 items on School and leadership group meetings, and informs decision-making at every level
 within the School.
 SPEC, chaired by the Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) lead (McKenzie), comprises staff
 and students at all levels and a number of ‘Champions’ – individuals who have been identified as
 a first port of call for anyone who feels that they need help or advice relating to specific areas of
 their own identity. They are also tasked with the following specific role responsibilities:-
 Equality & Diversity Champion: Be aware of and promote understanding of the impact that
 racist, xenophobic, culturally elitist or oppressive behaviours at both the individual and the
 institutional level can have on individuals and UK BAME groups as a whole, as well as on non-
 UK nationals.
 LGBTQIA+ Champion: Be aware of and promote understanding of the impact of HBT
 (homophobic, bi-phobic & transphobic) behaviours can have on individuals.
 Parent/Carer Champion: Represent parent/carer issues to senior management – such as
 timings of meetings/teaching to tread the line between the demands of core working hours and
 child care/caring responsibilities. Run our Parenting Peers mentoring Scheme.
 Mental Health Champion: Be aware of and promote understanding of the impact that negative
 attitudes, implicit bias and negative stereotypes of mental health issues can have on individuals
 that have been affected.
 Disability Champion: Be aware of and promote understanding of the impact prejudiced
 behaviours can have on individuals with disabilities, health conditions or impairments.
 Disseminate information about disability and long-term health support available at the University.
 Encourage accessibility and use of Universal Design principles in research spaces.
 SPEC have ensured that equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) are fully woven into all areas of
 the School. Leadership roles are rotated regularly to give all staff the opportunity to display
 leadership, and vacant positions are advertised across the School to invite expressions of
 interest. Training of EDI for all staff within the UoA is provided through online e-learning courses
 (such as one on Equality and Diversity Within the Workplace) and in-person workshops (such as
 one on Trans-Awareness).
 Practices within the School are carer-friendly; the external seminar series was moved from a 4-
 5pm slot to a 2-3pm slot, so that staff with childcare responsibilities are able to attend on a
 regular basis. Two members of staff who took a period of maternity leave were encouraged to
 apply for institutional-level support, which provided them with research cover and £10,000 of
 internal research funding to enable their research programme to continue while on maternity
 leave, directly addressing a key equality issue in research.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Members of the UoA are actively involved in research and outreach being conducted by the
 University’s Eleanor Glanville Centre (focused on EDI), as well as the University’s Women In
 Science and Engineering Scheme. Our mentoring lead (Meints) was awarded the international
 Suffrage Women in Science award in 2017 in recognition of her leadership role in science and
 she has subsequently supervised and mentored a number of early career female scientists with
 a view to increasing the representation of women in science.
 Finally, the principles of EDI are reflected in our REF submission. Our outputs have been
 selected using the formal process outlined in the University’s Code of Practice, which embeds
 these principles within the processes. Staff involved in output selection have undertaken
 appropriate EDI training specific to the process and using multiple reviewers for all outputs has
 helped to ensure equality. 43.2% of submitted outputs come from individuals who identify as
 female while 56.8% come from individuals who identify as male; 10.8% of outputs are from
 individuals who identify as BAME. Two of the impact case studies have mixed female and male
 authorship while the other is exclusively female.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Research Income
 Research income has developed during this census period to facilitate our growing productivity
 and enable high quality research. We have achieved £1,468,740 of research income since 2014,
 in contrast to £283,000 during the previous census period, despite an increasingly challenging
 funding climate. We will continue with this development throughout the next REF period.
 Our research income incorporates funding from UKRI, the European Union, NIH, ESRC, NHS,
 industrial partners and charities. The aim is to support ongoing programmes of work and target
 funding bids in areas of strength. For example, the School has a particular strength in animal
 behavioural and human-animal interaction work (Guo, Meints, Majolo, Marechal), with work in
 this area supported by grants to Guo, who received research funding (£155,470) from the EU
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action programme for a project looking at the assessment of emotional
 faces in dogs, and Meints, who received £248,496 from WALTHAM/Mars Petcare to look at
 animal assisted interventions for children with and without special educational needs, building on
 earlier work in this census period funded by an NIH grant of $99,824. This specialist research
 area reflects a broader institutional strength with two Chairs in this UoA (Meints and Guo) and
 Professor Daniel Mills, the UK’s first Professor of Veterinary Behavioural Medicine, in the School
 of Life Sciences.
 The School’s strong focus on EDI is reflected in its research activities and this work has been
 supported by a grant of £173,510 to Gaunt from the Nuffield Foundation to look at re-gendered
 parenting. ESRC-funded projects were also carried out during this period on visual judgments of
 human movement (Mather; £286,945) and the first UK-wide language norms for young children
 (Meints; £357,952). With the establishment of the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health,
 the Lincoln Medical School and two research centres with a health focus (sleep and autism) led
 from within the School, there has been a significant increase in research on health and well-
 being in the School. Funding bids to support this work have been made to healthcare research
 funders such as the MRC, the Wellcome Trust and the NIHR. This includes support for PGR
 work such as a £64,843 award to Tovée for CLAHRC studentship funding on a project looking at
 body image and healthy eating.


 The research income strategy encompasses five key areas:-
    1. Supporting individual researchers by providing time, mentoring and expertise to help with
       grant applications.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Increasing the proportion of collaborative bids through extended networking opportunities
       and researcher training.
    3. Targeting funding bids in areas of key strength as identified through the research
       centres, groups and networks within the UoA.
    4. Increasing the quality of funding bids through rigorous peer review and research
       planning.
    5. Improving the track record of the applicant through increased outputs, feasibility studies
       and the generation of pilot data.
 Funding bids are incorporated into annual workloading to ensure that researchers have time to
 write them. Time to write is further supported with the provision of writing retreats led by trained
 individuals, which have led directly to outputs and funding bids. Research mentors offer
 experienced support for bid writing (e.g. Föcker has been mentored by Hodgson and was a co-
 applicant on a large EU Research and Innovation Action grant application that Hodgson led;
 subsequently Föcker led on a funding bid to AIM-Health with Hodgson as co-applicant). Grant
 writing workshops and seminars are provided by the CoSS on topics such as charitable funding
 sources or writing a case for support. Identification of appropriate funding schemes,
 interpretation of scheme rules, and support for costings, are provided by dedicated research
 officers at College and institution levels and all staff are given access to the Research
 Professional funding website.
 Collaborative bids are promoted through structures that support interdisciplinary working both
 within and beyond higher education (see section 1). In particular, funding is available at School,
 College and Institution levels which specifically supports collaborative bids. Networking is
 supported financially (through the School research budget, the CoSS research fund and travel
 grants from the Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies) and with time (through the School
 research leave scheme, which can be used for extended visits to collaborators). The SoP
 seminar series provides an opportunity for researchers to invite prospective collaborators (e.g.
 Dr Caroline Dalton from Sheffield Hallam University, which facilitated a collaboration with
 Pennington).
 A formal peer review scheme within the CoSS requires a draft of funding bids to be made
 available six weeks ahead of the submission deadline and sent for internal peer review. This
 provides time for researchers to make appropriate changes prior to formal submission.
 Submitted bids are also reviewed by institution-level research officers for correct costings and
 compliance with scheme rules prior to being signed off. Evidence suggests that this peer review
 scheme improves the quality of bids, with successful applicants identifying peer review as having
 helped them obtain funding (Guo and Gaunt).
 To ensure that submitted bids are supported by appropriate foundation work, the CRF supports
 feasibility and pilot studies ahead of a funding bid, with 21 projects in this UoA receiving CRF
 funds during this census period. For example, Ritchie received CRF funding for a face
 perception project, which led to a successful bid (£33,153) to the British Academy for a project
 looking at face perception in the criminal justice system. Periodically, the University also
 operates an institution-level research investment fund for larger scale pilot projects with cross-
 school collaboration (e.g. a project headed by Roberts looking at UK gambling data which led
 directly to an external funding bid to the Responsible Gambling Trust). Researchers are also
 encouraged to use external small grant schemes for seed funding, with grants obtained from the
 Experimental Psychology Society (McKenzie, Durrant, Kramer, Ritchie), British Psychological
 Society (Durrant, Bourke, Pennington), and British Academy/Leverhulme Trust (Pavan,
 Hermens, Van de Vyver). Many of these have led to outputs and some to other external funding
 (e.g. £7,237 for Durrant from Innovate UK in collaboration with a local business).
 Infrastructure and Facilities
 This UoA has benefitted from strategic investment by the UoL, most notably the £18.5m Sarah
 Swift Building, opened in June 2017, which houses the Schools of Psychology and Health &
 Social Care. This move has enabled the expansion of the School and ensured that research
 facilities have kept pace with the increase in staff. As well as offices for staff the building now

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 houses 22 specialised research labs, including flagship facilities such as a 3D Body Scanner, an
 Infant and Child Development Lab, a Molecular Psychology Lab and a Sleep Lab. The labs are
 led by an academic Labs Manager (Flack) and maintained by a team of three technicians with
 their own on-site workshop for producing and maintaining equipment. The technicians also keep
 a repository of research equipment including laptops, cameras, response boxes and an
 extensive library of over 200 different psychometric tests and validated questionnaires.
 In addition to this major infrastructure investment, the School has a budget dedicated to
 purchasing equipment and consumables, and favours proposals for collaborative inter-
 disciplinary research which will make the best use of any new equipment. Recent purchases
 from this include a Biosemi EEG system, a Neuroconn tDCS system and a BIOPAC fNIR
 neuroimaging system. In the period since 2014, over £250,000 has been spent at a School level
 supporting research costs and equipment, in addition to external research funding, College and
 institutional spending.
 In accordance with the wider research strategy, equipment procurement is focused on areas of
 strength such as face perception and sleep research. As a result, the School has the following
 labs and key research facilities:-
    1. VR Lab 1, with an Oculus Rift for virtual reality-based research.
    2. VR Lab 2, with an HTC Vive Pro and Valve Index for virtual reality work using a different
       platform.
    3. Doppler Lab, with a transcranial doppler system for neuroimaging.
    4. Biosensor Lab, with a Biopac for physiological measurements.
    5. CANTAB Lab, for cognitive testing and including a machine with a CANTAB licence.
    6. Molecular Psychology Lab, which is a wet lab with facilities for small molecule analysis,
       biological sample processing and storage.
    7. Sleep Lab, with a control room, en-suite shower room and two bedrooms each with
       Embla N7000 polysomnography systems, infrared video, sound capture and
       presentation, controlled temperature and lighting, as well as a number of Phillips
       actiwatches, three home Sleep Profiler PSG devices and a g.tec EEG system for closed-
       loop stimulation.
    8. tES Lab, including a Neuroconn DC-Stimulator Plus tDCS system and a BrainSTIM tDCS
       system for research involving neurostimulation.
    9. Face Recognition Lab, with a high spec PC and a high speed monitor for the
       presentation of multiple video stimuli.
    10. Psychophysics Lab, with a specialised video camera and occlusion googles for
        psychophysics research into visual perception.
    11. EEG Lab 1, with a Biosemi ActiveTwo 64-channel EEG and integrated Jazz eye-tracker
        and auditory brainstem response module for cognitive neuroscience work.
    12. EEG Lab 2, with a Biosemi ActiveTwo 64-channel EEG system for cognitive
        neuroscience work.
    13. Eyetracking Lab 1, with a visage eye tracker for eye tracking research, especially related
        to face perception.
    14. Eyetracking Lab 2, with an Eyelink eye tracker and Tobii glasses for eye tracking
        research, especially related to saccades and visual deficits.
    15. fNIR Lab, with a BIOPAC fNIR neuroimaging system.
    16. Forensic Lab, with a Tobii eye tracker for forensic eye-tracking research.
    17. Infant and Child Development Lab, with integrated intermodal preferential looking booth
        and Tobii eye tracker for paediatric eye-tracking research, EEG equipment and
        psychometric tests (such as the Bayley III).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    18. TMS Lab, with a Magstim TMS system for neurostimulation research, especially related
        to visual processing and attention.
    19. Driving Lab, with a custom driving simulator system and Tobii eye tracker for driving
        behavioural research including eye tracking.
    20. Motion Lab, with a Mirage system, Mobile Mirage system, Minibird motion trackers and
        eduloggers for physiological measurements, for research related to hand perception in
        particular.
    21. Body Image Lab, with a medical grade 3dMD body scanner with 12 infrared cameras, for
        research into body image and body composition.
    22. Quiet Room, which is used for interviewing participants.
 As well as the campus lab facilities, the School has a field site established in Indonesia in 2020
 for research on social behaviour and conservation of moor macaques, as part of a collaboration
 with the University of Leipzig and University of Hasanuddin. This includes a range of equipment
 for field work, including weather stations, GPS devices, camera traps, video and sound
 recorders, equipment for playback experiments and hand-held computers.
 These facilities have helped with recruitment of established researchers in these specialised
 areas (e.g. Tovée was encouraged to move to this institution by the purchase of the 3D Body
 Scanner) and ensured that staff can produce research published in Q1 journals on a consistent
 basis. The School also works closely with other areas of the University which have also
 benefitted from large investment, including the new Joseph Banks Laboratories where some
 School staff (e.g. Pennington) carry out work including genotyping, methylation analysis and
 cortisol analysis, taking advantage of the Human Tissue Licence obtained by the University in
 2017 (see institutional statement). Finally, this UoA directly benefits from institution-level
 investment in software facilities (such as institutional Qualtrics and MATLAB licences which are
 widely used in the UoA, such as by Kramer who is a certified Matlab Associate).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Researchers in this UoA are using their expertise to contribute to society. This may be through
 collaborating in research networks, engaging with stakeholders or wider audiences or making a
 wider contribution through a variety of professional activities beyond core research. This wider
 academic citizenship is regarded as highly valuable and supported within the UoA through
 organisational, developmental and financial mechanisms. The academic workload model allows
 time for external professional activities and individuals are encouraged to take up opportunities
 where they exist and asked to identify areas of opportunity as part of their research planning.


 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Research carried out in this UoA is largely collaborative in nature; the vast majority of outputs
 produced in this period, for example, have multiple authors. Combining expertise allows
 researchers to undertake larger/more complex projects with more advanced methods and is
 strongly encouraged. Collaborations are fostered locally, within the UK and internationally, with
 specific support mechanisms for each.


 Local collaborations are promoted through research centres (e.g. ARIC, which works with local
 employers on placements for autistic adults) and specialist forums (such as the bimonthly NHS
 Research Development Forum created by Dawson which connects UoA members with the
 Lincolnshire Partnership NHS Trust). UK-wide collaborations (such as Hudson’s collaboration
 with the Universities of Oxford, UCL, Lancaster and Bangor on a project looking at the causes
 and consequences of language lateralisation) are fostered by travel funds provided by the
 School research budget and the provision of one complete day per week for research where

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 possible to allow travel. Online video conferencing facilities provided on MS Teams and data
 sharing via OneDrive further aid these collaborations. These collaborations can lead to impactful
 research; for example, the UK Communicative Development Inventory – the first database of UK
 norms for early language development – was created in a partnership between the Universities
 of Lincoln (Meints), Liverpool and Lancaster, with the project funded by the ESRC. The UoA has
 had a substantial number of international collaborative projects during this census period, such
 as the project ‘Facial Recognition in the Criminal Justice System’ led by Ritchie in Lincoln,
 funded by the British Academy, which is a collaborative project looking at automatic facial
 recognition and how it is used in law enforcement in three different countries – UK, Australia and
 China. These are often also funded from overseas, e.g. the project on behavioural innovations in
 macaques (Majolo) with colleagues at the University of Leipzig, funded by the Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft.


 In addition to formal research projects, researchers in the UoA are often members of broader
 research networks or organisations. For example, Merdian is a member of the Research
 Committee of the National Organisation for the Treatment of Abusers, while Meints is a member
 of the Society for Research in Child Development. A number of UoA members also belong to
 professional organisations with a research division as detailed below. Many members give
 invited or keynote talks (e.g. Pennington to the Royal College of Psychiatrists General Adult
 Psychiatry Annual Conference; Meints at the National Dog Bite Prevention and Behaviour
 Conference) and are involved in conference organisation (e.g. Mather helped to organise the
 Visual Science of Art conference and the European Conference on Visual Perception; Flack
 organised the North East Face and Person Perception Meeting; Durrant helped to organise the
 British Sleep Society Biennial Conference and the International Sleep Medicine Course). This
 UoA has taken a leadership role in these activities; for example, Roberts organises the annual
 Current Advances in Gambling Research conference funded by the Welsh Government and the
 Society for the Study of Addiction, which takes place in Lincoln. Major conference series
 belonging to external organisations have also been held in Lincoln and organised from the UoA
 within this census period, such as the Experimental Psychology Society conference (organised
 by Hodgson in 2015).


 Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences
 Research has been conducted in collaboration with a number of stakeholder organisations
 beyond Higher Education. Forensic psychologists within the UoA have strong links with the local
 prison service and are represented at board level on organisations such as The Centre of
 Expertise on Child Sexual Abuse and Yorkshire, Humberside and Lincolnshire Circles of Support
 and Accountability (Hogue). Many researchers throughout the UoA have NHS links, including
 those involved in DClinPsy provision (Dawson, Moghaddam), while other researchers have links
 with organisations such as the University of the Third Age (Ziegler, Durrant), the WESC
 Foundation (Hodgson), the Gordon Moody Association (Roberts) and The Mindfulness
 Association (Pennington). Applied projects can have strong stakeholder links; for example,
 Merdian’s OnlinePROTECT project includes links to police services, offender and victim
 services, and the National Offender Management Service. Partnerships with business and
 charitable organisations have specialist support at an institution level, with specific subdivisions
 for collaboration beyond HE and officers with specific responsibilities (such as for Innovate UK
 funding). These services also provide IP and contract support as needed.


 Many members of the UoA are actively involved in professional bodies with a research focus.
 For example, Merdian is Vice President of the International Association for the Treatment of
 Abusers, while Durrant is the Treasurer and Executive Committee Member of the British Sleep
 Society as well as an appointee to The Sleep Council and Dawson is Director for Training in the
 Association of Clinical Psychologists. There is a notably strong presence from the UoA in the
 British Psychological Society, with Ziegler (Developmental Section), Ritchie (Cognitive Section),


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hogue (a Forensic Section) and Pennington (Psychobiology Section) all committee members
 and Dawson liaison representative for the Clinical Psychology GTiCP group.


 Within the UoA, collaborations are supported in the research groups by sharing of relevant
 contacts. For example, within this period of assessment Durrant has worked closely with the
 U3A, putting on two workshops, giving three branch talks, a keynote talk at the summer
 conference, and a joint funding application with the national vice-chair. This collaboration
 enabled colleagues to go to the U3A for further research partnerships when carrying out
 research in this subpopulation (Pollux). Collaborations beyond HE are also supported through
 appropriate outreach activities with stakeholder organisations. For example, the FCRG group
 and the Trent DClinPsy programme organised the ResFest17 conference at the UoL. This event
 showcased research undertaken within the UoA to clinicians, programme-affiliates, stakeholders
 and members of the public.


 There is a strong drive towards public engagement from members within the UoA, with UKRI
 funding for a project to embed public engagement in research in Lincoln as widely as possible
 (Hodgson). Following this lead, outreach activities led from within the UoA have targeted the
 wider public. These include talks, activities and demonstrations on European LiGHTS nights
 (funded by the EU), pop-up science events and a new Pint of Science series (Ritchie).
 Researchers also regularly engage in national and international radio broadcasts (e.g. Durrant
 took part in phone-in sleep clinics on BBC Radio Lincolnshire and national radio in Spain), and
 national television (e.g. Ritchie featured as an expert on BBC1’s Crimewatch Live and work by
 Ritchie and Kramer was discussed on BBC2’s QI comedy programme while Durrant continued
 the comedy theme with an appearance as a guest panel member on Jon Richardson: Ultimate
 Worrier as well as being featured on BBC1 programme Trust Me, I’m a Doctor). The UK-CDI
 infant vocabulary questionnaire (Meints) was used in the BBC2 series “Babies – their wonderful
 world” and the BBC’s citizen science experiment on language learning in infants.


 Wider Activities and Contributions
 Members of the UoA fully recognise the need for academic citizenship and to make a wider
 contribution within the research community and beyond. As such, staff are encouraged to
 engage with tasks such as peer review of grant applications and outputs. It is not possible to
 exhaustively list all such roles undertaken by staff within the UoA, but for funding application
 reviewing some representative examples are: Durrant (BBSRC, ESF, ESRC, German Research
 Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, NIHR, The Rosetrees Trust); Gaunt (ESRC, French National
 Research Agency, Israel Science Foundation, The Research Foundation - Flanders); Heflick
 (Leverhume Trust); Majolo (Austrian Science Fund, ESF, German Research Foundation, Leakey
 Foundation, NERC, Romanian Science Foundation, Swedish Research Council for
 Environment); Mather (Austrian Science Fund, BBSRC, ESRC, German Research Foundation);
 Meints (BBSRC, Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, Carnegie Trust,
 ESRC College Member, Leverhulme Trust, Royal Society); Pennington (French National
 Research Agency, National Science Foundation,); Roberts (ESRC, NIHR, SSA); Ritchie (British
 Academy, Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council); Ziegler (ESRC College
 Member, Leverhulme Trust, National Research Foundation of South Africa, National Swiss
 Science Foundation).
 All members of the UoA regularly review papers, covering well over 100 journals between them.
 This includes top tier journals such as The Journal of Neuroscience, Proceedings of the National
 Academy of Sciences, Trends in Cognitive Sciences and Nature Human Behaviour, as well as
 many more specialised journals. Staff with editorial roles at internationally respected journals
 include Föcker (Journal of Cognitive Enhancement); Guo (PloS One); Heflick (Frontiers in
 Psychology - Personality and Social Psychology Section); Hogue (The Journal of Mental Health
 Training Education and Practice); Majolo (Journal of Anthropological Sciences, Primates);
 Mather (Editorial board of Perception/iPerception, Editorial board of Proceedings of Royal

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society B); Ritchie (Visual Cognition) and Tovée (both PLoS One). Members of the UoA have
 been engaged as external PhD examiners at international as well as UK universities, including
 Durrant (Manchester, New South Wales, Sydney); Gaunt (Bar-Ilan, Kent, Tel Avi); Majolo
 (Göttingen, Gronginen, Utrecht); Mather (Cardiff, Cardiff Met, Nottingham); Meints (Liverpool);
 Pavan (Padova); Ritchie (City); Roberts (Central Lancashire, City); Ziegler (Lancaster). Visiting
 or honorary roles that staff have held during this period include both UK-based positions (e.g.
 Life Membership of Clare College and Associate Researcher in the Department of Social
 Sciences at the University of Cambridge for Gaunt), and overseas positions (such as a Visiting
 Fellow role for Pavan at the University of Regensburg funded by the Alexander von Humboldt
 Foundation, a Visiting Fellow role for Durrant at Xi’an Jiaotong University funded by the Chinese
 National Natural Science Foundation and an Adjunct Professor role for Roberts at AUT
 University in New Zealand).




                                                                                           Page 16
