Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory (UoA32)


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 Art & Design (A&D) represents a multidisciplinary research area. It has been based in the Faculty
 of Arts, Science and Technology (FAST) since 2016 alongside cognate disciplines in humanities,
 performing arts and science. This research area brings together scholars researching drawing,
 sculpture, painting, print, social practice in art, product design, photography, graphic design,
 illustration, performance, fashion, drama and music. This is an established research area
 submitted to REF2014.The size of this research group has remained stable with 10.2FTE
 submitted to REF2014 and 10.6FTE to REF2021.

 Research in A&D focuses on innovative practice-led approaches and theoretical enquiry. A key
 priority of this area is working with diverse audiences and practitioners to engage with
 communities. The underlying philosophy, in line with University of Northampton’s (UoN) Social
 Impact Strategic Plan (2015-2020) is that cultural works can be locally transformative as well as
 global drivers of social change. Much of the research undertaken uses art and cultural production
 to explore contemporary issues and this is achieved by working in partnership with a range of
 cultural institutions and diverse audiences. Research interests range from projects that look at
 creating new sustainable materials and processes to the development of new visual artworks and
 publishing on the significance and value of art and culture to society.

 Multidisciplinary and diverse research expertise is coordinated into three thematic groups, each
 of which is led by a senior researcher:

 1. Painting, Drawing, Print and the Digital. (PDPD)

 This group is led by Staff. The work of this group explores the possibilities for painting in a
 contemporary world dominated by technology, intersections of traditional drawing processes and
 interdisciplinary digital practice and theoretical and practice-led research in the production and
 analysis of visual artefacts. Evans looks at how technology impacts on painting in the
 contemporary world, Gant explores drawing in a phygital (physical and digital) context, Keegan
 uses print making to negotiate notions of belonging, Staff looks at how time is written into a work
 of art, Taylor explores visual narrative through drawing and Hollinshead investigates public
 space and its role in creativity. Textual and non-textural outputs have focused on the areas of
 modernism, time and materiality, drawing and new technologies, print processes and conceptions
 of place.

 2. Contemporary Creative Practice and Society (CCPS)

 This group focuses on developments in social and critical practices in art, design and performance
 and is led by Hewitt. There is a strong emphasis on participatory, inclusive and interdisciplinary
 research. Examples include Georges practice-based research on the impact of the Syrian war,
 Hewitt’s social and participatory art projects exploring the use of public space, Mullan’s interest
 in representations of gender and sexuality in performance spaces and Smith’s interest in graphic
 design. Underpinning this research is an ambition to address the practice and theorisation of art
 and participation in the public realm; the production of socially impactful works in cultural and
 institutional contexts; the experience of geo-politics and diaspora; playwright practice, pedagogy
 and the analysis of gender and performance practice.

 3. Design Research Group (DRG)


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This group is led by Schaber and seeks to explore how different societies, nationalities and
 cultures understand and interpret design alongside a focus on innovation in design and illustration.
 Schaber, Taylor, and Thomas’ research design networks and exchange processes, aspects of
 materials innovation and product design, sustainable design, trends in design manufacturing,
 marketing locally and globally and new innovations in drawing, design and illustration.

 1.2 Research objectives

 There has been a steady and sustainable growth in the breadth of research in A&D since 2014.
 This has been underpinned by four research objectives aligned to the University Social Impact
 Strategy (2015-2020):

    1. Supporting academic staff wishing to develop research activity and increasing PGRs and
       PGR supervisory the capacity

 Focused investment in researcher development has supported two colleagues (Schaber,
 Murphy) to complete their PhDs. This has been supported financially and through allocation of
 time to complete research. All A&D staff have an allocation for research and scholarly activity.
 This has been recently formalised with the introduction of ‘Teaching & Research’ (T&R) contracts
 (alongside Teaching and Scholarship contracts). Additional time is given for colleagues taking on
 research leadership roles (Hewitt) and for those focusing on impact (Hewitt, Schaber). Research
 activity and research objectives are monitored via an annual Performance Development Review
 (PDR). Annual objectives are agreed between staff and their line managers alongside identifying
 any resource or training needs. All research active staff have a minimum of one research specific
 objective. Additional peer support and mentorship is given by senior researchers in each of the
 research of groups to support early career researchers (ECRs) and research activities.

 A&D support for research is complemented by Faculty Researcher Development and UoN central
 provision. FAST provides a multidisciplinary infrastructure for peer review, research process,
 research support, governance, impact enhancement and public engagement. All staff are
 encouraged to attend central researcher development training especially focusing on impact,
 equality, diversity and inclusion, aligning research to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals
 2030. Specifically, we will focus on SDG4: Quality Education, SDG5: Gender Equality and SDG10:
 Reduced Inequality. There are regular training sessions including one-to-ones on all UoN’s
 research support systems (e.g. Current Research Information System (CRIS), Funding
 Institutional, Grantfinder, SciVal).

 PGR numbers have increased over the REF period. Most of our PGRs are self-funded. We are
 keen to grow this number further especially in line with emerging research interests. Since 2014
 7 staff (Evans, Georges, Mullan, Rossi, Schaber, Shadrack and Staff) have completed their
 supervisory training and Georges has completed the Postgraduate Certificate in Research
 Degree Supervision. This has led to a significant increase in our capacity to support PGR study.

 2. Extend and internationalise participation in external networks and interdisciplinary research

 Significant success has been achieved with this objective. Since 2014 we have developed
 research and extended our networks by working with academics in other HEIs, external cultural
 institutions (locally, nationally and internationally), third sector organisations and industry. All of
 these activities have been interdisciplinary in focus. UoN have hosted regular research symposia
 to explore key contemporary issues in the broader disciplines and key research themes. Events
 are aimed at staff, PGRs and external audiences such as an internationally focused symposia
 such as ‘Art and Climate Crisis’ hosted by Lamport Hall. Hewitt has been working with Murray
 (Education) on a research project aimed at raising the academic attainment of children through
 art based learning, in partnership with the Education Department at the National Gallery and NPAT
 schools in Northampton.



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Each of the research groups within A&D has established partnerships and networks for research
 activity. CCPS has worked with leading Arts Council funded organisations and producers of
 cultural and critical contemporary art regionally (NN Contemporary Arts, MK Arts & Health, MK
 Gallery and Threshold Studios). It is important that partnership work links to our social research
 agenda so, for example, the NN Contemporary Art initiative ‘the office for public life’, and the
 problematizing of culture-led regeneration in the town and region address CCPS interests. Rossi
 and Mullan are convenors for the International Federation of Theatre Research (IFTR) for the
 Performance-as-Research Working Group. This has led to international conferences, presenting
 papers and leading workshops. CCPS connect their research to other disciplines, for example, the
 EU H2020 project SPACEX, Hewitt (PI), implements a trans-disciplinary and cross-sectoral
 practice and methodology that connects spatial practice with cultural sociology, cultural policy,
 critical pedagogies and behavioural economics. The project has 27 partners in 9 EU countries
 enabling researchers to undertake secondments including Georges, Rossi, Mullen, Taylor,
 Smith in CCPS but also Farini (Sociology), and Jackson (History). Hewitt was involved with the
 interdisciplinary Brexit Research Network, which hosted numerous events and an academic
 conference.

 The DRG has established links with industrial partners. For example, Scaber’s collaboration with
 Lightpoint Medical on developing medical devices as part of a KTP. Schaber and Thomas are
 members of UoN’s China and Emerging Economics Centre (CEEC). This is an interdisciplinary
 platform to research and engage with China and other emerging economies. Schaber’s expertise
 in product design and brand marketing and Thomas’ understanding of design innovation and
 industry networks supports CEEC. Schaber also worked with the Institute for Creative Leather
 Technology at UoN and leather producers in the UK and Japan to create new materials for use in
 modern day manufacturing.

 3. Enhancing external engagement and impact

 Participatory research is a key focus in A&D alongside activity working to support a diversity of
 audiences engaging with art. Colleagues regularly place their work in public exhibitions and
 events, this is supported by public lectures and producing artefacts and images for public
 consumption. Examples include exhibitions of artefacts made by Gant from his archaeological
 excavations. This led to him winning the Peoples’ Prize Choice at The Lumen Prize 2019
 (International Award for Art and Technology). Keegan has presented her fine art prints to diverse
 audiences via solo and group exhibitions.

 Dissemination and impact has been done in collaboration with arts venues locally, national and
 internationally. Examples include Hewitt’s research on participative artworks with diverse
 audiences which involved working with Arts Council England (ARC) organisations (Middlesbrough
 Institute of Modern Art, Coventry Biennial, Beaconsfield Gallery London). CCPS were active in
 building links with local Milton Keynes Gallery for exhibitions like ‘Citizen Ship’. Georges has made
 short films of her experience of the war in Syria, presenting them at international film festivals and
 as exhibitions of work in which people share their own recollections and feelings on this subject.
 Taylor has worked on projects with writers and designers to produce new and innovative
 illustrative works and comics, published as hard copy prints and shown in exhibitions at leading
 venues such as Somerset House and at international festivals. Constantinou has presented
 musical compositions to audiences and programmed radio broadcasts on Resonance FM. CCPS
 has worked with an ACE funded arts organisation to develop community-based projects in
 Northampton and the county. A recent award of GBP1,560,000 from the UK Government’s Getting
 Building Fund has been secured for the development of exhibition spaces and artists’ studios.

 Researchers have developed a number of events including Drawing and the Digital (Gant),
 ‘Common Purpose: Contemporary Art Production and Institutions in an Age of Economic
 Uncertainty’ (Hewitt), in collaboration with Fermynwoods Arts, ‘Another World is Possible’
 (Hewitt), in partnership with Contemporary Visual Arts Network and NN Contemporary. These
 explored the value and significance of artist led initiatives in developing strong local infrastructures
 in a period of public funding cuts and closely aligns to UoN’s commitment to social impact.

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Strategic aims for 2020 - 2025

 The ambitions for A&D over the next 5 years are informed by the University Research Plan (2020-
 2025), FAST’s Plan and the UoN’s Strategic Plan. There are five areas of focus:

    1. Research quality: researcher development and training will be supported to enhance the
       originality, reach and significance of research outputs. Mentoring and peer review will be
       used to support ECRs in developing research outputs. There will be a continued focus on
       producing research that is current, relevant and topical. Tailored interdisciplinary
       workshops will be used to develop collaboration and broaden the reach undertaken.

    2. Research impact: while much of our research engages audiences and involves
       participatory methodologies this is a need to train and develop our researchers more to
       build in pathways to track and evidence research impact. This is a key focus of the
       University Research Plan and a strong theme that runs through the Researcher
       Development programme.

    3. Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI): Much of our existing work has targeted diverse
       audiences and encompasses EDI issues. This is an area we can build on further. We need
       to explore issues of equality, diversity, inclusion and race as it pertains to research within
       A&D and develop projects that ensure wider representation and work to decolonise the
       research agenda.

    4. Increase research income: Tailored UoN and Research Centre support will be used to
       mentor colleagues in their funding applications. Discipline specific research funding
       applications and grant-writing workshops will be developed including internal peer-review
       of applications and support through both pre and post award. We will also look to build on
       existing networks and partnerships to support collaborative funding applications.

    5. Collaborative Research: Extending our engagement with the wider public including and
       developing an international reach for our research. This will build on existing partnerships
       and networks to increases the range audiences and beneficiaries of our research activity.
       Hewitt’s Horizon 2020 project gives us a platform from which to build international
       engagement.

 1.4 Open research

 Researchers in A&D have created a template that can be used for exhibitions, performances and
 non-textual outputs to document the processes through which they reach their final research
 output and the processes that are used. For example, cataloguing a series of sketches that lead
 to the final design, and documenting the tools/materials used. When completed, these templates
 accompany the outputs providing a richer source of information, and have a DOI assigned to them
 increasing their visibility and enabling them to be digitally preserved.

 Training is provided in the selection of places for publication, open access, copyright and data
 management and use tools such as Sherpa/Romeo to check funder requirements, restrictions
 relating to copyright, and DMPonline Whenever possible the use of appropriate creative
 commons licences are used for research outputs. An institutional fund is available to cover the
 cost of open access where a green (non-payment) route is either not an option, or where the
 embargo period is extensive. This fund covers the payments for articles, chapters and
 monographs. Research outputs from A&D are made available through our public research
 portal.

 1.5 Research integrity



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A&D maintains a culture of research integrity in all aspects of what we do, ensuring all our research
 activity is conducted in line with appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations
 and standards as set out in the University Research Integrity Policy. In addition, bids to funders,
 agreements or Memorandum of Understanding with partner organisations, are reviewed by FAST
 research leads to offer advice and best practice.

 We have in place robust and fair processes within the senior research team to deal with allegations
 of research misconduct should they arise. Advice to researchers on ethical issues is provided by
 FAST Ethics Committee members Hewitt and Ekberg who provide a peer review process for all
 researchers in the faculty. They assist researchers in meeting ethical requirements and meeting
 research integrity by responding to draft proposals and requesting changes to ensure compliance.
 Proposals go to the Faculty Research and Enterprise Committee to be reviewed by the committee
 and comments are minuted, as a means of ensuring a transparent process and enabling
 communication and visibility of research activity within the faculty.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 In terms of staff recruitment, we seek to appoint staff who are suitably qualified and who have
 potential for future career development as both a researcher and teacher. Recruitment is informed
 by the wide-ranging needs of our diverse courses at UG, PGT and PGR levels. Specialist
 educators may be required in a particular media or practice so candidates may come from non-
 academic backgrounds. Our strategy has been to offer new staff research skills development
 through PDR objectives to begin their research career. Our aim is to be as inclusive as possible
 and increase the number of A&D staff involved in research at UoN. We seek to appoint staff who
 can contribute to our research objectives and to strengthen our capacity. Through the recruitment
 process we align new colleagues to one of the research groups and consider how we can support
 their research ambitions.

 ECRs automatically join one of the research groups and are mentored by mid-career and senior
 researchers to enable them to further build experience and capacity, for example Staff with Gant,
 and Hewitt with Georges as co-researcher on the SPACEX research project. The unit has
 supported colleagues who are mid-career and Senior Lecturers to complete their PhD over this
 period including Schaber, and Murphy. Staff who do not yet hold a PhD are encouraged to do so
 with time and financial support. Where necessary, an adjustment to or rebalancing of teaching or
 student facing commitments is made to enable staff to study (Gant).

 Since REF 2014 the number of research active staff has remained stable, and 5 staff submitted
 to REF2014 will be submitted to REF2021. New staff include Keegan, Rossi, Constantinou,
 Mullan and Hewitt. There has been career progression since 2014 with Gant promoted from
 Lecturer to Senior Lecturer and Hewitt from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor.

 Staff within A&D are encouraged to undertake the UoN Graduate School Postgraduate Supervisor
 Training as well as the more advanced Postgraduate Certificate in Research Degree Supervision
 (PCRDS). This module provides rigorous academic training in a peer supported group-learning
 environment. It is a requirement that the Postgraduate Supervisor Training must be undertaken
 before staff can be part of a supervisory team. To date seven staff have received training. Georges
 has also completed the Postgraduate Certificate in Research Degree Supervision. Upon
 completion of the PCRDS, supervisors receive ongoing training from the University’s Graduate
 School and the Faculty’s Research and Innovation Development programme.

 The Faculty research leader has oversight of all research active areas and oversees researcher
 development opportunities within FAST. Colleagues have access to a bespoke range of
 researcher development training aimed at all research career stages from ECRs to mid-career to
 Professors. Institutional support is provided by RIFS in conjunction with the Human Resources
 Staff Development Unit, the Graduate School and Library and Learning Services. Annual

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes for Researcher Development also include workshops delivered by external experts
 related to the University’s priorities (e.g. sustainable leadership in research, equality and inclusion
 in research, aligning research to SDGs) and those identified by research leaders. There is tailored
 mentoring for ECRs, Associate Professors and Professors. Individual support for funding
 applications, research events, networking and conference attendance is provided. The Graduate
 School also provides regular training events to support supervisors and examiners of research
 degree students to ensure high quality provision and best practice.

 The UoN Associate Professorship scheme is supported via a substantial institutional staff
 development programme focused on research leadership and working with senior external
 Professorial colleagues from their discipline for mentorship. The scheme requires participation in
 Faculty and Institutional committees relating to research governance, strategy and ethics.
 Associate Professors are allocated additional time for research leadership alongside dedicated
 support and time for developing research impacts and public engagement activities. A&D is a
 small unit of assessment with 10.6 FTE with both a Reader and an Associate Professor. Both
 have benefited from the network of senior research staff beyond the subject to aid the development
 of A&D and to meet our strategic objectives.

 Researcher development is principally managed and audited through PDR meetings with their line
 manager whereby individual objectives and key performance indicators (KPIs) are agreed. Since
 2015 the PDR performs a mentoring function where staff set a minimum of one specific research
 objective for the upcoming year, to be reviewed mid-year and assessed at the end. Objectives
 tend to reflect the Faculty/Institutional research KPI’s in terms of strong outputs bidding, impact,
 EDI priorities or network building. The PDR is also the process through which individual research
 training needs are identified. To support the PDR process staff are encouraged to have research
 meetings with research leads and senior staff to discuss their research plans and objectives. In
 A&D the Research Unit Lead (RUL) Hewitt, is available to support and provide advice for
 colleagues on all aspects of research. The RUL works across the faculties subject areas with
 researchers and liaises with subject area leads. The RUL meets with all new appointments in A&D
 as part of their induction to signpost Research Centre themes, help make links with contacts with
 shared interests, and set research-related milestones for the probationary period and beyond.
 Research leads connect with national organisations such as the Council for Higher Education in
 Art and Design (Hewitt).

 2.2 Postgraduate research students

 In 2018 all PGRs across the university were relocated to a designated space within the new
 Senate building to give them a dedicated research suite on campus facilitating a strong sense of
 community. This is a considerable improvement on previous arrangements where PGRs had
 limited dedicated space and were dispersed across different University locations.

 Between 2014 and 2020 we have had 9 PGRs (5 completions, 4 ongoing) being supervised by
 A&D staff. While the majority of PGR students are in the fine art area led by Staff, there is a
 growing capacity for supervision in Design and in Performance and Music subjects. Supervisory
 teams are allocated at the initial application stage and are designed to offer a balance of subject
 expertise, methodological background and supervisory experience. Supervisory teams meet
 regularly with PGRs, and work closely with them to support and monitor the development of their
 project, research skills and professional-academic development.

 All PGR students receive an extensive package of induction and generic researcher-development
 training from the University’s Graduate School. They receive support from the University’s Central
 ASSIST, learning Development and Educational Linguistics teams. Graduate school support
 systems are complemented by discipline-based induction, technical support in the use of
 workshops and media labs, and studio facilities and dedicated workspaces in the A&D subject
 areas. Research staff and supervisory teams look to integrate PGR students into the teaching
 subject areas, including them in the educational and vocational programming. PGRs are then
 provided with opportunities to contribute to teaching and active blended learning, gaining

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experience, skills and confidence in academic environments. PGRs are encouraged to complete
 UoN’s C@N-DO course which is an accredited route to Associate Fellowship of the Higher
 Education Academy.

 PGR researchers are encouraged to develop skills and experience that will enable them to engage
 with academic, professional and industry to develop their careers. PGRs contribute to our research
 themes with students working alongside research staff on joint projects. For example, Staff with
 Francis Blore in the development of the postgraduate symposia, Without End 2019: Breaching
 Discourse Postgraduate Research Symposium, April 2019; and Hewitt with Kai Wang as a
 participant artist at the project ‘On being together’ 2018, Beaconsfield Art Gallery, London and
 ‘After Thompson’, Coventry Biennial 2019.

 A probationary period, and key project development milestones (e.g. an initial project proposal, an
 ethical application, and a ‘Transfer’ seminar and viva), ensures that PGR progress is carefully
 monitored, and supervisory support is tailored to individual needs. An annual progress review
 provides an auditable quality check of both the researcher’s work and the supervisory team’s work
 in support of the researcher’s personal/professional development. UoN PGRs are entitled to
 teaching experience and have the opportunity to complete our C@N-DO course which is an
 accredited route to Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. PGR students in our
 unit are beneficiaries of the university’s annual allowance, GBP500 for all FT or GBP300 for PT
 PGR students, funds to assist with the costs of research expenses with an additional competitive
 award for bursaries to meet larger one-off costs. The university also provides several competitive
 bursaries, scholarships and awards that are available annually or biannually (for example, the
 Chancellors fund, Dr Mike Daniel Research Degree Scholarship, Sir John Lowther Scholarship for
 Arts students, T D Lewis Scholarship). UoN is a member of the East Midlands Doctoral Network
 (EMDoc) and the Midlands Doctoral Researcher Forum (MDRF) providing access to annual
 conferences, networking and support across universities in the East Midlands region.

 UoN has performed consistently well in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES),
 coming first nationally for overall satisfaction in 2020 and fourth in 2018, regularly featuring in the
 top ten across all categories.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 There is a strong tradition of critical and inclusive practice, and research in support of inclusion
 within A&D. In practice, colleagues advance this EDI enhancement through sustained, activities
 including, but not limited to:

    1. Ensuring that all local research policies and strategic plans undergo formal Equality Impact
       Assessment; supporting disciplinary colleagues to extend this practice to diverse aspects
       of educational research, innovation, policy, practice, learning and teaching within the
       institution; and leading collegiate discussions and the enhancement of practice via this
       process.
    2. Leading and supporting institutional training on equalities and diversities in the workplace
       and convening workshops and development on equalities and inclusion within diverse
       educational settings.
    3. Constituting a disciplinary ethics committee to offer specialist guidance and development
       regarding equality and inclusion issues in educational and pedagogic staff, PGR and
       undergraduate research.
    4. Working with the Faculty lead on community-building and inclusion to co-develop
       discipline-specific opportunities for colleagues to continue to create a community of
       collaboration around inclusion issues and research at local, national and international
       levels.
    5. Enhancing annual Centre reporting processes to evidence the ways in which A&D
       research demonstrates positive impacts in terms issues of equality, diversity, inclusion,
       and social mobility.


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    6. Continuing to develop discipline-specific training and mentoring processes to develop
       positive social change through innovative and impactful research activities and outputs
       considering protected characteristics, socio-demographic factors and intersectional
       identities in educational research, spaces and practices.

 In addition, many colleagues participate in a growing number of colleague-led institutional support
 and advocacy groups such as the Global Ethnic Majority Staff Network, LGBTQ+ group and Staff
 Disability Network. Colleagues have also benefited from the University’s Navigator (men and
 transmasculine) and ‘Springboard+’ (women, trans and non-binary) staff development programme
 for colleagues in academic or professional services roles. These provide opportunities for staff to
 undertake personal and professional development and support for leadership, goal-setting and
 strategic visioning skills.

 Our researchers engage with issues of equality, diversity and inclusion in their research, for
 example, Georges on experiences of Syrian refugees in the UK, Mullan on gender and inclusion
 in cultural institutions such as theatres, Hewitt on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in ACE’s
 Regularly Funded Organisations, and Douglas (Fashion) on the ‘Relationship between
 Attainment, Retention, Progression and Continuation for BAME Art and Design Students at UoN’.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating income

 There has been modest success in external funding awards over the REF period. Researchers
 have been awarded a total of GBP536,544. This has increased by GBP59,647 from the income
 submitted to REF2014. This income includes an EU Horizon 2020 award and one KTP. Our
 strategy over the next five years is to build on these successes. Collaborative research
 applications that focus on national and international priorities are likely to be more successful and
 recent success with the KTP and the work of DRG shows we can diversify the source of our
 research funding and work with wider industry partners. The KTP generated GBP144,622. The
 application was supported by UoN’s Key Sector and Knowledge Transfer Manager and gives us
 a blueprint for extending work that combines science, technology and design further.
 Researchers have received funding through commissions by arts-based institutions and from ACE
 funding grants. This includes Awards for All which supported the production and presentation of
 new practice-based research outputs from, Gant, Georges, Hewitt, Hollinshead, and Keegan.
 ACE grants are recognition of the work of our researchers by important specialist organisations
 that function as peer review in the cultural sector. Through critical partnership with galleries the
 research is disseminated to and amongst practitioners, researchers and commissioners who lead
 on the discourse in our subject specialisms.


 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 During the current REF period staff and PGRs moved to the new, purpose-built, multi-award-
 winning Waterside Campus which opened in 2018 at a total cost of GBP330,000,000. The campus
 has been heralded as being at the cutting edge of university infrastructure, winning the 2019 Royal
 Institute for Chartered Surveyors ‘Design Through innovation’ award. Whilst it is not possible to
 attribute a precise portion of this investment to A&D the area has benefitted from new working
 environments with a state-of-the-art IT infrastructure, new office space and a new learning hub.
 This significant investment in institutional infrastructure and facilities has been important for our
 unit colleagues and PGR students as they now work within flexible academic workspaces and
 specialist workshops, which have been purpose-built to foster collegiate dialogue and community-
 building. The design is based on a typology of space, rather than any notion of departmental
 structures, breaking down silos and boundaries. Whereas A&D researchers were previously
 based in different departments and locations, they now share spaces with colleagues. The
 multidisciplinary Creative Hub and nearby Development Hub accommodate art, music and

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 performance subjects. The aim was to foster a more collaborative and interdisciplinary research
 culture and the evidence of dialogue, joint funding applications and strategic collaborations
 suggests this has been successful.

 A&D colleagues are mostly based within The Creative Hub where creative and science disciplines
 work in proximity. The building has a contemporary industrial aesthetic, designed for light filled
 spaces with an entire floor of dedicated studios and workshops. The Creative Hub houses
 specialist teaching spaces such as laboratories and workshops for art, design, print, textiles,
 graphic communications and illustration, a music vocal booth, an audio control room, TV and radio
 studios, media editing suites, photography facilities and a Mac computer suite. Further investment
 included the new art and design print space, which is one of the best facilities for this media in any
 UK HEI. It contains a range of new digital media printing equipment, alongside traditional technical
 apparatus to support the development of creative practice in printmaking including Keegan’s
 practice-based research. This new print room is shared by all courses in A&D making for a lively
 production space, it offers etching and intaglio processes, silkscreen, relief printmaking, type
 setting, photo etching, digital printing, computer generated printmaking and the simple
 photocopier. Schaber leads a new precision engineering space and rapid 3D prototyping facilities
 for metal, plastics and woodwork. GBP65,000 has been invested in 3D printers and cutters that
 are instrumental to the delivery of proof-of-concepts, appearance models and working prototypes.
 There are facilities for show design, fashion design and fashion printing. In addition, there are new
 digital suites that offer Adobe, Autocad, Navisworks, 3DstudioMax, and Archicad. A new digital
 photography studio and print facilities provide a purpose-built flexible space for use by all
 researchers. The performance space offers Mullen and Rossi a specially designed flexible venue
 for research on pedagogic theatre practice, workshops and writing.

 The Development Hub project was delivered towards the end of the 2019/2020 at a cost of
 approximately GBP1,000,000. Music, performance and fine art subjects have all benefitted from
 new teaching and research workshop space. The art workshops spaces have technical support
 for research on painting and a range of media for application in sculpture. The new music
 production suite offers researcher Constantinou industry level Music software including Native
 Instruments, Ableton, Pro Tools, Logic Pro X, SoundToys, Mac OS X. A media suite provides a
 range of software for use in the work by Gant.

 The production and presentation of experimental research within A&D is critical before publishing
 in external venues. Previously, The Avenue Gallery had served as a venue for testing new
 practice-based output. This activity is now taking place in the Creative Hub and in the Learning
 Hub using both physical exhibitions and a considerable range of digital screens across the
 campus. Working with the UoN’s Digital Assets Designer and Coordinator has facilitated the work
 of researchers and PGRs to be more visible to a wider community. The new campus is based
 close to Northampton’s Cultural Quarter and supports A&D researchers to publish new works
 through exhibition with partner cultural institutions such as NN Contemporary Art who act as our
 link to the Northampton Council Cultural services.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Effectiveness of research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 A key objective since REF2014 has been to extend our network of research collaborators and
 beneficiaries. Our research has contributed to the vitality and sustainability of the Art, Design,
 Performance and Music disciplines by partnering with a range of organisations in diverse regional,
 national, and international contexts. Project work with academics in other universities, in
 partnership with museums, galleries and industry has led to range of research outputs and
 activities with key commissioners, publishers and funders.

 Collaborative projects with external academics include Staff who is on the steering committee of
 the scholarly society ‘Teaching Painting: An Organisation’ working with Ian Hartshorne and
 Magnus Magnus Quaife (Manchester Metropolitan University) and Donal Maloney (Liverpool

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hope). Gant is at the forefront of developing new digital artworks, working closely with
 archaeologist and digital archaeology pioneer Paul Reilly (University of Southampton) and has
 collaborated with artist Simon Callery, and worked with Professor Gary Lock and Dr John Pouncett
 (School of Archaeology, Oxford University). Hewitt has worked with Beech (Chelsea School of
 Art), and Jordan (Coventry University) on a series of practice-based art projects and chapters in
 books. They are joint founders of the journal Art & the Public Sphere (Intellect) a platform for
 academics, artists, curators, art historians and theorists to debate the newly emerging
 developments within contemporary thinking, society and international art practice. Hewitt (PI) led
 the international, multi-partner, EU funded H2020 SPACEX project that involves the Royal College
 of Art, the University of Cyprus, the National College of Art and Design in Dublin, the university of
 Amsterdam, TATE London, University of Modena & Reggio Emilia Italy, UniArts Helsinki Finland
 and the University of Applied Arts Vienna.

 Our practice-based researchers have worked closely with Arts Council Funded galleries, arts
 organisations, museums and theatres in the UK and internationally. Gant’s research works and
 activities in devising symposia have contributed to the formation of a new network of drawing
 specialists including archivists from the Tate and artists from The Rabley Drawing Centre. Gant’s
 ‘Phygital Palimpsest’ artwork was exhibited at the Ruskin Museum, Lancaster University, and at
 ‘The Lumen Prize, Global Award for Art and Technology’, exhibition at the Cello Factory London.
 His works were selected by art/archaeologist Doug Bailey for ‘Ineligible' (Art/Archaeology)
 International Museum of Contemporary Sculpture, Santo Tirso, Portugal. Keegan exhibited in
 several solo and group exhibitions, for example at Huddersfield Museum and Gallery. Castlefield
 Gallery commissioned new writing from Staff, for the essay ‘Painting qua Painting (as noun and
 verb) to coincide with the exhibition Real Painting.

 Since REF2014 Hewitt has extended his collaborative work with ACE funded arts organisations,
 including, Edinburgh Printworks ‘Social Montage: Speak-Act-Print-Publish!’, Beaconsfield Arts ‘On
 Being Together’, Coventry Biennial ‘After Thompson’, ‘Citizen Ship’ (MK Gallery), ‘Freee-Carracci-
 Institute’ (NN Contemporary) which connects A&D research to Northampton’s newly formed
 cultural taskforce and seeks to embed cultural activity in the town’s political and economic
 evolution. Partners include Royal & Derngate, Northamptonshire Music and Performing Arts Trust
 and Threshold Studios. This project is supported by Northampton’s Business Improvement
 District, local businesses and heritage leaders. Georges has collaborated with the Herbert Read
 Gallery, Rochester. Taylor’s experimental figurative drawings exploring visual narrative were
 presented at the Pick Me Up, graphic arts festival at Somerset House London. Her experimental
 comics compiled and edited by Breakdown Press (UK) have been shown at major events such as
 Angouleme International Comics Festival. In the production of his compositions Constantinou
 collaborates with artists, musicians, producers and broadcasters in his production of compositions.
 His works have been performed in concerts and festivals in Britain, on BBC national radio and
 Resonance FM, in Europe, Australia and most recently in Japan.

 Industry collaboration has included Schaber’s work with KTP partners Lightpoint Medical. This
 was graded as an ‘outstanding’ knowledge transfer partnership by Innovate UK. Schaber has also
 worked on conceptual models, prototyping systems for industrial and transportation design. His
 project with leather ‘Circular Taxidermia’ developed new sustainable products and knowledge
 transfer with communities of practice including the Leathersellers Company and Scottish
 tanneries. Thomas’ has collaborated on a KTP with palliative care charity Sue Ryder Care. In her
 research Taylor produces visual illustrative works for The Guardian, the New York Times and the
 Poetry Society. This combines with her work in the fashion industry collaborating with brands such
 as Chanel, Marc Jacobs and Luella and publications such as AnOthermag.com. Her drawings are
 represented by the Fashion Illustration Gallery in London and her work was exhibited at the
 International Design House Pavilion at World Design Capital Taipei (2016).

 Colleagues have taken up internationally-recognised disciplinary leadership roles, for example as
 Editors or Editorial Board members for international, interdisciplinary peer-reviewed journals. Staff
 is a reviewer for Oxford University Press, Bloomsbury, Tate, and Intellect. Hewitt is editor of Art
 & the Public Sphere (Intellect), and reviewer for Routledge, Urban Studies, Intellect. Taylor has

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been a long-standing contributor to ‘Varoom’, the UK’s leading illustration magazine with an
 international view of contemporary practice and industry and The AOI Journal of Illustration.
 Hewitt is acting chair of NN Contemporary Art in Northampton’s Cultural Quarter. Rossi and
 Mullan are members of the International Federation of Theatre Research (IFTR) with Rossi as
 convener of the Performance-as-Research Working Group leading workshops in Shanghai China,
 Belgrade Serbia, Sao Paulo Brazil. Constantinou works with music industry organisations such
 as Angel Studios and broadcasters Resonance FM and The Podcast Company. The disciplinary
 esteem of an increasing proportion of colleagues has been recognised via multiple invited
 keynotes at international multidisciplinary conferences. This includes Staff at Whitworth Art
 Gallery (Manchester) and the Teaching Painting conference (Royal Academy). Hewitt at the Open
 University ‘Doreen Massey annual event day’. Schaber as a guest designer at the Kyoto Institute
 of Technology Japan. Evans is external examiner at the painting department at the University of
 Brighton. Hewitt was external evaluator for the professorial recruitment committee at The
 Academy of Fine Arts of the University of the Arts Helsinki.

 In recognition for his practice-based work Rossi was awarded the Canadian Association of
 Theatre Research Recipient of 2017 Award of Distinction for Theatre Practice. Gant’s multi-media
 artworks developed in collaboration with archaeologists and technologists led to his shortlisting
 for 'People's Choice Award' at The Lumen Prize 2019 (International Award for Art and
 Technology).




                                                                                          Page 11
