Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bournemouth University

 Unit of Assessment: 15 - Archaeology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
a) Unit Context and Structure
Archaeology at Bournemouth is a thriving group of 39 staff collectively engaged in world-class
agenda-setting research with global reach and significance. Our research philosophy emphasises
the benefits of interdisciplinarity in order to achieve societal impact. This innovative, integrated
approach reflects our institutional ethos and has stimulated £3M of central investment to enable
ongoing expansion of our staffing, world-class facilities, and infrastructure. Our success in REF2014
has enabled a radical transformation in research culture and capacity. We have increased our annual
grant income by 166%, to achieve a total return of £3,445,839 including grants from prestigious
funders (British Academy, ERC, Leverhulme, and UKRI). We have achieved a 105% increase in
staffing through landmark institutional investment in multiple new academic posts and by creating a
vibrant early career and postdoctoral researcher community (Table 1).
Table 1. Staffing profile for Archaeology at Bournemouth University over the REF review period.

                                              Staff Number            Full-time equivalent (FTE)
 Archaeology at Bournemouth
                                        2014            2020            2014             2020

 Academics                               13              20              12.2            17.8

 Researchers                              1              11               1               9.8

 Demonstrators and Technicians            3                  5            3               4.8

 Research Consultancy                     1                  3            1                3

 Total Staffing for UoA15                18              39              17.2            35.4

Our research is structured across four themes underpinning our current success and future research
and impact strategies: T1: People, Communities and Identities: diet, subsistence and mobility;
human bioarchaeology; cultural identity; modelling of socio-economic transitions. T2: Animals,
Plants and Environments: the socio-cultural importance of animals in human societies; dynamic
long-term human/environment ecodynamics; faunal, sedimentary and climatic proxies for
palaeoenvironmental reconstruction; modelling of hominin and modern human landscapes. T3:
Artefacts, Places and Land/Seascapes: remote sensing/geophysical techniques; material culture,
production and consumption; human maritime activity. T4: Digital Method and Practice:
computational approaches including modelling, visualisation and simulation.
Building on these strengths, we have used the following integrated research and impact objectives
(R1-4) to transform our research environment by:
R1: Targeting research towards key societal challenges. ‘An embryonic research cluster in
environmental change and its effects on humans’ highlighted in 2014 has been a major focus for
expansion, for example the development of early agricultural/horticultural systems and their social,
cultural and environmental implications. We have created two major new interdisciplinary research
institutes to stimulate research growth in this area:
    a) Institute for Studies of Landscape and Human Evolution (ISLHE). Led by Reynolds, ISLHE
         examines the interplay between climate and dynamic landscape processes, and their role in
         human evolution (£390,434 institutional investment, one new FTE).
    b) Institute for the Modelling of Socio-Environmental Transitions (IMSET). Led by
         Jenkins/Coward, IMSET focuses on the use of novel computational approaches to long-term


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       archaeological and environmental data to tackle major societal challenges relating to
       sustainability (£1.2M institutional investment, four new FTEs).
R2: Expanding the scale and scope of our global reach. Our research and impact activity now
spans five continents with the majority of academic staff engaged in funded international projects,
including development in areas which are new to us i.e. Alaska (Davies, NERC); Southwest Asia
and Egypt (Schutkowski, ERC/H2020); Ethiopia (Best/Maltby, AHRC); New Zealand (Brown,
Leverhulme); Spain and Tanzania (Welham, British Academy/AHRC); Vietnam (Coward, AHRC).
R3: Capitalising on our breadth of expertise to maximise our societal impact. We have used
long-standing relationships between our researchers and research users/beneficiaries to develop
genuine partnerships and forms of co-production that maximise our societal impact. Our success in
this is exemplified by nine match-funded PhD studentships with World Heritage Sites such as the
Roman Baths, national and international NGOs (e.g. the National Trust and Waterloo Uncovered),
and a national award-winning community research project (LoCATE – DEFRA Green Park Award
2019) (see Sec.4).
R4: Redefining research and dissemination in the light of emerging impact and societal
challenges. We created a UoA15 ‘Impact Champion’ role (Smith) to work with our institutionally-
funded 0.5FTE UoA15 Impact PDRA (Foster/Randall) and 1FTE Faculty Impact Officer. Alongside
a departmental Recruitment and Outreach Officer (Jenkins, then Coward), this team has transformed
the societal impact of our research. They have enabled us to embed impact development and review
into personal research plans for all colleagues, and to identify support for successful applications for
both internal (£8,173) and external funding (£73,382 AHRC, Follow on Funding, Maltby/Best) to
enable further impact activities.
We have used our research and impact objectives to spearhead the innovative use of archaeological
research to address contemporary societal issues, including the United Nations’ Sustainable
Development Goals (SDG). This is illustrated in our research portfolio, and exemplified in our impact
case studies:
   •   ICS1: [text removed for publication]
   •   ICS2: We used our leadership of the novel interdisciplinary project investigating past
       interactions with domesticated fowl (T2) (Best/Maltby) to highlight vital synergies between
       human and chicken health and wellbeing. We demonstrated the impact of this globally
       significant primary food source on food security, zoonotic disease and environmental
       sustainability, using activities based on SDG4 (Quality Education) and SDG5 (Gender
       Equality).
   •   ICS3: Our research on Stonehenge (T3) (Darvill/Welham) has been critical to the
       preservation of a globally significant landscape for future generations and, via our input into
       the new visitor centre, to ensuring that the economic and wider societal benefits of this site
       are fully realised. We also used the innovative interdisciplinary Human Henge project (Darvill)
       to directly address SDG3 (Good Health and Wellbeing), achieving compelling outcomes with
       significant implications for the role of archaeology in the wellbeing agenda.


b) REF 2021 Research and Impact Strategy
We will use the energy and vitality of our success since 2014 to advance our global reputation for
world-class research and impact, achieving this through the following strategic objectives:
O1: Target societally driven research: we will build on R1 to develop projects that confront global
challenges, particularly focusing on issues of climate change (SDG13), health and wellbeing (SDG3)
and food and water security (SDGs 2 and 6). We will use our disciplinary strengths in sustainability
and the wider cultural and natural heritage agenda, e.g. modelling human ecodynamics (through
ISLHE/IMSET) (T1/2/4), and maritime archaeology (T3), to enable innovative impact agendas.
O2: Stimulate inter and transdisciplinary research: we will continue to increase the range and
diversity of our work, identifying and forging strategic collaborations with new internal and external
collaborators across other disciplines. We will continue to diversify our sources of research income,

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
building on existing success (e.g. Darvill/ Human Henge, HLF Funding) to provide mentorship across
the UoA in this area, as well as continuing to leverage support from our central interdisciplinary
Institutional Strategic Investment Areas, particularly Animation, Simulation and Visualisation, and
Sustainability and Low Carbon Technologies.
O3: Pioneer computational approaches: linking to O1/O2, IMSET has enabled us to create a
critical mass of new expertise in the area of modelling and computational archaeology (Davies, Riris,
Silva, Vander Linden). Institutional investment has supported further growth in digital methodologies,
practice and quantitative approaches via a three-year PDRA post (Human-Computer-Interactions,
Zhao), combined with the 2019 appointment of our new Head of Department (Gillings) and transfer
of the AHRC-funded researcher (Eve). We will continue to target resource to this area to nurture
transformative research approaches.
O4: Expand our national and international partnerships: we will use our experience in creating
and sustaining strong regional partnerships to build capacity for engagement on a broader scale,
including regions new to our UoA, such as South America and the Arctic. Our two Research Institutes
will be a particular focus for fostering this development, via strategic appointments to Steering
Groups, hosting international interdisciplinary conferences and attendance at strategic key events
e.g. The United Nations’ Climate Change Conference (COP26).
O5: Increase our ECR and PGR numbers and strengthen provision: we will use a strategic
approach to ensure we continue to attract internationally competitive research fellows via prestigious
funders (British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships) and through roles
in large-scale funded projects. We are firmly committed to the UKRI Researcher Development
Concordat and will continue to build on this sound foundation to further enhance our high-quality
research training experience for ECRs.


c) Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
Supporting interdisciplinary research is at the heart of our research ethos and we have prioritised
leveraging competitive central funding to achieve this, and to ensure the continued vitality and growth
of our research environment. We have used influential positions on our institutional interdisciplinary
Strategic Investment Areas to create connections with cutting-edge researchers across our
university, collaborations which have won substantive investment in our two Research Institutes, and
a range of funded doctoral studentships and Student Research Assistantships. This has led to new
projects with researchers in computer animation, ecology, education, health, psychology, and
sociology. These relationships underpin our continued sustainability and vitality and have attracted
external funding, for example, the Virtual Avebury project (Falconer/Welham, AHRC/EPSRC
Immersive Experiences), linking visual and audio virtual environment specialists, learning
technologists, heritage professionals and archaeologists. To support further interdisciplinary
opportunities, we have deliberately arranged for our postdoctoral researchers and PGRs to share
offices with their counterparts from our sister department, Life and Environmental Sciences.
In order to further support growth of this priority area we have also resourced several major
interdisciplinary conferences, most notably:
   •   The international Connected Past network conference in 2017 (Coward is a founder member)
       brought together researchers from archaeology, history, physics, mathematics, and network
       and data science to investigate the use of network methods to enhance our understanding
       of the human past.
   •   Computer Applications in Archaeology UK 2019 was integrated with the renowned BFX
       Festival (visual effects, animation, games technology) to foster links between a diverse range
       of researchers interested in cultural heritage, especially digital forms of engagement with
       heritage. We used this platform to create a cross-university virtual heritage research group
       combining the expertise of over 20 academics across law, psychology, health, animation and
       more, with which we are developing future cross-council research projects.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
d) Creating an Open Research Environment
The critical importance of an Open Research Environment to our UoA was formally recognised in
2018 with the creation of the role of Open Data Champion (Reynolds) to promote and facilitate these
principles. We have 100% compliance with our Open Access Publication Policy and have attracted
£22,840 of the competitive Institutional Open Access Publication Fund to support 13 outputs; five of
these by ECRs, including co-published doctoral research. We are also committed to making our work
more inclusive by publishing in languages other than just English, including: Arabic, French, German,
Latvian, Russian, and Spanish.
We are committed to increasing open access to our research data. An extensive zooarchaeological
database on chicken remains and metrical data from over 1,250 archaeological assemblages in
Europe from the AHRC chicken project will be made available on the Archaeological Data Service
by Best/Maltby during 2021, and we are dedicating researcher time and QR money to ensure further
substantive legacy projects achieve publication and associated data deposition via our new
institutional repository (BORDaR), e.g. Dewlish Roman Villa (Hewitt), and Knowlton Henge complex
(Gale).
We also promote open-source software and code sharing, ensuring that data can be (re)produced,
archived and shared in non-proprietary/open data formats. To this end, we have invested in training
and support for: Snuffler open source geophysics software for our regional project involving local
societies (LoCATE); Reflectance Transformation Imaging; Structure from Motion open source image
processing software; and R open source statistics software.


e) Research Integrity
Research integrity is fundamental to all our research, and many of us (e.g. Hambleton, Maltby,
Reynolds, Schutkowski) play key roles on institutional ethics panels (Science and Social Science).
Institutionally mandated ethics training for all staff and PGRs is enhanced by support and advice
from a dedicated departmental ethics panel, informed by the relevant ethical, legal and professional
frameworks including the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists’ Code of Conduct and the British
Association for Biological Anthropology and Osteoarchaeology Codes of Ethics and Practice. All
research activities are required to comply fully with these codes and meet the highest ethical
standards, firstly via an online assessment process and then for higher-risk projects via a thorough
assessment by the relevant panels.

 2. People
a) Staffing Strategy
We have achieved a vibrant and sustainable research environment through a staffing strategy that
recognises and values collaborative working and the effective sharing of knowledge and experience.
S1: Creating a vibrant and diverse ECR community. We have dramatically increased our ECR
numbers from two in 2013 to 12 from 2014-20. Our continued success in achieving large research
grants has enabled us to recruit five PDRAs. We have deliberately targeted research fellowship
applications and our research excellence has been recognised with the award of one of these per
year since 2016 (Leverhulme Trust x 2, Brown/McCartney; British Academy, Elliott; and Marie-
Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship, Nicolas). We have used our position as one of the premier research
groups in our institution to leverage the matched Leverhulme fellowship costs, and gained from
competitive institutional schemes for new ECR posts: Davies (1FTE, 60 months IMSET),
Foster/Randall (0.5FTE, 33 months; bioarchaeology/impact), Kharobi (1FTE, 34 months;
bioarchaeology), Pitman (1FTE archaeological science, PDRA in 2014, now permanent lectureship),
Silva/Zhao (1FTE digital archaeology, 36 months), Riris/Silva (2FTEs permanent lectureships
IMSET), Rennie (1FTE, now permanent lectureship in our sister department of Life and
Environmental Science).
S2: Increasing the number of colleagues on permanent and long-term contracts. We have
invested in nurturing and developing ECR careers through mentoring and support, combined with
effective use of an institutional six month ‘bridging funding’, to facilitate continued employment

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
between funding sources. Our success is exemplified by the fact that three ECRs have achieved
permanent positions with us (Pitman, Reynolds, Silva), while two others have returned to us from
other institutions e.g. Elliott in 2019 (PDRA in 2014, now a British Academy Fellow), and Best in
2018 via AHRC Follow-on Funding (PDRA 2014-17). Three quarters of our Category A eligible staff
are now on permanent contracts, while the rest are on fixed-term contracts related to projects of
more than two years in duration.
S3: Obtaining strategic investment in nascent research areas/Attracting researchers with an
interdisciplinary focus. Our success in gaining competitive institutional investment for five posts
associated with the two research institutes IMSET and ISLHE has been fundamental to our growth.
We have also focused on recruiting interdisciplinary researchers (e.g. Eve, Elliott, Gillings, Rennie,
Reynolds, Riris, Silva, Vander Linden) and/or those based in other disciplines (e.g. Davies -
geography, Zhao - computing) to bring new approaches and experience as well as to increase the
scope of our interdisciplinary collaboration and research (see O2).
S4: Facilitating flexible careers that reflect our inclusive values. We have strongly supported
flexible working patterns to create an inclusive and welcoming working environment for all. This has
enabled retention of experienced colleagues at all career stages who have needed to alter patterns
of work to enable caring responsibilities or to attain an alternative work/life balance (see Sec. 2c).


b) Staff Development
We have used our award-winning Institutional Research Development and Support initiatives and
training (see Institutional Statement) to build on the Concordat to Support the Career Development
of Researchers in fostering the transformation of our research environment. Our full-time centrally
funded research facilitator, focused on identifying and supporting applications, has contributed to our
success in recruitment, enabling further applications to prestigious funders and the development of
research and impact activities. We have benefited from:
   •   £90K of research incentive scheme through a 5% return on recognised income of large grants
       (Gillings, Jenkins, Parham, Schutkowski, Welham),
   •   funded research leave (Welham, one year (2014) and Gale, six months (2015)),
   •   six months post-adoption/maternity/paternity Faculty research leave for academics
       established as part of our Athena SWAN commitment (benefiting one ECR female colleague
       in 2016),
   •   two fully-funded doctoral (Maltby) and one funded post-doctoral positions (Schutkowski) from
       success with prestigious grants,
   •   central pump-priming support for new research e.g. Stantis (ECR) £1K, Welham £3.7K,
   •   external one-to-one grant development support for seven colleagues (3F/4M), and an
       extensive selection of grants academies, writing retreats, and dedicated funder/funding
       stream workshops e.g. AHRC, British Academy, ERC, Leverhulme.
To stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and external non-academic institutions that
support our integrated research ethos we have strategically targeted central funds and have been
awarded:
   •   £101,660 of Higher Education Innovation Funds enabling us to employ researchers to further
       develop work in ISLHE, our research consultancy BUARC, and with partners such as the
       Roman Baths,
   •   nine competitive 50/50% match-funded doctoral research studentships (see Sec. 4).
To complement this exceptional institutional research support, we have initiated a new focus on
personalised research development for individual research activities. This has allowed us to tailor
UoA support depending on career stage and provides us with an overview of our research and impact
activities, making us more agile in identifying and responding to the needs of our group as we grow
and develop our research base. We have done this by introducing the following initiatives:


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Annual Personal Research and Impact Plans, which form the basis for individual discussion
       with the departmental and UoA leadership team,
   •   A workload planning model which allocates 40% of time towards research, and reduced
       workloads for ECRs to support their development,
   •   A formal mentorship scheme involving all colleagues across our department and the wider
       institution where appropriate. Colleagues are encouraged to select their own mentor,
   •   Access to competitively allocated departmental QR funds (see Sec. 2c),
   •   Financial support to attend and/or present at one or more international conference or training
       event per annum (see Sec. 4a).


c) Supporting and Promoting Equality and Diversity
We have achieved a demonstrable shift to an inclusive and understanding culture by embedding
equality and diversity in our behaviours and values. In 2014 our leadership team was made up of
senior male colleagues and was thus not reflective of the community as a whole. We have therefore
radically reformed our management structures to offer equity of opportunity for roles and a more
even distribution of responsibilities. We have made adjustments within roles (e.g. role shares) to
ensure the inclusion of part-time and ECR colleagues. We now have an inclusive, 52%F/48%M
leadership team creating development opportunities for everyone.
These positive changes are reflected in our departmental application for a Bronze Athena SWAN
Award (result pending), and our involvement in the University-wide Women’s Academic Network.
We have committed to gender balance at events, e.g. weekly research seminars and Pitt-Rivers
Lecture (50/50% F/M since data collection began in 2016). We have raised the profile of diversity in
our research area by engaging with agenda-setting national initiatives including hosting exhibitions
such as Trowelblazers’ Raising Horizons (2018) and the National Trust’s Breaking Ground, Female
Archaeologists at Avebury (2019). With the support of our central Equality and Diversity team, we
are regularly reviewing our practices and data to further embed an intersectional approach, thus
enabling an inclusive research environment.
Supporting researchers with caring responsibilities and those with disabilities
We have supported both flexible and part-time working to promote a positive work/life balance (S4),
with 4F/3M colleagues using this option, which is in strong contrast to REF2014 when only three
returned colleagues were in part-time posts. We schedule teaching loads to be congruent with caring
responsibilities and extra-university requirements via a transparent process, e.g. all departmental
meetings are between 10am and 4pm, with our research seminars at 4pm. Colleagues with
disabilities have benefited from the introduction of a full time Faculty Health & Safety Officer (2017)
liaising between the department and Institution, and from the Institution’s work with ‘AccessAble’ to
provide detailed access information for all buildings and facilities.
Our institution offers a more generous maternity/paternity/adoption leave provision than required by
law. Colleagues with parental responsibilities also have access to flexible and convenient childcare
via on-site childcare provision for ages three months to 14 years through an on-campus nursery and
pre-school (ages three months to five years, Ofsted Outstanding) which runs throughout the year,
and our Sport BU team holiday childcare (ages five to 14) which runs during the Easter, summer and
Christmas holidays. Colleagues may request the use of QR or other internal funds for childcare whilst
at conferences.
Recruitment, career development and progression
We have created tangible change by adopting an inclusive approach to recruitment, progression,
and research development. All colleagues engage with institutionally provided equality, diversity and
inclusivity training. We have mixed-gender recruitment review processes for all staff and research
students, and we are proactive in including ECRs on these panels, reflecting our inclusive values
and commitment to staff development. We interview all applicants meeting the minimum
requirements for a role who have declared a registered disability.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our promotions process now explicitly addresses part-time working and periods of leave, and advice
and support is available for all colleagues through university-wide group and one-to-one sessions.
Female colleagues are further supported by advice available through the Women’s Academic
Network and female-only promotion workshops. Our success in mentoring and personalised support
can be evidenced in a positive increase in academic promotions 4F/2M from 2009-14 to 6F/3M from
2014-20. This includes: four female colleagues to Principal Academic; one to Associate Professor;
and one to Professor. Four colleagues with part-time roles and/or who have taken extended periods
of leave have achieved promotion during the review period.
We have substantially improved our gender and age balance at senior levels through our focus on
supporting progression for all colleagues. We continue to prioritise this by establishing visible senior
female role models, using development opportunities including the Aurora programme (Gerdau-
Radonić/Jenkins), institutional leadership programmes, and the specific promotion-related advice
highlighted above. We have successfully mentored colleagues to create opportunities for research
leadership and development, and increased the number of female colleagues in influential roles
including: Coward, Jenkins and Reynolds as Deputy Director/Directors of our two new research
institutes IMSET and ISLHE; Welham as convenor of the University’s Strategic Investment Area of
Animation, Simulation and Visualisation; and Jenkins, Stantis and Welham on institutional internal
research funding panels and committees. Within the department, Welham and Wilkes have held
leadership roles of Head of Research and Deputy Head respectively. Externally, Welham served as
Vice-Chair then Chair of University Archaeology UK (2014-19), is a Strategic Reviewer for AHRC,
and has been nominated to the REF2021 Panel.
Our commitment to embedding equality and diversity in our practice is demonstrated in the
construction of our REF2021 submission which was led by a mixed gender and grade team. All
members of this, and our mock REF reviewers, completed the Marshalls Equality and Diversity
training as outlined in our Institutional Code of Practice. We demonstrated institutional and sector
leadership in gender equality by ensuring blind reviewing of each REF output by 1F/1M academic,
with a return that reflects our commitment to supporting diverse research careers (Table 2).
Table 2: REF2021 profile for Archaeology at Bournemouth University at the census date

                                     Gender          Contract                            Grade




                                                                                                        Professor/Professor
                                                                                   Lecturer/Principle
                                                                                   %Lecturer/Senior




 Archaeology at
                                                                     %Researcher




 Bournemouth
                                                        %Part-Time




                                                                                                        %Associate
                                                                                   Academic
                                   %Female


                                             %Male




 Category A returned staff        37         63        26            30                 48                 22

 Lead output author               36         64        20            24                 44                 31

 Impact contributors              50         50        50            17                 17                 66

To support career development, we provide all colleagues with staff development funds for
conference attendance, training etc. An initial Faculty system (2014-16) provided up to £3K to
academic staff from the QR allocation based on a sum of points for research activity e.g. PGR
supervision, numbers of publications, submitted grants etc. In 2017 a competitive departmentally-
administered process was introduced which we used to ensure an open application process
overseen by a mixed gender review panel that included the UoA Leadership Team, ECRs and other
colleagues (via an open call); since then we have distributed funds of between £1-3K to 24
individuals or teams (8F/9M).



                                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
d) A sustainable and integrated PGR community
We have a vibrant PGR community of 11 students which achieves an average of three completions
per year and a total of 22 during the review period. Our commitment to excellent researcher
development is exemplified in the success our PGRs have had in obtaining a range of postdoctoral
positions including fellowships (e.g. Norwegian Research Fellowship, University of Gothenburg) and
lectureships (e.g. Universities of Exeter, Groningen).
The combination of our external partnerships and our 100% success rate in winning competitive
institutional funding has provided 11 fully funded studentships (nine match-funded through research
council grants and non-academic partners, and two fully funded through institutional schemes). Our
AHRC Capacity Building Doctoral Student Block grant (2011-17) also supported two new
studentships in the census period.
Our Doctoral College supports us in maintaining an inclusive and robust recruitment process,
enabling us to foster a diverse PGR community. We are committed to mixed gender recruitment
review, panels and supervisory teams and actively encourage ECRs and postdoctoral researchers
to engage with all aspects of PGR support. All supervisors must engage with a one-day training
course every three years to ensure best practice and the exchange of experience with regard to
supervisory practice and procedure. Our high-quality training and supervision of PGRs has been
recognised via Welham’s award of Recognised Research Supervisor as part of the UK Council for
Graduate Education’s new Supervision Recognition Programme in 2019.
We prioritise placing PGRs (including our MRes students) at the heart of a rich, stimulating and
engaging research culture and have worked hard to enhance communication between PGRs and
other colleagues at all levels. Our PGRs are included on all email and communication lists and invited
to all meetings. They present talks in our research seminar series and contribute to presentations
on research done by members of their supervisory team. Our PGRs also take the lead in organising
the annual Faculty PGR Research Conference, gaining valuable experience in presenting their
research and in achieving important academic and transferable skills in conference organisation and
events management. Their elected representative liaises with the wider institution, sits on our Athena
SWAN Self-Assessment Team, and has regular meetings with the Deputy Head of Department
(previously Head of Research) to provide a forum for reviewing progress in an ongoing Action Plan.
In March 2020, a weekly ‘Departmental PGR zoom coffee’ was instigated with the Head of Research
and our Research Administrator to support health and wellbeing within our PGR community whilst
remote working.
All full-time doctoral students have individual desks and computing facilities and are co-located in
dedicated PGR rooms alongside students from our sister department Life and Environmental
Sciences, to foster interdisciplinary synergies (O2). Our part-time students have access to hot desks
in the same rooms. All doctoral students (including self-funded students) are provided with 1K per
annum to support individual training and development needs, and our match-funded students
frequently have access to further support via our partners. We support the career development of
researchers beyond the requirements of the Vitae Concordat via a comprehensive training
programme provided by the Doctoral College (see Institutional statement). PGRs are integrated into
opportunities to showcase their research and take part in outreach opportunities in order to develop
valuable science communication experience; for example, University Archaeology Day and
University Anthropology Day.
Post thesis submission, we support students to develop their publication record by using QR funds
to enable the three-month employment of PGRs, with academic mentoring, to facilitate publication
of doctoral research. Awards have been made to three female students (100% of those who were
eligible), resulting in publications in journals including: Journal of Archaeological Science,
Geoarchaeology and Internet Archaeology.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
a) Income
The success of our interdisciplinary approach and highly integrated research and impact strategies,
coupled with world-class institutional research support (see Sec. 2), is demonstrated by a major uplift

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in annual research income (£420K in 2013/14 to £725K in 2019/20) (Figure 1) and a significant
increase in awards from prestigious national and international funders.




Figure 1: Increase in income per annuum for Archaeology at Bournemouth University
We have created a critical mass of globally recognised research leadership in our four research
themes (T1-4). This is exemplified by our work on the socio-cultural importance of animals in human
societies (T2), whose significance was recognised by the award of a £2M AHRC Science and Culture
grant for the project: Cultural and Scientific Perceptions of Human and Chicken Interactions (2014-
17) for which Maltby brought together 22 partners, generating innovative interdisciplinary research
outputs. The success of our integration of research and impact strategies is also demonstrated by
Parham’s £2M success in gaining UK Government LIBOR funds for work on HMS Invincible (2017-
21), and Parham and Palma’s £315K award from Historic England and the HLF for the analysis of
the 17th Century Swash Channel Wreck (2013-14) (T3). We have further used the high profile of
these two projects to leverage over £300K of donations to support the purchase of diving and
conservation equipment, expanding our research capacity in this area. Alongside this success, we
are creating the next generation of research leaders through our outstanding ECR Fellowship and
AHRC ECR projects e.g. Jenkins’ work on early farming in Southwest Asia (2014-15) (T2).
We have used our world-class research reputation and exceptional research facilities and
infrastructure to form academic partnerships that have resulted in multiple grant successes with: the
AHRC (Rapa Nui, Polynesia [Welham, 2011-17] (T3), Songo Mnara, Tanzania [Welham, 2011-16]
(T3), and SUNDASIA, Vietnam [Coward, 2016-20] (T1/2)), and the European Commission
(European Research Council Advanced Grant, Enigma of the Hyksos [Schutkowski, 2016-21] (T1),
Interreg Atlantic Area, ECOSAL, [Brisbane, 2014-6]). Interdisciplinary collaboration within our own
institution has also achieved cross-Research Council (AHRC/EPSRC) awards with the Virtual
Avebury project (Falconer/Welham 2018) (T4). In kind research success includes NERC radiocarbon
dates (Maltby 2016) enabling the spread of chickens in Europe to be traced.
We have used small grants to successfully enable the growth of emergent research areas, for
example, British Academy/Leverhulme Trust Small Grants (Schutkowski, Welham) and
Local/Learned Society Grants (Hewitt, Wilkes). Further income for knowledge exchange activities
has been achieved through the HLF (Darvill, Gale, Palma, Parham), and other charitable bodies


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Darvill, Parham, Smith) (see Sec. 4), whilst our archaeological research consultancy provides an
important income stream to combine research and professional practice.


b) Infrastructure and Facilities
Our world-class infrastructure and facilities comprising over 400m2 of dedicated on-campus
archaeological research laboratories, stores and collections rooms, enable cutting-edge research
outputs. Our active collaboration with other disciplines is supported by unlimited free access to our
Faculty’s excellent analytical science laboratories and equipment, geomatics software and facilities
(available on and off campus), and state-of-the-art rapid prototyping facility (3D printing), as well as
a new mixed reality development laboratory, part of a £25M Institutional infrastructure investment to
support the interdisciplinary development of animation, simulation and visualisation.
Our position as one of the premier research departments within our Institution has afforded us major
capital investment, including a £2M laboratory refurbishment in 2014, and c.£100K per annum for
maintenance and upgrade of equipment. In 2017, our LIBOR funding success and innovative
partnership with the Maritime Archaeology Sea Trust (MAST) allowed us to open the largest maritime
archaeology research facility in England, with an additional 200m2 space to support our
archaeological diving operations and equipment for the conservation of underwater heritage, thus
ensuring our continued global leadership in maritime heritage at risk (T3). We are the only research
centre in the UK capable of excavating artefacts directly from the seabed, recording and conserving
them, and passing them on to a receiving museum.
Alongside our trailblazing new marine facilities, we have continued to enhance our £1M of field,
survey and remote sensing equipment, maintaining our position as global leaders in field-based
research (T3). This is evidenced through our role in multiple funded excavation projects, including
fieldwork at Stonehenge and Avebury where Eve, Darvill, Gillings, and Welham have been part of
seminal research that has changed our understanding of the nature of these globally important
landscapes and monuments.
Innovative partnerships with local landowners ensure us access to over 76,500m2 of land on local
private estates, enabling the continuation of cutting-edge research in bioarchaeology, forensic
archaeology and anthropology (T1/3). This augments the facilities available in our globally
recognised human bioarchaeology laboratories. Here we have invested in equipping with a state-of-
the-art portable digital X-Ray machine and 3D recording facilities to foster interdisciplinary studies,
such as funded doctoral research using photogrammetric techniques to study evidence for trauma
and conflict. To sustain our global reputation for expertise in bioarchaeology, we continue to build
our internationally important human skeletal collections, now including remains from over 900
individuals dating from the Neolithic through to the 20th century. These world-class facilities support
collaborations with top-tier international research institutions such as Michigan State University, who
regularly travel to Bournemouth to use these resources and work with our researchers.
Our ground-breaking research on animals, plants and environments (T2) is supported by dedicated
zooarchaeological and environmental laboratories with a reference collection of over 500 known
large and small mammals, including fish and birds, as well as licenced specimens of rare and
endangered species. These world-class facilities attract visiting international researchers including
US researcher Pamela Crabtree (British Academy Visiting Fellowship 2018), who collaborated with
Hambleton and Maltby on animal exploitation in early farming communities in Transcaucasia and
the development of northern European medieval towns.
To further develop our distinctive use of environmental micro-proxies and geochemistry to address
societally relevant research questions (T2), we have introduced a DEFRA approved foreign soil
store, revamped our environmental processing facilities, digital imaging suite, and invested in two
portable X-Ray fluorescence analysers and a new environmental Scanning Electron Microscope
(£93K). This has enabled important outputs by Elliott and Jenkins that address issues of water
availability and management, human sedentism and agricultural practices.
We have excellent technical support from our dedicated archaeological team (see Sec. 1a), and our
interdisciplinary focus also enables access to seven other highly-trained demonstrators and
technicians in the Department of Life and Environmental Sciences, who support research in

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
geoinformatics, elemental and isotope analysis, and forensic science. An online equipment and room
booking system, and a full-time Faculty Resources Officer dedicated to maintaining our field and
survey equipment to an extremely high standard, ensures we can take full advantage of our world-
class facilities. We are also committed to the development of the research and careers of our
technical staff, as evidenced by the fact that two have gained permanent lectureships in UK
universities.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
a) Arrangements, Support for and Effectiveness of Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
To foster interdisciplinarity and achieve the societal impact agenda which is deeply embedded in our
work, we have increased the scale and scope of activities to support collaborations. Our success is
demonstrated by the expansion of our funded research across five continents, and by the fact that
58% of our REF eligible research outputs are produced with external collaborators. Important new
academic partnerships have included the University of Vienna, enabling the ERC-funded Hyksos
Enigma project. Continuing to develop this area underpins our future strategic objectives (O1-5), and
we have established the following arrangements to support these activities:
i) Increasing the number of research seminars and high-profile events. We have formalised our
weekly research seminar series, benefitting from over 50 external speakers from a diverse range of
over 30 organisations from across the globe. We advertise these seminars both within the Institution
and through our network of external partners (O4, see Sec.4b) to encourage interdisciplinary
engagement (O2). The series is led by ECRs mentored by established academics, enabling our
ECRs to build their skills and networks (S1/O5). This successful model has been adopted by our
active student archaeological society. In 2017 we established an annual Pitt Rivers lecture,
sponsored by the Prehistoric Society, which achieves audiences of 150+ from both academic and
professional backgrounds and the wider public. We have also hosted a range of conferences and
meetings to support collaboration including: the Professional Zooarchaeology Group (2019) (T2);
Human Henge: Historic Landscapes and Wellbeing (2018) (T3). We will host the Prehistoric Society
Europa Conference (T3) and the British Association of Near Eastern Archaeology in 2021 (T1/2).
We have used £1.5K of our QR funds annually to support travel costs for these events, and benefit
from additional support (including administration, advertising, and catering) through our central
events management team.
ii) Increasing resources for research networking. We have used ~£20K p.a. to support
colleagues’ attendance at conferences, workshops etc., allowing us to maintain an influential
presence at over 60 national and international strategic networking opportunities.
iii) Expanding our Visiting Fellow/Professor network. We have expanded this from 22 individuals
in 2014 to 35 in 2020. This includes new partners to foster research addressing key societal
challenges (R1/O1) and to support the international growth of our research themes: e.g. Musée de
l’Homme, Paris (T1); The Council for British Research in the Levant, Jordan (T2); the International
Commission on Missing Persons, The Hague (T3); and the University of Gothenburg (T4). We have
used prestigious funders to support international collaborations, e.g. a 2014 Leverhulme Emeritus
Fellowship for Brisbane to work with Russian colleagues on the archaeology of Novgorod.
iv) Expanding our student placement scheme. We have facilitated 287 undergraduate
placements (72 international) across 25 countries and 97 organisations. In 2014, a new 30-week
option was introduced to extend our existing five-week compulsory element, allowing us to create
new, and deepen existing, research partnerships, e.g. with the UK National Parks and regional
museums.
v) Supporting membership of learned societies/research/professional organisations.
Departmental funds support one subscription per colleague, an important commitment to integrated
research and impact strategy.
vi) Developing legal frameworks to enable the loan of research equipment. We have developed
new partnerships to gain the maximum research output from our extensive equipment base (see


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sec. 3b), as exemplified by the LoCATE project via which we loan geophysical equipment to local
community researchers through a partner organisation (see Sec. 4c, x).


b) Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences
We have significantly expanded our activities during the review period to maximise impact from the
research conducted across our UoA (R3/R4/O4), in particular focusing on key societal challenges
(R1/O3). ECRs and PGRs are fully integrated into this activity (O5) and indeed often take the lead,
working with more senior UoA members to develop their skills. We target the following
audiences/beneficiaries/users:
i) The Public. Our attendance at multiple events and exhibitions reached tens of thousands of
individuals across the globe. We used our annual institutional Festival of Learning (2014-18) to
support public engagement in our research, e.g. a two day ‘Maritime Archaeology Festival’ at
Bournemouth Pier (500+ attendees) and two interdisciplinary ‘Meet Your Inner Monkey’ events (200+
attendees) at Hengistbury Head Visitor Centre. Engagement and participation are embedded within
all research excavations, including site tours for ~6,450 attendees at our projects between 2014-20,
and training and hands-on experience for over 50 volunteers. Nationally, we regularly participate in,
organise, and contribute to public events such as: Café Scientifique; the British Science Festival
(2015-ongoing); the Science Tent at Bestival (2014, attended by 60,000 people); and the Women In
Science and Engineering (WISE) Festival in 2020. We have attracted extensive media coverage of
our work both in the UK and internationally and from 2016 have reached a total news readership of
at least 17.71 million.
ii) Special Interest Groups. We have built strong relationships with such groups, especially locally
(e.g. Dorset Natural History and Archaeological Society; South Wessex Archaeological Association;
Council for British Archaeology Wessex; Poole Harbour Heritage Project; East Dorset Antiquarian
Society; the Dorchester Association; University of the Third Age).
iii) Heritage Institutions. Close working relationships with a number of local and national heritage
institutions allow collaboration to enhance the research base of their displays and educational
activities and provides valuable platforms for outreach and engagement of a variety of audiences.
Partners are local (e.g. Salisbury Museum, the Ancient Technology Centre), national (e.g. British
Museum, English Heritage, National Trust, Natural History Museum, Museum of London), and
international (Institute for Mummy Studies, Italy; the Sea War Museum, Denmark).
iv) Schools and Colleges. Our Director of Outreach and institutional Schools and Colleges liaison
colleagues continue to develop close working relationships with (pre-)schools and colleges at all
levels across the south of England. We have visited over 20 institutions and worked with 400
teachers and pupils, providing activities that demonstrate how our research informs on food security
(T1), climate change (T2) and cultural/biological identity (T3).
v) Health and Social Care. We are committed to inclusive engagement with diverse communities
(R1/O1) and have developed new partnerships with: Dementia groups, Age UK, Dorset Adult
Asperger’s Society, Bournemouth Society for the Visually Impaired, the Restoration Trust,
Resettlement and Care for Older Ex-offenders and Prisoners, and HM Prisons. We are extending
this approach internationally, e.g. our 2019 work with prisoners facilitated by the Cook Islands
Minister for Culture and Correction.
vi) Police and Coroner. Cheetham, Hambleton, Rennie, Schutkowski, and Smith have used their
research expertise (T1-3) 62 times to support police/forensic services in the identification, recovery
and reporting of skeletal finds as non-human, archaeological/anatomical material, or modern
remains requiring police/forensic attention. Their work is both regional (e.g. Dorset Police Authority
with whom we have a legal Memorandum of Understanding, Dorset Coroner Service), national (West
Midlands Police), and international (e.g. Bochum Polizei, Germany, Rennie’s work in medicolegal
contexts in Namibia and South Africa).
vii) Statutory and Professional Bodies, and Policy Makers. Our involvement with statutory and
professional bodies enables us to build on our research to exert considerable influence both within
our discipline, and in government policy relating to heritage in the UK and internationally (R1/O1)

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(e.g. the Department for Culture Media and Sport, the Ministry of Defence, the Royal Navy, the Oman
Ministry of Heritage and Culture).
viii) Local Authorities and Organisations. We have built strong and meaningful links with partners
in our region and beyond (O4-6), firstly by developing match-funded doctoral studentships (with
Dorset County Council/ Dorset AONB/Heritage Lottery Fund (Gale); Bournemouth, Christchurch and
Poole Council/Heritage Lottery Fund (Pitman); the Roman Bath Museum/ Bath and North East
Somerset Council (Brisbane); the Dorset Museum (Smith)), and secondly by leveraging our network
of Research Fellows/Professors (e.g. the LoCATE Project).
ix) Commercial Archaeology Providers. Our in-house archaeology consultancy BUARC enables
us to develop impact from research in T3, and we have excellent research links with other UK
commercial companies that cross all of our research themes. Darvill is Chairman of the Board of
Directors of Cotswold Archaeology, and we have also established a close working relationship with
MoLA including institutional visits and commitments to develop collaborative working around the
digital heritage agenda (T4/O3).


c) Wider Contributions to Society
Our integrated research and impact strategy, including REF2014 research and impact objectives
(R1-5) have enabled us to understand and develop the contributions made by activities within our
UoA. In addition to our Impact Case Studies, research in our UoA has:
i) Enhanced learning and participation for the general public. The influence of our public
engagement activities is clear; we play pivotal roles in major science outreach events with
demonstrable impact across the UK (e.g. the British Science Festival, where in 2019, 86% of
attendees reported an increased awareness of scientific research and 70% reported an increased
interest in science more generally). Our other activities have led to many participants returning to
study or going on to regularly volunteer with other organisations (e.g. Past Participate; the Dorset
County Museum). Our impact has been recognised through a Dorset Archaeological Awards ‘Highly
Commended award’ for public engagement for fieldwork in Poole Harbour during 2019 (Pitman).
ii) Inspired creativity. Our research has underpinned various forms of artistic expression including:
song and dance installations, e.g. ‘Songs of the Sea’ based on our maritime research and activities
as part of ‘The Imagination Museum’; theatrical productions, e.g. based on our research on the
Langton Herring Iron Age Mirror by the Museum Makers, a creative group for adults with learning
difficulties; photographic art by Lieven Lefere, created as outcomes of our forensic archaeology and
prehistoric research excavations and incorporated in international exhibitions.
iii) Enhanced cultural heritage interpretation. Our research has been used for content in multiple
international organisations. Examples include: the reconstruction of vernacular buildings for display
at the Eco-village of Al Ma’tan, Jordan; digital imaging of the Ridgeway Vikings for Dorset Museum;
Britain’s earliest case of tuberculosis at Wimborne Museum; video content for the Cook Islands
Museum; a travelling Stonehenge exhibit (Australia/Belgium/USA) and a trans-regional Atlantic salt
making trail (Portugal, Spain, France and the UK).
iv) Contributing to economic prosperity via the creative sector. Our research has played a
pivotal role in attracting more visitors to the south-west region through an improved cultural offer.
The Swash Channel Wreck exhibition of our research at Poole Museum in 2014 (75,000 visitors)
became a permanent feature in their maritime gallery, contributing to a 71% rise in annual visitor
numbers from 103,275 (2014) to 176,672 (2019) (https://www.visitbritain.org/tourism-business-
research).
v) Improved social and educational inclusion of marginalised groups. Coupled with (ii), our
impact here includes maritime arts projects involving inmates from three prisons, resulting in public
displays of their work. Participants valued ‘the opportunity to be involved in something …. that would
normally be off bounds to them’, and a ship model was donated by a prisoner to Victim Support for
their reception area as a means of 'putting something back'’.
vi) Informing education provision with respect to SDGs. Our research has underpinned the
creation of teaching packs across all research themes. Examples include: content supporting

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
heritage education to inspire sustainable development, delivered to 150 students on the Cook
Islands.
vii) Contributing to processes of commemoration, memorialisation and reconciliation. As
detailed above, our role in identifying skeletal remains has deep significance for bereaved families,
for example, the identification of individuals who had died in unknown circumstances; the repatriation
of exhumed remains to the UK in compliance with family wishes; and the analysis of a probable
refugee found on a Dorset beach. The expertise we have provided to the police and coroner’s
services within the UK, and international contexts, has also saved taxpayers’ money and freed up
state resources. Our research also underpins our masters level education, which has contributed
significantly to the field, with 14 of our recent MSc graduates in search and recovery going on to
become members of specialist teams (e.g. Blake Emergency Services; Kenyon International
Emergency Services, specifically in relation to the Grenfell Tower, Germanwings and MH 17
disasters; International Commission on Missing Persons and International Committee of the Red
Cross).
viii) Influencing Professional Bodies and Learned Societies to define best practice and
formulate policy on a national and international scale. In the role of Chair of the Advisory Panel
on Burials in England (Historic England and Church of England) Schutkowski oversaw the 2017
production of the updated Guidance on the Care of Burials in England. Smith now serves on this
panel and contributed to the updated BABAO (2017) Guidelines to the Standards for Recording
Human Remains. Furthermore, in 2016 and 2017 Smith presented on national training sessions for
professional archaeologists regarding Human Remains in Commercial Archaeology for Historic
England. The Standard Operating Procedures for the Investigation of Mass Graves we developed in
2008 are still in use by the International Commission on Missing Persons.
ix) Contributing to the protection of heritage assets. We provide research expertise to the
Portable Antiquities Scheme and facilitate reporting procedures under the Treasure Act (Cheetham,
Russell, Smith). Our research has underpinned £6,050 of successful grant applications enabling
Dorset Museum to secure objects for public interpretation and future research. Internationally, our
research has contributed to the understanding and development of five UNESCO World Heritage
Sites, including contributions to management of Tràng An, a Landscape Complex in Vietnam where
we provided data, training and hardware to the management board (Coward), and in 2018 our
research supported the designation of the UNESCO World Heritage Site of the Caliphate City of
Medina Azahara (Welham). Our research in Jordan has contributed to the protection and
preservation of the vernacular village of Al Ma’tan and its development as an eco-tourism destination
(10 chalets, an ecocamp, restaurant and café). A film based on our AHRC-funded research
highlighting the importance of the ethnographic heritage of Jordan was screened at the inauguration
of the village, an event hosted by the Jordanian Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities and attended by
60 people.
x) Informing public attitudes and values with respect to the care of the natural and historic
environment. To support care of heritage assets in our region, we have created LoCATE, a
community archaeological survey project in partnership with 10 local interest societies in Dorset and
Hampshire and the New Forest National Park Authority. We have provided equipment and training
to 30 participants who have then gone on to use their new skills to investigate 11 prehistoric sites,
many of which were previously unknown. LoCATE has ‘transformed the skills and capabilities of
local heritage groups’ and is …’what archaeological partnerships should be all about’ (Gill, British
Archaeology March April 2019, 34-35). On a national stage we have also engaged with the public
on how the archaeological record can inform future societal resilience to climate change (R1/O1/O2),
e.g. our participation in WISE 2020 ‘Back to the Future’ as part of a plenary session at the British
Library (60 attendees).


d) Engagement with Diverse Communities
Our integrated research and impact strategy has enabled us to highlight this as a significant area
underpinning our future strategic objective (O1) and enabling us to transform the accessibility and
inclusivity of our activities (R1/3/4). We have diversified our practice to enable people to encounter
our research in a more accessible and innovative way (e.g. at unexpected locations), as exemplified

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
by sessions at festivals, and themed comedy nights (see Chicken Impact Case Study). We have
directly targeted engagement with diverse communities, as seen in the Stonehenge Case Study,
which exemplifies our collaborative work to bring quantifiable health benefits to individuals with
chronic mental health problems via ‘Human Henge’. We are now working directly with veterans via
‘Waterloo Uncovered’ (Eve) and have previously worked with prison communities and individuals
with learning disabilities.


e) Indicators of Wider Influence
We play an important role in influencing and contributing thought leadership to the discipline. We are
all Fellows or Members of learned societies, and/or professional bodies, often in influential roles (e.g.
Darvill, Chairman of the Nomination Committee for the European Association of Archaeologists, Vice
President of the Royal Archaeological Institute, Member of the Historic England Advisory Committee;
Parham, Trustee of the Alderney Maritime Trust; Randall, Hon. Treasurer of the Prehistoric Society).
We are regularly called on to referee for international journals such as Nature; Science; PNAS, PLOS
ONE and publishers including Routledge, Springer, Cambridge/Oxford University Press, and we
have served on a variety of editorial boards, e.g. McCartney, Mariners Mirror; Coward, Associate
Editor Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute; Schutkowski, co-editor Natural Science in
Archaeology.
Our pioneering contribution to research has been recognised through multiple awards including the
Society for Nautical Research 2018 ‘Anderson Medal’ for McCartney’s work reinterpreting the Battle
of Jutland, and the 2014 Reg Vallintine Achievement Award for Historical Diving Achievement for
Parham’s work on Bronze Age shipwrecks. Welham was part of Rethinking Durrington Walls which
won the Current Archaeology Research Project of the year award in 2017, and Hewitt’s impact on
regional research agendas was recognised through a Dorset Archaeological Society Ian Horsey
Lifetime Achievement Award in 2015.
We continue to influence the discipline through our contributions to national and international
committees, exemplified by Jenkins’ membership of the national Climate Heritage Network, and our
thought leadership is recognised through regular international keynotes, e.g. Coward Human
Distinctiveness: wisdom’s deep evolution, 2017, Welham Nordic Archaeological Sciences 2018, and
Jenkins International Meeting for Phytolith Research 2020. We review for a range of grant awarding
bodies including Marie Curie, Gerda Henkel, and the ERC, and Maltby and Welham have been
elected to the AHRC Peer-Review College (Maltby 2014-ongoing; Welham - including Strategic
Review (2019-)). In 2019, Maltby was commended for an ‘outstanding contribution to the work of the
AHRC over the past year’ by Ian Henderson, Head of Operations at the AHRC.


f) Our Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline
Our agenda-setting integrated research and impact strategy, and the transformative effect of our
work, demonstrates that we are leading the discipline to address fundamental societal challenges
and agendas, responding to global problems, including the United Nations’ SDGs, such as health
and wellbeing (SDG3), and climate action (SDG13) (R1/R3/O1). Through investment in our
pioneering interdisciplinary research institutes IMSET/ISLHE and our focus on engagement with
diverse communities and society as a whole, we are opening up new frontiers which are redefining
both the role of archaeologists and the significance of our practice over the next decades.
We are thus charting new approaches to support the long-term sustainability of our discipline and
stimulating world-leading research and impact. The radical transformation of our research
environment is also cultivating a flourishing generation of global research leaders who will ensure
the sustainability and vitality of archaeology by working across disciplinary boundaries to make it
central to the key challenges of the 21st century.




                                                                                                Page 15
