Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Manchester Metropolitan University

 Unit of Assessment: A3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The results of REF 2014 confirmed that we are amongst the most powerful and impactful centres
 for Allied Health research in the UK. We were the top ‘modern’ university for the power of our
 research (12th overall) and 100% of our impact was assessed as internationally excellent or above.
 This 2021 return demonstrates how our research environment has matured to encourage and
 support a significant increase in the volume, breadth and quality of our work.

 The number of submitted staff has increased from 65 (61.7 FTE) to 98 (91.7 FTE) including eight
 new Professors. We publish outstanding research in leading journals (Nature, Nature Cell Biology,
 Nature Communications, Circulation, Neuron, Augmentative & Alternative Communication, Brain,
 European Urology, Human Factors, and Spine). Income has increased to £5.94m with external
 funding from MRC, BBSRC, NIHR, Health Education North West, Horizon 2020 and esteemed
 charities including: Age UK, BHF, CF Trust, Alzheimer’s Society, Diabetes UK and Nuffield Health.
 Our PGR community is large and diverse with 423 all-year enrolments from worldwide origins.

 Our region’s devolved healthcare budget means that Manchester Metropolitan can contribute
 actively to the Greater Manchester Health and Social Care Partnership through our research and
 teaching. We have established collaborations and health interventions with all of our regional NHS
 Foundation Trusts in order to address the pressing needs of a diverse community with a focus on
 cardiovascular disease, healthy ageing, living with dementia and other long-term disabling
 conditions. Our strategy is to deliver applied and/or translational research that targets unmet
 needs regionally, nationally and internationally.

 Structure
 The staff included in our Allied Health Professions (AHP) submission are from the Centre for
 Bioscience (CBS) and the Centre for Health, Psychology and Communities (HPaC), situated within
 the University Centres for Research and Knowledge Exchange (UCRKE), established to advance
 health and social care research (see REF 5a).

 Centre for Bioscience (CBS)
 CBS includes 35 staff from the University’s Faculty of Science and Engineering, one of the largest
 research-led science and technology educators in the UK. CBS researchers engage in inter-
 disciplinary programmes exploiting next generation methodologies to improve population and
 personalised healthcare. CBS research is focused into four interlinking clusters, namely:
 Microbiology (Micro): Microbial communities in health, disease, hospitals and the food industry;
 Cardiovascular Research (CR): Vascular biology and platelet biology in disease pathogenesis;
 Ageing & Lifelong Health (ALH): Genetics, cell and molecular biology of healthy ageing; and
 Neuroscience (Neuro): Molecular mechanisms of neuropathology in the young and old.

 CBS has a management group led by Prof. Tristan McKay that includes representatives from each
 cluster, the Head of Department and Research Development Manager. CBS has an active
 External Advisory Board (EAB), chaired by Sir Alex Markham with international expertise from
 Prof. Roger Kamm (MIT, USA) and Profs. Sara Mole (UCL) and Cathy Shanahan (KCL) who both
 hold prominent roles in promoting gender equality at their host institutions. They meet with us
 biannually for an external strategic progress review.

 Centre for Health, Psychology & Communities (HPaC)
 HPaC includes 63 staff housed within the University’s Faculty of Health Psychology and Social
 Care (HPSC). Our research is focused on the health and wellbeing of individuals and communities,
 regionally, nationally and globally, in collaboration with a diversity of stakeholders. Our emphasis


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on public involvement ensures that health and social care practitioners and service users are
 actively involved in all stages of research. HPaC includes five clusters, namely:
 Communication Disability (CD): Augmentative and alternative communication, profound
 intellectual disability, and disability services in low-, middle- and high-income countries;
 Global Perspective, Marginalisation & Thriving Communities (CPMTC): Sexual and
 reproductive health inequalities;
 Mental Health (MH): Minimising abuse, complex trauma, restraint and conflict;
 Physiotherapy: Musculoskeletal assessment and intervention; health service delivery and
 innovative public health approaches to improve patient outcomes, wellbeing and quality of life;
 Stress, Health & Performance (SHP): Early life stress and relationship to mental health in adult
 life and health behaviour change.

 HPaC is led by Prof. Francis Fatoye and a management group that includes the Faculty Head of
 Research and Knowledge Exchange, cluster Leads, a Senior Business Development Manager,
 Impact and Engagement Manager and Research Development Manager. External oversight is
 provided by a team of Visiting Professors including Prof. Martine Smith (TCD), Prof. Shakila Dada
 (Pretoria), Prof. Isaac Odeyemi, Dr. Andy McCann and Prof. Jackie Oldham (ex-Health Innovation
 Manchester).

 Leadership teams from across CBS and HPaC meet regularly with the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for
 Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) and other senior colleagues to manage our health and
 social care agenda from a research and teaching perspective. This enables engagement in shared
 activity and allows us to take full advantage of the opportunities afforded by Health and Social
 Care Devolution across Greater Manchester.

 Achievement of strategic aims
 In REF 2014, we outlined a strategy for expanding research, including an increase in the quality
 and quantity of outputs, a growth in post-graduate student (PGR) numbers and increased external
 engagement. We proposed to focus on: (i) a fundamental understanding of biological systems
 underlying health and disease; (ii) development of disease biomarkers; (iii) computational
 modelling of function, disease and dysfunction; (iv) new methods of diagnosis; (v) design,
 implementation and monitoring of interventions; and (vi) the operationalisation of interventions
 within health services.

 Since REF 2014, we have grown substantially and our strategic aims have been realised. The
 number of staff with a significant responsibility for research has increased by 50%. This is the
 result of a successful recruitment strategy and the quality of our progressive and supportive
 research environment. We have appointed 52.6 FTE including eight new Professors and 22 ECRs.

 The volume of outputs has doubled with staff publishing 1,500 journal articles with partners from
 67 different countries. PGR numbers have increased with 126 successful doctoral completions
 from UK and overseas students. Research income has also grown and we are winning bids from
 high-quality funders. We continue to make an important contribution to the strategic priorities of
 the discipline, and staff have been recognised for their efforts including: OBEs for Profs. Laura
 Serrant (nursing and health policy) and Joy Duxbury (mental health nursing). Profs. Karen Sage
 and Laura Serrant are members of the REF 2021 assessment panel.

 Scientific breakthroughs
 Cognitive health and wellbeing continue to be a central research theme, studying the way in which
 factors, including stress, can contribute to cognitive, motor, psychiatric, reproductive and
 metabolic decline during ageing. Our researchers are applying meta-analyses, genome
 sequencing and epigenetic evaluations alongside participant studies and surveys in order to
 understand how genes interface with lifestyle and environmental factors, and their contribution to
 mental health.




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our world-leading neuropsychology research includes studies on early-life exposure to stress and
 how violence affects mental health; epigenetics; prenatal depression and adverse outcomes for
 offspring and subsequent generations (outputs 1625, 2462).

 Molecular neuroscience discovery research in state-of-the-art stem cell and transgenic mouse
 models of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) has developed new understanding of how cell metabolism
 and synaptic plasticity results in memory loss and progressive neuronal cell death (outputs 1732-
 4). Research into the childhood neurodegenerative Batten disease has shown that similar
 molecular mechanisms affect dementias in the young and old.

 Greater Manchester has the worst outcomes nationally for vascular disease, leading to heart
 attack or stroke. Our researchers have discovered new molecular mechanisms that result in
 stiffening and calcification of blood vessels, thrombus and atherosclerotic plaque formation, and
 how such plaques in blood vessels erode to cause a heart attack (outputs 1644, 1674, 1667, 1717,
 1756). They have focussed on developing novel in vitro models by recapitulating vascular
 stiffening and vascular flow conditions across cells donated by patients with vascular disease.

 Cognitive impairments, including stroke, can result in communication disability. Our researchers
 have developed innovative solutions in augmentative and alternative communications (AAC),
 including those that specifically benefit people in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). In
 collaboration with IICP Kolkata, our researchers have instigated and evaluated a disability services
 initiative to low-income families across 97 sites in West Bengal. They have worked with the United
 Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) to support refugees with communication
 disabilities, and have increased awareness of their vulnerability to sexual and gender-based
 violence.

 Our research improves sexual and reproductive health through the implementation and evaluation
 of community and public health programmes, working with healthcare providers and NGOs on
 national and international policy developments. Training and mentoring supported the
 establishment of the SLT profession in five African countries and Sri Lanka, and through
 leadership of Communication Therapy International, we have trained over 500 UK-based
 practitioners to work in LMICs and provided workshops for over 1,000 staff working with people
 with profound intellectual disability in Australia, Russia, South Africa and across Europe.

 Our microbiologists use interdisciplinary approaches to minimise the negative impact of living with
 pathogenic bacteria in our modern society. We work with materials scientists, industrial partners
 and the NHS on the design of new surfaces with anti-bacterial properties for use in the food
 industry and healthcare (outputs 1662, 2434). Next generation DNA sequencing enables the rapid
 identification of bacteria, including discrete, under-represented but pathogenic strains. Our
 researchers have used this technology to reveal disease affecting alterations to the microbiome
 in the lung during exacerbations in cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
 (COPD), as well as the gut in Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) and Crohn’s disease (outputs 1749,
 1650-2). Our researchers have also conducted studies and developed questionnaires to assess
 pain, anxiety, mental health and quality-of-life for people with COPD through a cycle of
 exacerbations, in order to improve wellbeing.

 Studies into the clinical and cost effectiveness of the UrgoStart wound dressing range in the
 management of chronic wounds was included in a dossier submitted to the NICE Health
 Technology Assessment committee that informed the economic models, which were pivotal in
 securing its approval.

 Future Aims and Strategy

 Aims
 Our priority is to maximise meaningful impact from our high-quality RKE to deliver healthcare and
 social, environmental, economic and cultural benefits for our partner communities, businesses and
 governments, regionally, nationally and internationally.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Objectives
 We will further increase the numbers and quality of our research-intensive academics, supported
 by a substantial increase in our estate and facilities, including the Faculty of Science & Engineering
 new build (to be completed in 2023). RKE activities will deliver an increase in external funding in
 established areas of internationally-recognised excellence. Our expertise is in developing strategic
 RKE partnerships with industry, healthcare and social care providers regionally, nationally and
 internationally. We will form larger institutional alliances with GM providers to improve health and
 wellbeing, with a focus on deprived and marginalised communities within the region. We will
 concurrently grow our innovations with LMIC to enable enrichment and social mobility.

 Strategy
 Operating within the University’s RKE Strategy, we will foster an inclusive RKE culture and
 environment centred on ‘Quality, Place, People and Innovation’. We will provide support and
 opportunities for all our research communities to develop the enabling of personal growth within
 our established priority areas and emerging areas of cross-centre synergy. We will focus on the
 delivery of health, wellbeing and social care research and knowledge exchange without
 boundaries.

 Enabling impact
 Our researchers work with health, social care and industrial partners to develop impact aligned to
 the needs of the Greater Manchester Devolution Agenda, the UK’s Industrial Strategy and the
 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.

 We receive support from two Impact and Public Engagement Managers, a Business Development
 Manager and a Partnership Manager. This level of expertise, alongside internal investment,
 ensures that impact is embedded into research plans from an early stage and underpins our
 impact case studies. The team delivers a rolling programme of staff development in impact-
 focused research design, impact evaluation, communication, and in writing impact case studies
 for REF submission; internal funding is available to support impact. Recent examples include
 support for Duxbury’s work on the policy dimensions of her ground-breaking research on restraint
 alongside national health innovation think-tank, Policy Connect; Powell was supported to deliver
 national events as part of her Healthy Universities campaign and Murray (see ICS 5) has been
 supported for patient and public involvement in relation to AAC, with funding to engage with the
 All-Party Parliamentary Group on Assistive Technology.

 Staff are supported to develop relationships with policy-makers by MetroPolis, a research-led think
 tank that we set up to amplify policy-relevant research in 2016. MetroPolis provides:
      Training from specialists, such as the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology and
         Dods civil service policy professionals.
      Coordination of select enquiries.
      Travel grants to attend All-Party Parliamentary groups.
      Visits from policy-makers, and influential events. For example, Sutcliffe organised multiple
         events focused on the impact of his research into novel psychoactive substances with the
         GM Mayor, Andy Burnham (see ICS 3).
      Support for the Chancellor’s Fellowship Scheme. For example, Marshall was awarded £9k
         to work alongside UNHCR in Rwanda to improve understanding of, and better meet the
         needs of, refugees with communication disabilities (see ICS 6).

 We have a strong track record of winning external income to support the development of impact,
 including funding from business and industrial partners. For example, contract research in
 partnership with Urgo Medical and Smith+Nephew is reported in Fatoye’s case study on health
 economics (ICS 4). Innovate UK KTPs have helped business partners to transform the profitability
 and effectiveness of their services including a ‘Real World Evidence’ project with Astellas Pharma
 (ICS 4) and an AAC KTP with ACE Centre (ICS 5). Murray also secured follow-on NIHR funding
 that enabled the further expansion of this impactful research.


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Many researchers have contributed to the delivery of highly successful public engagement
 initiatives as a pathway to impact. Verran has an international reputation for the quality of her
 public engagement within microbiology, and coordinated our contribution to Manchester’s Science
 Festival, Cheltenham Science Festival and the European Science Open Forum. Verran was
 awarded the American Association for the Advancement of Science award for Public Engagement
 in 2019 (ICS 2).

 Our significant and wide-reaching support for impact will be sustained after REF2021 by four
 permanent posts that are already working alongside our staff, where we want to develop further
 political and societal benefits in the future. These plans include a continuing programme of training
 in impact literacy and the early identification of interdisciplinary areas of impact that align with our
 mission and strategy.

 Support for interdisciplinary research
 Staff regularly work across UCRKE and institutional interfaces to develop interdisciplinary
 research that addresses some of the biggest challenges facing society. Internal funds are made
 available for these activities and our researchers have led on the development of interdisciplinary
 networks that have fed into high-quality outputs and impact. For example, competitive internal
 funding of £40k to Slevin and Tetley established a network on ‘Ageing and Dementia’ that included
 artists, social scientists, architects and computer scientists. As a direct result of this activity, Slevin
 conducted follow-on work with computer scientists and chemists, leading to the successful award
 of two KTPs with Cambridge Medical Technologies to develop point-of-care testing and wearable
 devices that detect early markers of stroke and dementia.

 At Centre level, strategic and competitive funding for staff travel and conference attendance has
 stimulated interdisciplinary collaborations and funding applications. Murray and Goldbart’s
 collaboration with health economists Webb and Meads (University of Leeds), resulted in innovative
 use of discrete choice experiment methodology in communication disability research.

 Progress towards an open research environment.
 Our Open Research working group promotes a culture of open and reproducible research. This is
 done through organising guest speakers, workshops, regular meetings and connecting with other
 local and nationwide open research groups and organisations (e.g. the UK Reproducibility
 Network [UKRN]). The group also maintains a regularly updated resource for researchers that
 covers how to increase openness and reproducibility at all stages of the research lifecycle.
 Members of the group have played active roles in international collaborations including the Centre
 of Open Science ‘SCORE’ project and the Psychological Science Accelerator's Rapid-Response
 COVID-19 Project (PSACR).

 We are compliant with the REF Open Access policy, and all articles and conference proceedings
 with an ISSN published after April 2016 are deposited in the University’s institutional repository,
 e-Space, within three months of acceptance. The most downloaded outputs over the assessment
 period include publications on ageing and cognition (output 1665), nutrition and dietary
 supplements (output ref: 2432) and exome sequencing and genetics (output 1712).

 AHP colleagues are encouraged to publish in journals supporting Green and Gold Open Access
 and to incorporate costs into their external bids. Colleagues can access funding for the Gold route
 where the outputs are particularly high-quality or have wider economic and societal implications.
 The Library holds a budget to support article processing charges and has contributed £166,000 to
 research in our unit within this REF period. The library also holds contracts and agreements with
 major publishing houses to discount publication costs in esteemed journals, whilst Marketing
 supports dissemination through professional social media channels.

 The University’s Research Data Management policy applies to all staff and PGRs, and is
 overviewed in REF5a. The University has invested £500,000 into a research data storage solution
 within the REF period that provides researchers with high-quality data protection, enabling secure
 data-sharing with national healthcare providers.

                                                                                                     Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research integrity
 We are fully compliant with the Concordat for Research Integrity, and staff and students are aware
 of their responsibilities. Prof. Goldbart (to Oct 2020) and Dr. Evans are Heads of Research Ethics,
 and there are 53 staff in the submission who review applications and are active members of
 University ethics committees. Staff also lend their expertise to external ethics committees (Fatoye
 was appointed Chair of the Ethics and Data Monitoring Committee for an NIHR project initiated in
 2013). All ethics applications (staff, PGR and UG) are submitted and reviewed via EthOS, an
 online system. Ethical and legal considerations are considered to be a core part of a researcher’s
 development and are embedded in annual Personal Development Reviews (PDRs). Online
 training and face-to-face support is provided by a Research Ethics and Governance Manager
 (RKE), an expert in NHS sponsorship, patient and public involvement and clinical trials. Clear
 procedures are in place for reporting and investigating allegations of research misconduct. Our
 research often involves human participants, including vulnerable people, people with ‘lived
 experience’, distinct methodological challenges (e.g. involving children and young people with
 disabilities) and sensitive subjects. For example, Murray’s NIHR proposal on AAC with young
 people has been cited by NIHR as an example of “best practice” for its sensitive approach to PPI
 and the involvement of end users as researchers.

 We also have a Human Tissue Act (HTA) committee, including the Designated Individual and 4
 Persons Designate, reporting into the University Research Ethics and Governance Committee.
 We conduct annual internal ‘audits’ of HTA compliance and have recently invested significantly in
 new systems, including an upgrade of storage freezers, alarm systems and inventory software.
 Local and national ethics approvals, as well as GMO approvals, Health and Safety risk
 assessments and COSHH forms, are centralised and secured electronically, accessed through
 individual password-protected portals using the data management system ‘LabCup’. Our health
 research complies with the 3Rs philosophy where the use of animals in our active research is
 regulated, considered and minimised. There is no research conducted on live mammals and any
 project involving animal tissues sourced from collaborating institutions is subject to full ethical
 review prior to approval.

 2. People

 2.1 Development strategy for staff at all stages of careers
 Staff development and training are guided by the Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers. We provide time and support for colleagues to engage in a minimum of ten days
 professional development each year. Each cluster lead has responsibility for the staff development
 of their members, enriched by leadership training, grant-writing clubs, writing retreats, and
 structured development programmes, such as RKE Future Leaders and Good to Great, in addition
 to bespoke courses. External seminar series regularly include esteemed national and international
 researchers, such as Professor Shakila Dada (Pretoria), Professor Alison Wearden (University of
 Manchester) and Professor Tracy Cui (University of Pittsburgh), and we organise a vibrant
 programme of ongoing activity for staff and students, including annual UCRKE PGR presentation
 competitions and poster displays.

 Staff benefit from diverse internal funding streams to support their personal development, many
 targeting ECRs. All Full Research members have access to an annual personal allocation of £500
 to fund conference or skills/education-based course attendance. Manchester Metropolitan is a
 signatory to the revised Concordat for Career Development of Researchers and has held the EU
 HR Excellence in Research Award since 2013 (see REF 5a).

 Mentorship and Personal Development Reviews
 We firmly believe that mentorship is the most effective mechanism for staff development and
 wellbeing. All staff are assigned a senior researcher as mentor who has received internal training
 to provide informal peer review and general career guidance and advice regarding research ideas.
 Mentors support staff when they are writing individual research plans, as part of professional
 development reviews, to establish objectives for producing outputs, external funding applications

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and academic citizenship. ECRs are encouraged to seek an esteemed external mentor within their
 research discipline to increase external visibility and reputation within the field.

 Appraisal, Performance and Reward
 The outcomes from mentoring and staff development processes feed into annual Performance
 and Development Reviews (PDR), conducted by Heads of Department and Directors of CBS and
 HPaC. A bespoke staff development plan is designed to balance personal circumstances and
 wellbeing alongside career development aspirations. UCRKE members with a focus on research
 have a minimum of 20% of their time allocated to research, and according to our REF Code of
 Practice, have significant responsibility for research. However, the PDR process enables high
 levels of performance to be recognised with a greater allocation of research time at each six-
 monthly review. Colleagues at the top of Grades 8, 9 or 10 (Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Reader)
 may apply for additional increments to reward excellent research or impact activities. Professors
 have their pay reviewed annually as part of a ‘banding’ exercise that was introduced during this
 REF assessment period. This gives us the flexibility to reward outstanding contributions (including
 academic citizenship and impact) and to retain our top performers in ways that we could not have
 done previously.

 ALH colleagues are provided with discipline-specific workshops run in conjunction with both the
 Faculty Head and the Pro-Vice-Chancellor of RKE, ensuring that the process is as open and
 inclusive as possible. Additional workshops are organised for Black and Minority Ethnic (BAME)
 and/or female colleagues to encourage all staff to pursue a research leadership role. Within AHP
 in this REF period, seven colleagues including six women have been promoted to Professor, and
 five staff have been promoted to Reader. A further 35 ALH colleagues have been promoted from
 Lecturer to Senior Lecturer.

 Early Career Researcher Programme
 We have a comprehensive RKE Future Leaders programne (see REF 5a) designed to provide a
 network of support for ECRs as they build towards the development of their first Fellowship or
 project grant application to UKRI or a major charity (e.g. Wellcome Trust, BHF, ARUK). The
 programme provides structured development activities around all aspects of RKE leadership and
 financial resources to engage in a group project. Participants receive workload relief to attend the
 sessions. Seven members of our unit (Jack, Jones, Murgatroyd, Hamshire, Hidalgo-Bastida,
 Sutcliffe and Yeowell) have benefited from the RKE Future Leaders programme during the
 assessment period; indeed, Jack, Hamshire and Murgatroyd have all subsequently been
 promoted to Professor and Reader positions. As well as mentoring, our ECRs benefit from funding
 that supports the development of activities. ECR funding has been used to pump-prime research
 support, access statistical support, enable workshop or conference attendance and has funded
 visits to other labs, particularly those of external mentors. In the past year, significant academic
 and administrative groups have been developed to support applications to UKRI’s Future Leaders
 Fellowship (Unsworth) and the Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard Award (Unsworth,
 Posner and Hawkins).

 Faculties have run discipline-spanning ECR showcase events (~3/year) presenting to staff,
 students, the Vice-Chancellor, Faculty PVC and RKE PVC. We also encourage ECRs to play an
 active role in their relevant professional societies; for example, Page won the UK Cardiovascular
 Society’s award for Young Investigator of the Year in 2019.

 ECRs engage in an Undergraduate RKE Internship Scheme (URKEIS) providing students with
 paid, ‘real-world’ engagement with a research project, designed to enhance a range of academic
 and employability skills. URKEIS routes have supported research in a range of interdisciplinary
 topics, including dementia, mental wellbeing, nutrition and cardiac rehabilitation. Student
 participants have often gone on to MRes and PhD studentships with the ECR as supervisor.

 Internal support and investment for professional development
 Staff across AHP have benefited from £170k of internal funding from schemes, such as the
 Research Accelerator (see REF 5a) and Health Research Accelerator Grants (HRAGs). This

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding enables staff to assemble preliminary data to support the development of an external
 funding proposal. HRAGs are offered to partnerships that include colleagues from the University
 of Manchester’s Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health. For example, White secured £10k from
 HRAGs with University of Manchester’s Prof. Martin Humphries to extend analyses of flow patterns
 on endothelial cells. The funding enabled the generation of RNA datasets and initial bioinformatic
 analysis that fed into a successful £234k award from the British Heart Foundation in 2018
 (PG/17/67/33218).

 Sabbaticals, international exchanges and Global Challenges Research Funding (GCRF)
 All AHP staff (fixed-term and part-time) can access financial support for international sabbaticals
 and staff exchanges to focus on significant work with a GCRF remit. These are two-way
 opportunities where we host international visitors; for example, academics from Nigeria, Kenya
 and Uganda visited us through an African Showcase event. This led directly to GCRF funding
 (Fatoye) to investigate spinal infection in physiotherapy caseloads across ten sites in Nigeria.
 Exchange visits between Prof. Shakila Dada (University of Pretoria) and Murray/Goldbart have
 led to several joint publications, international virtual workshops and a successful Erasmus+ bid
 that included technical, academic and PhD student exchanges.

 Mershen Pillay’s (UKZN) internally-funded visit led to a GCRF-funded project with Jayes on
 dysphagia management post-hospital discharge in rural communities in South Africa. Marshall’s
 exchange arrangements with colleagues in Ghana resulted in THET-funded research and joint
 publications. To maintain these collaborations during the COVID-19 pandemic, Marshall
 established the online SLP Partnerships groups, now co-facilitated with Wylie (Australia), Rochus
 (Kenya) and Dada (South Africa).

 Bull hosted two Ugandan pharmacists on a UK Aid-funded project on antimicrobial resistance. The
 project has led to a publication being submitted to the Journal of Antibiotics. Correa-Muller and
 McKay have developed a collaborative relationship with the University of Sao Paulo, Brazil.
 Funded through GCRF, we arranged reciprocal visits of academic teams scheduled for June-July
 2020 that were postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic and rescheduled for 2021-22.

 Exchanges with business, industry or public sector bodies
 We have a number of formal mechanisms to enable staff to exchange ideas with relevant partners.
 Marshall was able to use a MetroPolis Chancellor’s Fellowship to take up an impact placement
 focused around her work on communication disability with the UN in Rwanda. We are one of the
 top-performing universities for KTPs and have delivered ten projects in exchange with partners,
 such as Astellas Pharma (Fatoye), Nuffield (Powell) and Cambridge Medical Technologies
 (McKay) during the assessment period. We also have 13 clinical appointments who facilitate an
 exchange of ideas and opportunities (see below).

 Good to Great (G2G)
 Initiated in 2018, G2G is a development scheme that is designed to expedite the internal promotion
 of talented staff on their pathway to professorship by providing access to significant internal and
 external resources (see REF 5a). G2G, which is led by the University’s RKE Director and facilitated
 by a training and development manager, takes a ‘needs-based’ approach. Staff typically engage
 in an 18-month cohort-based programme, including certified external coaching, shared learning
 and development, including peripatetic membership of the University’s RKE Committee. The
 seven AHP staff on the scheme (Whitehead, White, Murgatroyd, Wilkinson, Dempsey-Hibbert,
 Yeowell and Marshall) have collectively received £225,000 in support. For example, Wilkinson
 received funds for an 18-month PDRA, whereas the other participants received sabbaticals from
 teaching to focus on grant writing and to visit international collaborators. Two Professors and a
 Reader, all female (Whitehead, Marshall and Yeowell), have all gained promotion whilst on G2G.

 Recruitment
 Our recruitment policy has targeted professoriate and ECRs to increase research quantity and
 quality, combining leadership and potential. This strategy has resulted in the appointment of 55
 AHP staff (52.6 FTE) during the assessment period.

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Professorial appointments include:
 Duxbury OBE: (Professor of Mental Health) Research on the exploration of stakeholder
 perspectives and implementation has led to a national and international focus on minimising
 restrictive practices, such as physical restraint and coercion across varied settings.
 Serrant OBE: (Professor of Community and Public Health) A Fellow of the Queen’s Nursing
 Institute and inducted into Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing, 2016.
 Research interests relate to community and public health, specifically health disparities and the
 needs of marginalised and ‘seldom heard’ communities.
 Correa-Muller: (Professor of Neuroscience) Over 25 years of research experience in world-class
 institutes, including the University of Manchester and the MRC Centre for Synaptic Plasticity at
 the University of Bristol.
 van der Gast: (Professor of Microbiology) Honorary Consultant Microbiologist within the Northern
 Care Alliance NHS Group and a visiting Chair at the University of Warwick. His research is focused
 on the role of microbiota in chronic lung diseases (cystic fibrosis, non-CF bronchiectasis, and
 COPD).
 Enright: (Professor of Medical Microbiology) Research into the epidemiology and evolution of
 human bacterial pathogens, especially Staphylococcus aureus and its emerging resistance to
 antibiotics. Previous roles include Professor of Molecular Epidemiology at Imperial College
 London.
 McKay: (Professor of Stem Cell Biology) Having held academic posts at the world-renowned
 William Harvey Research Institute, QMUL and the University of Manchester, his research applies
 stem cell biology to understand cardiovascular and neurological diseases.
 Sage: (Professor for Applied Clinical Research) Expertise in speech and language therapy, and
 interdisciplinary, clinically-applied collaborative research. Previously Professor of Allied Health
 Professions at Sheffield Hallam and Director of the Bristol Speech and Language Therapy
 Research Unit with a wealth of successful completions and external research grants.
 Ollier: (Professor of Immunogenetics) appointed on a 0.2 FTE contract specifically to develop
 external relationships with clinical partners regionally and nationally. As well as holding an
 Emeritus Chair at the University of Manchester, he was integral in setting up the UK Biobank and
 spent seven years as R&D Director at Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust.

 ECR appointments include: Bull, Dobbin, Turnbull, Willmott, Hawkins, Lewis, McLaughlin, Page,
 Posner, Unsworth, Dunn, Erskine-Shaw, Liu, Longley, Opdebeeck, Ostashchenko, Paltoglou,
 Pilkington, Sirri, Stamou, Steels, Haines and Jayes.
 This recruitment, together with staff development activities and high levels of retention, have led
 to significant overall research capacity. In addition to 98 staff with a significant responsibility for
 research (SRR), we also have circa. 200 PGRs, 16 associate members who are working towards
 achieving full research membership and 17 research associates and assistants. Principles of
 equality, diversity and inclusion are embedded throughout our recruitment processes: 30 of our
 new appointments are women.

 We support staff at every stage of their academic career, as reflected in our staffing contract profile
 (Table 1)

  Professor)                 Principal Lecturer      Senior Lecturer           Lecturer, Research
                             and Reader                                        Fellow
  17%                        14%                     41%                       28%
 Staff contract level profile (Table 1)

 All of our staff with SRR in UoA03 are on permanent employment contracts. The retention of our
 staffing base throughout the assessment cycle (81% excluding retirements) represents high levels
 of satisfaction with our research environment for a ‘modern’ university. We have a large volume
 of ECRs (24% of our submission), which evidences a strong and sustainable talent pipeline.

 Induction for new staff and PDRAs


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All new staff undertake departmental and RKE induction programmes, providing critical knowledge
 on research conduct, integrity and ethics, data protection, health and safety, procurement and
 grant management. Further institutional training is provided on PhD supervision, post-graduate
 examining, chairing assessment panels and implementation of our equality and diversity policies.
 Our PDRAs and KTP associates are automatically members of the appropriate UCRKE. Like all
 permanent staff, fixed-term contract staff are supported by the PDR system, allocated mentors
 and have access to the annual £500 fund to attend research/skills-development/networking
 conferences.

 Effective integration of clinical academics
 We have recruited Clinical and Practice Research Fellows from the NHS to increase the profile
 and capacity of our AHP research. We provide an infrastructure and research environment for
 clinical academics to engage in research, conduct surveys or systematic reviews, and apply for
 grants, e.g. NIHR, RfPB and the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy’s Research fund. Our links
 with the NHS and other healthcare providers through Health Innovation Manchester and MAHSC
 provide an optimal environment to translate research outputs into everyday clinical practice to
 meet the needs of patients and service users.

 We have 13 Clinical Visiting Professors (Carley, Kirwadi, Bhatti, Sheen, Serracino-Inglott, Mitra
 and Bilal, all Manchester University NHS FT; Jude, Tameside Hospital NHS FT; Bakerly, Limdi,
 Green and Kalra, Salford Royal NHS FT; and Shokrollahi, Whiston Hospital, St. Helen’s and
 Knowsley NHS FT). Stephens has been appointed to a Clinical Research Fellow position to
 continue his working relationship with the research group while he developed an NIHR CDRF
 application. Cuff, Hanson, Hasan and James Pilkington are currently enrolled as co-funded PhD
 students whilst continuing their NHS commitments. This is in addition to many clinical collaborators
 working within vascular surgery, cardiac rehabilitation, diabetes, hypertension, Lupus and
 rheumatology, renal disease, interventional cardiology, lipidology, platelet biology, genomics,
 imaging and acute coronary syndrome.

 2.2 PGR Students

 Strategy
 PGRs play a vital part in our research community. We recruit high-quality students and support
 their research development while advancing their skills and employability through in-depth
 personalised support and training through the Graduate School, Faculty Heads of Research
 Degrees and UCRKEs. We have delivered 125 doctoral completions in the assessment period.

 Recruitment of doctoral research students
 During the assessment period we have recruited 423 PGR students from the UK (75%) and
 internationally (e.g. Thailand, Finland, Cyprus and Turkey). A relatively large proportion of our
 students (50%) are part-time and 60% of our PGRs are female. 12% of our PGR students have a
 known disability, which reflects the quality of our support for reasonable adjustments and the
 results of the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), in which we were ranked
 in the top quartile for overall quality for respondents with a disability. 25% of PGRs identify as
 BAME, which also reflects our strong performance in PRES 2019 where we were ranked in the
 top quartile for quality overall from BAME respondents.

 Funding for studentships
 We have been awarded a number of competitive and prestigious, fully-funded PhD studentships
 from the BHF and NC3Rs, the Stroke Foundation and NIHR within this REF period. We also
 operate a match-funded PhD studentship programme to encourage development of collaboration
 with industrial partners, and have received funding from various organisations and charities,
 including Touchlight Genetics, Cystic Fibrosis Trust, Manchester University NHS FT.

 We are members of the University Alliance Doctoral Training Programme for Biosciences and we
 have a current cohort of 18 full-time PhD students. We run Professional Doctorate programmes in
 various fields of Health and Social Care for NHS staff. For example, the Higher Specialist Scientific

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Training (HSST) is a five-year, practice-based education and training programme, supported by a
 part-time professional doctorate (DClinSci) and, where appropriate, Medical Royal College
 qualifications. The Doctor of Clinical Science Network aligns with national HSST curricula and is
 held within a partnership that includes the Universities of Manchester, Salford and Liverpool.
 Manchester Academy for Health Scientist Education (MAHSE) includes the Scientist Training
 Programmes (STP) that train Clinical and Biomedical Scientists nationwide. The MAHSE Network
 shares a common structure with the published National School of Healthcare Science Curricula,
 i.e. Leadership and Professional Development, Specialist Scientific and Clinical Programme and
 Research, Development and Innovation.

 Monitoring & support mechanisms linked to successful completions
 PGRs have a minimum of two academic supervisors, including a Principle Supervisor, who
 support the academic development of the student’s research and provide guidance on
 professional development opportunities. 100 hours of workload is allocated to the supervisory
 team to enable timetabling of regular meetings, overseeing ethics, and governance and thesis
 development. SkillsForge documents and manages supervisory meetings, training and
 educational progression milestones online. An Application for Registration takes place after three
 months (for full-time study) and a Progression Review or Transfer of Registration takes place after
 12 months (full-time). Independent academics scrutinise annual progress reports and conduct an
 informal viva voce, in which any issues can be raised. All PGRs are expected to submit within four
 years (pro rata for part-time students).

 The 2019 PRES results underlie the confidence that our PGRs have in the progression
 arrangements and we are comfortably ranked in the top quartile nationally for progression ‘quality’
 across responses from PGRs in relevant disciplines (e.g. Public Health, Allied Health, Psychology
 and Biological Sciences). We were 6th out of 45 universities for the progression measure in health-
 related disciplines. We have achieved 126 successful doctoral completions within this REF period.

 PGR support and training
 UCRKEs work with the Graduate School to provide training for PGRs in research skills focused
 broadly on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) (see REF 5a). RKE funding is
 available for specialist in-house or external skills workshops, and visits to external collaborators
 to build competency in research techniques. We offer seminars and training on specialist
 equipment and techniques (e.g. Illumina, Promocell and Luminex). UCRKE host away days for
 PGRs, focused on career planning and offer expert practical and theoretical instruction in
 laboratory techniques delivered by staff.

 PGRs are encouraged to develop academic skills by joining professional societies and public
 engagement events. Clusters run regular meetings and journal clubs, in which PGRs have
 opportunities to present their research. These meetings contribute to the wider research culture
 by providing opportunities to share good practice, encourage ‘team’ problem-solving and the
 development of communication skills. The 2019 PRES results highlight the quality of our training
 and support. We were ranked in the top quartile nationally for research skills, professional
 development and responsibilities in biological sciences, and psychology and neuroscience, and in
 the top quartile for professional development in public health-related disciplines.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 Diversity within the submission
 We have made considerable progress in improving equality and diversity within AHP, with a
 particular emphasis on gender and ethnic representation at senior roles. Eleven of our 18
 Professors are women (61% compared with 21% in REF2014), two of our Professors are BAME
 (11%) and our submission includes 53 women (55%) compared with 50% in REF2014. We have
 inspirational staff who are leaders in the sector’s wider approach to equality and diversity. Serrant
 is Chair of the Chief Nursing Officer for England’s BME Strategic advisory group and ambassador
 for the Race Equality Charter for Higher Education. In 2017, Serrant was listed as the eighth most
 influential Black person in the UK by the Powerlist 2018. Full details of the equality and diversity

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in our submission comparing submitted staff with the overall population and sector-wide data (from
 Advance HE’s 2019 Equality Report) is included in Table 2 below. The Allied Health Professions
 sector is heavily weighted towards women (75%) and not gender-equal (50:50). Our UoA03
 submitted staff are 55% female, representing a more equal gender balance than the sector. Our
 BAME representation is in line with the sector but requires improvement through our Equality and
 Diversity directive, as described below:

  Protected                % of submitted staff     % of staff in overall    % of average
  characteristic           (REF 2021)               eligible population      academic staff in
                                                    (REF 2021)               Allied Health in wider
                                                                             sector (Advance HE
                                                                             Equality Data 2019)



  Female                   55%                      65%                      75%
  Male                     45%                      35%                      25%
  Declared disability      5%                       5%                       7%
  White                    88%                      86%                      91%
  Total BAME:              9%                       13%                      9%
  Black                    2%                       4%                       -
  Chinese                  2%                       2%                       -
  Asian                    1%                       5%                       -
  Mixed / Other            4%                       3%                       -
  Unknown                  3%                     1%                      -
 Table 2: Equality data in Manchester Metropolitan’s Allied Health submission

 Flexible working
 We facilitate temporary part-time working, compressed hours, job share, homeworking and career
 breaks, combined with a promotions scheme, which ensures that colleagues are not penalised for
 career breaks. Timetabling arrangements support colleagues with caring responsibilities, while all
 meetings and research seminars are held during normal working hours. Since the COVID-19
 pandemic, remote working has become embedded within our department, balanced with access
 to research laboratories and face-to-face teaching.

 We recognise the effect that equality-related circumstances can have on an individual’s ability to
 conduct research. Following disclosure of an equality-related issue, we adjust our expectations in
 terms of workload and productivity. ECRs have reduced expectations of research outputs. We
 make similar adjustments for colleagues with caring responsibilities, chronic disabilities, including
 mental health issues, and those returning to work after a period of sickness or family-related
 absence.

 Career pathways and other forms of support
 Part-time and fixed-term staff have access to the same support and progression systems as full-
 time staff, including PDR, conference and career development funds, and training/development
 opportunities in laboratory techniques, teaching qualifications and ECR development.

 Returning from a period of absence and the management of caring responsibilities
 We have policies to support staff who are returning from illness or other long-term family-related
 absence. We have a generous annual leave allowance, with enhanced maternal, paternal and
 adoption leave in addition to unpaid parental leave if required. For example, we adjusted
 expectations of two staff members in the submission who returned from family-related leave. The
 RKE Delivery team ensures that negotiations for extensions or pauses can take place with external


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funders, and staff returning from extended leave for whatever reason have access to confidential
 routes to disclose circumstances that can lead to adjustments in expectations.

 AHP colleagues who have taken maternity leave in the current REF period include; Whittle, Gregg,
 Patel, Opdebeeck, Erskine-Shaw, Fawcett, Jones and Edwards. Recipients of paternity leave
 include: Evans, Carroll, Ahmed, Chatzidamiano, Harkin and Bones.

 Wellbeing of staff and students
 All staff have access to the Lifeworks portal for counselling, confidential advice and support for
 personal issues. Lifeworks is a fully-integrated wellbeing platform that provides everyone with
 access to discounts and wellbeing assistance seamlessly via the website and a mobile app.
 Regular meetings with mentors and research theme leaders help us to identify staff that might
 need to be signposted for support where appropriate.

 We have pioneered efforts to support the wellbeing of staff and students right across the Higher
 Education sector. The UK Healthy Universities network is co-chaired by Powell. It has 97 members
 to which it offers peer support and guidance around implementing a whole-system approach to
 health, wellbeing and sustainability (healthyuniversities.ac.uk).

 Equality and Diversity in the REF submission
 The AHP coordination team is made up of the RKE Head of Research Environment & Impact, the
 two Directors of UCRKE and four senior academics across AHP. The team constitutes four male
 and three female staff, including one BAME Professor, reflecting representation across our staff.
 The AHP coordination team has aimed to be fair, transparent and inclusive, following the
 University’s Code of Practice to guide decisions around the make-up of our submission, and the
 team have completed ‘Managing Diversity’, ‘Equality and Diversity Essentials” and ‘Unconscious
 Bias and REF2021 training’. All colleagues with significant responsibility for research (distinct from
 KE activities), and who are working as independent researchers have been included in the
 submission. Equality and diversity were assessed across the output selection with 50% outputs
 from female staff and 50% outputs from male staff. Of the seven impact case studies, three are
 led or co-led by female staff.

 All colleagues have been made aware of the processes surrounding requests for a reduction in
 output expectations; three staff came forward voluntarily and adjustments to our internal
 expectations of their productivity have been made. We have opted not to seek any reduction in
 the overall volume of outputs since there is enough scope within the revised rules for us to manage
 the impact of individual circumstances.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Funding & strategies for research income
 Strategic investment in staff, including new appointments, development schemes and excellent
 support from our Research Development Managers has resulted in 144 external research awards
 totalling £5.94m. We have also secured over £1.2m in knowledge exchange awards. There has
 been a steady year-on-year growth in external income since 2013/14 (£250k) to 2019/20
 (£1.039m).

 Research income has been awarded from NIHR, MRC, BBSRC, Health Education North West,
 Horizon 2020 and esteemed charities, such as Age UK, BHF, CF Trust, Alzheimer’s Society,
 Diabetes UK and Nuffield Health. We have continued to acquire funding from the EU (Horizon
 2020 £158,000 McKay) and UKRI through MRC (£224,000 Murgatroyd), BBSRC (£437,000
 Enright) and ESRC (£161,000 Toseeb), as well as recent success with NC3Rs (£275,000 McKay,
 White and Jones).

 Our cardiovascular scientists have developed a strong relationship with the BHF (£520,000
 Alexander, White and Jones). Clinical and social care-facing research has been funded through
 NIHR (£722,000 Murray), NHS Foundation Trusts (£351,000 Fatoye, Wilkinson and Hamshire),

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CSP Charitable Trust (£153,000 Yeowell), Health Education North West (£520,000 Jack) and
 Nuffield Health (£285,000). Health education funding and health associated charities (£476,000
 Duxbury and Marshall) have contributed to further external income.

 Our funding portfolio remains diverse (see Table 3 below) but the majority of our income is from
 UK business, industry and government sources, including a large and successful KTP portfolio
 comprised of 12 projects worth £2.4M. We have generated contract research income (£403,000
 McKay and Fatoye) working with national and international companies.


 Diversity of Income Sources
  Source of      BEIS        NIHR                  UK Charities,    UK      Govt, European
  Income         Research    funding               Open             Industry   & Union
                 Councils                          Competition      other    UK
                                                   & other          sources
  Percentage      10%            12%               20%              53%           5%
  of Income
 Table 3: Diversity of income sources

 Major competitive awards
 ‘Identifying appropriate symbol communication aids for children who are non-speaking: enhancing
 clinical decision making’ NIHR (14/70/153), £722,000 (2017)
 Led by Murray, this major collaborative study with Barnsley NHS Trust and the University of Leeds
 has developed vital information about the decision-making process that professionals use when
 selecting appropriate communication devices for children (see ICS 5).

 ‘HEE Development Of A New Model For Inter-Professional Learning (IPL) With Birley Place’
 Health Education North West, £520,000 (2019)
 Led by Jack, this project plays an important role in the opportunity to ‘do things differently’ as part
 of the devolved Greater Manchester health budget; how inter-professional learning and integrated
 team working can transform the undergraduate health and social care curriculum.

 ‘A realist review of complex interventions to prevent and reduce the use of restrictive practices on
 people with learning disabilities in hospital settings’ NIHR £325,000 (2020)
 Duxbury leads this investigation into the mechanisms that reduce the use of restrictive practices
 on adults with learning disabilities in NHS and independent sector settings including adults with
 learning difficulties who also have autism or mental health co-morbidities.

 “Psychological, social and biological predictors of child mental health and development: a
 longitudinal study of shared and distinctive risk and protective factors in UK & India” MRC
 (MR/S036466/1) £224,000 (2019)
 Murgatroyd is collaborating with the University of Liverpool on this £2.2M project that uses a
 culturally-sensitive longitudinal study to uncover the early origins of mental health amongst 60M
 affected children in India and other LMICs worldwide.

 Strategy for external research income generation
 Our strategy for external research income generation rests on the following principles:

 The development of fewer, larger bids from all staff with SRR:
 Engagement with funding agencies and associated priority-setting exercises, plus detailed
 information-gathering by RKE, has resulted in a more strategic approach to bidding. Researchers
 are encouraged to bid more selectively, for larger grants (relative to discipline norms) and work
 with BDMs to target more ambitious KE projects. Worktribe ensures that intelligence on bid
 outcomes can be shared. Robust peer review processes, starting with formal UCRKE support and
 scrutiny, enhance the quality of bids, and share expertise across the staff team.

 A careful pathway of mentoring and support for ECRs:

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our ECR support programme was described in Section 2. We support ECRs with intensive peer
 review and mentoring that provides a pathway of support towards that all-important first grant
 application. Schemes, such as RKE Future Leaders and G2G, provide a clear and transparent
 pathway towards career progression.

 Playing our part in the Greater Manchester Devolution agenda:
 We have won large awards for projects that pioneer different approaches to training the GM health
 and social care workforce, and our large research and teaching nexus provides a fantastic
 opportunity for us to feed research-led innovations into a new way of doing things across GM. Our
 large and expanding KTP portfolio is enabling us to translate new ideas into impact that benefits
 north west SMEs and we will continue to grow this activity into the future.

 Using knowledge of funders more strategically:
 As our research expertise has grown we are able to rely on an expanded pool of academic leaders
 with detailed and specific funder knowledge. We have used this experience to form ‘funding teams’
 that work alongside our Research Development Managers, to provide detailed critical appraisal of
 proposals throughout the application stage. This approach has been successful for us with
 BBSRC, where we have two colleagues who are members of BBSRC’s C and D Committee and
 with NIHR through membership of the British Academy of Childhood Disability’s Strategic
 Research Group.

 The use of internal investment to support external income generation:
 AHP researchers receive significant internal funding to support early stage ideas. The Strategic
 Opportunities Fund (SOF) and HRAGs have been used with precision to pump prime activities
 that have been developed into full external proposals. SOF investment of £40k was used to
 progress cross-disciplinary capacity for tackling dementia in the community, which led to
 collaborations between researchers investigating the underlying biology of vascular dementia
 (Slevin, Krupinski), developing new MRI modalities for early diagnosis of dementia in Parkinson’s
 disease (Ray C24), and Murgatroyd), epidemiological trends in dementia (Lees) and living well
 with dementia (Tetley - retired), including the intersection of arts and health (Parkinson D34). In
 2018, further SOF investment of £194k enabled ECRs to pursue projects in fibrosis (Pritchett) and
 anti-microbial drug development (McLaughlin/Butler) leading to UKRI applications and high-quality
 outputs.

 Exceptional support from the RKE Directorate:
 Our Research Development Managers who attend management meetings work with us on our
 long-term funding strategy. We have access to an International Research Development Manager
 and an experienced delivery team that enables us to fulfil our funder responsibilities. These
 relationships have been a key part of our success and provide us with confidence, capacity and
 support.

 3.2 Infrastructure

 Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate (RKE) and Professional Services
 A modernised and expanded RKE Directorate provides centralised support including Finance and
 Legal Services, Information Systems & Digital Services (ISDS), and Communications and
 Marketing, whilst AHP researchers are specifically supported by the following staff:
 Faculty Research Degrees Administrators working with GS to facilitate PGR progression;
 Commercialisation & Contract Officer;
 Two Pre-Award Research Development Managers;
 Post-Award Project Delivery Team;
 Two Research Impact and Engagement Managers;
 International Research Development Manager;
 Research Ethics and Governance Manager;
 Two Business Development Managers;
 Industry Partnership Manager;
 An award-winning KTP team;

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Two Press Officers and two HR Business Partners;

 The RKE Directorate provides management of RKE IT systems including:
 Symplectic - maintenance of scholarly outputs and open access compliance;
 Worktribe - external funding applications;
 EthOS - research ethics and governance for staff and students;
 SkillsForge - PGR student journey;
 LabCup - laboratory management; equipment booking, consumables and sample management,
 health and safety, and HTA compliance;
 SciVal - research benchmarking and reporting.

 Technical Support
 We receive excellent support from a team of 30 FTE technical professionals organised across
 research-facing teams (e.g. microbiology, bioscience, cell biology, food science) who fully
 understand our research priorities. Research Technicians manage our core facilities and provide
 hands-on expertise through different mechanisms, including secondments onto projects and cost-
 recovery through KE activities. Recent collaborations with technical staff have included
 sequencing of pathogen-infected samples for Health & Safety Executive (van der Gast) and the
 development of novel DNA technologies with Touchlight Genetics (McKay). We are a signatory to
 the Science Council and Gatsby Foundation’s Technical Commitment, for which the PVC RKE is
 the institutional lead.

 IT Infrastructure
 Research activities across UCRKEs, including next generation DNA sequencing and MRI
 scanning, generate huge quantities of digital data. We have a new £500k Research Data Storage
 facility that provides a data storage solution (multiple Petabytes) managed centrally by ISDS.

 Library Services
 Our librarians provide expertise in particular fields, in addition to Research Support Librarians who
 provide access to 349 electronic databases, including BioMedCentral, CORE, PubMed, Scopus,
 Web of Science, LLBA and Science Direct. Research Support Librarians assist with systematic
 reviews and provide guidance on publishing routes, copyright, enquiries around Open Access and
 Research Data Management, as well as offering training to academic and PGR students. The
 library manages Green Open Access through the e-Space repository (integrated with Symplectic)
 and administers funding for APC payments for Gold OA.

 3.3 Specialist facilities
 Our research facilities are spread across two Manchester-based sites on the University’s All Saints
 campus. The award-winning £139M Brooks Building opened in 2014 and is home to research in
 health and social care. Bioscience research is carried out in the John Dalton Tower, which consists
 of eight floors of combined research space. Our research is underpinned by six critical facilities
 for Imaging & Electrophysiology, Genomics, Cell Biology, Tissue Processing, and Neuro-Cognitive
 and Movement cores, maintained and managed by TS.

 Imaging & Electrophysiology Core: Scanning electron microscopy, a Leica SP5 and a brand new
 Stellaris confocal microscope, a Leica DM1600B live cell imaging microscope, three fluorescence
 microscopes (inverted and non-inverted), two integrated cell and tissue electrophysiology rigs and
 a micro-electrode array rig. This facility also houses an integrated Class II cell culture cabinet and
 CO2 incubator to enable smooth transition of sensitive cell experiments to live cell imaging,
 electrophysiology and calcium imaging experiments.

 Genomics Core (GC): DNA sequencing is supported by Illumina NextSeq 500 and two Illumina
 Mi-Seq machines, a Fluidigm EP1 sequencer, five qPCR thermocyclers and a QiaCube DNA
 extraction machine. The GC is run by technicians and is isolated from other cell and molecular
 activities to avoid contaminations. GC contains dedicated laboratory areas for library preparation
 activities for next generation sequencing.


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cell Biology Core: Flow cytometry is supported with a BD Biosciences FACSVerse and new
 FACSCelesta and Miltenyi MACSQuant Analyzer 16 instruments, four multi-wavelength plate
 readers, a Luminex multiplex plate reader and a Seahorse XFp metabolic bioanalyzer.

 Tissue Processing Core: The core incorporates two Leica Cryostats, a Leica VT 1200s Vibrotome,
 two Microtomes, a Leica HistoCore PEARL tissue processor, a Tissue Tek embedding station and
 a Leica ST5020 Autostainer.

 Neuro-Cog Core: Facilities for brain imaging and electrophysiology (fNRIS, EEG, EMG, EDA, HR,
 PPG), brain stimulation (TMS and tDCS), eye-tracking and VR (EYEFRAMESCENEBI, Tobii),
 neuropsychological testing [library of highly standardised neuropsychological tests, commonly
 used in clinical settings and research, covering a range of ages (0-90 years) and skills (memory,
 intelligence, personality, executive functions, sensorimotor and behavioural development)] and
 Observation Lab (Observer XT, Noldus).

 Movement Core: Equipped with six Qualysis camera systems, a force plate, two FDLite platforms
 (portable force plates) that enable data collection outside the laboratory. A Quattro EMG sensor
 (Delsys) and an ultrasound machine.

 Shared use of research facilities
 Our partnership with Health Innovation Manchester provides unrivalled access to state-of-the-art
 equipment, expertise and clinical samples throughout Greater Manchester’s HEIs and NHS
 Teaching Hospitals. Our researchers have access to animal facilities, specialist DNA sequencing,
 imaging and proteomics core facilities at the University of Manchester. We have access to City
 Labs, which is a cluster of diagnostics, med-tech businesses including the Stoller Biomarker
 Discovery Centre. Through established collaborations and visiting academics our neuroscience
 researchers have access to two of the most substantial post-mortem brain banks at Salford Royal
 NHS FT and El Hospital Universitario Mutua Terrassa, Barcelona.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Northern Clinical Networks
 The University of Manchester NHS Foundation Trust: Lung (CF) and gut (Crohn’s, IBS)
 microbiome (van der Gast), biomarker and mechanistic analyses on Lupus/rheumatological
 diseases (Kellgren Centre, Wilkinson and Alexander), general surgery and hernia repair (Sheen,
 Wilkinson, Pritchett and Alexander), vascular surgery (Serracino-Inglott, Wilkinson, Weston and
 Alexander) and diabetes (Wilkinson, Weston and Alexander). Vascular function studies (Bilal,
 Azzawi and Alexander) and platelet biology (Jones and Unsworth). Reproductive health in the
 ageing population (Carroll and Murgatroyd).

 Northern Care Alliance: (amalgamation of Salford Royal and Pennine Acute NHS Trusts.) Lung
 (COPD) microbiome analyses (van der Gast). Renal (Azzawi & Kalra; Shalamanova, Wilkinson
 and Mitra) and cardiac/critical care (White/Green).

 Whiston Hospital: Retrospective data collection study with the International Burns Injury Database
 (IBID), EDMS (electronic data management system) and Telepath of any patients over the last
 fifteen years with 10%-40% TBSA burn injury (Dempsey-Hibbert).

 Barnsley Assistive Technology Service: Identifying appropriate symbol communication for children
 who are non-speaking: enhancing clinical decision making (I-ASC– Murray)

 North East Back Pain Pathway: Evaluating patients with chronic low back pain and radiculopathy
 (Fatoye).

 Ainley is Director of the MAHSE (https://mahse.co.uk). Established in 2012, MAHSE is a
 partnership between Manchester Metropolitan and the universities of Manchester, Salford and
 Liverpool, as well as leading Healthcare Scientists (HCS) from NHS Trusts. It has developed to

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include other universities that work together to deliver a range of Healthcare Scientist training and
 DClinSci programmes.

 We are partners in two industry-sponsored clinical trials: i) Randomised clinical study investigating
 the effect of a novel HDx therapy on markers of vascular health compared with conventional on-
 line haemodialfiltration (MODAL study, NCT03510520) in collaboration with Theranova (Mitra,
 Alexander and Wilkinson); and ii) Comparison of mesh fixation techniques in elective laparoscopic
 repair of incisional hernia – ReliaTack™ -v- ProTack™; prospective double-blinded randomised
 controlled trial (NCT03434301) with TACKoMesh (Sheen, Alexander, Pritchett and Wilkinson).
 Sheen is also collaborating on a study on wound infection following Hepatopancreatobiliary (HPB)
 surgery – a measure of predictive surgical and transmission factors on patient outcomes
 (Whitehead, Dempsey-Hibbert and Butler).

 A leading example of national/international collaboration is van der Gast’s lung microbiome
 research, funded through governmental and charity sources, including the CF Trust. He works
 locally on COPD with Professor Bakerly, (Salford Royal Foundation Trust), and on CF projects
 with local (Drs Horsley and Jones - Manchester Adult CF Centre, Wythenshawe), national (Drs
 Carroll and Daniels - Southampton Adult CF Clinic, Southampton General Hospital) and
 international collaborators at Dartmouth College, New Hampshire and the University of
 Pennsylvania, USA. He is also leading a gut microbiome in CF-focused project, working with
 Professor Alan Smyth (Consultant in Paediatric Respiratory Medicine) and Dr Giles Major
 (Consultant Gastroenterologist), both of Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust. van der Gast
 has been invited to be a Government Scientific Advisor, providing expertise and advice to the
 Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) and Department for Environment Food & Rural
 Affairs (DEFRA) on the national COVID-19 wastewater surveillance programme.

 Cordero is collaborating with Professor McGlone (Professor in Neuroscience, Natural Sciences
 and Psychology, LJMU)’s group, investigating how mood and sociability influence social touch
 responses in relation to C-tactile afferents (CTs).

 European and international partnerships
 AHP colleagues collaborate with European partners through Erasmus and EU Horizon 2020
 programmes, and internationally through BBSRC (University of Sao Paulo, Brazil), MRC
 (NIMHANS, Bangalore, India) and GCRF (University of Sao Paulo, Brazil) projects.

 Swiss National Centre of Competence in Research (NCCR) Synapsy: Network of 20 excellent
 laboratories aiming to understand the synaptic bases of mental disorders (Cordero).

 Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) Consortium: The Brain Banks at Salford and Mutua Terrassa,
 Barcelona, Spain are two of the largest such facilities worldwide. Krupinski is Head of Department
 of Neurology at Mutua Terrassa and holds a 0.2 FTE Professorial appointment with Manchester
 Met. This collaboration provides our researchers with unrivalled access to AD samples from
 patients undergoing treatment, involved in clinical trials and post-mortem material.

 BATCure EU Horizon 2020 consortium: Developing new therapies for a rare but fatal neurological
 disease called ‘Batten Disease’ (BD). Collaborating with academics and industry partners across
 seven different European nations, the consortium has developed new lead drugs and carried out
 pre-clinical efficacy studies for gene therapies (€6M funded). As a consequence of this funding,
 McKay has developed the largest repository of BD patient-induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)
 lines in the world, freely accessible for any academic studying BD.

 Whitehead is currently collaborating on developing innovations around hygienic surfaces for food
 development with ALPhANOV, (France), the University of Copenhagen, University of Porto,
 University Medical Centre, Groningen, Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria and
 Università di Parma (£172k EU funded SAFEty project).



                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Murray was the UK-PI on a 16-nation collaboration mapping cross-cultural/linguistic language
 development in children who used technology-mediated ways of communicating.

 Serrant developed and published a new theoretical framework for conducting research in the area
 of work, ‘The Silences Framework’. She is collaborating with academics in the Netherlands,
 Poland and Slovenia on disparities investigating the impact of social inequalities on health and life
 chances.

 Slevin has a productive clinical collaboration with Professor Malik at Weill Cornell Medicine (Qatar)
 with two co-supervised PhD students working on central and peripheral neurodegeneration in
 diabetes. Slevin has full Professorial titles at the Universities of Targu Mures (Romania) and
 Griffith University, Brisbane (Australia). He is visiting Chair in Clinical Biomedicine at the ICCC-
 CSIC, St Pau Hospital, Barcelona and Adjunct Professor at both Al Majma’ah and Ha’il Universities
 in Saudi Arabia.

 How staff engage with key users and beneficiaries to develop impact
 Health Innovation Manchester (HinM): This academic health science and innovation system,
 formed by merging Greater Manchester (GM) Academic Health Science Network and the
 Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, plays a pivotal role in bringing forward a constant
 flow of targeted innovations, and supporting their adoption across GM to transform the health and
 wellbeing of our 2.8M citizens. HInM houses the new NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC)
 for GM, established to find new ways of preventing illness, delivering care and supporting
 professionals to translate this into practice. Ollier is on the organising committee; Jack is a member
 of a cross-HEI ‘Faculty of Experts’ working with HInM to advance integrated care in Tameside.

 Manchester Academic Health Science Centre (MAHSC): Closely intertwined with HInM, MAHSC
 has six research domains, which function across Greater Manchester to translate cutting-edge
 research into healthcare and industry collaboration for patient benefit. McKay, Correa-Muller,
 White and Wilkinson are on the organising committee for the newly-formed MAHSC neuroscience
 and cardiovascular domains. AHP academics have received £30k of pump-priming funds through
 MAHSC calls to develop clinical academic collaborations.

 MIDAS: Manchester’s inward investment agency has a strategic aim to secure significant levels
 of new investment and employment for GM. Their services are available to companies of all sizes
 that wish to relocate to, or expand within, GM. Collaboration and communication with the region’s
 HEIs, including Manchester Metropolitan, is one mechanism.

 BioNow: Facilitating network and community bringing early stage Biotech into contact with
 professional service providers, investors, universities and NHS organisations. They provide a
 range of specialist services, expert guidance and knowledge-sharing, and focused networking
 events. Manchester Metropolitan are premium members.

 Nuffield Health Partnership: Manchester Metropolitan signed a collaborative agreement with
 Nuffield Health in October 2018. Nuffield Health is the UK’s largest not-for-profit healthcare
 provider, having 35 hospitals and 111 gyms. We focus on translational research and knowledge
 exchange in emotional wellbeing and long-term health conditions. This research will also feed into
 education and workforce development programmes. Powell has been appointed as Nuffield Health
 Chair of Public Health, and Lee currently has a fully-funded Nuffield Health PhD studentship.
 Activities are led strategically by a cross-organisation Partnership Board, which has commissioned
 three catalyst projects to date. In addition, as a result of the Partnership, Nuffield Health has
 commissioned additional research projects, including an exploration of the impact of remote
 working on health and wellbeing with Powell. The output from this work was presented to Nuffield’s
 corporate clients in June and November 2019, and in the first three days that it was available it
 was downloaded over 500 times. Two Knowledge Exchange Partnerships were completed in April
 2019 and developed a new service for Nuffield corporate clients, personalising health feedback
 as part of an individual’s health assessment. This work has been presented at two international
 conferences (Burns).

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Pennine Care: The partnership aims to ensure the workforce is equipped with the knowledge,
 skills and qualifications to deliver excellence in primary and secondary care, to drive a progressive
 improvement in mental health and community wellbeing (Duxbury is a board member). Activities
 in relation to this partnership include: Development of Professional Doctorate Scholarships; MSc
 Health and Neuropsychology pathway placements; White Rose PhD Scholarship; review of
 services in Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services; and joint research bids to third party
 funders (RCN Foundation, Comic Relief).

 Wider contributions to economy & society
 We have worked with big pharma (Astra Zeneca, Bayer, Smith+Nephew, and Takeda) as well as
 acting on the scientific boards of many SMEs (Immetacyte, Wide Cells, Microbial Solutions,
 Intelligent Fabric Solutions, Synthetic Genomics Vaccine Inc. and Lipogems).

 Working with the DNA production company, Touchlight Genetics, McKay has developed and
 patented a novel method for producing clinical-grade iPSC. This technology is being further
 applied to an Innovate UK-funded collaboration with the T-cell immunotherapy provider,
 Immetacyte, to treat cancer patients with metastatic melanoma.

 Wilkinson and Alexander’s research into Lupus patient cardiovascular risk classification process;
 QRISK2, showed that a revised QRISK3 methodology was more accurate at detecting patients at
 high-risk of myocardial infarction (MI). This will result in better interventional management of
 cardiovascular disease in SLE patients.

 McDowell’s refinement of troponin C point-of-care testing alongside existing acute MI and heart
 score algorithms will result in rapid and accurate assessment of suspected MI after presentation
 at hospital A&E departments. This work is currently being trialled with Dr Rick Body, a Consultant
 Cardiologist at Manchester University NHS FT.

 Murgatroyd and Ray (C24) have re-evaluated existing brain MRI scan data of Parkinson’s disease
 patients revealing cholinergic basal forebrain atrophy as an early biomarker for cognitive decline
 and onset of dementia, a similar neuropathological event to that observed in Alzheimer’s disease.
 This work is being developed with clinical and computing partners as a diagnostic/prognostic
 biomarker for use in the NHS.

 We have excellent ongoing links in both statutory and 3rd sector health provision that inform our
 approaches and, in turn, have benefited from our research. This includes the appointment of
 Powell to a Chair funded by Nuffield Health. Her research has led to a widely read report produced
 for Nuffield Health that explores the relationship between remote working, stress, health, wellbeing
 and productivity. This has been the most successful white paper that Nuffield Health have
 produced, and the results have been disseminated at corporate events to over 300 businesses.

 Duxbury is Chair and Trustee of the national charity: Restraint Reduction Network. Under her
 leadership, the charity has launched national standards on restraint training at the House of Lords
 (2019). These are mandatory guidelines to be used in health and social care settings. Duxbury
 has recently been awarded a fellowship with NICE (2020-2023) as an NIHR reviewer for Pre-
 doctoral Clinical Academic Fellowships, and continuing as a board member of the European
 Violence in Psychiatry Research Group.

 Murray is a founding member of the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Assistive Technology
 (APPGAT) and has presented her research at Westminster and the Scottish Parliament.

 Whitehead works closely with industry partners including: Lubrizol, Ciba Speciality Chemicals,
 Fothergill Polycom Millennium Chemicals, Unilever, Eurocell, Sanderson’s Bakery, Thor
 Specialities, and Holchem Laboratories Ltd. The impact from this work has included the
 implementation of new cleaning procedures, translation of knowledge to new companies to


                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 develop new products, the development towards a new cleaning algorithm, and the incorporation
 of a biocide to provide antifouling surfaces, with another company.

 Slevin is Chair of Kidscan cancer charity and the American Heart/Stroke Association committee
 for vascular disease.

 Public engagement and patient and public involvement
 We actively engage with the public, utilising social media (multiple theme-specific Twitter
 accounts) and partnering in the Manchester Science Festival from its inception, and organise
 events, providing facilities that address challenging and sensitive topics, such as sexual health
 (Lee) as well as cardiovascular disease and diabetes (Weston, Wilkinson, Alexander, White and
 PGRs). Pritchett has organised multiple bioscience workshops and day summer schools at local
 schools and sports clubs in South Manchester over the past five years. Verran has delivered a
 vast array of events in partnership with professional societies (the Society for General
 Microbiology and the Society for Applied Microbiology) whose innovations have had an ongoing
 influence on the engagement practices worldwide (see ICS 2). Verran was on the organising
 committee for the European Science Open Forum’s public engagement strand and has delivered
 interdisciplinary events with computer scientists and gothic writers at Cheltenham Science Festival
 and Deadinburgh. She instigated and led the education strategy for the federation of European
 Microbiology Societies (FEMS). Dempsey-Hibbert ran a well-attended Manchester Research &
 Awareness event on World Sepsis Day 2019. Murgatroyd has led Dementia Café events to bring
 researchers and those affected by dementia together to discuss current research and awareness.

 AHP colleagues receive support for public engagement from the RKE Impact and Engagement
 team that has helped us to deliver award-winning activity, including the nationally-recognised
 ‘Seven Thousand Feet’ project, which won ‘Highly Commended’ in the QiC Diabetes awards
 category: ‘Diabetes Collaboration Initiative of the year – Adults’ section (Wilkinson and Weston
 contributed). We have an annual public engagement award, which provides a small amount of
 resource for activities. This has previously been won by Wilkinson, Pritchett, Edwards, Coulthwaite
 and Hidalgo.

 Cordero and Powell have run a series of health behaviour change events in art galleries and
 museums, shopping centres and Manchester Town Hall (2016-2018) for health professionals and
 the public, attracting audiences totalling over 5,500. Their ‘Brain Box Science’ event at Manchester
 Town Hall, (with Manchester and Salford Universities and Manchester City Council) involved the
 Museum of Science and Industry, the NHS Trust, patient groups and artists (June 2016). The
 event attracted over 5,000 people of all ages and received exceptional feedback from the public.
 A large proportion of AHP staff and PGRs have organised ‘SciBar’, a ‘Pint of Science’ and BHF
 Heart Experience events. Weston is on the judging panel for UK Heart Safe Awards and Unsworth
 has represented women in science and young investigators at various national public engagement
 fora through her committee role with the Platelet Society.

 Murray has a long research history of centralising PPI in her clinical, educational and research
 endeavours. This was acknowledged in her appointment as a fellow of the Royal College of
 Speech & Language Therapists in 2017. She was awarded additional funding in 2018 specifically
 to evaluate the impact and influence of PPI/PCIE on the delivery of a funded research programme.
 The conclusions from this evaluation demonstrated that those living with complex speech and
 motor disorders (often regarded as hard-to-reach or include in PPI/PCIE activities) can be
 included.

 In collaboration with Batten Disease Family Association (BDFA), McKay ran an open day for
 families of children with Batten disease to show them the research facilities at Manchester
 Metropolitan and describe the ongoing research to find new therapies for Batten disease. The
 event in 2018 was attended by over 30 Batten family members and four BDFA partners as well as
 ten researchers and support staff. The day was a success for families and researchers alike and
 we planned another event for 2020 that was postponed due to COVID-19.


                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our ICS features the many ways in which we have reached vulnerable users, including Sutcliffe’s
 research on novel psychoactive substances (see ICS 3), which describes how he has used his
 techniques for testing the chemical make-up of substances at festivals, such as Manchester Pride,
 to protect people at risk of harm from dangerous substances. The Manchester Drug Research and
 Knowledge Exchange (MANDRAKE) facility is part-funded by GMCA and is being formally
 integrated into Greater Manchester Police response procedures for critical incidents where drugs
 are thought to be involved.

 Contribution to the discipline and indicators of influence
 We are proud to have Fellows of many esteemed national and international societies, including
 the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists (Goldbart, Murray and Sage), the Royal
 Society of Rheumatology (Ollier), the Royal Society of Pathologists, the American Heart and
 Stroke Association, the Institute of Biomedical Scientists UK (Slevin), the Royal Society of Biology
 (van der Gast), and NICE (Duxbury). We have four staff who are members of the Royal College
 of Nursing and Serrant is a member of the Queen’s Nursing Institute, an appointed commissioner
 for the Department of Health, and Chair of the Chief Nursing Officer for England’s BME Strategic
 Advisory Group.

 Scientific and healthcare conferences are a primary route of research dissemination and
 developing collaborations. Our staff have shown a prolonged commitment to the organisation of
 conferences and have been active members of the organising committees of 13 international
 conferences during the assessment period, such as the European Council for Cardiovascular
 Research Conference, the European Nanomedicine Conference and the British Society for Gene
 and Cell Therapy conference.

 We have staff on professional associations and organisations, including Murray who is a
 committee member and former chair of the International Society for Augmentative and Alternative
 Communication, Alexander who has served as chair of the European Vascular Biology
 Organisation (EVBO) and the British Society of Cardiovascular Research (BSCR), Azzawi who is
 a trustee of the British Society for Nanomedicine and BSCR committee member, Bergqvist who is
 elected Secretary of the World Psychiatric Association Section for Philosophy & Humanities in
 Psychiatry, Wilkinson who is an EVBO council member, Unsworth and Jones who have organising
 committee and steering committee roles with the UK Platelet Society, and Duxbury who is a board
 member of the European Violence in Psychiatry Research Group. Fatoye served on the Advisory
 Board on Chronic Wound Management – Urgo Medical, 2017; the Advisory Board Real World
 Evidence Astellas Pharma (2015 to 2018); is a member of the Scientific Committee International
 Health Economics Association (iHEA) World Congress; and a member of the Scientific Committee,
 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR), North American
 and European Congresses. French is the Early Psychosis Lead for Cheshire and Mersey STP and
 is on the National Expert Reference Group for Early Intervention in Psychosis. Goldbart is a
 member of Mencap’s External Advisory Forum and a Council member of the International Society
 for the Scientific Study of Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities.

 We have representatives on funding committees, such as NC3Rs (White), BBSRC (Correa-
 Muller), UKRI-2019, Innovate UK, EPSRC, and NERC (van der Gast), NIHR (Duxbury, Fatoye,
 French and Serrant), EU Horizon 2020 (Enright and Whitehead) Innovative Medicines Initiative
 panel, Arthritis Research UK Osteoarthritis, Crystal Diseases Clinical Studies Group and Heart
 Research UK. Chartered Society of Physiotherapy Scientific Committee (Goodwin, Yeowell).
 Colleagues have represented Manchester Metropolitan on international peer review panels in
 Belgium (Goldbart) and Poland (Benn).

 Our academics hold visiting, honorary, emeritus or extraordinary positions at national (Universities
 of Salford, Manchester and Warwick, and the NERC Centre for Ecology & Hydrology), and
 international (Weifang University, China; Great Lakes University of Kisumu, Kenya; University of
 Ibadan; Nigeria University of KwaZulu-Natal, University of Pretoria, South Africa; and Satakunta
 University of Applied Sciences, Pori, Finland) higher education institutes. We also have academics


                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that hold Honorary non-clinical roles within NHS Foundation Trusts including van der Gast within
 the Northern Care Alliance NHS Group.

 We have represented the University at key international conferences, including the South Africa
 Speech-Language-Hearing Association, Durban, South Africa (2019); East African
 Communication Disability Conference, Kisumu, Kenya (2019) (Marshall). Fatoye was keynote
 speaker at the European World Congress of Physical Therapy (2017) and the Nigerian Society of
 Physiotherapy, Lokoja (2015). Goldbart was keynote speaker at the EACD Summer School for
 ECRs, University of Pisa, 2019; International Symposium ‘Creating Better Life Quality for People
 with PIMD/CISN’, Plovdiv, Bulgaria, 2019; and the 4th International Scientific and Practical
 Conference: Augmentative and Alternative Communication, St Petersburg, Russia, 2019. Webb
 was invited as keynote speaker at the Society for the Study of Addiction - symposium chair, 2018.

 Our staff are editors and associate editors on leading journals. Fatoye is associate editor for BMC
 Musculoskeletal Disorders; Goldbart is Associate Editor for Augmentative and Alternative
 Communication Journal; Journal of Intellectual Disability Research; International Journal of
 Disability Development and Education, and British Journal of Learning Disabilities. Goodwin was
 Associate Editor BMC Health Services Research. Webb is on the editorial board for the Journal
 of Substance Use, and the Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing. Whitehead is a
 Subject Editor for the Food Bioproducts Processing Journal.

 Our students and staff are prize winners: Edwards, PDRA with Wilkinson, who won the Aletta
 Jacobs Memorial Award at the German Society for Microcirculation and Vascular Biology in 2021.
 This award is dedicated to promoting female scientists in the field of microvascular biology at the
 start of their career. Duxbury was awarded the Eileen Skellern award for Mental Health Nursing in
 2014 and an OBE for services to mental health in 2020. Verran won the American Association for
 the Advancement of Science award for public engagement with science in 2019. Serrant was
 awarded an OBE for services to community nursing. Murray won research project of the year at
 the national AAC awards.




                                                                                            Page 23
