Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution:
University of Cambridge

Unit of Assessment:
22 – Anthropology and Development Studies


1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy




Context and Structure
The Department of Social Anthropology is part of the Faculty of Human, Social and Political
Science. It houses the University’s Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology; the Mongolia and
Inner Asia Studies Unit, and the Max Planck Cambridge Centre for Ethics, Economy and Social
Change (2017). In REF2014, Social Anthropology was returned with Biological Anthropology. This
time, the composition of the UoA reflects a recent (2017) restructure, which created a free-standing
Department of Social Anthropology that includes the units mentioned above, a more streamlined
and responsive configuration that enables better alignment of teaching and research and a
sharpening of focus on the Department’s research priorities. These developments, along with the
integration of the MAA into the Department, have strengthened our commitment to interdisciplinary
and collaborative research and our capacity in terms of research impact. The Unit’s new structure
enables the expression in institutional form of the strong intellectual identity of Social Anthropology
at Cambridge, and it has already proved itself a major asset in philanthropic fundraising (totaling
£6.5M during this census period) and grant capture (totalling 8.6M, up by 50% compared with the
previous review period). Reflecting this restructuring, the 40 research active staff submitted with
this UoA include members associated with the Department of Social Anthropology, the Museum of
Archaeology and Anthropology (MAA), the Colleges, the Mongolia and Inner Asia Studies Unit
(MIASU), and the Max Planck Cambridge Centre for Ethics, Economy and Social Change (Max-
Cam).

The Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology (MAA) [Thomas, Elliott, Herle] has one of the
most important collections of its kind in the UK, spanning nearly two million years of human history
on all six inhabited continents, exploring contemporary life all over the world, and working with
modern-day indigenous communities in many ways. It is particularly known for its innovative
exhibitions that draw contemporary artists into dialogue with the historic collections. MAA plays an
active role in both research and the teaching of undergraduate and graduate students at the
University. The MAA is also a research institution, its staff receiving major research grants from the
European Research Council, the Leverhulme Trust, the AHRC and ESRC. The MAA regularly
hosts visiting researchers from all over the world who work with the collections as part of their
research.


The Max Planck Cambridge Centre for Ethics, Economy and Social Change (Max-Cam) was
established in 2017 as an innovative collaboration, funded with a budget of €2.3M by the Max
Planck Society, the Isaac Newton Trust and various other Cambridge bodies. It is directed by
anthropologists in Cambridge [Laidlaw, Robbins] and in Halle and Göttingen, and it focuses on
the relations between economic and ethical change. It hosts a wide range of lectures, master-
classes, and conferences each year. Along with the four Cambridge-based postdoctoral
researchers [Kauppinen, Lehnard, McKearney, Smith] and two based in Germany, Max-Cam
also currently hosts a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow [MacDougall].

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Mongolia and Inner Asia Studies Unit (MIASU) [Bulag, Diemberger, Sneath, White], was
founded in 1986, and is a highly successful centre for research on Mongolia, Tibet and other parts
of that region. In 2019 the Department received a major donation to support the work of MIASU,
establishing a named Professorship, a research fund, a postdoctoral position, and a graduate
studentship. Initiatives that have come to fruition during the census period include the AHRC-
funded MIASU/MAA project ‘Mongolian Cosmopolitical Heritage: Tracing Divergent Healing
Practices across the Mongolian-Chinese Border’ (2020-24).
Involving all Department staff, including those from the units just listed, four Research Clusters
have been created as part of the UoA’s integrated research strategy. These provide fora for
drawing anthropologists at Cambridge together around specific thematic interests, cutting across
existing research group structures and disciplines. They cover a broad spectrum of social and
cultural anthropology on most continents, and since their establishment in 2014 have organically
evolved to reflect new directions, such as the growth of visual and media anthropology, as well as
promoting innovative research collaborations between the Department and the MAA. The Clusters
encourage cross-membership among research staff and students to stimulate dialogue and
innovation. They build on existing research strengths and our commitment to collaborative
anthropology as outlined in the REF 2014 submission, and they enhance synergies between
Social Anthropology, the MAA, and MIASU. Each Research Cluster has developed specific
research networks, as well as local, national and international collaborations. During the period
under consideration, each of these Clusters has benefitted from strong postdoctoral and graduate
student presence.

The four Research Clusters are:

Moral Life and Change: This includes work on topics such as self-making and diverse notions of
flourishing, achievement and success [Bayly, Candea, Grant, Laidlaw, Robbins], social
deployments of concepts of justice and rights [Englund, Lazar, Mody], the motivational and
structuring force of values [Robbins], and the role of religion in shaping moral practice [Laidlaw,
Robbins]. Work in these areas has helped in recent years to contribute to a profound rethinking of
broader anthropological theories of practice and accounts of the nature of social organization.
Success in sustaining this Research Cluster has been enhanced by the work of Max-Cam and a
three-year Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship [Englund].
Citizenship and Political Life: This includes work on how societies organise membership in
political communities. This theme is investigated in combination with fine-grained ethnographic
study of how people experience, understand and represent political processes. The various sub-
themes include participation and governance within different political communities [Bulag,
Englund, Lazar, Navaro, Sneath, Stasch], how people in different parts of the world construe
‘politics’ differently [Candea, Navaro, Stasch] and what the study of ‘subjectivity’ can add to
anthropological studies of ‘politics’ [Lazar, Navaro]. The current ERC-funded ‘Situating Free
Speech’ project, as well as the ERC-funded project ‘Living with Remnants: Politics, Materiality and
Subjectivity in the Aftermath of Past Atrocities in Turkey’, which ended in 2016, have involved
scholars from this Cluster and have greatly added to its vitality. In addition, a British Academy Mid-
Career Fellowship has supported research in this Cluster [Lazar].
Economy, Environment and Well-Being: Cambridge Social Anthropology has long-standing
strengths in economic and environmental anthropology, and has an established and growing
commitment to medical anthropology. This track explores sub-themes such as class, labour and
corruption [Sanchez]; cultural conceptions of life and death [McDonald]; land use, development
and pastoralism [Sneath, White]; inter-species encounters [Candea, White]; the social causes


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and impacts of climate change [Diemberger, Sneath]; and cultural variation in definitions of the
good life [Laidlaw, Robbins]. This Cluster has been supported by a range of grants from the
AHRC, British Academy, and the Norwegian Research Council, including most recently the AHRC-
funded project, ‘Mongolian Cosmopolitical Heritage: Tracing Divergent Healing Practices across
the Mongolian-Chinese Border’ (2020-2024).
Art, Media and Material Culture: This includes work on the constitutive role of visual and material
culture in social and cultural change, particularly in the expression of indigenous, local, national
and diasporic identities. Work in this Cluster has explored the ways in which art is increasingly
prominent in the public representation of place, history and political conflict [Thomas] and has
contributed to the renewed significance of museums and their collections as sites and resources
for anthropological research, public institutions which mediate questions of diversity and narratives
of culture and history, and contexts for impact [Elliott, Herle, Thomas]. The recruitment of a
specialist in visual and media anthropology [Stasch], along with the significant development of a
senior staff member’s research on the anthropology of media [Englund], has further enhanced this
Cluster. Major grants for work in this Cluster have included the ERC Advanced Grant for ‘Pacific
Presences: Oceanic Art and European Museums’ (2013-18).

The overarching research strategy for each Cluster over the next five years includes the
development of new theoretical and methodological approaches and the continued support of
efforts to secure external funding for individual and large-scale collaborative research ventures,
both inside and outside the academy. The Department’s Research Committee has the
responsibility for monitoring the development of the Clusters, identifying opportunities for funding
and for public and policy impact. We expect these Clusters to run for at least the next five years.



Research Objectives
The overall goal of Social Anthropology at Cambridge is to promote and maintain a tradition of
scholarship based on long-term, intensive field-based research across and within the world’s
regions, and to develop new methods of working in the field, the archives, and museums,
establishing novel interdisciplinary approaches to long-standing questions about the nature and
transformation of cultural and social life. Toward these goals, collaboration and a commitment to
excellence remain chief drivers of our research strategy even as the Department supports work
that recognizes that major challenges and research questions facing the discipline require support
both for individual projects and for large-scale collaborative investigations based on linked case
studies.

The Department has fulfilled the objectives stated in the REF 2014 submission: to continue to be a
centre for innovation in research, a hub for collaborative initiatives within the discipline and across
disciplines, and an international centre of training for PhD students and early-career scholars. We
have succeeded in securing major outside funding to develop new research within our Research
Clusters, and we continue to foster an environment that is open to new research initiatives as our
discipline meets the challenges of the changing world – a world that we seek both to understand
and to impact with our findings. With the addition of one new permanent lectureship and one
permanent named professorship, both funded by charitable gifts (see section 2 below), a new
position in visual anthropology created since REF 2014, and a post in medical anthropology we are
filling now following an interruption by Covid-19, we seek to grow in ways that will keep the
Department at the forefront of the discipline.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


During the census period, collaborative work with and within the MAA has issued in catalogues
and collections including Fiji: Chiefs and Governors (2013), Melanesia (2013), Artefacts of
Encounter (2016), A Celtic Feast (2016), Another India (2017) and the eight-volume Pacific
Presences series (2018-19). The MAA has taken a lead in debates about the repatriation of
museum artefacts. Student-led 'Untold Histories' tours have been very popular, while members of
the curatorial team have contributed to sector meetings and academic discussions regarding
policy, and have also held workshops on repatriation with Social Anthropology students. All MAA
staff contribute to undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in the Department. As is evident in the
publications mentioned above and two submitted impact case studies focused on major museum
exhibitions - “Another India” and “Oceania” - there is extensive overlap between the Department
and the Museum in core regional areas of research strength, such as South Asia and the Pacific.
These connections will soon deepen further with the appointment in the Department of a specialist
in Amazonia, an area of significant Museum collections.


Future Planning and Sustainability
The current period of growth and consolidation of research foci within the Department may serve
as a buffer against the adverse effects on recruitment and funding caused by the Covid-19
pandemic. Important University investment during the census period has strengthened the
Department considerably, including a new permanent line for visual and media anthropology,
significant support for the Max-Cam Centre, and a recent contribution of over £8M to the
construction of a new, state-of-the-art storage and research facility for the MAA (see below).
Furthermore, the Department’s strategy for grant capture will remain ambitious and proactive. One
of its priorities is to secure funding for a recurring three-year postdoctoral position that will ensure
that at all times there is an anthropologist in the Department who is working on a topic closely
related to a planned major exhibition at the MAA, thus increasing the existing integration of
research activity at the two institutions. More broadly, in working to sustain our current research
and impact momentum, the Department encourages and supports, through mentorship and flexible
leave arrangements, its members’ pursuit of both long and short term funding, and aims to build on
its successful track record of grant acquisition during the census period to maintain the highly
productive research culture. We will continue to support our thriving postgraduate training
programmes, and to recruit and support sizeable cohorts of highly qualified postdoctoral fellows.
To this end, in 2020-21, we welcomed one new Leverhulme Early-Career Fellow, one new
Philomathia Fellow and three ESRC Fellows. During the census period, the Department has also
provided intellectual space and mentorship for seven Junior Research Fellows appointed by
colleges. All of these efforts aim to build on and expand the very strong academic culture that
marks Department life, and to allow its members to continue to make major contributions to our
discipline and beyond.


Impact Strategy and Cases
Our impact strategy is based on the belief that social anthropology is uniquely placed to enable
individuals and institutions to understand and value the complexity of social issues and social and
political life more broadly. The beneficiaries of our research are diverse sections of society, both
within the UK and elsewhere. Our strategy is to work towards developing a range of types of
impact, which fall into four broad categories: (1) research that has immediate relevance for policies
and practices in the public, private and civil sectors; (2) research that can be used directly for
educational purposes; (3) research that enables public engagement, debate and the fostering of


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
new relationships through exhibitions and outreach, and (4) research that disseminates analyses
to the public through the media. Our overall approach to impact is well illustrated by our case study
submissions for this REF, which amply demonstrate the wide range of impact and impact types
achieved by the Department.

Our case studies reflect the desire by the Department to encourage an understanding of social
diversity and human complexity and to bring knowledge about the social life of communities
affected by policy decisions into the policy-setting process. They are the result of a broader
Departmental impact strategy that supports researchers at all levels in engaging stakeholders in
their work and communicating effectively about their research to the public. Toward these ends,
through our Research Administrator and through the appointment of an academic Impact
Coordinator, researchers are encouraged and supported to build impact considerations into their
research designs from the very early stages of specific projects in their submission for funding and
once their work begins. We have also hired a staff member specialized in communications and
outreach to help our staff make sure their research reaches those for whom it is relevant. Our staff
have also taken advantage of ESRC Impact Acceleration Account grants to enhance the impact of
their work. For example, through the project entitled ‘What Does It Mean to Be Homeless during
Covid-19?’, the Principal Investigator [Lenhard] builds on his previous fieldwork with homeless
people and care workers to explore the challenges to care posed by a lack of specialized services.
An important component of this project is to develop collaboratively new skills sets among the
participants.

Turning now to our case studies, one of these, The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Anthropology
(CEA) is a collective endeavour by members of staff in the Department, as well as by contributors
from outside of Cambridge. The CEA is fully open-access and its format and direction are guided
by Lazar and Stein, its Managing Editor. The CEA has had impact on the policies and practices of
public and private beneficiaries, including the Department for Environmental, Food and Rural
Affairs (DEFRA), which has used it to develop a network of policymakers; and the British
Pilgrimage Trust, which has used it as evidence in applications for financial support. The CEA has
also been used as a teaching and learning resource in the higher education sector in the UK and
abroad, including at the Vietnam National University, where it has allowed students and staff to
access high quality information about anthropology in a context where resources are very limited.
The educational potential for the CEA has been enhanced by the development of resources for
sixth-form school teachers, which will provide templates for student activities that can be used to
explore the CEA’s entries.

Another case study is based on Stasch’s long-term research with the Korowai indigenous group of
Indonesian Papua that has looked at touristic and media representations of this group and how
these representations and related activities have come to affect their contemporary ways of life. In
2016, Stasch began working with UK-based KEO Films, which planned to produce a documentary
film series about the Korowai. Stasch’s research was central to the filmmakers’ decision to focus
the series on how exoticizing stereotypes about the Korowai have caused them to change their
practices in order to meet outsiders’ expectations. Stasch was also involved throughout in the
editing process, which ensured that his expertise was reflected in the final product. The film series
was first shown on BBC Two in April 2018, and the project led directly to the BBC conducting an
internal review of its Human Planet series and subsequently withdrawing the episode about the
Korowai and, later, withdrawing other episodes pending review. In addition to this direct policy
impact at the BBC, Stasch’s research has impacted the approach and practices of those involved
with KEO Films; and through the broadcast of the documentary series, the way that members of
the public view contemporary indigenous peoples like the Korowai.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Our final two case studies are based on museum exhibitions. They illustrate the ways in which
such projects can generate fruitful collaborations between museums, artists, and community
members around the world. ‘Oceania’ by Thomas is an exhibition of historic and contemporary
ethnographic and artistic works from the Pacific region. It was shown at the Royal Academy of
Arts, London and the Musée du Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac, Paris in 2018 and 2019 respectively.
‘Another India’ by Elliott is the first exhibition of the MAA’s Indian collections and contemporary
works by Indian artists, which was shown at the MAA in Cambridge and as a sequent exhibition in
Nagaland, India in 2017 and 2019.

‘Oceania’ builds upon and develops many of the themes that Thomas has explored in his nearly
30 years of research and publication on the history of art and collecting in the Pacific, and in
particular on several major projects undertaken by himself and others during the census period. It
emphasises the importance of historicising the canon of Pacific art and collaborating with Pacific
Islanders. Likewise, ‘Another India’ emerges from Elliott’s research and publications on the
material cultures of indigenous and Adivasi groups in India and on how these groups have been
represented in the imaginations of Western museums and artists. Both projects directly engage
important contemporary themes in the anthropology of art and material culture, such as the history
of European colonialism, the history and politics of museums, and the politics of the display and
repatriation of artefacts. As exhibitions, the projects’ primary intended audiences are members of
the public and the source communities from which the exhibition materials come. Other primary
beneficiaries include contemporary artists, museums in Europe, India and the Pacific, research
and educational institutions, such as the Royal Academy and community-based organisations.
Both projects have shown significant levels of use and engagement by the beneficiaries and their
impact is likely to have significant and lasting effects, in particular for the artists and community
members of the societies that were featured in the exhibitions.


Collaborations and Wider Contributions
Along with the two projects discussed just above, which involve many members of the Department,
the continuing programme of public exhibitions at MAA are also central to the Department’s efforts
at public engagement. In recent years, these have included such exhibitions as ‘Another India’
(see above), ‘Buddha's Word: The Life of Books in Tibet and Beyond’ (2014-15) 2), and ‘The
Power of Paper: 50 Years of Printmaking in Australia, Canada and South Africa’ (2015-16). Over
the last five years, the Museum has welcomed 346,000 visitors, making it a key UK institution for
the public presentation of anthropological knowledge.

In considering the success of the Department’s impact efforts, it is noteworthy that during the
period of assessment, a range of individuals, groups and institutions, both in the United Kingdom
and abroad, have benefitted from the research conducted in the Department of Social
Anthropology. Government and governance institutions include: the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Department for Environmental, Food and Rural
Affairs, and the Office of Dame Cheryl Gillian MP. Media and third-sector organisations include: Al-
Jazeera Television, the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), the British Pilgrimage Trust,
Breeze FM (Zambia), the Taraiwhiti Museum (Gisborne, New Zealand), and the National Museum
Institute (New Delhi, India). Educational and community beneficiaries include: the Royal Academy,
Vietnam National University, University College London, communities and environmental
organisations in Nepal, the Korowai people of Indonesian Papua, the Cambridge Indian Cultural
Society, and artists working in the UK, Turkey, India and the Pacific.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The Department also hosts the popular Camthropod podcast series. The series broadcasts
regularly and showcases fieldwork-based research conducted by the staff and students. It also
broadcasts interviews with visiting speakers about their work and anthropological perspectives on
questions of daily life. The podcast series complements the new investment in visual anthropology
with audio work based on current research interests among staff and research students. It
complements the CEA as another major open-access initiative taken by the Department during this
census period. The podcast series has released over 20 research-based episodes to date and is
available through iTunes, Soundcloud, and the Departmental website.

Interdisciplinarity

Because of its comparative and regionally diverse research, Social Anthropology at Cambridge is
positioned at the core of various interdisciplinary and collaborative efforts. Along with many
individual connections across departments, more formal regional and comparative competencies
are developed via strong links with regional studies in the University and beyond (see discussion of
wider disciplinary and interdisciplinary links in Section 4). In addition to housing MIASU, with its
focus on Central and Inner Asia and Tibet, staff members participate actively in the main University
Centres devoted to the study of Africa [Englund (Director of the African Studies Centre 2012-17),
Grant], Latin America [Lazar (member, Latin American Studies Centre Management Committee)],
South Asia [Bayly, Laidlaw (Chair, South Asian Studies Centre Management Committee), Mody,
Sanchez], and the Middle East [Navaro (collaboration with the Faculty of Asian and Middle
Eastern Studies)]. The anthropologies of Africa [Englund, Grant, Kauppinen, Woolner] and the
Middle East [Navaro] are areas where there is scope for further expansion in the Department,
while the Pacific remains a major focus for both individual research and ambitious collaborative
projects, with the Department playing a strong role in the recently created University-wide Pacific
Interest Group [Herle, Pickles, Robbins, Smith, Stasch, Thomas]. New theoretical and
comparative work has commenced in Europe and the Middle East [Candea, Fedriko, Heywood,
Lehnard, McDonald, McDougall, McKearney, Navaro, Wright], and in South-East Asia [Bayly,
Kwon, Laidlaw, Stasch], which complements continuing work in India [Elliott, McKearney,
Mody, Sanchez].

During the census period, existing connections developed through reading groups, workshops,
postgraduate student cross-departmental consultation, and shared teaching programmes have
been strengthened with Philosophy (around the topic of ethics); with Sociology and History and
Philosophy of Science in the new Health, Medicine and Society (HMS) MPhil; and with Divinity, in
collaboration with which the Department has introduced a new Undergraduate Tripos in Modern
Religion. From research students to senior staff, social anthropologists in Cambridge have also
taken a leading role in organizing interdisciplinary conferences, workshops and reading groups
through the University’s Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities
(CRASSH). Departmental staff have also been convenors or advisers for research networks such
as ‘Risk and Renewal in the Pacific’, ‘Archives of the Disappeared’, ‘Auralities,’ and ‘Decolonizing
Citizenship’ at CRASSH. Colleges are by their nature incubators of interdisciplinary exchange and
also offer significant support for hosting visiting scholars and workshops. During the census period
12 major seminars and workshops organized by social anthropologists have taken place in college
settings, often under the auspices of externally-funded research projects.


The Department has taken a keen interest in the Decolonising Cambridge campaign and has
hosted well-attended events to bring together staff and students to discuss new initiatives in

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
support of the campaign. A Decolonize Anthropology webinar series was inaugurated with the
participation of guest speakers from the Global South. As a part of its commitment to equality and
diversity, the Department has introduced a new set of undergraduate lectures entitled World
Theory, a set of seminars on Anthropological Lives for first-year PhD students, and lectures on
Anthropology and Critical Race Studies to provide anthropological perspectives on thinkers outside
the predominantly white and male roster of intellectual figures. By embedding these evolving and
expanding initiatives in undergraduate as well as post-graduate teaching and in research training,
the Department aims to contribute to developing more inclusive approaches to anthropological
research.

Open Research
The Department supports and adheres to University policies around open research and open data.
This commitment is demonstrated by the initiative described in the Impact Case Study about the
open access Cambridge Encyclopedia of Social Anthropology [ICS 789] which has brought
important themes in the discipline to new audiences.

Research Integrity and Research Ethics
All research projects undertaken by members of the department must conform to the ethical
standards set out by the University and the Association of Social Anthropologists (ASA). Applicants
for research funding apply for approval from the Departmental Ethics Committee. Successful
projects are subject to a full ethics review by the Committee before the start of any research
project. The committee may refer any particularly complex or high-risk matters to the School of
Humanities and Social Sciences Research Ethics committee.




                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2. People



Staffing Strategy, Staff Development, Recruitment Strategy
The Department’s staffing strategy has sought to strike a balance between building on existing
strengths and fostering new initiatives by making permanent appointments that support both new
and existing research initiatives. At the same time, the permanent appointments made during the
census period have ensured that Social Anthropology at Cambridge remains a broad-based
discipline despite the relatively low staff numbers. Four appointments in particular were crucial to
achieving key objectives in the Department’s research strategy. Robbins joined the Department to
enhance its long-established leadership in the anthropology of religion and ritual, and Melanesia,
along with providing leadership for the more recent emphasis on the anthropology of ethics and
morality. The other three appointments were made at a more junior level to promote sub-
disciplinary diversity in the Department. Mody was appointed to pursue research and teaching in
kinship and gender, while Sanchez came to fill a vacancy in economic anthropology. Stasch’s
appointment represented a deliberate widening of our research focus with a new (not replacement)
position devoted to visual and media anthropology. This interest has now grown with the further
integration of the MAA [Elliot, Hurley, Thomas] into Department life and with Englund’s
developing focus on the anthropology of audio and print media.

The Department looks to the future with some confidence despite the uncertainties caused by the
Covid-19 pandemic. A key reason for this is that an alumni-relations and fundraising initiative
launched to accompany our return to Departmental status has had early success with two new
permanent positions created by philanthropic funding. These will expand the Department beyond
the census period with a Lectureship focused on the anthropology of Amazonia (an area not
currently represented in the Department) and another, establishing a named Professorship in the
Anthropology of Inner Asia to direct MIASU. Along with these additions to staff, we will also in the
immediate future make an appointment of a medical anthropologist who will take up the post of a
retiring senior member [Bayly]. This will enable us to develop further our commitment to medical
anthropology and to the thriving Health, Medicine and Society MPhil programme we offer with the
Departments of Sociology and History and Philosophy of Science.

The Department offers all members of the UoA a wider environment that strongly encourages
research creativity and the exchange of ideas. Core to the Department’s and Museum’s research
strategy is our commitment to the promotion of individual scholarship of the highest calibre, as well
as the extension of established research into fresh areas, such as the study of Amazonia, media
and medical anthropology. We emphasize both the support of individual research strengths and
careers – with their necessary focus on sustained critical reflection – and of collaboration and the
individual researcher’s integration into the research community. The Department hosts a minimum
of two high-level research seminars every week during term. They include the postdoctoral and
research student-led seminars of the Cambridge University Social Anthropology Society (CUSAS)
and the Senior Research Seminars organized by the staff. In addition, MIASU hosts a bi-weekly
seminar series and the Decolonize Anthropology initiative holds monthly webinars in term time.
These seminars, along with many other talks, workshops and reading groups organised by staff
and research students keep the level of scholarly interchange high and provide numerous
opportunities to establish new collaborations and to maintain contact with new developments in the
discipline.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Department also invests strongly in the career development of all its staff. Academic staff are
supported by a collegial environment with open Research Clusters whose mission includes the
recognition and respect for the ideas and achievements of scholars at every level. On induction, all
new academic staff meet with the Head of Department to discuss their integration into Cambridge,
and to identify opportunities for their development. All new staff are also assigned a more senior
mentor. Recognition of leadership and excellence comes through the University’s Senior Academic
Promotions exercise, for which the Head of Department and senior staff provide close support
through regular meetings and reviewing of draft applications. The University’s Senior Academic
Promotions CV Scheme seeks to encourage more women to apply for promotion within the
University. Promotions during the census period (four women, four men) are Englund,
Professorship (2014); Bayly and Laidlaw, Professorships (2015), Herle, Readership (2016),
Candea and Lazar, Readerships (2018), Sneath, Professorship (2019), and Mody, Senior
Lectureship (2020).

Enhancement of individual research and writing is implemented through specific arrangements,
especially for junior members: re-organising teaching with colleagues to free-up research time;
encouraging applications for outside support, consultation with individuals about research profiles
and future plans. These arrangements for the support of research and research leave (especially
for fieldwork) work in conjunction with the University sabbatical provision of one term for every six
terms of service. Biennial peer-to-peer appraisals have taken place during the census period for all
staff members, as have annual Departmental Away Days. Promotion for non-professorial staff is
reviewed annually, and staff are actively encouraged to go forward for promotion.

All staff members who take part in recruitment undergo unconscious bias training. A concerted
effort to make sure women were fully represented at longlisting and shortlisting stages in a recent
recruitment [Mody] was informed by the Department’s recognition of an inadequate gender
balance among the permanent staff. Future recruitment will be guided by these concerns and by
the University’s Diverse Recruitment Framework.

The breadth and depth of anthropological research at Cambridge extend beyond members of the
Department (including MAA) and includes social anthropologists appointed to highly competitive
College teaching and research positions [Diemberger, Filippucci, McDonald]. There have also
during the census period been seven postdoctoral research fellows employed in the Department
and Colleges. All postdoctoral fellows are encouraged to integrate fully into the Department by
participating in its academic and social activities. Those who give at least four lectures per year on
the undergraduate teaching programme are considered for Affiliated Lecturer status in the
Department, which helps their efforts to secure further funding or posts. A wide range of formally
invited visitors also come to the Department for stays of from several weeks up to a full academic
year. During the review period, this group has included postdoctoral scholars as well as over 40
established academics from 19 countries, and has also included several philosophers working on
ethics in addition to anthropologists. Additionally, the Wyse Visiting Professorship brings senior
scholars for extended visits. During the current census period, these have included Christina
Toren (St. Andrews), Robert Hefner (Boston), and Michael Herzfeld (Harvard). The annual Marilyn
Strathern Lecture and the Frazer and Rivers Lectures attract eminent anthropologists to spend
time in the Department, often offering a master class with staff and research students. During the
census period, they have included David Graeber (LSE), Jane Guyer (Johns Hopkins), Tanya
Luhrmann (Stanford), Anna Tsing (UC Santa Cruz), Kath Weston (Virginia), and Yunxiang Yan
(UCLA). Colleges also bring senior anthropologists or social scientists invited by anthropologists
for stays ranging from one week to one term or a whole academic year (most recently Philippe
Descola, James Faubion, Webb Keane, Steven Lukes, and Gisli Pálsson).

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
An equally evident mark of research vitality is the enthusiasm of attached staff, including
postdoctoral fellows, research fellows and associates who contribute to on-going projects before
moving on to careers elsewhere. During the assessment period, Social Anthropology has hosted
holders of a number of prestigious early-career fellowships, including British Academy
[MacDougall, Mathur, Pickles], Leverhulme [Woolner] and Marie Curie [Brunneger]
Fellowships, in addition to the European Research Council and Max-Cam supported Research
Associateships (see above and below). Fixed-term Teaching Associateships have played an
important role in developing the careers of ECRs. All of the dozen Teaching Associates we have
employed during the census period have moved on to lectureships or research fellowships in
universities in the UK and beyond.

Each ECR and Teaching Associate employed by the Department is assigned an individual mentor
from the permanent staff who guides career development through regular meetings and informal
advice. All postdoctoral researchers in Social Anthropology, whether hosted by the Department or
colleges, are invited to participate in the activities of the Social Anthropology Research Associates
(SARA) group, led by a permanent staff member. In addition to opportunities to present their own
work, SARA members are given sessions on various aspects of career development, including
publishing. All ECRs are also invited to the termly Departmental meetings, where they have the
opportunity to raise any issues they wish, and they are also invited to attend weekly receptions and
dinners with visiting speakers and senior staff, offering opportunities for further disciplinary
integration in informal settings. The Department ensures that all ECRs can avail themselves of
University-level support through the Postdoc Academy and Postdoc Society. The Department fully
supports University efforts to implement the recommendations of the Researcher Concordat
implementation working group.

All staff are actively supported to apply for funding for individual fellowships through to large-scale
collaborative projects. A Research Grants Officer in the Department aids in the application process
at every stage of development, including plans for research impact. In addition, the Department
employs an administrator whose roles include communications and outreach to offer support to
researchers seeking to publicise their work beyond academic outlets.

Social anthropologists employed by colleges and postdoctoral fellows play significant roles in
Research Clusters, while the Department also supports their individual research and initiatives.
Staff on fixed-term and part-time contracts are given the same access to career development
support as full-time, permanent staff. All fixed-term staff take part in programmes of mentorship
and appraisal.


Research Students
All of our students are full-time and the vast majority are fully funded. The Department offers – with
the support of the Wyse Fund – one to two fully funded (fees and subsistence) PhD scholarships
every year, and two fully funded MPhil scholarships. The Department successfully supports
students applying for a wide range of internal scholarships (including some, such as Gates and
ESRC, that are administered for outside funders), and students have the opportunity to compete
for University and College grants for PhD training, with an excellent record of competitively
securing funds within Cambridge for postgraduate studentships and field grants. The input of staff
time to secure this funding is regarded as important investment in the research culture and high


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
levels of personal commitment of staff to research students leads to constant effort to secure
graduate funding, including integration into research projects. The Department offers additional
funds for field-research and writing up grants through the Ling Roth, Evans, Richards and Wyse
Funds (£103,955 awarded during the census period) to complement other funding available from
the University and the Colleges. As part of its efforts to ensure equality of opportunity, the
Department also maintains the Fortes Fund, the remit of which includes providing graduate
students with children with funds to help them finish their dissertations (£13,615 awarded during
the census period).
The research Masters courses – the MPhil in Social Anthropology and MRes in Social
Anthropology – have seen increasing applicant numbers over the census period and bring some
20-25 students to Cambridge each year. The MRes can be undertaken as a free-standing
qualification, or as the first year of a PhD. MRes and PhD students share core elements of the pre-
field teaching and training programme. As already noted, a new MPhil in Health, Medicine and
Society has been introduced during the census period.
The Department provides numerous opportunities for PhD students and Postdoctoral scholars to
make connections beyond the Department and move toward national and international integration
in the discipline. The Department runs weekly Research Seminars, involving internationally
established researchers and ECRs and PhD students. MIASU runs fortnightly Research Seminars.
Visiting professors and researchers routinely provide a research seminar and a masterclass for
PhD students. The student-run Cambridge University Social Anthropology Society (CUSAS) runs
weekly seminars and organises the annual Marilyn Strathern Lecture. Other student-led reading
groups and seminars are also supported by the Department. Additionally, the Schools of Arts and
Humanities and Humanities and Social Sciences offer an induction programme to students in both
Schools, offer training in qualitative and quantitative methods, host ‘Employability’ days and offer
language learning bursaries to support international mobility.
Cambridge Social Anthropology PhDs are successful in securing lectureships and postdoctoral
fellowships across a wide range of academic institutions in the UK and beyond. Recent successes
in the period include (but are not limited to) Clara Devlieger (Assistant Professor, London School of
Economics), Jessica Johnson (Lecturer, University of Birmingham), Marlene Schafers (Marie Curie
Fellow, Ghent University), Alice von Bieberstein (Lecturer, Humboldt University), Zerrin Özlem
Biner (Lecturer, University of Kent), James Wintrup (Postdoctoral Research Fellow, University of
Oslo [ERC]), Thomas Neumark (Postdoctoral Research Fellow, University of Edinburgh), Victoria
Muinde (Postdoctoral Research Fellow, University of Oslo [ERC]), Julian Sommerschuh
(Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cologne), Michael Vine (Fulbright Scholar, University of South
Florida), Christina Woolner (Leverhulme Early-Career Fellow, University of Cambridge), Nicholas
Evans (LSE Fellow, London School of Economics), Felix Ringel (Assistant Professor, Durham
University), Paolo Heywood (Assistant Professor, Durham University), Eirini Avramopoulou
(Lecturer, Panteion University). Some 75% of all PhD students go on to academic or academic-
related work, a notable proportion of the remainder bringing their expertise to NGOs and
development organisations.
The Department abides by all University policies and procedures on equal opportunities, disability,
dignity at work, and responds to and participates in related University activities. The University
promotes the career development of all staff members through its Emerging Leaders Programme
and Senior Academic Promotions CV Mentoring Scheme, and senior staff contribute actively to
this scheme.
Wellbeing is a standing item at weekly departmental Executive Committee meetings which all
permanent staff attend. Two Wellbeing Advocates in the Department offer advice on activities and
policies dedicated to delivering wellness at the workplace, and online resources and noticeboards

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
signpost available support services. Line management training for Principal Investigators teaches
them how to support their research staff. The Department also hosts bi-weekly coffee mornings
open to all staff and students.

All REF Committee members have had Equality and Diversity training, and the committee has a
lead for this area. The REF Committee has followed closely the University’s Code of Practice,
inviting individuals to self-nominate outputs for submission, followed by review by a minimum of
two committee members, seeking external advice where required. The outputs come from the full
breadth of Departmental specialisms, with no particular group of individuals contributing
disproportionately to the overall return.




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities



Research Funding
During the census period, the Department (including MAA and MIASU) has successfully applied
for research funding from multiple funding bodies including the European Research Council, UK
Research Councils (AHRC, ESRC), The Leverhulme Trust, The British Academy, The Isaac
Newton Trust, The Wellcome Trust, Fulbright, the Research Council of Norway, the Max Planck
Society, and various University and college bodies and external charities. Grant income has
increased in the period by over 50% from £5.6M to c. £8.6M.

Social Anthropology in Cambridge continues to maintain its global reputation as a research leader
across a wide range of sub-disciplines, including the anthropological study of politics, the
economy, religion, and kinship while establishing itself as a hub for new, often interdisciplinary
initiatives in the study of, among others, climate change, ethics, affect, subjectivity, free speech,
and media and visual cultures. The emphasis is on creating networks and developing projects
involving local and international scholars at all career stages, as well as on interdisciplinary
investigation and collaboration with the diverse partners and constituencies involved in the
research process. During the last five years, the Department has hosted over 40 visitors from 19
countries and most continents. The success of this approach to fostering innovative research
involving broad networks of scholars has been demonstrated during the REF 2021 period by the
award of large, grant-funded projects that bring together academic staff, postdoctoral fellows,
visiting scholars and graduate students, strongly contributing to the overall research environment.
Some major examples include:

Situating Free Speech: European Parrhesia in Comparative Perspective (2016-21) is funded
by a European Research Council consolidator grant [PI Candea] to investigate comparatively the
ethics, epistemics and politics of freedom of speech in a range of locations in and beyond Europe.
It includes four full-time researchers [Candea, Fedirko, Heywood, Wright], all of whom are fully
integrated into the Department, and several staff members [Englund, Humphrey, Laidlaw,
Stasch]. It also regularly hosts visiting speakers from a range of disciplines who give public
lectures and run master classes for research students.

Living with Remnants: Politics, Materiality and Subjectivity in the Aftermath of Past
Atrocities in Turkey, a project funded by a European Research Council consolidator grant [PI
Navaro], came to an end in 2016. It employed three full-time postdoctoral researchers, who were
fully integrated into the Department [Biner, Von Bieberstein, Altug]. It explored new
methodologies and conceptual frameworks for the study of the aftermath of violence in Turkey, in
the context of the denial of atrocities by the Turkish state, developing conceptual apparatuses of
comparative, theoretical scope. Three international conferences were held under the project (in
Cambridge, Istanbul, and London), as well as a series of research workshops (in Cambridge,
Antakya, Istanbul, Berlin, and Nicosia).

Mongolian Cosmopolitical Heritage: Tracing Divergent Healing Practices across the
Mongolian-Chinese Border (2020-24). Funded by AHRC and taking full advantage of the
integration of MAA into Social Anthropology in Cambridge [PI Sneath, Co-I Elliott], this project will
make a comparative study of historical healing practices, including ‘shamanism’, in Mongolia, on
the one hand, and in Mongolian regions of China, on the other. The research will explore

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
contemporary and historical healing practices and objects, and will include the study of museum
collections in both Ulaanbaatar (National Museum of Mongolia) and Cambridge (MAA). Along with
the PIs, this project will support two postdoctoral positions and a six-month stay for a technician
from the National Museum of Mongolia.

Pacific Presences: Oceanic art and European museums (2013-18) was funded by a European
Research Council Advanced Grant (PI Thomas) and explored collections from Oceania, many
previously unstudied, in museums from Spain to Russia, in collaboration with Islander artists,
curators, scholars and community members. The project generated an eight-volume open-access
book series (Pacific Presences, Sidestone Press), and the landmark 'Oceania' exhibition at the
Royal Academy of Arts (September-December 2018) as well as many other publications and
smaller exhibitions.

The MAA has also recently received major University investment with over £8M allocated for the
creation of the Centre for Material Culture, a state-of-the-art research and storage facility for the
Museum’s extensive collections, many parts of which have been until now very difficult to access.

In keeping with the Department’s development of expertise in visual anthropology, its Visual
Anthropology Lab has received considerable investment in the census period and now boasts a
range of high-definition video cameras, tripods, and high-quality microphones that are available to
students on long- and short-term loan. Two Marantz audio recorders are also available for
podcasting projects and other needs in the study of voice and sound. The most recent major
upgrade of the lab resources occurred in 2019, with the addition of a video camera and an editing
monitor, high-quality DSLR camera, updated high-specification video editing workstation, and
studio lights, among other equipment. A formal programme of training in audio-visual technology
and field methods is a required component of the first-year curriculum for all MRes/PhD students in
Social Anthropology. Apart from this training course for the Department’s own PhD students, the
equipment is also used each year for an intensive multi-day workshop in ethnographic film
production open to all students and researchers connected to the Faculty of Human, Social, and
Political Science.

Further success in capturing prestigious/competitive grants during the census period include the
Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship [Englund, three years], British Academy Mid-Career
Fellowship [Lazar, one year], and Fulbright [Stasch, one year], with a total value of £276,758.

All permanent staff and Teaching Associates have individual offices, while postdoctoral
researchers employed for collaborative projects have office space in a building adjacent to the
Department. Postdocs employed by colleges are provided rooms there. All Departmental computer
workstations are subject to a three-year cycle of replacement. A centralised Faculty IT team looks
after every aspect of computing, overseen by the Front Line Services Manager and the
Infrastructure, Development and Operations Team Manager.

Social Anthropologists in Cambridge enjoy world-class library resources both within the discipline
(Haddon Library), in colleges and in the University Library, which is a copyright library and a world
class research facility. The Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities
(CRASSH) funds interdisciplinary research group seminars (involving graduate students, early
career staff and established researchers), and encourages collaboration across disciplines.
Several colleges are also very significant sources of infrastructural and other support. Normally
permanent staff in the Department are Fellows in colleges and can expect discounted, and even
free venues, subsidised catering and accommodation, reception, clerical and publicity support for

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
events they organize. Many colleges offer sophisticated and modern conference venues. The
Department makes the most of the resources that the Collegiate University offers in hosting a wide
range of events from talks, to workshops, to more elaborate conferences.




                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society



Local, national and international collaborations

Collaboration is key to the research strategies of Social Anthropology at Cambridge. All staff are
supported to develop national and international research networks, and to contribute to their
discipline and the maintenance and development of their respective research bases at Cambridge.
This is achieved through fieldwork-based engagement with research participants along with
involvement in conferences, journal editorships and advisory boards, service to national and
international research bodies, and through delivering keynotes and public lectures along with a
regular complement of visiting departmental talks at Universities in the UK and internationally. All
these activities and contributions are reviewed regularly in the staff appraisal meetings.


We also discuss our contribution to economy and society in our account of our impact activities (p.
5ff).


Indicators of Wider Influence
The Department edits and houses the peer reviewed journals The Journal of Cambridge
Anthropology and Inner Asia. It also produces a series with Berghahn books, the Wyse Series,
designed to publish cutting-edge research in social anthropology and to provide opportunities for
ECRs to publish first monographs.

The Department staff are very well integrated into the profession both nationally and
internationally. Along with the established and enduring avenues of national and international
contribution housed by the Department and the University mentioned above, Department staff
have during the census period edited seven journals (including such widely read journals as
Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute (JRAI], Anthropological Theory and the Journal of
Latin American Studies), served more than 25 times on journal editorial boards (including on those
of many of the most prominent anthropology and related interdisciplinary journals, such as JRAI,
American Ethnologist, Africa, Annual Review of Anthropology, Cultural Anthropology, and
Comparative Studies in Society and History), and acted as primary editors of 7 book series.

Staff have been widely involved in the leadership of important professional societies, including the
Royal Anthropological Institute (Candea; Vice-President) and the American Anthropological
Association’s Society for the Anthropology of Religion (Robbins, President). Englund was elected
a Fellow of the British Academy during the census period. Staff members have given a wide-range
of keynote and named lectures and lecture series – including two Malinowski Lectures, the Lewis
Henry Morgan Lectures, the Jensen Lectures, and the Marrett and Rappaport Lectures, among
others. They have also held numerous international visiting positions, and reviewed grants for a
wide variety of international funding bodies. The overall picture of a Department that plays a key
role in the wider discipline, cognate disciplines and area studies is further attested by the detailed
list of national and international contributions that appears below. The list has been compiled on
the basis of information supplied by researchers at all career stages.

The high level of disciplinary and interdisciplinary participation documented below plays an
important part in the Department’s effort to sustain and further develop its tradition of research

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collaboration and excellence. Doctoral students, postdoctoral fellows and our staff all benefit from
the constant interchange of ideas that flows into the Department through the staff’s broad national
and international engagements, and these engagements in turn serve to diffuse further the
scholarly developments nurtured by the Department’s creative research environment


Appointments and Elected Fellowships
Bulag, Vice-President, International Association for Mongolian Studies; Candea, Royal
Anthropological Institute [Vice President]; Englund, Fellow, British Academy; Herle, Trustee, Green
Trust for Anthropology, Brighton Museum; Laidlaw, Council Member, Royal Anthropological
Institute; Robbins, President, Society for the Anthropology of Religion; Thomas, Fellow, British
Academy; Vice-President, Pacific History Association.


Membership of advisory and editorial boards
Bayly, Advisory Board, University of Sussex Asia Research Centre; Expert Panel, ESRC Caste in
Britain Project; The Cambridge Journal of Anthropology (Associate Editor); Bulag, Inner Asia (Co-
Editor); Inner Asia Archive, Brill (Co-Editor); Modern Asian Studies, Critical Asian Studies, Asian
Ethnicity; Candea, Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute (Editor), Terrain, The Cambridge
Journal of Anthropology; Diemberger, Inner Asia; Scientific Advisory Board of the Italian Embassy,
London; Scientific Advisory Board, Austrian Academy of Sciences; Royal Society of Asian Affairs
(Board Member); Englund, International African Library, Cambridge University Press (Co-Editor);
Thinking from Elsewhere, Fordham University Press; Africa; Journal of Modern African Studies;
Humanity; Critical African Studies; Advisory Committee for ERC grant ‘Universal Health Coverage
and the Public Good in Africa’, University of Oslo; Herle, Sainsbury Research Unit, University of
East Anglia; Pacific Arts Association Europe (Vice President); Laidlaw, Modern Asian Studies;
Wyse Series in Social Anthropology, Berghahn Books (Co-Editor); Lazar, Journal of Latin
American Studies (Co-Editor); Critique of Anthropology; EASA Book Series; Estudios en
Antropología Social, Argentina (Academic Advisory Council); Cambridge Encyclopedia of
Anthropology (Editor); Mody, Advisory Committee for ERC Grant ‘A Global Transformation for
Marriage’, University of Edinburgh; Navaro, Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa, and the
Middle East; Annual Review of Anthropology; Cultural Anthropology; Social Anthropology; Conflict
& Society; New Perspectives on Turkey; Pickles, European Society for Oceanists (Board Member);
Sanchez, The Cambridge Journal of Anthropology (Editor); Cambridge Encyclopedia of
Anthropology (Economics Editor); Urbanities (Assistant Editor); Anthropology of Work Review;
Robbins, Anthropological Theory (Co-Editor); Ethnos (Associate Editor); Comparative Studies in
Society and History; Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute; Religion and Society; History
and Anthropology; Anthropology of Christianity Book Series, University of California Press (Editor);
Wyse Series in Social Anthropology, Berghahn Books (Co-Editor); Academic Advisory Board,
Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies, International Scientific Advisory Board, Max Planck
Institute for the Study of Religious and Ethnic Diversity; Sneath, Inner Asia (Co-Editor); Inner Asia
Monograph Series, Brill; Stasch, Pacific Studies in Anthropology, Berghahn Books (Editor); Journal
of the Royal Anthropological Institute; American Ethnologist; Signs and Society; Anthropological
Forum; Anthropological Theory; Social Analysis; Thomas, The Objects/Histories series, Duke
University Press; Board of Visitors, Pitt Rivers Museum, University of Oxford; Conseil d'orientation
scientifique, Musée du Quai Branly, Paris. White, The Cambridge Journal of Anthropology
(Reviews Editor).




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Keynotes and Public Lectures
Bayly, Isaac Manasseh Meyer Keynote Lecture, National University of Singapore; Lazar,
Malinowski Memorial Lecture, LSE; Keynote, Latin American Middle Classes Conference,
University of Munich; Keynote, New Politics Conference, University of Melbourne; Candea,
Keynote, the Annual Meeting of the Swiss Anthropological Association; Englund, Keynote,
Conference on ‘Words in Action?’, University of Leiden; Keynote, Conference on ‘Legislating
Sexuality and Gender in Africa’, University of North Carolina; Keynote, Conference on ‘Human
Rights Studies Today’, Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, Harvard University; Navaro,
Keynote, Conference on ‘Leftovers’, Institute for Cultural Inquiry, Berlin; Keynote, Conference on
‘The Middle East Remapped’, University College London; Keynote, Conference on ‘The Politics of
the Emotions in Turkey and its Connected Geographies’, LSE; Political Geography Plenary
Lecture, Royal Geographical Society; Robbins, Jensen Memorial Lectures, Frobenius Institute,
Goethe University; The Stanton Lectures in the Philosophy of Religion, Faculty of Divinity,
Cambridge; Peter Berger Lecture, Boston University; Sir Raymond Firth Memorial Lecture,
European Society for Oceanists; Central European University Institute for Advanced Study Annual
Lecture, Budapest; Marett Memorial Lecture, Exeter College, Oxford; Stirling Lecture, School of
Anthropology and Conservation, University of Kent; Rappaport Lecture, Society for the
Anthropology of Religion; Sneath, Keynote, Conference on ‘Deadly Modernity: The Environmental
Crisis Behind Mongolia’s Swift Development’, University of California, Berkeley; Stasch,
Malinowski Memorial Lecture, LSE; The Lewis Henry Morgan Lectures, University of Rochester;
Thomas, Scherman Lecture, Museum Fünf Kontinente, Munich; Public lecture, British Library;
Public lecture, Bishop Museum, Honolulu; Keynote, Conference on 'Colonial Objects and Social
Identities', Nationalmuseet, Copenhagen; Frank Davis Memorial Lecture, Courtauld Institute of Art,
London; Iris Awards Lecture, Bard Graduate Center, New York.


International Conferences Organized
Robbins, Society for the Anthropology of Religion, Biennial Meeting; ‘On Values: Social Scientific
and Philosophical Perspectives’, Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies. The majority of staff
members and ECRs have organised panels at major international conferences during the census
period, including at the AAA, EASA, ASA and various Area Studies conferences.


International Evaluation Research Grants and Institutes
Candea, National Science Foundation, USA; Agence Nationale de la Reserche, France; FWO
Research Foundation, the Netherlands; Englund, Cultural Studies Panel, Academy of Finland
(chair); Laidlaw, Danish Council for Independent Research; Dutch Research Council; European
Research Council; Navaro, Agence Nationale de la Recherche; European Research Council,
Independent Social Research Foundation, Swiss National Fund, Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft; Austrian Academy of Sciences; Marie Curie Foundation; Wenner-Gren
Foundation; EURIAS Fellowships Scheme; William E. Douglass Book Prize Committee for Best
Book in Europeanist Anthropology; Robbins, Cultural Studies Panel, Academy of Finland; Estonian
Research Council; Fritz Thyssen Foundation; Marsden Fund (Royal Society of New Zealand);
Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research; Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique, Belgium;
Sanchez, Wenner-Gren Foundation;




                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Cooperation and Collaborative Arrangements for Postgraduate Training
Candea, international training workshops for Cambridge PhD students in collaboration with the
EHESS in Paris and the Paris Sciences et Lettres Consortium of universities; Navaro, PhD
committee member, Duke University, Bern University, University of California-Davis, University of
Texas-Austin, Hebrew University; Sneath, development of Masters and PhD curricula in
Anthropology at the National University of Mongolia; Stasch, lecturer and consultant, the Scottish
Training in Anthropological Research (STAR) consortium.


International Research Collaboration
Bayly, Advisor, Vietnam Centre for Research & Promotion of Cultural Heritage; Brunneger, Visiting
Fellowships, John D. Rockefeller III College, Princeton University; American Bar Foundation,
Chicago; University of Wisconsin, Madison Law School; Bulag, Visiting Professor, Department of
Anthropology, National Taiwan University; Visiting Fellow, Advanced School for Humanities and
Social Sciences, Tsinghua University, China; Candea, Visiting Professor, University of
Copenhagen Diemberger, Visiting Professor, University of Vienna; Englund, Visiting Professor,
Chancellor College, University of Malawi; Docent of African Studies, University of Helsinki Lazar,
Visiting Scholar, Instituto de Desarrollo Economico y Social (IDES), Buenos Aires, Argentina;
Visiting Scholar, Global Metropolitan Studies Center, University of California, Berkeley; Visiting
Professor, Department of Anthropology, University of Buenos Aires, Argentina; Navaro, Visiting
Professor, Department of Anthropology, Århus University, Denmark; Visiting Professor,
Department of Anthropology, Bern University, Switzerland; Robbins, Fellow, Centre for Advanced
Study, Oslo; Visiting Professor, East China Normal University, Shanghai; Jensen Visiting Lecturer,
Frobenius Institute, Goethe University; Invited Professor, Musée du Quai Branly, Paris ; Jane and
Aatos Erkko Professor in Studies in Contemporary Society, Helsinki Collegium for Advanced
Studies; Sanchez, Member, European Consortium for Political Research, Standing Group on
(Anti)Corruption and Integrity; Stasch, Invited Professor, Musée du Quai Branly, Paris; White,
Visiting Lecturer, Inner Mongolia University, China.


Prizes and Honours
Bulag, Order of the Polar Star, awarded by the President of Mongolia, 2018; Honorary Doctorate in
History, Mongolian Academy of Sciences, 2015; Robbins, Honorary Doctorate in Theology, Lund
University, 2016; Stein, LSE Monographs on Social Anthropology First Book Prize, 2018; Thomas,
Prix Internationale du Livre d’Art Tribal, 2018; Iris Foundation Award, Bard Graduate Center, New
York, 2015.

As this information attests, the Cambridge Department of Social Anthropology is very well
integrated into the professions of anthropology and museum studies both nationally and
internationally. Along with a high level of internal interaction among members at all stages of
career, a spirit of community fostered by our regular lectures series, reading groups, and
conferences both in the Department and beyond, these kinds of academic integration help us
further our goals of providing a strong programme of postgraduate training and supporting cutting-
edge individual and collaborative research.




                                                                                           Page 20
