Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Beckett University

 Unit of Assessment: 28: History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview and context
 The History subject group is represented by 11 staff in the School of Cultural Studies and
 Humanities (SCSH) at Leeds Beckett University (LBU), and two former colleagues. Our
 intellectual background ranges across temporal and geographical fields and falls under the
 broad umbrella of modern (post-1700) social and cultural history. As interdisciplinary
 researchers, our mission is to be outward looking both in terms of actively contributing to the
 current and future direction of research within the discipline as well as in having a positive
 impact on the world beyond the university through the application of historical research to real-
 world issues. We take our cue from the viewpoint that history is an evolving dialogue between
 past and present, and we have a collective responsibility through our research to make a useful
 contribution to society.

 History works closely with colleagues in English and Media. All colleagues are also members of
 the Centre for Culture and the Arts (CCA), which coordinates the School’s support for our
 research. Established in 2013 to strengthen our research environment and public engagement,
 the CCA organises its work around 5 interdisciplinary research strands, which are led by at
 least two colleagues from different disciplinary backgrounds to encourage the cross-fertilisation
 of ideas. The strands are:

    •   Cultures of the Body, Gender and Sexuality
    •   Cultures of Environment, Space and Place
    •   Colonial and Postcolonial Cultures
    •   Cultures of Stigma, Deviance and Dissent
    •   Practices of Writing.

 These strands, which were developed in consultation with colleagues across the three units in
 the School, are concerned with modes of representation related to equality and diversity in past
 and present society.

 The School is led by its Dean supported by the School Leadership Team (SLT), which
 comprises the Director of Research (DoR), the CCA Director and three heads of subject for our
 key domains in History (Morgan), English and Media. The leadership team has fostered an ethos
 where research is a central element of the School’s activity.

 Since 2014 History research at LBU has been led by Shore and Ewen, who have worked closely
 with the Readers and Professors Group to ensure that our strategy harmonises with that of the
 SLT and the CCA.

 An environment of collaborative colleagues
 History is submitting to REF2021 as an independent unit for the first time. Previous exercises
 have seen history research submitted in UoA 36 (2014) and UoA 66 (2008). Our work is strong
 enough to stand alone – and feedback from both previous exercises supports this belief. In
 establishing our strategy for History, we have focused on developing a research environment
 tailored to History scholars and its closely linked sister units (27 and 34). The result of this
 restructuring is that the three units have developed a research environment that explicitly
 promotes a unifying ethos of collaborative colleagues who have a desire to work across
 disciplinary and organisational boundaries. History’s home in the SCSH and the CCA has
 resonance for the work that we do, not least that much of the current submission is located
 within the sub fields of social and cultural history.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research strategy
 Our research strategy, originally developed in 2014, has been refined through regular
 consultation amongst the History subject group and with colleagues at SCSH away days. It has
 been focused on the following aims:

    •   Recruitment of highly-qualified full-time staff to strengthen our expertise in social and
        cultural history, environmental history and public history, and to develop our capacity to
        supervise postgraduate research in this area.
    •   The implementation of a supportive mentoring system for all staff to encourage
        colleagues in their ambitions to publish high-quality research, to enter the bidding arena
        for grants, and to build this new unit’s impact capacity.
    •   A combined staff/postgraduate student programme of professional and academic
        development to create a wide community of researchers – the students are the future of
        the subject and are crucial to our strategic development.
    •   Continued development of the CCA to manage the achievement of quality research
        and publication outcomes, to provide a focus for research impact and engagement
        activity and external partnerships, and to provide an internal architecture for the
        management and dissemination of research in History, English and Media.

 Our institutional research strategy provides the context for these priorities. This strategy is
 focused on three areas of strength in our university, namely Culture, Health and Well-Being, and
 Technology and Society. The strategy presumes that there are intersections between these key
 priorities. While History research sits firmly in the Culture section, its reach extends to the impact
 of technology on society and on health and well-being as evidenced in our list of submitted
 outputs.

 The LBU strategy is also concerned with reaching different publics with our research, and with
 engagement with our local, national and international communities. The development of the CCA
 strands directly respond to LBU’s strategic priorities. To ensure that our research faces
 outwards, we have undertaken a range of training across History to reach different groups
 (including media training), and colleagues are encouraged to organise and lead events which
 the general public and other stakeholders might attend, and to invite that population into our
 space too. We have used RCUK income and Quality Research (QR) funds to support a range of
 public-facing activity. Examples include: a series of workshops from 2015-19 to engage local
 and family historians in researching their criminal ancestry (see Impact Case Study 1), pin
 parties in 2015-16 to create a crowd-sourced map of LGBTQ+ heritage sites (see Impact Case
 Study 2), a 2019 conference on heroism at Leeds Beckett, which included the delivery of
 emergency first-aid training by the West Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service’s Trauma
 Department to academic and non-academic participants, and our participation in the Being
 Human Festival in 2017, which engaged with local populations and school children around the
 theme of ‘Urban Dreams and Nightmares’ and incorporated historically-themed walking tours
 around Leeds.

 History staff have given public talks and delivered public events for a number of local, regional
 and national external partners (see section 4). We have also worked extensively with national
 policymaking bodies such as heritage practitioners (Oram with Historic England and the National
 Trust) and trade unions (Ewen with the Fire Brigades Union for its centenary celebrations in
 2018). Our scholarly networks are evident in the fact that four staff (Ewen, Irving, Mosley, Shore)
 are active participants in History & Policy, the national network that brings together historians,
 journalists and politicians to help produce more historically reflective policymaking. Most
 recently, Ewen and Irving were joint authors, with colleagues elsewhere, of an article on ‘The
 Real Lessons of the Blitz for Covid-19’, the most viewed policy paper on the History & Policy
 website from 23 March-20 May 2020.

 The sustainability of research in our institutional context requires us to be flexible rather than
 dogmatic in our priorities. Nonetheless, History at LBU proceeds from the following shared
 intellectual principles:

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   We are committed to applied history in order to deepen our understanding of the most
        pressing issues in the contemporary world including environmental crises, social
        injustice, emergency preparedness and identity politics.
    •   The study of modern and contemporary history from the eighteenth century to the
        present in a range of local, national and transnational contexts.
    •   Our thematic strengths are in (i) social and cultural history, including gender, sexuality,
        crime and deviance, and celebrity; (ii) urban and environmental history; (iii) the history of
        life writing, biography, and cultures of communication, and (iv) public history.
    •   Collaborative research across a range of disciplines and methodologies, in an
        institutional context provided by the SCSH and the CCA.
    •   Working with a variety of primary sources in novel ways.
    •   Working with a variety of stakeholders to communicate our research and maximise its
        impact beyond academia.

 Strategic objectives - Results
 We have created a research culture that is bearing fruit and provides the foundation for future
 successes. This reflects our ambition to create a vibrant research culture within the University
 and the wider historical discipline. In particular, our research and impact strategy has focused
 on enabling staff to meet the following objectives:

    •   to grow the research culture of the School through external research leadership and
        high-quality publications. In the current REF period 12.5 colleagues have produced 53
        academic outputs, including 5 double-weighted research monographs, 1 survey book, 1
        special edition, and 22 articles published in internationally leading peer-reviewed
        journals. We also undertake key roles in influencing the future direction of our field as
        editors of journals, members of editorial boards, board members of national and
        international scholarly societies, conference organisers, peer reviewers and assessors
        on research council panels.
    •   to secure external funding to sustain and broaden our research and its reach. Since
        2014, History staff have had considerable success with external RCUK grant income
        applications, raising over £600,000 across 10 different projects, compared to £22,485
        during the 2008-14 REF period.
    •   to enable the beneficial impact of this research beyond academia by sustained
        engagement with communities and with other external partners and stakeholders. In the
        current REF period, we developed a number of lasting relationships with external
        partners, as well as a sustained input into the community. Examples include a 2017
        Memorandum of Understanding between LBU and Leeds Museums and Art Galleries,
        Ewen’s membership of the Steering Committee of the Leeds Arts Health and Wellbeing
        Network (LAHWN) and a series of urban history skills workshops delivered to members
        of the public at Leeds City Museum, Leeds Central Library and The Leeds Library (2015-
        17). We have delivered 14 public lectures in the Cultural Conservations series of the
        CCA on topics of public interest ranging from the global history of asbestos (van
        Horssen) to nineteenth-century touring guidebooks of Yorkshire (Goodwin). Four
        historians (Andrews, Irving, Rich, van Horssen) have also given interviews about their
        research for the Beckett Talks ‘Culture in Covid’ podcast series launched in September
        2019 to enable the CCA to continue its public engagement during the pandemic.
    •   to encourage the further development of postgraduate research students and early
        career scholars who can develop their research for the future growth of the discipline and
        the subject group. We have expanded our postgraduate community via our participation
        in the Arts and Humanities Research Council’s Heritage Consortium (HC) and the North
        of England Consortium for Arts and Humanities (NECAH). Our PhD students add critical
        mass to the School’s research culture by participating in our regular History seminar
        series, organising and speaking at conferences and workshops, and in publishing journal
        articles. Our RCUK funded research has also enabled us to appoint highly skilled



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        postdoctoral researchers who make a valuable contribution to the university’s research
        culture.

 Processes to support our strategy
 Since 2014, History has grown and diversified to become a vibrant research community.
 Decisions around staffing, funding and research mentoring have been made in order to ensure
 that we can deliver our agreed aims and mission. The successes we have so far enjoyed have
 been underpinned by the following actions, investments and processes, designed to construct a
 supportive research environment:

    •   History has appointed highly qualified researchers to strengthen our research
        expertise in social and cultural history, environmental history and public history. Since
        REF2014 we have appointed 3 permanent members of staff (van Horssen, Irving,
        Wright) and 4 postdoctoral researchers on fixed-term contracts (Andrews, Bengry,
        Crymble, Fox). Two of have since gone on to secure full-time permanent lecturing posts
        at other HEIs.
    •   To support staff development we instituted twice-yearly research mentoring by senior
        research staff to enable all History colleagues to discuss their research and future plans
        in a supportive environment. The mentoring scheme has been a location for discussions
        about research-led promotions, including advice about the meanings of the criteria and
        the means by which they might be met. In this REF period, three colleagues have been
        promoted, one to Reader (2014) and then to Professor (2017, Shore) and two to Reader
        (Ewen, 2017, Rich, 2020).
    •   To support research development in History, the School and the University has made
        available regular opportunities to apply for research funding on a competitive basis.
        To enhance research grant capture, History has instituted specific mentoring by
        ‘critical friends’ throughout the bidding process for both local funds and for external
        grants, which has been used to great effect in the History team.
    •   The School runs periodic whole-school away days where research is discussed,
        combined with regular History team meetings, where we consider the same issues from
        our subject point of view.
    •   As part of our impact aims, CCA provides a public face to help us to engage the public
        with research: its archive of filmed events is a means for other researchers and other
        interested parties to find us. One example is Shore’s work on the Borstal system, where
        members of the public sought her out to give their testimonies of their experiences as a
        direct result of viewing her 2019 lecture on the CCA’s YouTube platform.

 Impact Strategy
 One of the fundamental ways in which research in humanities subjects can achieve impact is to
 develop the relationships which enable people and organisations to engage with the research, to
 be shaped by its findings, and to maintain relationships that make co-creation possible. Our
 impact strategy in History is founded on the following principles:

    •   To engage with publics that academic publishing does not reach by taking our research
        to those publics and inviting them to our spaces. (The Cultural Conversations are just
        one element of this strategy, alongside collaborative working with local and national
        partners including local authorities, libraries, museums and heritage policymakers, fire
        and rescue services, charities and social enterprises.)
    •   To build relationships which provide lasting benefit to our communities, evidenced by the
        sustained co-working that has led to our two impact case studies, but also by other
        relationships detailed in Section 4.
    •   To discuss with local communities what they need from us as part of our mission as a
        Civic University anchored in the wider city region.
    •   To train ourselves to do this work – by learning to use social and traditional media more
        effectively, and being open to approaches from outside our discipline.



                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   To build impact into all of our activities and make benefit to our communities as integral
        to our research design.


 History’s Future
 Our aspiration beyond REF2021 is to continue to develop a reputation for high quality applied
 historical research. We will build upon existing partnerships and form new ones, in the light of
 the evolution of our research interests and our community’s needs. We are working with a
 variety of cultural organisations and groups – Leeds Central Library, the Leeds Arts Health and
 Wellbeing Network, Space2, Zero Waste Leeds, amongst others – as well as companies such
 as Price Waterhouse Cooper, through which we have developed a strong knowledge exchange
 partnership in recent years with student research placements.

 Staff have a number of publications and other research outputs already in the pipeline from our
 RCUK funded projects, including five research monographs and at least four journal articles
 either under peer review or in preparation. This shows how History is already looking towards
 building upon the groundwork laid between 2014-21.

 Our future strategy is concerned with supporting the further development of high-quality and
 innovative research. Our single biggest practical aspiration is to be in a position to institute a
 consistent research leave scheme so that major projects can be supported in a planned and
 sustained way. We will do this by recalibrating our QR spending, to tilt in this direction, while
 continuing to support doctoral study. Projects we support will require external bidding activity to
 take place alongside any internal bid for leave, or will be required to show collaboration and co-
 creation as elements of the research design.

 We seek to bring on future research leaders as early career scholars and postgraduate research
 students. We also aspire to continue providing research leadership locally, through internal
 promotion to Reader and Professor, as well as in the wider historical community, where we seek
 to set the pace for future research in our sub-fields at the national and international levels.


 2. People

 History consists of 11 FTE (Headcount 11) Category A staff in the School of Cultural Studies and
 Humanities. Two category B staff were professors before the retirement of one (Oram) and the
 departure of a second to another institution (Shore). Shore, Rich and Ewen were all internal
 promotions during this REF period. There is 1 Postdoctoral Research Fellow currently based in
 the School (Andrews) as well as 1 Postdoctoral Research Associate (Crymble, replaced by Fox).
 All remaining staff in History are Senior Lecturers, except for Morgan who is Head of Subject.

 Our strategy over this REF period has been to grow the complement of staff, to strengthen our
 existing clusters of expertise in environmental history, the history of life writing and biography,
 and public history. Since 2014 staff numbers in History grew from 10 to 13, though they have
 recently dropped to 11 following 2 recent departures which have not yet been replaced in the
 context of the Pandemic. We are seeking to strengthen our research leadership with internal
 promotions to both Professor and Reader levels through the University’s annual promotions
 round.

 We have recruited two postdoctoral research fellows (Andrews, 2018-21and Bengry, 2015-16)
 and two postdoctoral research associates (Fox and Crymble), on fixed term contracts, who are
 active in the research culture of History as well as the SCSH/CCA. In 2014 History had no
 postdoctoral researchers so we are growing our capacity for supporting the sustainability of the
 historical discipline. Our University is a signatory of the Concordat for Fixed-Term
 Researchers (2019), and has retained its HR Excellence in Research award, partly on the
 basis of its proven commitment to the career development of colleagues on fixed-term contracts.
 The unit is fully compliant with the expectations of the Concordat.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our commitment to equality and diversity
 As the ethos of the CCA implies, and as the published records of History demonstrate, equality
 and diversity are central to our activities and core to our beliefs. We act proactively and
 reflectively to live the equality policies of our institution, through all the elements of a research
 career.

 The process of staff recruitment is mindful of the need to foster equality in all our practices.
 Shortlists and appointments are monitored for equality data and we are accountable for any
 anomalies. We are Disability Positive employers, hold institutional Athena Swan accreditation,
 have received Stonewall Top 100 employer status, and are members of the pilot group of
 universities for the Race Equality Charter Mark. We sought departmental Athena Swan
 accreditation in 2018, and the process of preparing that application was fundamental to
 developing unit ideals, and hugely beneficial to our thinking across the unit. We were not
 successful in our application but the Athena Swan action plan remains part of our School’s
 research plan, and we plan to resubmit. The current History team has an even gender balance
 amongst its permanent staff (5 female, 5 male). Of the senior staff, 2 are male (head of subject
 and 1 reader) and two are female (2 course directors one of whom is also a reader), suggesting
 that the pathways to advancement are open to both genders equally.

 We have sought to be inclusive in this submission. All History colleagues declared that they
 were independent researchers as part of the protocol defined by our institutional Code of
 Practice (CoP), all were accepted as independent researchers, and have been included in this
 submission. The CoP asked colleagues to self-identify as independent researchers whose work
 profile also demonstrated that they had significant responsibility for research. Declarations were
 considered by a panel of senior academics. During the current REF cycle, three colleagues have
 taken maternity leave; one male colleague took shared parental leave; and other colleagues
 have had other periods of leave for health reasons – all have been included because they have
 been supported to continue their research pathways. We have made a positive selection to
 reflect both the quality of publications as well as the range and breadth of temporal,
 geographical and thematic expertise within History.

 LBU’s staffing strategy is concerned with enabling all colleagues to achieve the best they can for
 themselves and for our university. This founding principle has been at the heart of our local
 activity to support colleagues. In addition to LBU’s People Strategy, at local level across the unit,
 we undertake the following activities specifically related to research. The overarching aim of
 these activities is to foster a collegial environment in which research can flourish, and be
 sustained, to make the measures of success as transparent as possible, and to learn from
 success as a team.

 Research mentoring to support staff research activities and profiles
 All History staff participate in twice-yearly formal research mentoring, where agreement is
 reached on research objectives, publication plans, impact and engagement activity and
 objectives for applications for external income. Agreed objectives feed into the annual PDR and
 are recorded on the University’s PDR system and signed off by a senior manager. While this
 may sound like a bureaucratic process, the ethos of delivery is far more thoughtful and
 supportive. We recognise that humanities research can be organic and iterative, which means
 that objectives can – and sometimes should – change across the course of a project. Our
 mentoring system is alive to those possibilities and can adapt to altered perspectives which
 derive from encounters with new thoughts, materials or issues.

 Develop research via Internal and external research funding support
 Several different opportunities are offered for staff to apply, on a competitive basis, for funding
 from the University as well as externally for their research. History staff have taken full
 advantage of these opportunities during this REF period:



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   To promote quality grant application submissions History supports staff through a
        combination of internal peer review by the University’s Research Service, as well as local
        research mentoring at School level, including critical friends’ reading of applications by
        senior researchers. Since 2014 these processes have produced results, with external
        RCUK grant income awards exceeding £600,000.
    •   Our success with external grant income applications has followed on from initial
        researcher success with internal funding streams, which demonstrates the institution’s
        investment in career development. Between 2014-16 the University Research Service
        offered an annual round of research cluster, early-career and mid-career funding
        opportunities. Irving (Early Career Researcher Development Scheme), Ewen (Mid-
        Career Researcher) and Rich (Mid-Career Researcher) benefitted from this investment,
        and all of these colleagues have subsequently achieved external grant success. The
        CCA has also supported staff research time and costs via its own funding scheme: Ewen
        and Rich have both benefited from this initiative, winning time to develop successful
        external funding bids.
    •   With an eye to future sustainability of our discipline, we have encouraged colleagues,
        where appropriate, to include provision for early career researchers in their projects. This
        has benefits for History staff as well, who develop experience in line management and
        research mentorship. Since 2014, 4 postdoctoral researchers have been appointed to
        work on the following projects: Dampier’s Hobhouse Letters; Oram’s Pride of Place and
        Queer Beyond London; Ewen’s Forged by Fire; and Rich’s European Cuisine.
    •   History colleagues are encouraged to develop their research in a supportive research
        culture through their participation in a regular research seminar programme, annual
        History lecture, a programme of ‘Top Tips’ sessions organized by the CCA, and other ad
        hoc activities such as writing retreats. Early career researchers and postgraduate
        students are actively encouraged to take advantage of these opportunities to develop
        their research.

 Recruitment of research students
 Research students are the future of our discipline. In History we have worked hard to create a
 community of scholars who are seen as integral to the research environment as a whole. The
 numbers of staff and students in each of the School’s subject groups are relatively small, so
 elements of our activity have been constructed at School level so that all students have a peer
 group for mutual support. Our work with students also supplements the work of our central
 service, the Graduate School.

 Since 2014 we have recruited 11 research students (10 PhD, 1 MRes) studying in History,
 including 6 full-time students funded via the AHRC Heritage Consortium (HC) and North of
 England Consortium for the Arts and Humanities (NECAH - see below for details) from a base of
 0 in 2013. Two of our MA graduates have gone on to secure AHRC Heritage Consortium
 funding. We also work hard to ensure that equality and inclusion are our ethos when students
 apply and enrol.

 The two Consortia for doctoral programmes of which we are members are the HC and NECAH.
 The HC is coordinated by the University of Hull and consists of Bradford, Huddersfield, Hull,
 LBU, Northumbria, Sheffield Hallam and Teesside universities working in strategic partnership
 with 8 regional, national and international heritage organisations and networks, as well as with a
 wider network of over 70 partner organisations, to deliver doctoral training and to promote
 research in all aspects of heritage. The Consortium was established in 2013 and is supported by
 £1.85 million in postgraduate funding from the AHRC and £1.11 million provided by its seven
 member HEIs. History recruited 6 HC funded students during the 2014-21 period; 1 of whom
 successfully completed in 2019, and a second in 2020. History also has 1 student funded by the
 Heritage Consortium’s sister organisation: North of England Consortium for Arts and Humanities.
 Funded by the same HEI partners, NECAH was established in 2014 to deliver doctoral training,
 widen access to doctoral education to students who came from outside traditional research-
 intensive universities, to build a distinctive community of scholars, and to promote research
 across all arts and humanities disciplines. All consortium students benefit from a tailored

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research training programme delivered at Hull with support from the member institutions and
 from a greater cohort of students than any single institution can provide.

 Development of our doctoral students
 The development of doctoral students is a central priority. All colleagues with supervisory
 responsibility must undertake training and demonstrate via the University’s Research Degree
 Sub-Committee that they are active researchers to be approved to supervise students. All
 colleagues in History are on that approved list. There are minimum expectations laid down by
 the University about what a doctoral student can expect from their Director of Studies – in
 History, those expectations are more than met in a supportive and collegial environment. We
 seek to include our students in the full range of academic activity. The students are well-
 resourced and strongly supported. They have dedicated office space, with computers and
 lockable storage. Their generic development needs are met by the Graduate School’s training
 programme, by the School’s ‘Top Tips’ programme (short development sessions which are open
 to students and staff), and by tailored sessions at the students’ request. We have worked hard to
 build a research culture which is inclusive and open to their needs including the recent
 establishment of a postgraduate researcher forum where students can meet regularly with the
 Dean and Director of Research to discuss their place in the School, raise concerns or bring
 ideas to the table. Results from the most recent PRES survey (2019) at school level show that
 this work is bearing fruit, especially in the area of supervisory support for programmes (100% of
 our students reported excellent supervision).

 Postgraduate research student supervision, mentoring and training
 We have had 9 PhD completions since 2014. Our completion rates demonstrate the
 effectiveness and suitability of our training and supervision. Participation in a University
 Induction is compulsory for all candidates accepted for a place on a research award of the
 University. Students have a supervisory team which includes a Director of Studies (DoS) and a
 supervisor. Within 4-6 months of beginning their project, research students are expected to
 undertake Confirmation of Registration, where they discuss their project with senior members of
 the University and their supervisory team. Progress is also monitored by an annual progression
 meeting, chaired by senior colleagues from the School.

 Research students are invited to participate in History research seminars and the annual History
 lecture. There is a Cultural Studies seminar for PGRs, a work-in-progress seminar, and a writing
 retreat, currently taking place online. Where required, we fund specialist training that they need
 as their research or their professional development. Their professional development needs,
 including ethics training, are addressed by the Graduate School’s training programme.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 In 2018 the University took the strategic decision to disburse 66% of Quality Research (QR)
 funds to the areas which had earned them to enable those areas to plan their own strategic
 direction. This was subsequently increased to 100% of the QR funds. For History, this is a share
 of the REF2014 funds for Unit 36 – roughly a third of £165K held at School level. A substantial
 proportion of these monies is forward committed to support the doctoral students who were
 recruited via NECAH and match-funding for the HC, and other bursaries inherited from the past.
 The relative security of this income stream speaks to the University’s commitment to its research
 strategy, and gives History the means to plan activity attached to the School and Centre
 priorities for the next period. As the match-funding elements run down from current levels, we
 plan that part of this money will be used to support a targeted research leave scheme.

 In addition, History staff have had considerable success in securing Research Council UK
 (RCUK) and other grant income from both external and internal sources since 2014. History staff
 have been involved with 10 cross-institutional research bids involving nearly £1million for

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2021, bringing in more than £600,000 in research income to the university. This income is
 shared amongst 6 staff, demonstrating an excellent spread of talent. Shore was Co-Investigator
 on the AHRC ‘Our Criminal Ancestors’ project in 2014-15 (£17,261.48) and which now forms
 one of History’s impact case studies. The Historic England project, ‘Pride of Place: LGBT
 Histories and Heritage’ was led by Oram (£68395.30), and forms the basis of our second case
 study. Mostly recently (2019) is Rich, Co-Investigator on the British Academy project, ‘European
 Cuisine and British Identity in the Age of Nationalism, 1760-1837’, until 2021. That History’s two
 impact case studies derive from research funded by external organizations evidences our
 collective commitment to devising exceptional research proposals with clearly embedded
 pathways to impact.

 We have enjoyed particular success with the AHRC. Since 2014, History staff have participated,
 either as Principal or Co-Investigators, in 3 successful bids of more than £100,000. Dampier was
 P-I on the 3-year project (2016-19), ‘The Emily Hobhouse Letters: South Africa in International
 Context, 1899-1926’ (£337,096.59). Ewen is Co-I on the ‘Forged by Fire: Burns Injury and British
 Identity, 1800-2000’ project (£754,547, 2016-21). Oram was Co-I on the AHRC project (2016-
 19), ‘Queer Beyond London: Sexuality and Locality in Brighton, Leeds, Manchester and
 Plymouth’ (£108,213.08).

 Research Infrastructure and Governance
 Overall responsibility for Research in our University is under the remit of the Deputy-Vice-
 Chancellor (DVC) for Research and Enterprise. The DVC is supported by the Director of
 Research and Enterprise Services who leads the various research related teams (the Graduate
 School for PGRs, The Research Service which supports bidding activity and the development of
 impact, and the Enterprise Service which has oversight of the institution’s academic enterprise).
 DoRs provide the interface between these central services and the Schools. The work of the
 Research and Enterprise Services is the core business of our University’s Research and
 Enterprise Committee, which reports directly to Academic Board, and which also has oversight
 of the University’s Postgraduate Research Degrees Sub-Committee, and the Research Ethics
 Committee. The Research and Enterprise Committee scrutinises policy, procedure and practice
 relating to research in all its guises, and makes recommendations to Academic Board for
 implementation. All DoRs are members of this committee. The specific policies relating to Ethics,
 Open Access, Research Concordance, the HR policies that attach to HR Excellence in
 Research, and the policies deriving from UKCGE for PGRs have all been debated and defined
 by this Committee structure, and implemented at Unit level by the DoR, postgraduate tutor and
 Local Research Ethics Co-ordinators.

 Research Ethics
 All research projects, whether undertaken by staff or student, must have ethical approval before
 they begin. All researchers are required to undertake training in ethics to ensure that they
 understand their obligations. Approvals for desk-based research which does not involve human
 subjects are approved locally, by the research supervisor for students, or the Local Research
 Ethics Co-ordinator (LREC) for staff. More complex cases are considered by LRECs, and where
 they feel that there are particular issues that arise from the project, it may be referred to the
 University Ethics Committee for final decision. Annual audits of research ethics compliance are
 undertaken to ensure that we are meeting our ethical obligations to all human participants, and
 to the general ethos of good governance across the whole of our activity.

 Open access
 One of the ethical considerations that is new for REF2021 is the obligation, where possible, to
 make our research accessible to the public. All the journal articles contained in this submission
 comply with that requirement. The university has a fully searchable open access repository, the
 Leeds Beckett Repository, which is an online collection of Leeds Beckett research outputs. The
 Open Access Research Policy can be accessed via our library’s information pages. History, in
 line with its commitments to engage with its various publics noted above, is strongly committed
 to making work available wherever possible. The institutional Open Research Policy, which


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 encourages staff to deposit, where copyright allows, any output type, will increase the volume of
 other outputs openly available.

 Facilities
 History is housed, alongside colleagues in English and Media, on the second floor of the
 Broadcasting Place Humanities Building. Completed in 2009, Broadcasting Place is a modern
 development of open plan offices, with individual spaces, classrooms, recently refurbished social
 learning and collaboration space and a few individual or shared offices. The research
 undertaken by History colleagues is not resource-intensive in terms of facilities. Desk space,
 storage, up-to-date IT as well as good library services are what History colleagues need and
 have.

 Postgraduate students also have office space in this area. This is shared, hot-desking space,
 though in practice, all individuals who want to use it can make a desk their own. The advantage
 of co-location with our student community is that we can answer their needs quickly, and have
 sociable discussions as well as formal supervisions. Students report they are an embedded part
 of the School’s culture.

 Research is also supported by Libraries and Learning Innovation. The School of Cultural Studies
 has three dedicated subject librarians who help with the Information needs of all our PGRs, both
 individual and training sessions. The library is open 24/7/365. Alongside its book stock, it has
 excellent e-resources. It subscribes to a range of specialist databases relevant for History staff
 and students (British Library Newspapers Online, House of Commons Parliamentary Papers,
 Mass Observation Online, etc.). Its own internal offer is supplemented by a partnership with the
 Leeds Library (one of the oldest circulating and private members’ libraries in the world) which
 has unique historical collections, and membership of SCONUL+ with multiple other university
 libraries. Postgraduates and staff are permitted extensive rights via interlibrary loan.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We are committed to creating a vibrant outward looking research culture. We do this through our
 contribution to our discipline as a whole, and its constituent sub-fields, as well as by
 collaborating with colleagues working at other institutions and beyond academia in the public
 sector. Our research has a valid contribution to make to society, not least in enabling the public
 and stakeholders to think historically when approaching contemporary issues. Our focus on
 social and cultural history requires interdisciplinary working, most obviously with English and
 Media, but also with potential for collaboration with urban and environmental studies, and with
 psychology, criminology, sociology, drama, fine art and film. These are areas where we will seek
 to develop partnerships both inside the University and beyond.

 Contribution to the Research Base
 History staff have made a significant contribution to the research base, by publishing research
 outputs and in providing scholarly leadership within the discipline. Our published research has
 been instrumental in mapping out new and emerging areas of research, including public history,
 urban and environmental history and the history of the emotions. Our books have ploughed new
 scholarly ground in international and comparative history (e.g. van Horssen’s A Town Called
 Asbestos; Wright’s Great Britain and the Unifying of Italy); utilising new methodologies (e.g. life
 course studies in Shore’s Youth Criminal Lives) and bringing new or previously inaccessible
 primary sources to new audiences (e.g. Hignett’s use of translated Czech texts in Women's
 Experiences of Repression in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe). Others have mapped out
 existing sub-fields, and are cited as being an important pedagogic point of reference in their sub-
 fields, including Ewen’s What is Urban History?

 In addition to our scholarly outputs, History includes several research leaders in our sub-fields.
 Our work supports the subject base and helps to foster new research. Ewen is Co-Editor of

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Urban History (since 2013), and colleagues are members of editorial boards (Oram on Women’s
 History Review; Rich on Food and History, since 2013, and Women’s History Review, 2013-17;
 Mosley on Environment and History since 2014, which he previously edited; Andrews on Urban
 History as Social Media Editor since 2019). All colleagues in the unit are peer reviewers for
 journals and academic publishers and some are research council assessors. Shore is the Co-
 Editor for the Royal Historical Society book series, ‘New Historical Perspectives’ and also serves
 on the Royal Historical Society’s Publications Committee.

 History at LBU has also contributed to the discipline outside the university in other advocacy
 roles. Shore was co-Convenor of History UK, the independent national body promoting and
 monitoring history in UK Higher Education (2015-18). Goodwin was elected onto History UK’s
 Steering Committee in 2020 and is the blog editor for the website of the journal, Social History.
 Ewen is a member of the International Committee of the European Association of Urban History
 (2012-20), as well as a member of the Urban History Group’s Conference Committee (since
 2007); Hignett is a member of the National Committee of the British Association for Soviet,
 Slavonic and East European Studies; Irving is Communications Officer of the Social History
 Society (since 2018) and a member of the advisory board for the Institute of Historical
 Research’s Centre for the History of People, Place and Community; Morgan was an elected
 member of that Society’s Committee (2014-17).

 Colleagues have also been invited and keynote speakers at a range of conferences and events
 during the current REF period. Oram gave the first annual public lecture in Queer History at the
 University of London (2017) and the annual Stonewall public lecture at the University of
 Southampton (2018); Shore gave a plenary lecture at the British Association of Victorian Studies
 at the University of Dundee (2019), Hignett gave the keynote lecture at the Gendered
 Perspectives Conference at the University of Huddersfield (2018); and Ewen gave an invited
 lecture at the Cambridge Festival of Ideas, University of Cambridge (2018).

 Collaboration
 Colleagues have made a considerable contribution to the research base of our discipline and
 work collaboratively both within the university and in the wider discipline to enhance and grow
 research that makes a significant impact beyond academia. Since 2014, we have collaborated,
 either as Principal or Co-Investigators, on UKRI funded projects (see above) with colleagues
 working at other universities. Historians want to work with us because of our specialised
 knowledge and collegiality.

 These collaborations have facilitated the extension of research’s reach beyond academia at the
 local/regional, national and international levels. This is important to us, but also connects with
 LBU’s identity as a ‘civic university’ with a mission to improve the lives of local people by working
 alongside communities. History does this by working with local and national stakeholders,
 including policymakers, service providers, industry groups, and arts and cultural organizations.
 Oram’s work with national heritage gatekeepers such as Historic England and the National Trust
 through the Pride of Place project has been widely recognised by national and international
 media outlets. Dampier’s research on the Boer War campaigner Emily Hobhouse resulted in an
 international touring exhibition, ‘War Without Glamour: Emily Hobhouse's peace activism, 1899-
 1926', which started at the Free State Arts Festival in South Africa (July 2019) and ended at the
 Liskeard Museum in Cornwall (November/December 2019), with an accompanying display at the
 Old Bodleian Library (September-December 2019). Others in the team work with charities and
 public services in order to deliver innovative public engagement in hard-to-reach communities,
 for example Ewen’s work in sharing local histories of unsung heroism, in collaboration with the
 Fire Brigades Union’s Red Plaque Scheme for firefighters who have died in the line of duty,
 which has been covered by local and national media. This kind of engagement activity is central
 to our rationale as outward looking historians because it connects with wider social issues, such
 as the inclusion of minority groups in national heritage policymaking or the commemoration of
 ‘everyday heroes’ who otherwise get forgotten.

 Making a contribution to society

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Historical practice is an ongoing dialogue between the past and the present and has made, and
 continues to make, a useful contribution to society, through the nuanced critical reflection that
 historians bring to discussion. We are not recent converts to this view, having been longstanding
 contributors to national networks of policy-facing historians, notably History & Policy, which was
 founded in 2002 to connect historians, policy makers and journalists to learn from each other
 with the expectation that a historically-reflective approach benefits policy making and delivery.
 Ewen, Irving, Mosley and Shore are all active participants of the History & Policy network, having
 given public talks and published policy papers and opinion articles on various issues in the
 public domain.

 Since 2014, History staff have given the following talks to invited representatives of government
 at the Home Office as part of its regular seminar series: Shore (2015) on young criminal lives,
 Ewen (2016 and 2018, the first historian to be invited back to the series) on joint service delivery
 between the police and fire service and the emergence of fire prevention in Britain since 1945,
 and Irving (2020) on the lessons of the Blitz for emergency preparedness. The Head of the
 Home Office’s Fire Safety Unit described Ewen’s 2018 lecture on ‘Iconic fires and the rise of
 fire prevention’ as ‘Extremely useful … and directly applicable to my work as head of the Fire
 Safety Unit. It put my current work on the Hackitt Review and Grenfell Tower Inquiry in their
 proper historical perspective’. History staff have also written policy papers and opinion pieces for
 History & Policy, using historical research to make recommendations for government in its
 response to emerging issues and crises. Ewen has also written two opinion pieces (in 2016 and
 2017) on fire service reform, and a policy paper, based on original research, on the historical
 lessons behind the Grenfell Tower fire disaster. Irving has also written an opinion article on the
 lessons of the Blitz for emergency preparedness, again in the aftermath of Grenfell.

 We regularly reconfigure our research to speak to contemporary issues and crises as they
 emerge. This flexibility is evident in our responses to the Covid-19 pandemic. We have adapted
 our research expertise for a world that is searching for lessons and ways to manage our
 everyday lives as we slowly return to a ‘new normal’. Since the beginning of lockdown in March
 2020, History staff (Irving and Ewen) have organised virtual research workshops on Zoom,
 published policy papers about the historical lessons that pertain to Covid-19 which have been
 read by senior officials in Public Health England and the Home Office, written blog posts about,
 amongst other things, the Blitz spirit (Irving) and food during Covid (Rich).

 History staff have worked with other external organizations in order to effect change to the way
 that organizations tackle some of the pressing issues facing the contemporary world. We are
 active in addressing the growing environmental crisis of climate change. Van Horssen was part
 of the all-female crew that sailed around Britain in 2017 to raise awareness of plastic pollution
 and subsequently organised an Edinburgh Fringe event at ASCUS Labs as part of the
 eXXpedition Round Britain project. Mosley has given public talks, and published articles (2014,
 2017), on the history of smoke pollution for the Friends of the Earth’s project, ‘Big Questions’, as
 part of its Clean Air campaign. Irving has used historical analogy to raise public awareness of
 the issue of recycling and reusing waste through his partnership with Zero Waste Leeds, a local
 campaign group seeking to make Leeds a zero-waste city by 2030.

 Engaging audiences
 History has proactively developed local and regional collaboration in the following ways.

    •   A significant collaborative relationship with Leeds Museum and Galleries (LMAG) and
        LBU History led, in 2017, to the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding to facilitate
        collaboration in research. Events have included the ‘Historians meet Curators’ event at
        the Leeds Discovery Centre (2015), Irving and Ewen’s involvement in the Being Human
        event at Leeds Museum (2016); and the Public History Workshop, with History Lab Plus
        and LMAG, at the Leeds Discovery Centre (2018).
    •   History colleagues contribute to the CCA’s monthly series of Cultural Conversations in
        partnership with Leeds City Council and the publisher Palgrave, to bring our research to
        new publics. Since 2014, Dampier, Rich (twice), Shore (twice), Ewen, Oram, Goodwin,

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Hignett, van Horssen, Irving, Morgan, Mosley have all presented their research to public
        audiences. Well over 2000 local people have attended these events, and the online
        archive of events gives them a helpful afterlife. Since the launch in September 2020 of a
        CCA podcast series, ‘Culture and Covid-19’, to showcase staff research through a
        conversational format, four historians (van Horssen, Irving, Andrews, Rich) have
        featured.
    •   History runs various events with current and future research leaders in the discipline. In
        2017 we instituted the annual LBU History Lecture. Guest lecturers have included
        Professor Pamela Cox (University of Essex) and Professor Peter Mandler (University of
        Cambridge). We run a History Research Seminar, to which we invite external speakers,
        and which is well attended by staff and postgraduate and undergraduate students. In
        2016 and 2017, the seminar received funding from the Royal Historical Society’s
        Postgraduate Speakers Scheme. We also organise academic conferences, with strong
        student input to the organizational side, from the ‘Exploring Experiences of Repression in
        the USSR and Communist Eastern Europe’ conference (2017) to the ‘Hero and Heroism:
        Then, Here and Now’ conference (2019). Our PhD students are themselves active in
        organising events, locally and further afield, with the full support and guidance of their
        supervisory teams and the Heritage Consortium. These include two interdisciplinary Grim
        Up North conferences at Leeds Library (2016) and Hull University (2017), and the
        Difficult Heritage conference at the University of York (2018). The proceedings of the first
        Grim up North event were published in the International Journal of Local and Regional
        History (2018).
    •   History staff are attuned to the need to engage with the public through regular
        contributions to the mass media. Recent examples include van Horssen’s interviews with
        the New York Times, the Globe and Mail and other international media outlets (October
        2020) about the proposed name change to the town of Asbestos in Quebec. Media
        activity covers the full range and variety of staff expertise, which further demonstrates the
        reach and significance of our research: Dampier’s Emily Hobouse project featured in the
        Afrikaans language daily newspaper Die Volksblad, published in Bloemfontein (2019);
        Ewen contributed to BBC Radio 4’s The Long View episode on ‘The Watson Street and
        Grenfell Tragedies’ (2017), while Oram was interviewed for the BBC4 documentary on
        the artist Gluck, Britain's cross-dressing high society artist of the 1930s, ‘Gluck – Who
        Did She Think He Was?’ (2017). Staff have had articles published in, or been quoted by,
        The Guardian, The Economist, BBC History Magazine, Washington Post and New York
        Times, and we regularly contribute feature articles in the local and regional press.
        Examples include Mosley’s interview in The Yorkshire Post about the lessons of history
        for cleaner air (2016) and Ewen’s interview by the Telegraph & Argus in Bradford about a
        graphic novel art workshop with schoolchildren in Bradford (2019).




                                                                                             Page 13
