Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Glasgow Caledonian University

 Unit of Assessment:
 23: Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA23 is centred around work carried out over two GCU campuses (Glasgow and London),
 mainly through the Educational Research & Evaluation (ER&E) Group which is situated within
 the Department of Academic Development and Student Learning. Its overall objective is to drive
 and support educational research and scholarly activity in pedagogy, practice, policy and
 participation in partnership with the academic Schools. As such, it is inherently multidisciplinary,
 seeking to complement the activities of Research Centres and other research groups working
 across the University.

 The overarching driver for the team’s work is the GCU 2030 Strategy, particularly its goal of
 ‘Transforming lives through education’. Activities are also closely aligned to the Strategy for
 Learning, guided by priorities emerging from external drivers such as the SFC Outcome
 Agreement, the QAA Enhancement Led Institutional Review, as well as the National Student
 Survey and other measures.

 The establishment of the ER&E Group is a manifestation of an enhancement and evidence-led
 approach to improving the University’s Learning and Teaching as a part of the University’s wider
 Research Strategy. With the University’s adoption of the United Nations Sustainable
 Development Goals (SDGs) as its guiding framework, the research carried out by the Unit aligns
 closely with: SDG4 (Quality Education) - Colin Milligan’s work on Massive Open Online Courses
 and Dane Lukic’s work on Intercultural Competence; SDG8 (Decent Work and Economic
 Growth) - Dane Lukic’s work on Learning from Incidents, Nicola Andrew’s work on professional
 development in Nursing, Jacqueline McCallum’s work on Nurse Education, and Colin Milligan’s
 work on Personal Learning in the Workplace; SDG9 (Industry innovation and Infrastructure) -
 Dane Lukic’s work on Learning from Incidents; and SDG10 (Reduced Inequalities) - Karen
 Campbell’s work on widening access in Higher Education, Colin Milligan’s work on Massive
 Open Online Courses, and Larissa Kempenaar’s work on gender issues in HE. Conscious
 alignment to specific UN SDGs provides a strong organising principle for our work and facilitates
 new opportunities to explore interdisciplinary opportunities with researchers in other disciplines
 and collaboration with industry, practitioners, and end users, in the overarching pursuit of SDGs
 4 (Quality Education) and 17 (Partnerships for Goals). The University has achieved a top 50
 rank (43 out of 766, 2nd in Scotland and 8th in UK) in the Times Higher Education University
 Impact Rankings, which show how the Global Education Sector is working towards SGDs.
 UoA23 has played a major role in this, especially establishing international and interdisciplinary
 partnerships for knowledge boundary crossing, especially with ODA countries as key partners.


 PROGRESS SINCE 2014

 At the time of REF 2014, education research at Glasgow Caledonian University was focused on
 two centres: the Caledonian Academy, and the Centre for Research in Lifelong Learning. Our
 educational research structures have since been refreshed to support research-driven
 pedagogical innovation in our taught programmes, and to enhance cross-school, interdisciplinary
 and collaborative external impact through internationalisation of research activities. The current
 education research program builds on the strengths and previous achievements of our
 educational research from the previous period but is now distributed across the University
 through a network approach with a focus in Educational Research and Evaluation.

 Despite the structural changes, as envisaged in the 2014 REF, we have mentored and
 developed education researchers across other disciplinary contexts in GCU and beyond, as part

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of a broader strategy designed to provide baseline evidence to underpin professional practice
 and build a rich education research environment. The University has demonstrated its
 commitment to promoting the Scholarship of Learning and Teaching at all levels through the
 appointment of its first Professor of Learning and Teaching, as well as support for development
 of educational researchers within the Schools. This central focus enables interdisciplinary, intra-
 and inter-school collaboration across three Academic Schools in Glasgow as well as the GCU
 London campus guided by our Research Strategy 2020 and Strategy for Learning 2015-2020.
 Our institutional strategies include a commitment to enhance the research-teaching nexus and
 educational research and scholarship helps to underpin academic endeavours across the whole
 of the University and, in particular, to internationalise our research activity.


 RESEARCH THEMES

 The overarching theme of exploration of the Education UoA (Unit of Assessment) is that of
 learning and learners across contexts. It recognises that learning is a lifelong and life-wide
 phenomenon that involves and requires cross-fertilisation of knowledge across the various
 learning contexts that the learner encounters and makes transitions between them (e.g., formal,
 informal, professional, workplace). Research undertaken by the staff within the Education UoA
 during this REF period is organised in three strands:

    1. A focus on learning beyond formal contexts. Colin Milligan’s work explores how
       knowledge workers support their ongoing learning needs in the workplace whether
       through informal self-regulated workplace learning, or through the pursuit of semi-formal
       learning opportunities offered by the rise of Massive Open Online Courses. Dane Lukic’s
       workplace learning research looks at learning in organisations, focusing on how new
       learning practices can be propagated effectively. Larissa Kempenaar’s work on academic
       writing in Higher Education again considers the informal learning and development of
       higher education staff.
    2. An exploration of the complex roles of learners across contexts. Situated within a
       healthcare context, another strand of our educational research again looks at
       professional learning including Nicola Andrew’s work focusing on practice development
       among healthcare professionals and Jacqueline McCallum’s work exploring the role of
       mentorships within the nursing profession. As with our first focus, this strand of work
       highlights an important aspect of our UoA in general that looks beyond traditional
       conceptions of learners.
    3. A focus on how learners develop as individuals. The third strand includes Karen
       Campbell’s (see papers by Karen MacFarlane) research exploring how learners develop
       as they make the transition into Higher Education, research focused on understanding
       the development of intercultural competence of both students and HEI staff and
       developing approaches to foster inter-cultural awareness (papers by Dane Lukic) and
       research on self-regulation and how it empowers learners to take control of their learning
       (papers by Colin Milligan).


 INTERDISCIPLINARITY

 As an Education Research Unit that is not based in a University with an Education Faculty, nor
 focused on teacher-education, our work and approach is intrinsically interdisciplinary. Our work
 with industry on Learning from Incidents necessitated an approach that was flexible enough to
 appeal to industry experts who were not trained researchers, and whose specialism was not
 education, but instead drawn from a range of disciplines including petrochemical engineering,
 health and safety and risk management. Similarly, our research on Massive Open Online
 Courses emerged from our work on informal learning in the workplace and our view of these
 new forms of education was to see them as sitting at the boundary of professional practice and
 learning. This led to research designs and approaches that combined the norms of research into
 online learning and technology enhanced learning, with current thinking and practice in

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workplace learning research. Our practice-based research in Nursing also reflects this inherent
 interdisciplinarity, with attention paid to the role and expectations of professional bodies, and the
 tension between learning and practice, that followed the structural changes to Nurse Education
 introduced in the last generation. Our network approach to educational research across the
 University and beyond has allowed such knowledge boundary crossing for tackling complex
 learning issues.


 IMPACT

 While our research portfolio is varied in its focus and approach, all our researchers recognise the
 importance of generating research that addresses real-world problems (in line with our
 University’s commitment to the ‘Common Good’) and which has practical value. While, for some
 primary research, this commitment manifests itself as the sharing of research instruments and
 broad dissemination of research findings through non-traditional routes, it is also evident in our
 focus on creating tools and toolkits through which end users can interact and engage with the
 outcomes of our research. This submission includes two impact case studies relating to our
 research. In the first, Improving organisational safety through learning from incidents, GCU
 team’s research resulted in the co-production (with industry bodies and end user companies) of
 learning science informed frameworks and toolkits to directly improve Learning from Incidents. In
 the second case study, Intercultural competence development for student and staff in HEIs
 (Higher Education Institutions), our research on intercultural competence development for
 students and staff led to the development of a ‘Toolkit,’ of innovative and open models and
 resources and is now used by a variety of international HEIs to improve intercultural learning
 experiences of their students and staff.


 INTERNATIONALISATION

 The GCU ER&E research network views its work as intrinsically international through two
 perspectives: our research on intercultural competence and our conscious strategic principle of
 fostering international networks. Our research on intercultural competence directly contributes to
 policy and practice on internationalisation in higher education as it highlights the need to
 consider cross-cultural perspectives that go beyond the narrow ‘nation state’ concepts. As such,
 we critique the University internationalisation policies that focus predominantly on financial,
 numerical and mobility’s perspectives, and we emphasize the development of intercultural
 competence for students and staff for a global and inclusive world as a central purpose of all
 internationalisation strategies. Our work and contribution to this debate has resulted in several
 institutions redesigning their internationalisation policies to explicitly include ‘inter-culturalisation’
 perspectives (for example Universidad Don Bosco and Universidad Tecnologico de El Salvador).
 In addition to this, the Unit has fostered international networks through its research projects
 across the world, taking advantage of programmes such as Erasmus+ Capacity Building in
 Higher Education (for which GCU is the UK’s largest beneficiary) to increase the reach of its
 research impact. Working with other departments (such as the Research and Innovation Office
 and International Office) and UoAs (e.g., 17, 13, 12 and 3) within the University, projects
 specially aimed at enhancing the teaching-research nexus have been successfully implemented
 across North and Latin America as well as Israel, Iran, Vietnam, Egypt and Indonesia. We have
 also co-created research with diverse organisations and individual professionals around the
 world (from the EU, Canada, USA, Argentina, Mexico, El Salvador, Vietnam, Philippines). This
 inherently international approach to our research practice has allowed us to achieve profound
 results in research and impact around the world, despite being a relatively small group of
 educational researchers within GCU.




                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 OPEN ACCESS APPROACHES

 All our staff adhere to formal open access approaches as set out by the University’s Open
 Access to Research Policy (2014). This was further enhanced with updated PURE system
 modules that allow public sharing of outputs and research activities. The PURE aligned staff
 profiles are now searchable through main search engines which further enhances the visibility of
 our research activities. In addition to our institutional Open Access policy and practice, the
 educational research staff members are encouraged to additionally share their research
 whenever permitted through a variety of public fora including Mendeley and ResearchGate and
 publish using Creative Commons licences. These mechanisms increase the visibility of research
 and are particularly valued by researchers in developing nations who may not have access to
 expensive journal subscriptions. Sites such as ResearchGate aggregate new research outputs
 from researchers across the world and have become an important mechanism of discovery for
 new research. Sharing of research extends beyond primary research outputs and research staff
 are also encouraged to share presentations, data and research instruments through platforms
 such as Figshare to increase the reach and availability of these research artefacts and signal the
 openness of our practice. For example, Milligan’s instrument to measure self-regulated learning
 in massive open online courses (SRLMQ) has been viewed >4700 times and downloaded >1300
 times during the current REF period.


 RESEARCH INTEGRITY

 The unit works within the University’s research integrity infrastructure, providing local advice and
 resolution available in the first instance. The unit is represented on the University Research
 Ethics Sub-Committee by the Chair of the Local Research Ethics Committee which oversees all
 applications for education research. The same process is used for all activity - from scholarly
 evaluations of teaching through to approval of funded research projects - ensuring that
 researchers can become familiar with a single set of procedures and encouraging new
 researchers to adopt good practice at the outset of their research career.


 MOVING FORWARD

 The education research that we undertake at GCU is applied and impactful, ranging from the
 development of intercultural competence and widening participation in higher education, to
 learning from situated work-related incidents. Our environment is reflective of a wider move in
 the sector towards a more diverse and inclusive culture; one where staff and students are
 encouraged to become part of a research community and where individual and collective
 contributions are grounded in the University’s Common Good mission and vision, and reflective
 of our commitment to a high-quality education (SDG Goal 4).

 The current REF period has been a time of readjustment with the emphasis on supporting the
 development of new educational research capacity. The next REF period working towards 2027
 will build on the establishment of the ER&E team and focus on the wider recruitment and
 development elsewhere within the University of academic development staff with an educational
 research background. It will also be about consolidating and growing our international networks.
 The upheaval caused by Brexit has necessitated a re-calibration of our internationalisation
 strategy, which has been heavily reliant on European Commission funding through Erasmus+. In
 the next period we will explore other opportunities at a national, transnational and international
 level (e.g., British Council, GCRF, etc.).

 The changes brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic will impact on education research and
 influence the way forward in the sector as we move towards the next REF. At GCU the ER&E
 team have already informed mainstream academic practice in new ways. Exploring and
 reporting findings from the rapid move to remote working and the impact of mainstreaming the
 online environment on staff and students has enhanced their institutional profile and signposts

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 new activity as we work towards the next REF. This is reflected in the strategic objectives
 detailed below.


 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES

 Our overarching strategic objectives balance our external and internal aspirations:

    •   Capitalise on the positive outcomes of REF21 and work towards an enhanced
        submission by developing an action plan aligned with the University Research Strategy
        that continues to build a critical mass of education researchers; strengthens existing and
        creates new research networks/collaborations (internal and external) and embed the
        training and support needed to sustain a vibrant community and increase successful
        external funding applications.
    •   Build on existing expertise to support the generation of a cohesive body of knowledge
        that impacts on learners both within and beyond the University, ensuring that external
        research impacts practice within and vice-versa. A recent example of this is the TRUST-
        EU grant which brings together expertise from the ER&E team and staff in GCU London
        (along with a range of international partners) to improve Masters level business
        education.
    •   Align with the University’s commitment to the GCU Common Good mission and vision,
        recognise and respond to the pressing need to address current and future societal
        challenges through a sustained commitment to research that positively contributes to the
        quality of the student experience by exploring social inclusion and key areas of equality
        and diversity in higher education.
    •   Recognise and exploit the current invigorated interest in new research opportunities
        created by the accelerated move in the sector towards mainstream online/blended
        learning by forecasting and leading on research that aims to integrate an increasingly
        metricised learning environment with the philosophy of the SDGs, including underlying
        social factors such as isolation, resilience and digital poverty.
    •   Disrupt the traditional view of the higher education researcher in the post-COVID-19
        environment, by capitalising on a heightened national profile to introduce novel applied
        research that crosses the traditional boundaries of education research and professional
        practice and opens up new avenues of inquiry in an evolving and fast paced
        environment.
    •   In response to the recent sector wide move to rapidly mainstream online/blended
        learning, look again at the traditional definitions and meaning of research/teaching
        linkages in relation to what is currently described as the ‘new normal’ from both an
        institutional and wider sector perspective.
    •   Forecast trends, challenges and opportunities that impact on the institution by analysing
        and reporting on sector and university surveys and institutional statistics that will inform
        the development of learning and teaching strategy and practice across the University.

 2. People

 INTRODUCTION

 Whereas in REF 2014 there were two centres and a number of staff whose primary role was to
 conduct education research, the University took advantage of personnel change to reposition its
 education research activity, and this is now physically and structurally distributed across the
 University, with individual researchers embedded within a range of disciplinary contexts as well
 as ER&E core staff within the central support Department of Academic Development and
 Student Learning.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PROMOTING A RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT

 The ER&E team is a hub for educational research with a leading commitment to support
 evidence led approaches to enhancing teaching and learning across the institution. The
 positioning of education research within the Scottish enhancement context facilitates a strong
 developmental role for education research at the University. The ER&E team supports
 development of staff at all stages of their research journey, supplying one-to-one advice and
 mentoring, research seminars, and training workshops specifically tailored to the needs of
 education research. This provision complements the University level development offerings
 provided by the Graduate School and the wider Academic Development opportunities provided
 under the University’s Academic Development Framework.

 The education research environment at GCU is shaped by the SDGs and our commitment to the
 Common Good mission and vision. We recognise and will continue to respond to the pressing
 need to address current and future societal challenges (as outlined in the strategic objectives)
 through a sustained commitment to research involving meaningful partnership working with staff
 and students that positively contributes to the quality of the student experience by exploring
 social inclusion and key areas of equality and diversity in higher education.


 DEVELOPING STAFF

 At GCU education research provides an additional pathway through which teaching oriented
 staff can develop a research trajectory. Internal funding is available for staff who wish to pursue
 a PhD. This funding stream reflects our commitment to the scholarship of learning and teaching
 and enhancement through evidence driven approaches and can be a key route to development
 for some academic staff. A second route to development, favoured particularly by staff who have
 arrived in their teaching discipline as practitioners (the University teaches degree programmes in
 Nursing and a wide range of Allied Health Professions) is the Professional Doctorate offered by
 the University. The Professional Doctorate is structured in two stages. Stage One involves four
 taught modules. The modules develop the students’ knowledge by framing and exploring their
 experiences in relation to theory. This mechanism provides both a source of learning, but also
 creates a supportive network for students that helps them meet the demands of combining full
 time work and part time study, supporting them through Stage Two which requires the students
 to research and write a thesis on an organisational problem, thus fulfilling the ESRC demand
 that the student’s work contributes to both theory and practice. Several GCU staff have chosen
 the Professional Doctorate to understand, explore and enhance a broad range of areas aligned
 with learning and teaching experiences. A third route is to pursue the Award of ‘PhD by Previous
 Published Works’ where established researchers can complement their research contributions
 with a narrative that brings the work together and provides an opportunity for reflection on the
 Doctoral journey. Indeed, this route was followed by one of the contributors to this submission,
 Karen Campbell, who recently (2020) gained her PhD with a Thesis entitled: ‘Widening
 Participation in Higher Education: Immersion Prior to Entry as an Enabler’. A summary of
 doctoral research degree completions during the assessment period is provided in Table 2.1
 below.

  2013/14     2014/15      2015/16      2016/17      2017/18      2018/19      2019/20           Total
  1.33        0.34         1.50         0.50         1.33         2.16         0.00              7.16
   Table 2.1: Research doctoral degrees awarded. NB non-whole numbers reflecting the interdisciplinary
        nature of supervisory teams where co-supervisors have been returned against other UoAs.


 For PhD students & Professional Doctorate students, supervisory arrangements conform to
 University-wide standards such that all supervisory teams include at least one member with prior
 successful experience of research supervision. New supervisors are supported by a programme
 provided by the Graduate School, an area of enhanced institutional support since 2008. All
 doctoral students must complete a formal research skills programme with a focus on research

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 methods and skills. Training utilises both internal and external facilitators and includes academic
 writing. The Graduate School acts as a hub to support the academic and cultural life of research
 students. It operates in a dedicated facility to create a sense of community in which
 postgraduate students can mix across disciplinary boundaries, leading to an enriched research
 experience. PhD progress mechanisms include regular, timely hurdle processes, including
 formal presentation of a research proposal in the first year. PhD students have access to annual
 funds to enable conference participation and presentation.


 STAFF PROFILE

 All staff submitted to the Unit are on open-ended contracts (Table 2.2) with staff at a range of
 levels in the organisation (Table 2.3). As permanent staff, Unit members have access to the
 normal development processes of the University (Performance and Development Annual
 Review) as well as progression opportunities through the University’s Academic Promotion
 process. Additionally, staff have access to the normal employment benefits offered by the
 University including organisational support for mental health, parental leave, and flexible working
 arrangements to accommodate those staff with caring responsibilities. Two staff returned in this
 UoA are on part-time contracts.

                              Contract Type        Number     % of total
                              Permanent            6          100%
                              Fixed term           0          0%
                              Atypical             0          0%
                              contracts
                              Total                6          100%
                             Table 2.2: Contract Status of Submitted Staff

  HESA category                                                                         Number
  C1 Head/Director of major academic area                                               0
  E1 Head of a sub-set of academic area / Directors of Small Centres                    1
  D2 Head of Department                                                                 1
  J0 Section/team leader (professional, technical, administrative), lecturer B (pre-    2
  92), Senior Lecturer (post 92), Senior Research Fellow
  K0 Senior Professional/Technical Staff, Lecturer A (pre-92), Lecturer (post-92),      2
  Research Fellow, Researcher/senior research assistant, Teaching Fellow
  Total                                                                                 6
                   Table 2.3: Categories of Submitted Staff at REF 2021 Census date


 EQUALITY & DIVERSITY

 The years between the REF in 2014 and the current REF have highlighted a growing need to
 challenge previous and sometimes flawed assumptions and outdated stereotypes, adapt to a
 changing research landscape and move towards a culture that promotes greater equality and
 diversity. At GCU our approach to education research seeks to tackle these challenges by
 promoting an inclusive community culture where the research-teaching nexus is grounded in
 learning and teaching and enhancement of the student experience. Research and evaluation
 activity align with our commitment to the GCU Common Good mission and reflects the United
 Nations Sustainable Development Goal 4 of Quality Education. The University’s Equality and
 Diversity and Dignity at Work policies are deployed across all aspects of the recruitment and
 career management of all our researchers and PhD candidates. These policies ensure that each
 person is treated equitably and with respect and that decisions are transparent and sound. The
 group is international and ethnically diverse, and equality and diversity are embedded in
 research-led teaching activities, which addresses gender, race, disability, social inclusion, and
 poverty-impacts on a world-wide scale.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 INCOME

 Our Research Income reflects a diversity of sources (Table 3.1). In the reporting period,
 research grants awarded to the education research unit amounted to £480,407, compared to the
 REF2014 reporting period where grant income amounted to £640,773. However, importantly the
 portfolio diversified during this period, reflecting the ambitions of the Unit to internationalise its
 activity.

         HESE Category                                            TOTAL (2013/14-2019/20)
         BIS Research Councils                                    £24,403
         UK Based Charities (open competitive process)            £80,823
         UK Based Charities (other)                               £5,655
         UK Central Government/ Local Authorities / RDEC          £48,094
         EU (European Union) Governmental bodies                  £306,823
         Non-UK Charities                                         £14,609
         Total Income                                             £480,407
                                 Table 3.1: Diversity of income sources

 Much of our research is interdisciplinary by nature and often as part of a larger consortium, and
 as such carried out in collaboration with other departments and UoAs. The value of some of
 these large scale, international projects, and total research income derived from them, is
 described below:

    •   Latin American University Research and Doctoral Support (LAURDS, with UoA17): an
        international project to develop resources to enhance academic research in Latin
        America. The project was conducted by a consortium of four Latin American and four
        European partners (total budget - EUR817,399; EUR153,125 to GCU with £35,297 to
        UOA23).
    •   Teaching Excellence in Israel (TeachEx; with UoA17) was conceived to contribute to the
        continuous professional development of academic staff by offering adequate support
        structures (Centers for Teaching Excellence) and innovative, high-quality, flexible
        programs designed to promote better teaching and therefore enhanced learning as well
        (EUR960,021; EUR47,477 to GCU; £15,230 to UoA23).
    •   Internationalisation of Higher Education in Iran (IHEI; with the Research and Innovation
        Office) aimed to raise the International Relations capacities of Iranian Higher Education
        Institutions by increasing their potential openness and reducing barriers for fluid
        international exchanges (EUR922,219; EUR79,000 to GCU; 27,750 to UoA23).
    •   Strengthening National Research and Innovation Capacities in Vietnam (ENHANCE; with
        UOA3) provided a mid/long term strategy for the Vietnamese Higher Education system
        (EUR922,219; EUR90,860 to GCU; £43,350 to UoA23).
    •   International Diploma for School Teachers in STEM Education (eSTEM; with UoA12)
        developed a new generation of qualified STEM teachers in Egypt and other Arab
        countries who are capable of providing adequate and innovative teaching in Science,
        Technology, Math and Engineering-based subjects (EUR906,318; EUR74,390; £32,100
        to UoA23).
    •   Promoting Excellence in Employability and Transversal Skills (skills which are readily
        transferable and flexible) (PEETS; with UoA11) created industry informed,
        multidisciplinary and intercultural learning designs and resources to enhance the
        professional development of HEIs students and staff (EUR107,036; £20,136 to UoA23).
    •   Education at Universities for Intensive International Experiences (EQUiiP; with the
        International Office) provided an integrated, flexible programme of Continuing
        Professional Development modules for use during the internationalisation of higher
        education (EUR447,750; EUR179,100 to GCU; £41,882 to UoA23).



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Indonesian Education for All (INDOEDUC4ALL; with Research and Innovation Office)
        encouraged the participation and input from students with disabilities in Indonesian
        universities (EUR906,051; EUR81,248 to GCU; £41,398 to UoA23).

 Due to the practice-focused nature of much of our work, we also pursue funds which are more
 developmental in nature and not necessarily classified as Research Income. We ensure that
 there is a sound empirical base underpinning all our development focussed funding grants, so
 that our application and impact within those large-scale projects is research-based. Therefore, in
 addition to the income submitted under in REF4b, other development focused grants include:

    •   Professional Development in Intercultural Competence in Higher Education Institutions
        (PROFIC) funded by the European Commission Erasmus+ Action 2 funds: Capacity
        Building in the field of Higher Education. Dr Dane Lukic (Principal Investigator). The
        project includes 11 partners from EU and Latin America. 2018-2021, €687,663.
    •   TRUST Financial Technology and digital innovation to modernise and develop curriculum
        of Vietnamese and Philippines Universities”, project led Guglielmo Marconi University,
        GCU partner. GCU PI Dr Dane Lukic, Dr Colin Milligan Co-I. Erasmus+ CBHE: Total
        project budget €871,974, GCU portion of the funding for educational research
        components €76,672.
    •   Inclusion and Innovation: social, wellbeing and economic aspects of interculturality 2019-
        2020 Project jointly led by GCU and Universidad Veracruzana (UV), UK PI Dr Dane
        Lukic, Mexico PI Professor Gunther Dietz. £8,500.

 These various sources of income ensured that we further our capacity in researching learners
 across different contexts and consider baseline research and implementation as part of the
 same collaborative process, rather than different phases in the lifetime of research. Therefore,
 including projects that were solely research and projects that were developmental based on
 research, the GCU ER&E network brought in £1,160,000 over the relevant REF period.


 INFRASTRUCTURE & FACILITIES

 The current operational and scholarly infrastructure that supports education research and
 evaluation at GCU is relatively new (as described in the introduction to this statement) and as
 already stated, builds on the strengths of the approach in place at the time of the last REF.
 Educational Research at GCU brings together a diverse group of researchers and practitioners
 who are interested in the scholarship of learning and teaching. A central Education Research &
 Evaluation Team support the wider academic community and act as a hub for the different
 strands of activity across the University. In terms of facilities the group includes office spaces for
 staff involved in educational research across all Glasgow based Schools as well as the GCU
 London Campus, and the dedicated space within the Department of Academic Development and
 Student Learning for the Educational Research & Evaluation (ER&E) team. The educational
 researchers arrange seminars, webinars and knowledge exchanges to ensure collaborations.
 The educational research network led by the ER&E hub has a dedicated online space for
 collaboration and our support structures integrate with other academic development activities
 such as our Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (SFHEA) Network to encourage
 staff to explore scholarly approaches to their practice.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 INTRODUCTION

 The outputs included in this submission (REF2) have been published in top academic journals in
 the field: Computers and Education, The Internet and Higher Education, Higher Education,
 Teaching in Higher Education and Higher Education Research and Development. The
 interdisciplinary nature of the research we conduct is reflected in its presence in discipline-
 focused education journals such as Nurse Education in Practice, and in specialised journals in

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 other fields such as Safety Science, Risk Management and Knowledge Management Research
 and Practice. Our research is fundamentally collaborative, involving stakeholders from industry
 and professional bodies and academic partners from across the world.


 RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS

 The ER&E takes a strategic perspective on fostering collaborations and partnership to further
 our research and maximise impact for stakeholders. The main principles of our partnership
 strategies are a) working directly with key stakeholders and potential users of research outputs,
 b) establishing international and interdisciplinary partnerships for knowledge boundary crossing
 and c) inclusion of ODA countries as key partners. This strategic approach enables us to
 develop a profound and impactful internationally recognized research portfolio despite having a
 relatively small educational researchers group within GCU. Our strategy in fostering partnership
 at all stages of the research is guided by our institution’s commitment to the Common Good and
 the UN SDGs, especially Goals 4 on quality education and 17 on the need for partnerships for
 tackling global issues.

 With our international projects carried out with other UoAs and University departments, we have
 established partnerships with a wide range of universities from across the world, including: Iran
 (Allameh Tabataba'i University, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Shahid Chamran University of
 Ahvaz, Shiraz University, University of Kurdistan, University of Sistan and Baluchestan);
 Vietnam (An Giang University, Can Tho University, Hue College of Agriculture and Forestry,
 Ministry of Education and Training, The Center for Vietnamese and Southeast Asian Studies);
 Panama (Universidad Catolica Santa Maria La Antigua, Quality Leadership University);
 Colombia (University of Ibague and University Panamericana); Indonesia (Universitas Islam
 Negeri Sunan Kalijaga, Universitas Indonesia, Lambung Mangkurat University, Universitas
 Negeri Surabaya Indonesia).

 As an example of our international and inclusive research partnership agenda, GCU is leading a
 network on intercultural competence including HEIs across European and several Latin
 American ODA countries (Professional Development in Intercultural Competence in Higher
 Education Institutions – PROFIC, led by Dane Lukic). The network includes the Union of
 Universities of Latin America and the Caribbean (UDUAL), the University of Guadalajara and
 Veracruz University, in Mexico, the University of Cordoba, the University of La Plata and the
 University of Lanus, in Argentina, Guglielmo Marconi University, in Italy, the University of
 Deusto, in Spain, and the University of El Salvador and Don Bosco University, in El Salvador.
 Through the PROFIC network our research on intercultural competence development for
 students and staff has had an impact on learning and teaching practice as well as staff
 development in universities in the UK, Spain, Mexico, Argentina, and El Salvador. Our leading of
 intercultural competence partnerships includes collaborations with the University of Deusto and
 Groningen University on several intercultural projects. The intercultural competence work is also
 furthered through collaboration with the leading researcher in the field, Professor Gunther Dietz
 and Intercultural Universities initiatives in Mexico focusing on including indigenous cultures in
 higher education. Our work around interculturality and inclusivity in learning led to the
 establishment of a partnership with the British Council Mexico for work developing this area.
 Follow up work is planned with the Veracruz Intercultural University, Mexico and the British
 Council to facilitate future work with indigenous cultures and intercultural competence.

 Our strategic principle of working with key stakeholders (as well as with international
 organisations) is also enacted in the work of Colin Milligan on professional and informal learning,
 and the role of social media and web-based tools in supporting personal learning networks that
 led to an early involvement in research into Massive Open Online Courses. This work has been
 critical in shaping this emerging research domain with several highly cited articles. The first of
 our outputs was identified as one of the dozen most cited MOOC papers (at the time) by
 Veletsianos & Shepherdson (2016). This early engagement in MOOC research culminated in
 Colin Milligan and colleagues securing funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation as part

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the MOOC Research Initiative, the first dedicated funding scheme for MOOC research,
 funding around a dozen projects worldwide. A key limitation of early MOOC research was the
 tendency of MOOC research to be undertaken by the teams running the MOOC themselves
 (who were rarely education/learning researchers). In contrast, our approach was to partner with
 the MOOC providers, but carry out the research independently as specialist online learning
 researchers. This led to international research collaborations with educators across North
 America at Harvard Medical School (Obiageli Ukadike), and the University of Virginia (Nabeel
 Gillani). Our research on technology enhanced professional learning also led to participation in
 developmental networks focusing on university staff training across several universities in the
 Philippines and Vietnam through the TRUST project.

 Moreover, working with various stakeholders that might not be traditionally involved in
 educational research but can be direct users of research is demonstrated in Lukic’s research on
 Learning from Incidents in organisations (LFI) developed through a long-standing relationship
 with the UK Energy Institute and their development of safety learning in the workplace. This
 research supported efforts to reduce the negative effects of such events in high-risk
 organisations by developing and testing learning science informed frameworks and toolkits to
 improve LFI offered by the Energy institute in their role as professional body for the Industry. The
 LFI toolkit work was funded by Royal Dutch Shell plc and the Energy Institute (EI) and used by
 several major energy companies, including Shell, BP, Exxon, TOTAL, Chevron, ConocoPhillips,
 and Phillips66 to improve their LFI practices. Through the ESRC LFI Seminar Series, the
 partnerships were further strengthened to include a number of both academic and industry
 partners (University of Edinburgh, University of Southampton, University of Aberdeen and
 University of Loughborough as academic partners, and Energy Institute, British Safety
 Organisation and TNO as industry partners). In addition to core partners the seminar series and
 workshops attracted participants from more than 15 academic institutions and more than 30
 industry organisations. Through leading networks and creating platforms for interdisciplinary and
 inter-sectoral educational research GCU has enabled engagement with stakeholders not
 typically involved in learning development, which led to several follow up initiatives and projects
 on LFI across the wider partnership.

 Other international connections nurtured by the GCU ER&E group include Colin Milligan’s
 collaborations with several researchers throughout Europe and North America. Donatella
 Persico, of the Italian National Research Council visited for an extended research visit (three
 weeks) to learn about our work on charting and collective learning. This collaboration led to the
 publication of one joint conference paper and Donatella has taken forward our work in her own
 research on teacher education in Italy. Nicola Andrew has collaborated with researchers in
 Europe and previously held a three-year Research Consultancy in the Faculty of Psychology
 and Sciences of Education, University of Porto, Portugal, funded by the Portuguese Foundation
 for Science and Technology. Andrew is currently a Research Advisor at the Faculty of Health
 and Medical Sciences at the University of Adelaide, Australia. This has led to the publication of
 one journal article with a further two in preparation.


 RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY RESEARCH USERS / WORK WITH PROFESSIONAL BODIES

 Karen Campbell has built a working relationship with researchers from the AshokaU network.
 AshokaU is a global network of universities and colleges who work collectively to make social
 innovation a new norm in higher education and beyond. GCU is a designated Changemaker
 Campus, one of only 29 in the world and the first in Scotland. Campbell’s research on GCU’s
 Common Good Curriculum was presented to an international audience at the AshokaU
 Exchange in Boston, USA in 2018.

 Karen Campbell’s research outputs in widening participation have been requested by the
 Commission on Widening Access (CoWA) to inform the development of the Framework for Fair
 Access and the Scottish Toolkit for Fair Access. The report from her work on GCU’s Advanced
 Higher Hub was delivered to John Swinney, Cabinet Secretary for Education and Skills and was

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 referenced in the Scottish Parliament by the Minister for Education and in the Scottish
 Parliament’s Education and Skills Committee meeting on 3 April 2019. The same report entitled,
 An Evaluation of the Advanced Higher Hub: The Learner Perspective is available as an example
 of good practice on the Scottish Government’s website. Campbell’s research on widening
 participation informed the direction of the Scottish Government’s plans for fair access in terms of
 the Framework for Access, regarding the Commission on Widening Access’ (CoWA)
 recommendation 6: ‘The Scottish Government, working with key stakeholders, should ensure the
 key transitions phases around SCQF levels 6 to 8 are better used to provide students from
 disadvantaged backgrounds with the qualifications and experiences required to support fair
 access.’ (CoWA, 2016).


 VISITING RESEARCHERS

 Our research networks enable us to host visits from research colleagues across the world.
 Recent visitors include Prof. Terry Anderson (University of Athabasca), Ashwini Datt (University
 of Auckland), Dr Maaike Endedijk (University of Twente), Prof. Piet van den Bossche (University
 of Antwerp), and Associate Professor Philippa Rasmussen (University of Adelaide).


 PRIZES AND FELLOWSHIPS

 Karen Campbell’s work on Widening Participation resulted in her receiving the Association of
 University Administrators’ 2019 Essay Prize for her paper: ‘How can Universities contribute to
 the Common Good’. Campbell’s research on the Common Good Curriculum was included as
 part of a submission for AshokaU’s 2018 Innovation Award for which GCU was short-listed.
 Outputs from Campbell’s research on GCU’s Advanced Higher Hub led to the research being
 short-listed for the 2019 Universities Association for Lifelong Learning Research Award. Dr
 Campbell’s widening participation research has been included in submissions for awards
 including the Social Mobility Awards, the Times Higher Educational Awards and the Herald
 Awards. Evidence from the Common Good Curriculum research and the Advanced Higher Hub
 research was submitted for the UK Social Mobility Awards 2019 which was won by GCU.
 Similarly, the Hub won both the Pride o’ Worth Award and the Partnership of the Year in the
 SQA Star Awards in 2016 supported by this research evidence. Research evidence on the
 impact of the Hub has been used to iteratively refine and further develop the Hub. This research
 was also used to present evidence to the funding bodies (SFC and Glasgow City Council) which
 helped to secure continued funding in 2018. The same evidence also helped to secure Hub
 backing from the Scottish Power Foundation to boost pupil participation in Science, Technology,
 Engineering and Mathematics (STEM).


 INVITED KEYNOTES

 Colin Milligan was an invited Keynote Speaker at the University of Bath Conference
 ‘Assessment & feedback: Curricula and Assessment in Higher Education’ (February 2017)
 speaking on ‘Encouraging Self-Regulated Learning in MOOCs’.

 Dane Lukic was an Invited Keynote Speaker at the 4th Symposium on University
 Internationalisation, University of Guadalajara, Mexico, 4-5 June 2019 and was invited to deliver
 a Seminar on ‘Internationalisation or inter-culturalisation: the case for intercultural competence’,
 UTEC, El Salvador, 28 May 2019.

 Karen Campbell’s widening participation expertise led to an invitation to provide the Keynote at
 the Widening Access in 2018: Next Steps Holyrood event in December 2017 and to an invitation
 to present the Keynote at the inaugural Teach-Learn-Share symposium at the University of
 Lancaster in November 2018.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EDITORSHIPS AND OTHER PROFESSIONAL LINKS

 Colin Milligan sits on the Editorial Board of The Internet & Higher Education, the second most
 highly rated journal in the field of Education & Education Research (JCR Impact Rating 2017:
 5.847). In addition, Milligan regularly reviews papers for many of the leading (by JCR Impact
 Rating) journals in the discipline including: Computers & Education, British Journal of
 Educational Technology, International Review of Research in Open and Distributed Learning,
 Learning Media & Technology, Human Resource Development Quarterly, Psychology Learning
 & Teaching, Transactions on Learning Technologies, Journal of Computing in Higher Education,
 as well as other prestigious international journals including: BMJ Open, PLOSOne, International
 Journal of Training and Development, Journal of Workplace Learning, Journal of Online
 Learning and Teaching. He has also been invited to referee/review book drafts and book
 proposals for Springer and Palgrave MacMillan.

 Dane Lukic is a regular reviewer of academic articles in the field of education and intercultural
 learning and workplace learning such as the Springer Social and Behavioural Sciences book
 series, Learning Organization journal, Journal of Workplace Learning and Academy of
 Management Learning and Education (AMLE).

 Nicky Andrew has reviewed articles for Nurse Education Today, International Journal of Nursing
 Education Scholarship and Innovations in Education and Teaching International.

 Karen Campbell regularly reviews papers for the Journal of Widening Participation and Lifelong
 Learning and the Society for Research in Higher Education and conference papers for, for
 example, Universities Association of Lifelong Learning, the Society for Research in Higher
 Education and the Quality Assurance Agency Scotland. Campbell was GCU’s nominated
 representative on Universities Scotland Working Group on Measures of Success, is the
 University’s representative on the Scottish Universities Association of Lifelong Learning steering
 group and the institutional champion for the Quality Assurance Agency’s Transitions Project.

 Jacqueline McCallum is a reviewer for Nurse Education Today and Nurse Education in Practice.
 She is also on the Council of Deans of Health Scotland, as well as the Council of Deans of
 Health UK Regulation group and was on the Council of Deans of Health UK financial review
 group. She is an elected member of the pre-registration nursing programme advisory board with
 the Scottish Government/NHS Education for Scotland due to her extensive knowledge and
 expertise in pre-registration undergraduate nursing and practice learning. McCallum has been
 Chair of the Scottish National Approach to Practice Assessment for Nursing since 2011 where
 all 12 HEIs in Scotland use the same practice assessment document, this has recently led to the
 re-approval by the NMC (Nursing & Midwifery Council) of the document for the NMC Future
 Nurse Standards and implementation in all the Scottish nursing pre-registration undergraduate
 curriculum from September 2020. She also regularly serves as an expert panel member on NMC
 approval events for pre-registration programmes.


 CONFERENCES & GRANT REVIEWING AND AWARDING COMMITTEES

 Colin Milligan has sat on the research program Committee for the last two European MOOC
 Stakeholders Summit Conference and has reviewed submissions for a range of prestigious
 International conferences including the conference of the European Association for Research in
 Learning & Instruction and the Networked Learning Conference. Colin Milligan has also
 reviewed grant proposals for the British Council and DFG (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft).
 Colin Milligan serves on the Advisor and Monitoring Committee for the EU-funded PROFIC
 project as an independent quality reviewer of project outputs.

 Dane Lukic was invited to act as an international project reviewer for the Irish Health Research
 Board Grants scheme (2016 call). For this work, Lukic reviewed large scale project proposals
 that focussed on learning. Lukic has also acted as a reviewer for the European Education

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Quality Indicators project (EERQI) funded by the European Commission FP7
 programme. The disciplinary value of Lukic’s research has also been recognised through an
 invitation to act as External Expert for the Periodic Review Panel reviewing the undergraduate
 and postgraduate portfolio of the Human Resource and Organisational Behaviour Department,
 Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge (May 2018).

 Jacqueline McCallum has sat on the scientific committee of the Nurse Education Today/Nurse
 Education in Practice for the last two conferences in Sitges, Spain 2020 (remotely) and Banff,
 Canada (2018). She has also sat on the scientific committee of the World Health Organisation
 Collaborating Centres conference 2016, Glasgow (GCU) and 2018 Australia.


 REACHING WIDER AUDIENCES

 The Education research group at Glasgow Caledonian University places a great deal of
 importance on disseminating its research beyond traditional journal and conference outputs.
 Colin Milligan has published discussion pieces on the utility of Massive Open Online Courses.
 For instance, in ‘Designing MOOCs for professional learners: Tools and patterns to encourage
 self-regulated learning’, an output prepared for eLearning Papers, the magazine format afforded
 an opportunity to think through real world application of the outputs of a research-focused
 project. Andrew was commissioned by Oxford University Press (New York) to author a chapter
 of the Encyclopaedia of Health and Risk Message Design and Processing; ‘Communities of
 Practice in Health and Risk Messaging’ (published 2017).

 The widening participation research is very much practice oriented and a key dissemination
 route for this research has been through grey literature. For example, a piece on the Advanced
 Higher Hub research ‘Capital gains: how school pupils become university students’, was
 commissioned by the influential WonkHE site and published in September 2019. Another article
 on the Hub research entitled, ‘Engaged for the next stage: a creative approach to widening
 participation in Higher Education’ was published by the Quality Assurance Agency in their
 Quality Enhancement Newsletter in October 2017. Dr Campbell’s research on GCU’s Common
 Good Curriculum has been used as an example of good practice by AshokaU, and Campbell
 was commissioned by AshokaU to author a book chapter about the University’s approach to
 evaluating the Common Good Curriculum for a collection on evaluation entitled ‘Evaluation for
 the Common Good: a whole institution approach to curriculum enhancement’.


 SUSTAINABILITY OF THE DISCIPLINE

 The recent COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the need for an increased level of education
 research across the Higher Education sector. At GCU we have rapidly accelerated research and
 evaluation around online and blended learning, in particular the need to explore the ways in
 which staff and students respond to the digital pivot. The University is collaborating with
 Universities in Scotland and the UK to focus on the emerging digital priorities. As the new QAA
 Enhancement theme ‘Building Resilient Learning Communities: Using Evidence to Support
 Student Success’ is launched in Scotland, GCU is already collaborating with Scottish
 Universities. The seed funding of small research projects has been the hallmark of our
 Enhancement Theme activity and as a young institution without an established School of
 Education we are investing in the development of the education research community to build
 sustainability and to incrementally grow the number of active education researchers. The
 mentoring, by experienced researchers of new education researchers, is also utilised to build
 capacity. In addition to staff development at GCU we recognise that the inclusion of students as
 research partners is also of value, and we encourage cross university project teams to include
 students, not just as participants but also as partners. At GCU we recognise that researchers
 bring a distinctive and valuable perspective to the work of other groups. Our small group of core
 researchers contribute to major Enhancement-led Institutional Reviews and exploration of key
 aspects of the student experience such as Widening Access and the BAME Student Experience.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This strand of activity supports the sustainability of the unit as it allows our researchers to build a
 distinctive institution wide profile and demonstrate and mainstream their value at the higher
 levels of the institution.




                                                                                                Page 15
