Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA20 - Social Work and Social Policy
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure:

 Social Work and Social Policy research at Sheffield Hallam University (SHU) is focused on
 engaging policy makers, practitioners and service users in order to build stronger and more
 inclusive communities. Encompassing staff from across the Department of Law and Criminology,
 the Department of Psychology, Sociology and Politics, and the Department of Social Work, Social
 Care and Community Studies - who are unified by a common concern with human rights and social
 justice - the strategic and operational management of research and knowledge exchange activities
 is coordinated through the Helena Kennedy Centre for International Justice. Launched in 2015,
 the Helena Kennedy Centre has sustained the development of applied research that is national
 and international in focus and of high impact.

 Three intersecting cross disciplinary specialisms have emerged from this organisational structure:
 1) Criminal justice; 2) Desistance and recovery; 3) Health, wellbeing and social justice. This
 research is characterised by a commitment to socially and politically engaged research that
 advances safety, prosperity and social inclusion for all. The strong growth trajectory of our work is
 evidenced by our first Social Work and Social Policy Research Exercise Framework submission
 since 2001. This consists of 22 staff (20.6 FTE), research funding valued at in excess of £1.6
 million, the progression of 11 doctoral students to completion, and outputs drawn from over 300
 monographs, book chapters, research reports and journal articles published by our staff over the
 assessment period.

 Research strategy:

 The Helena Kennedy Centre’s strategy over the assessment period is aligned with the University
 strategy and outlines a common and well-defined focus for researchers, integrating all staff in a
 shared approach to sustaining impactful applied research. SHU's commitment to expanding the
 breadth of its research has been realised locally through investment that has been targeted at
 unifying existing policy and practice-oriented research taking place across three Departments,
 located within two of three Colleges. Alongside the recruitment of senior staff to provide strategic
 direction (Best, Cole, Murphy), investment has focused on the development of our early career
 researchers (ECRs), by instituting structures that support shared learning through mentoring, peer
 review, collaboration and collegiality. Such structures have been buttressed by workload
 management, research project seed funding and funding to support dissemination activities that
 have advanced our outputs, external grant capture and the impact of our work. By consolidating
 attention and resources on expanding and enhancing existing research excellence in the areas of
 rights and justice, the Helena Kennedy Centre has been successful in developing a critical mass
 of interdisciplinary research.

 The intellectual agenda of our strategy predominantly addresses the rights and injustices of
 vulnerable and marginalised populations and is aligned with one of the University’s three research
 impact platforms, focused on contributing to the development and sustainment of inclusive
 communities. In responding to inequalities and injustices at local, national and global levels, our
 strategy and organising structure has enabled us to move away from discipline specific research,
 to focus attention on multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary responses to policy and practice across
 three intersecting specialisms:

    1. Criminal Justice. We recognise that societies cannot be inclusive without equal access
       to justice, and the Helena Kennedy Centre has developed a programme of research that
       centres on advancing criminal justice policy and practice that protects individual's human
       rights. This work has been progressed through partnerships, collaborations and capacity

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       for knowledge exchange across the academic community and with governmental
       agencies, charities, and public and private sector bodies. Notable examples of this work
       include Phillips' Equality and Human Rights Commission funded research into deaths after
       custody, in collaboration with the University of Cambridge; and Grace's interdisciplinary
       research with the University of Cambridge, Northumbria University and Durham
       Constabulary, which developed a self-regulatory model for police forces adopting machine
       learning in their intelligence analysis processes. Both research projects inform Impact
       Case Studies (ICS2 and ICS1). The Helena Kennedy Centre's research has resulted in
       monographs addressing Masculinities and the Adult Male Prison Experience (Sloan),
       Restorative Policing: Concepts, Theory and Practice (Paterson) and Administrating
       Victimization: The Politics of Anti-Social Behaviour and Hate Crime Policy (Heap), and
       edited collections The Palgrave Handbook of Prison Ethnography (Sloan), and
       Marketisation and Privatisation in Criminal Justice (Phillips), alongside a number of
       externally funded reports and journal articles relating to the policing of hate (Pickles), the
       impacts of austerity on policing (Black, Cole, Paterson) and probation practice (Phillips,
       Westaby).

    2. Desistance and recovery. During the assessment period, the Helena Kennedy Centre
       has undertaken research relating to drug and alcohol misuse, gambling addiction and
       offending behaviour. This work evidences the Helena Kennedy Centre's commitment to
       the effective community reintegration of excluded populations, and to challenge stigma and
       exclusion to enable people to fulfil their potential and to be active members of their families
       and communities. Collaborative research that engages end users and practice
       communities is a core component of our strategy. This work is underpinned by the view
       that practitioners and users have valuable and insightful things to say, yet their voices are
       rarely heard in academic studies or policy debate. In turn, policymakers should be
       cognisant of their needs, with a view to informing and improving help, treatment and
       support services. Major charity funded studies include Best and Andersson's research into
       recovery pathways and the first UK studies examining the effects on, and coping strategies
       and help-seeking behaviour of, families impacted by alcohol, drugs, gambling and
       offending (Banks, Andersson, Best and Waters). Alongside a number of peer reviewed
       reports and journal outputs focused on gambling-related crime and gambling-related harm
       (Andersson, Banks, Waters), which underpins an Impact Case Study (ICS3), colleagues
       have published work relating to recovery capital, community connections and prisons
       (Albertson, Best), the administration of justice and the recovery and rehabilitation of
       offenders (Andersson, Banks, Best, Waters), and social identity and addiction recovery
       (Albertson, Andersson, Best). This work has also led to favourably reviewed monographs
       Illegal Drug Use Through the Lifecourse: A Study Of 'Hidden' Older Users (Waters), Online
       Gambling and Crime: Causes, Controls and Controversies (Banks) and Gambling, Crime
       and Society (Banks), and edited collections Addiction, Behavioural Change and Social
       Identity: The Path to Resilience and Recovery (Best), and Strengths-Based Approaches
       to Crime and Substance Use: From Drugs and Crime to Desistance and Recovery (Best).

    3. Health, wellbeing and social justice. The Helena Kennedy Centre has developed a
       strong body of co-designed and co-produced research with beneficiaries that contributes
       to improving the health, wellbeing and quality of life of a range of different social groups,
       by enabling insight into the 'lived experiences' of service providers and users. This includes
       Brooks’ National Institute for Health Research funded research reports and papers
       exploring the experiences of disabled and older people, and the role of workplace personal
       assistants, and Murphy’s studies on homelessness and human trafficking. Chowbey has
       developed a body of work examining household economies, poverty and social exclusion,
       Dean’s funded research addresses homelessness, and youth, charities and volunteering,
       and Nelson has focused on the health of children and families. Albertson in collaboration
       with Banks, Best and others has engaged in a programme of work focused on the health
       and wellbeing of ex-service personnel supported by the British Academy/Leverhulme Trust
       and Ministry of Defence, whilst Peroni's research has contributed to the protection of
       migrant women's human rights. Monographs include Dean’s The Good Glow: Charity and

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the Symbolic Power of Doing Good and Murphy’s The New Slave Narrative: The Battle
        over Representations of Contemporary Slavery, and edited collections Emotional Labour
        in Criminal Justice and Criminology (Phillips, Waters, Westaby and Fowler), International
        Law and Violence against Women: Europe and the Istanbul Convention (Peroni) and
        Military Past, Civilian Present: International Perspectives on Veterans' Transition from the
        Armed Forces (Albertson).

 The Helena Kennedy Centre’s Strategic Research Priorities since its formation in 2015:

 In order to support and unite existing and emerging policy and practice-oriented research staff and
 students from across SHU, the Helena Kennedy Centre instituted a series of research priorities
 that have directed the development of social justice and rights-based work since its formation. In
 accordance with the University’s Creating Knowledge Implementation Plan, the Helena Kennedy
 Centre’s research strategy supports the continued development of a research team and culture
 equipped to lead human rights and social justice research as a core component of the University’s
 applied mission. The research priorities, which are summarised below, underpin the emergence
 of the aforementioned research specialisms and have been achieved through a host of cross-
 cutting initiatives, activities and processes detailed in Sections 2, 3 and 4.

    1. Ensure staff are allocated support, training and funding to pursue rights-based
       research. Through increased support to ECRs, targeted seed funding, mentoring and
       robust peer review processes, detailed in Sections 2 and 3, we have grown the number of
       research active staff, research income and output quantity, and enhanced output quality
       and impact activity since 2015. As evidenced in this submission, 17 of our staff are
       submitting to a research exercise for the first time, as a consequence of our significant
       efforts to recognise and resource research potential and ensure that staff receive the
       opportunities, mentorship and support to advance their research interests. Consequently,
       we now have the structures, complemented by a staff group with the necessary skills and
       experience, to provide support and guidance individually and collectively to ECRs. In
       addition, we have embedded research planning into the Helena Kennedy Centre's annual
       work planning and recognise and reward research achievements through our appraisal
       processes.

    2. Invest in research leadership. The Helena Kennedy Centre’s research specialisms have
       emerged, in part, as a consequence of the targeted recruitment of internationally
       recognised research leaders (Best, Cole, Murphy), to provide guidance, mentorship and
       support to our staff base, as well as through the progression of staff to reader (Dean, Heap,
       Marson, Phillips) and professor (Banks) posts. Equality and inclusion are at the heart of
       the values of the Helena Kennedy Centre and reflected in our approach to staff recruitment
       and development, as set out in Section 2.

    3. Secure a diverse array of funding from contract research, grant making and through
       partnerships. The Helena Kennedy Centre has developed a track record of securing and
       delivering quality policy-oriented research that has a range of beneficiaries since its
       formation in 2015. This includes research funded by Horizon 2020, research councils such
       as the British Academy and Leverhulme Trust, numerous charities, including the Tutu
       Foundation UK and the Oak Foundation, the UK government and local councils, as
       detailed in Section 3.

    4. Develop our postgraduate community through Graduate Teaching Assistantships,
       matched funding and collaborative PhD provision. As detailed in Section 2, we have
       recruited high calibre doctoral students to a range of internally and externally funded
       projects that align with our research specialisms, require collaboration with a variety of
       stakeholders, and are applied in nature.

 Strategic Research Priority 5 underpins the Helena Kennedy Centre's impact strategy.


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5. Be at the forefront of knowledge exchange and public engagement activities
       focused on human rights and social justice through partnership and collaborative
       work. Our three Impact Case Studies - that focus on emotional labour in probation
       practice, the ethical use of machine learning tools in policing, and gambling-related harm
       - exemplify our collaborative approach to public engagement and knowledge exchange,
       through our work with a range of public and private organisations, policy-makers,
       practitioners, service users and the wider public. In addition, the Helena Kennedy Centre
       has established itself as SHU’s key contributor to the University’s three-year Global
       Challenges Research Fund’s (GCRF) strategy through the priority area of human rights
       and social justice. For the past two years, the Helena Kennedy Centre has been working
       in India (de Hoog, Dhillon, Pandey, Paterson, Toor), leading a project to improve access
       to justice for women and girl victims of violence. Justice for Her is a collaborative effort with
       the Indian police across the vast and densely populated states of Delhi, Haryana, Madhya
       Pradesh and Punjab. This work, supported by GCRF funding of £104,332 and the Foreign
       and Commonwealth Office (£82,660), was in partnership with the National Law University
       Delhi and involved the design and implementation of training for 164 police trainers located
       in police academies across the four states. The training sought to increase awareness of
       the importance of policing gender-based violence and ensure that the police, prosecution
       authorities and judiciary know how to appropriately and effectively deal with women and
       girl victims of violence, so as to safeguard their access to justice, rights and protection.
       With the recruitment of Murphy to Professor of Human Rights and Modern Slavery, the
       Helena Kennedy Centre is well positioned to advance this foundational work.

 Future strategic plans for research:

    1. We will continue to grow the number of staff involved in rights-based research. In
       line with the university’s ambition that 50% of staff will have a significant responsibility for
       research by 2027, we expect to grow the number of staff with a significant responsibility
       for research by a minimum of 50% over the next assessment period.

    2. The Helena Kennedy Centre is committed to enhancing leadership further, to advance
       our work across public health, social care and criminal justice domains. The creation of
       three new professorial posts, through a combination of external recruitment and internal
       promotion, across Human Rights, Social Justice and Criminology, alongside the continued
       progression of staff to reader posts, will increase research leadership in our areas of
       strength, and provide the necessary strategic direction for a growing cohort of research
       staff to develop opportunities in new and emerging areas.

    3. By maintaining our existing relationships with government, charities and policy making
       organisations, and developing new partnerships and collaborations, we will scale up
       funding bids, in line with university expectations. We recognise that responding to
       some of the most pressing social justice and human rights concerns pertaining to public
       health, social care and criminal justice requires continued engagement in funder led
       research. For example, the Helena Kennedy Centre continues to contribute to Youth
       Endowment Fund evaluations, led by the Centre for Development and Research in
       Education at SHU. We will, however, seek to complement this work with an increase in
       successful bids focused on international problems to grant making organisations, as a
       means by which we can develop our intellectual agenda through researcher led projects.

    4. We will grow our doctoral student community across our intersecting specialisms by a
       minimum of two per year, recruiting to institution funded Graduate Teaching
       Assistantships, alongside providing matched funding to support external partnerships.

    5. In response to the establishment of the university's research and impact platforms, we will
       continue to develop the social, economic and cultural impact of our work through
       research and associated knowledge exchange and public engagement activities. In
       addition, we will continue to pursue successful collaborative work within SHU and with

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        national and international partners, in order to maximise the reach and impact of our
        research, and build upon the significant knowledge exchange activities that focus on
        gender violence and human rights. As detailed in Section 4, we have engaged the general
        public, fellow academics, policy and practice professionals, and service users through a
        range of fora. Whilst this will continue, our focus will be on knowledge exchange and
        engagement activities that allow us to better connect with relevant stakeholders
        internationally. In particular, we will enhance our online presence to better showcase our
        activities, engage international audiences and maximise the impact of our research.

 Interdisciplinarity:

 The Helena Kennedy Centre has supported a shift from discipline specific to multidisciplinary and
 interdisciplinary research activities in order to better respond to policy related challenges. This
 change has been instrumental in the expansion of the Helena Kennedy Centre's research that has
 been supported by external and internal funding sources. To consolidate our ability to respond to
 some of the most pressing social justice and human rights challenges, we will look to advance our
 partnership approach with research institutes and other organisations both nationally and
 internationally. For example, through our research activities and professional practice training, we
 retain strong links with probation services and police forces nationally and internationally, which
 will form the basis for future criminal justice related research projects.

 Open research:

 The Helena Kennedy Centre has fostered an environment that ensures the effective sharing and
 management of research data in accordance with the University Data Management policy and
 open access policy requirements. All staff are introduced to the principles of open access and data
 management, and SHU’s Research Archive and Research Data Archive as the principal means
 through which publications and data sets are stored and shared. Staff are also encouraged to
 utilise Researchgate, Academia.edu and other academic networking sites to share pre-print
 publications, as well as obtain an Open Researcher and Contributor ID, and familiarise themselves
 with the UK’s Data Service. In addition, successful funding bids are shared through the Helena
 Kennedy Centre’s internal research website to disseminate best practice, increase bidding
 success, and encourage a culture of transparency and information sharing.

 Research integrity:

 Helena Kennedy Centre staff contribute to ensuring research ethics and integrity at departmental,
 college and university levels and are important ambassadors for good practice. Phillips is the
 ethics lead for the Social and Economic Research Institute, whilst submitted staff sit on University
 Research Ethics Committee (Best, Sloan) and College of Social Sciences and Arts Ethics
 Committee (Banks, Sloan). In addition, almost all submitted staff serve as ethics reviewers for
 research across the university. All of our ethics reviewers have undertaken university training, and
 associated documents have been cascaded to all Helena Kennedy Centre staff. Successful
 applications for ethical approval and associated documents are shared through the Helena
 Kennedy Centre’s internal research website to ensure the highest standards of integrity,
 impartiality and respect for data are maintained by our staff.

 2. People

 The Helena Kennedy Centre’s staffing strategy and staff development initiatives, activities and
 processes are aligned with Strategic Research Priorities 1, 2 and 4, detailed in Section 1.

 Staffing strategy:

 There have been significant changes in the Helena Kennedy Centre's staff complement, in order
 to meet the growth in research and teaching provision, and build the capacity and sustainability of
 human rights and social justice research across our three intersecting research specialisms. In

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2014, five of our existing complement of staff were aligned with other UoAs. Research
 capacity has been increased through the strategic recruitment of methodologically skilled and
 doctorally trained research active staff at all levels. Recruitment has included a Professor of
 Criminology to lead our desistance and recovery research (Best) and Reader in Criminology to
 lead our criminal justice specialism (Cole). In addition, we have recruited a number of staff to
 Lecturer and Senior Lecturer posts to advance our research focused on criminal justice (Black,
 Pickles, Quinlan), desistance and recovery (Andersson and Albertson) and health, wellbeing and
 social justice (Brooks). In 2017, the Helena Kennedy Centre appointed a Lecturer in Human Rights
 (Peroni), and in 2019 a Professor of Human Rights and Modern Slavery (Murphy) and Researcher
 in Criminology and Human Rights (de Hoog), in order develop a new specialism focused on
 gender-based violence and human rights. These staff were recruited from Europe, South America
 and North America, as part of the Helena Kennedy Centre’s efforts to advance international
 collaborations for globally relevant research projects. At present, Helena Kennedy Centre
 researchers are drawn from 12 countries across four continents, reflecting our commitment to
 equality and diversity detailed below.

 The Helena Kennedy Centre's inclusive and collaborative approach to the development of all staff
 is evinced by this submission of 22 (20.6 FTE) staff of which 17 - 4 of whom are ECRs - are
 submitting to a research exercise for the first time. Of the 22 staff, 13 (60%) are women, whilst the
 submission has an early to mid-career researcher profile, reflecting the Helena Kennedy Centre’s
 staff profile more broadly. Two staff submitted to this research exercise have moved from full-time
 to 0.5 contracts and one staff member to a 0.6 contract, in order to support flexible working and
 ensure we retain staff.

 Staff's annual performance and development review supports research activities by recognising
 research successes and identifying research needs and targets for the coming year and beyond.
 This process is underpinned by SHU’s Academic Careers Framework (ACF), that creates a
 recognition and reward structure for staff across four strands, one of which is research and
 innovation. The progression of five staff to Reader (Banks, Dean, Heap, Marson, Phillips) and one
 staff member to Professor (Banks), moving from Associate Lecturer and Lecturer posts, is
 indicative of a sustainable staff strategy centred on recruiting and nurturing ECRs, and enabling
 them to develop their research excellence, leadership and scholarly reputation and facilitate
 succession planning.

 The Helena Kennedy Centre has also hosted high calibre Visiting Professors who have provided
 staff with additional research leadership and subject specific expertise. Visiting Professors include
 ex-New York Police Commissioner Professor Anthony Schembri (1/2015, 9/2016-12/2016,
 2/2017, 3/2018), Humanitarian Aid Worker Professor Conor Foley (1/2016-2/2016, 9/2017-
 10/2017, 1/2018-3/2018), Professor of Human Rights Francesca Klug (LSE) (3/2018, 6/2018,
 12/2018, 3/2019, 1/2020), and Professor of Human Rights Alexandra Moore (Binghamton
 University, US) (9/2018, 12/2018). We retain strong links with our Visiting Professors, all of whom
 have joined the Helena Kennedy Centre’s Advisory Board Committee and provide ongoing
 research direction and support.

 The Helena Kennedy Centre’s Advisory Board Committee ensures that our research activity is
 informed by and shared with an active and knowledgeable group of professional stakeholders.
 Meeting biannually, the Advisory Board Committee contribute to the strategic direction of our
 research, help stimulate new ideas whilst providing opportunities for collaboration, acting as an
 advocate for the research of the Helena Kennedy Centre, and supporting and enhancing our
 impact activities.

 Staff development:

 The strategic expansion of applied human rights and social justice research has been achieved,
 in part, through the development of a collegial and collaborative research and teaching
 environment.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Helena Kennedy Centre’s staff development strategy operates in accordance with the UK's
 Concordant to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the ambitions of SHU's
 Creating Knowledge Implementation Plan. Our staff development plan is focused on promoting an
 inclusive and collaborative research environment that provides the support and structures to meet
 the requirements of staff with different methodological and discipline specialisms, and who are at
 different stages of their careers. Helena Kennedy Centre staff have a range of needs, reflective of
 our mix of well-established researchers, ECRs, those joining academia from practice, and those
 returning to research. To embed research successfully into staff’s working practices, the Helena
 Kennedy Centre’s research environment is underpinned by a research programme that is
 structured around the academic calendar and supports researchers throughout the year, and
 includes: a seminar series, research workshops, a ‘research café’, and an 'end of year research
 celebration’ event.

 Under SHU’s academic work planning framework and REF Code of Practice, all staff holding
 lecturing posts receive an annual allocation of time in which to undertake research and scholarly
 activities. Further research time is allocated through an annual writing support scheme. For
 example, in the academic year 2019/20, 34 members of staff were given additional writing support
 to help them begin publishing or increase the production of high-quality academic outputs. As the
 purpose of this programme is to grow research quantity and quality, all staff are provided with a
 mentor and encouraged to submit their papers for internal peer review prior to submission to a
 journal. Forty-five staff from the Helena Kennedy Centre are engaged in our mentoring programme
 as either a mentor or mentee, which is led by Dickinson and Fowler. Internal peer review takes
 place principally through the Helena Kennedy Centre’s ‘works in progress workshops’ where all
 staff have the opportunity to take part in peer review support sessions and receive oral and/or
 written feedback on a piece of work that is in development. Heap organises our weekly ‘shut-up
 and write sessions’, in which the Pomodoro technique is employed to help staff achieve their
 writing goals. In addition, we run ‘writing retreats’ each academic semester, in order to provide a
 lengthier period of time in which staff can develop and discuss their written work. Our writing
 support has contributed to the development of the monographs and edited collections, detailed in
 Section 1, and publications in a wide array of leading journals including Critical Social Policy,
 Criminology and Criminal Justice, The British Journal of Criminology, International Gambling
 Studies, The European Journal of Criminology, Crime, Media, Culture, Theoretical Criminology,
 and The International Journal of Comparative Criminology and Offender Therapy, alongside the
 production of successful funding bids and associated reports.

 Helena Kennedy Centre staff are supported through departmental and university funding to
 advance their research competencies and careers. In order to support staff who have entered
 academia from practice, the Helena Kennedy Centre is funding the doctoral studies of eight
 departmental staff, whilst a further four have been funded to develop their research knowledge
 and skills through masters programmes. Helena Kennedy Centre staff were highly successful in
 bidding for support through the University's Creating Knowledge Investment Fund. Phillips
 secured a Chancellor Fellowship to further his research into people who die whilst under probation
 supervision and the impact of inspection on probation policy and practice. As well as supporting
 the production of research papers, the Fellowship enabled Phillips to undertake British
 Academy/Leverhulme Trust funded research and submit successful bids for contract research to
 Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Probation and the Ministry of Justice. Our approach to impact,
 outlined in Section 1, has also benefitted from this scheme. For example, Grace was awarded a
 University Impact Acceleration Account grant (£5000) that led to the quicker uptake by police
 forces of the first ever specific regulatory model for the use of machine learning in policing.

 To complement central investment, the Helena Kennedy Centre provides an annual budget of
 £25,000 to support new and ongoing research, and pilot studies that lead to bids to external
 funders, as well as significant funds to support staff's conference attendance and other knowledge
 exchange activities. Outputs submitted to this assessment exercise by Heap, Paterson, Phillips
 and Westaby represent some of the products of this funding. The success of such developmental
 processes in supporting our impact strategy, detailed in Section 1, is exemplified by one of the
 Helena Kennedy Centre's Impact Case Studies, which demonstrates how our work has informed

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the development of Her Majesty's Prison and Probation Service's new framework - used by senior
 staff in supervisory and line manager meetings with approximately 6,500 probation staff (ICS2).
 Due to the growth in the number of staff securing external research funding, seed funding is now
 ring-fenced for ECRs, staff who are new to academia and staff looking to return to research. A
 requirement of any bid is that a senior staff member is identified as a research advisor to support
 the development of the project.

 The Helena Kennedy Centre’s focus on ECRs:

 As detailed throughout this statement, the Helena Kennedy Centre’s efforts have focused on
 nurturing ECRs and we have been highly successful in progressing staff from Associate Lecturer
 and Lecturer positions to Reader and Professorial posts. Upon beginning work at the Helena
 Kennedy Centre, all new staff meet with the Head of Research to discuss their research ambitions
 and plans. New staff are also introduced to our internal research website, which offers a
 comprehensive overview of institutional processes, successful ethics applications, and bids to
 grant making institutions and for contract research. New staff are also allocated space on their
 workplans to engage in research activity, in line with SHU’s REF Code of Practice, and assigned
 a research mentor. In addition, our annual calendar of events, which are complemented by
 mentoring, robust peer review processes and ring-fenced seed funding, assist new staff in
 establishing their independent research careers through collegial and collaborative processes. As
 outlined in detail in Section 3, the Helena Kennedy Centre has been successful in helping ECRs
 gain research experience by targeting smaller, more achievable grants, alongside working with
 more established researchers on bids and projects.

 Equality and inclusion:

 The Helena Kennedy Centre is committed to ensuring equality and diversity across all parts of
 university life, with the Race Charter, Hallam Deal and other university policies embedded in our
 research recruitment and support. As detailed above, our research staff come from a range of
 backgrounds, 60% of returned staff are female, and the Helena Kennedy Centre supports both
 part time and flexible working. All staff are required to undergo training on an annual basis,
 including Unconscious Bias training modules and Equality training, and the Helena Kennedy
 Centre has a dedicated Equality and Inclusion Lead. The Equality and Inclusion lead works with
 research staff and students, and with the Head of Department, on both College and University
 initiatives designed to improve our staff and student experience of the university environment. The
 Helena Kennedy Centre is involved in initiatives around recruitment, research placements,
 researcher experience and professional development, and we have appointed a dedicated student
 researcher to evaluate the impact of these initiatives. The Helena Kennedy Centre is also currently
 developing a programme of staff training to develop anti-racist pedagogies and decolonise the
 curriculum, and we are engaged in longstanding work that continues to be successful in enhancing
 the diversity of our staff base.

 Research students:

 During the assessment period, the Helena Kennedy Centre supervised 11 doctoral students to
 completion (all PhDs, no professional doctorates), whilst 16 students are currently undertaking
 their PhD studies with us.

 Recruitment, studentships and supervision

 The Helena Kennedy Centre has invested significantly in building our doctoral provision, with a
 number of research students benefitting from our commitment to fully funded and match funded
 PhDs. Our students are funded by the Helena Kennedy Centre in partnership with the Scottish
 Government, and charities Alcohol Research UK, GambleAware and Key Changes - Unlocking
 Women's Potential. The Helena Kennedy Centre has also secured PhD funding through the
 university’s Vice Chancellor's Matched Funded Scholarship Scheme. In 2019, we launched our
 Graduate Teaching Assistantships and have since recruited two students to full-time PhDs that

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are funded for 3 ½ years. We have also welcomed our first two doctoral researchers recruited
 through the Doctoral Training Alliance (DTA) scheme.

 A key feature of our doctoral provision is that students’ research is aligned with our research
 specialisms and requires collaboration with external organisations in order to respond to real world
 challenges. For example, we have a doctoral student working with South Yorkshire Police to
 develop training for police officers in how to respond to incidents of coercive control, and another
 student who is working with a range of help, treatment and support providers through her research
 into problem gambling and domestic violence.

 The collaborative and applied nature of the Helena Kennedy Centre's PhD offer is exemplified by
 our key role in the Doctoral Training Alliance programme. Staff from the Helena Kennedy Centre
 (Best, Banks, Phillips, Waters) led SHU's contribution to the Social Policy component of the bid,
 and with 12 other Alliance universities we secured a €6.5 million grant from the Marie Sklodowska-
 Curie PhD Fellowship programme. We have since played a key role in delivering training and
 support to 45 students undertaking PhD studies as part of the programme. This includes using our
 research to deliver training modules on emotional labour in research, and the benefits and
 challenges of co-design and collaborative approaches to research (Banks, Phillips, Waters).

 In 2020, the Helena Kennedy Centre hosted a three-day summer school that provided opportunity
 for students and supervisors to connect, collaborate and showcase their research and undertake
 training. Led by Banks, and involving Grace, Phillips and Waters, sessions were run for both
 supervisory staff and students, and focused on the ways in which students can maximise the
 impact of policy research through knowledge exchange and public engagement activities that
 connect with local, national and international audiences.

 Training, progression and support

 The principal aim of the Helena Kennedy Centre's Graduate Teaching Assistantships is to ensure
 doctoral students complete their PhD in a timely manner, but also gain experience of a wider range
 of academic skills that make them feel part of the department and acculturate them into academic
 life. In 2016, we introduced Supporting PhD students in their Professional Development - A
 Learning, Teaching and Assessment Strategy. The aim of this programme is to provide a coherent
 support strategy to allow doctoral students to feel they have knowledge of the university systems
 and to have been given training and guidance in good practice for learning and teaching.

 Supervision is conducted in accordance with the University's Research Degree Regulations, and
 the Code of Practice for Research Students and Supervisors. Supervisory teams consist of a
 Director of Studies (DoS) and two members of academic staff - one of whom must be an ECR - in
 order to provide the student with significant supervisory support and enable staff to gain invaluable
 supervisory experience. We are also engaged in collaborative PhDs with academics based at
 Monash University, the University of Nottingham and the University of Malta.

 Research students in the Helena Kennedy Centre receive training both locally and through the
 Doctoral School. As part of our aim is to effectively integrate students into the Helena Kennedy
 Centre, students may avail themselves of research training and development opportunities
 presented to staff through our research programme.

 In accordance with SHU’s Research Degrees Committee’s policies, PhD progress is monitored at
 departmental and university level, with progression points at three (RF1) and twelve (RF2) months
 from registration. The Confirmation of PhD twelve months into their studies assesses the
 candidate's ability to complete PhD research to a high standard and in a timely manner. The
 Helena Kennedy Centre appoints two rapporteurs to assess the candidate’s written work and oral
 defence. In order to provide a supportive environment for candidates, oral defences are scheduled
 as part of our seminar series, with the expectation that staff and all doctoral students attend these
 events.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The career of trajectories of our doctoral students:

 By supporting students to develop research that requires a collaborative response to rights-based
 policy and practice challenges, and providing them with significant teaching, training and personal
 development opportunities, HKC students have forged academic careers. For example, our
 students have taken up lectureships at Leeds Beckett University (Anna Kawalek), the University
 of Lincoln (Lauren Hall) and the University of Malta (Antonio Zerafa), and research posts at the
 University of Sheffield (Beth Collinson) and the University of Leeds (Lucy Pointon).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Helena Kennedy Centre has sought to secure a diverse portfolio of funding from contract
 research and grant making institutions and through partnerships (Strategic Research Priority 3).
 In the REF period, staff have actively engaged in bidding for research funding, with 52 proposals
 successful. Prior to 2014, very little bid writing and externally funded research took place across
 the departments now supported by Helena Kennedy Centre, and what did was largely discipline
 specific. The growth in bid writing and income generation through grant capture and contract
 research is a consequence of embedding rigorous peer review at a local level, to complement the
 specialist bidding support which is provided across the University by the Research and Innovation
 Services, and increased collaboration with national and international colleagues. By bringing
 together a range of interdisciplinary expertise, the Helena Kennedy Centre has been successful
 in developing a rights focused research agenda that is supported by research councils, charities
 and government. Research income totalled in excess of £1.6 million over the assessment period
 and was generated across our three specialisms:

    1. Criminal justice. Cole was successful with an intercollege bid to Horizon 2020 for a project
       tackling radicalisation in Europe. The bid included 18 partners in 10 EU countries and was
       worth €3 million. Total funding to SHU was €281,060 (£224,848). Phillips was PI on an
       Equality and Human Rights Commission funded project on non-natural deaths following
       detention, in collaboration with the University of Cambridge, that resulted in a report and
       publications in Criminology and Criminal Justice, Health and Justice and the Political
       Quarterly. The British Academy/Leverhulme Trust funded two projects exploring how
       Community Protection Notices are used to regulate anti-social behaviour (Black and Heap)
       and inspection in the subfield of probation and community sanctions (Phillips), resulting in
       publications in leading criminology journals including Punishment and Society.

    2. Desistance and recovery. Best and colleagues were successful in their ERANID/Horizon
       2020 bid, REC-PATH, which engaged 450 participants across three countries in order to
       study multiple recovery 'pathways', assess mechanisms of behavioural change for
       recovery, and evaluate the impact of recovery and treatment policies across states. The
       Helena Kennedy Centre led the 3-year project in partnership with Ghent University
       (Belgium), Tilburg University (the Netherlands) and the University of Manchester. The
       Helena Kennedy Centre’s budget for our component of the work was €312,000 (£249,000)
       in a total bid of €822,329. Albertson and Phillips have undertaken research assessing the
       role of community hubs in helping to deliver probation services and support desistance on
       behalf of Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Probation, leading to a report and papers in the
       Probation Journal and Theoretical Criminology, whilst Albertson and Banks have explored
       the offending and desistance of military veterans (British Academy/Leverhulme Trust),
       which was published in the European Journal of Criminology. Banks, Andersson and
       Waters have received funding to examine gambling and family violence (Responsible
       Gambling Trust), the harms, coping strategies and help-seeking behaviours of family
       member of problem gamblers (GambleAware), and the barriers to help-seeking (British
       Academy/Leverhulme Trust). This work underpins one of the Helena Kennedy Centre’s
       Impact Case Studies that illustrates how our research has informed policy responses to
       gambling-related crime and harm (ICS3).



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. Health, wellbeing and social justice. Albertson was successful in a bid, in partnership
       with York St John University, to the Ministry of Defence to strengthen the delivery of the
       Armed Forces Covenant across South Yorkshire (£180,000). Dean was funded by
       homelessness charity Roundabout to undertake an evaluation of their Big Lottery Fund
       supported five-year project aimed at prevention of homelessness among young people in
       Sheffield. Brooks has undertaken research in partnership with the University of York into
       the role of workplace personal assistants for physically disabled people, funded by the
       National Institute for Health Research, which resulted in papers in the British Journal of
       Social Work and Health and Social Care. Chowbey was funded by UK Health and Hospitals
       Authorities to develop understanding of South Asian families’ pathways to secondary
       health care services and findings were detailed in the journal Sociology of Health and
       Illness.

 Funding strategy:

 Our funding strategy has five distinct characteristics that have enabled us to build partnerships
 with funders, academics, and policy, practice and user communities:

    1. We have targeted ‘small’ research projects which have then led to larger research
       grants. We recognise that researchers with established records of funding and project
       delivery, and who have built relationships which specific funders, have a greater chance
       of securing large research grants. We have thus focused attention on supporting ECRs in
       the Helena Kennedy Centre to successfully target smaller, more achievable grants,
       alongside developing their publication profiles. This approach has enabled us to ‘scale-up’
       and develop research projects of increasing size and complexity. For example, Heap and
       colleagues’ work on anti-social behaviour has progressed from a small council funded
       project focused on the community trigger for Bristol City Council (£3,000), to a research on
       Community Protection Notices supported by a British Academy/Leverhulme Trust grant
       (£9,088), and then a two-year study funded by the Oak Foundation examining the impact
       of anti-social behaviour tools and powers on street sleeping homeless (£143,845).
       Similarly, Banks and colleagues’ work focused on gambling-related harms has developed
       from a British Academy/Leverhulme Trust Small Grant (£9,977), to Charity funded projects
       valued at £28,833, £44,407 and £285,935.

    2. The Helena Kennedy Centre’s income strategy has focused on developing collaborative
       responses to funding opportunities. As we have sought to grow the number of researchers
       able to capture research grants, established researchers have endeavoured to include,
       where appropriate, ECRs in their research bids. For example, Best has been successful in
       securing a number of contracts (e.g. The Health Foundation, £35,000; Action on Addiction,
       £17,040; Double Impact, £29,356) for projects focused on addiction, recovery and
       desistance over the assessment period, which gave opportunity to and involved ECRs and
       doctoral students in the bid writing, project delivery and dissemination activities (for
       example, Andersson, Collinson, Edwards, Hall, Irving, Kawalek and Pointon). We have
       also encouraged researchers at all stages of their careers to seek to collaborate with
       partners across SHU and those external to the University. Examples include: Andersson’s
       research into United Nations and World Health Organisation homicide data with John Jay
       College of Criminal Justice, Phillip’s partnership with colleagues at the University of
       Cambridge to examine deaths after custody, and Best’s work on addiction recovery with
       Monash University.

    3. Consultation, coproduction and codesign of methodological instruments and research
       approaches has been an integral component of a significant number of our projects and
       played a key role in securing external funding. For example, the Life in Recovery, and
       Family Life in Recovery and Families (Alcohol Research UK, £51,859) and Problem
       Gambling (GambleAware, £44,407) projects involved practitioners and service users in the
       development of bespoke research tools around family experiences and family recovery
       processes. As it was critical that the unique needs of family members were incorporated

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        into the projects, we also undertook further preparatory work involving consultation events
        with key stakeholders. Helena Kennedy Centre researchers have strong existing
        relationships with statutory addiction treatment services in Sheffield and Derbyshire, and
        with local NGOs, including those providing addiction and family support, and links to a
        range of addiction services nationally. Such organisations were also extremely active in
        raising awareness of our research studies and connected us with cohorts of participants
        who would have been difficult to access through other research approaches.

    4. Securing internal research funding to pump prime research has enabled us to develop
       partnership work nationally and internationally leading to external funding. As evidenced
       in Section 2, we have received funding through the University's Creating Knowledge
       Investment Fund and departmental seed funding which has initiated and supported a range
       of projects including, most notably, two of our Impact Case Studies focused on emotional
       labour in probation practice (Phillips, Westaby, ICS2) and algorithmic data and policing
       (Grace, ICS1). In addition, Toor has received Quality Research GCRF funding (£104,332),
       which supported work focused on gender-based violence in India and led to a successful
       bid to the Foreign Commonwealth Office (£82,660), and Heap was awarded departmental
       seed funding to support research into anti-social behaviour, which has led to successful
       grant bids to both the British Academy and Oak Foundation.

    5. Accessing university support for funding applications. Research and Innovation
       Services (RIS) provide the Helena Kennedy Centre’s staff with support in identifying,
       developing and submitting research bids to grant and contract funders. Research support
       staff spend a proportion of their time located within the Helena Kennedy Centre, providing
       dedicated support. We have adopted an approach to securing funding by identifying and
       targeting both funder-led contract research, but also developing researcher led projects
       that seek to secure funding from grant making bodies. In order to raise awareness of
       funding streams and funding opportunities, the Helena Kennedy Centre's RLG meet once
       every six weeks to horizon scan for future projects that fit with our specialisms. In addition,
       RIS relays weekly ‘calls’ for funding to the Head of Research who disseminates to Helena
       Kennedy Centre staff. All staff have access to ‘Research Professional’ and Tenders Direct
       through the Helena Kennedy Centre's internal research website. All external funding
       proposals are discussed with the Head of Research, who facilitates internal peer review
       before progression to SHU’s RIS. Early peer review is encouraged with a view to increasing
       the quality of bids and, in turn, their likelihood of success.

 Research facilities:

 Following a £27 million pound investment in a state-of-the-art ‘Heart of the Campus’ building, the
 Helena Kennedy Centre settled into this new purpose-built facility in 2015. The building provides
 outstanding facilities for research and teaching, as well as staff offices. All our doctoral research
 students are also located here, which ensures that they are fully integrated within the Centre.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Helena Kennedy Centre is committed to applied research and maintaining a research culture
 that has demonstrable social, economic and cultural impacts. This has been achieved through
 significant and sustained knowledge transfer and public engagement activities, and the
 development of research partnerships and collaborations internally and externally, in accordance
 with Strategic Research Priority 5, which underpins the Helena Kennedy Centre's impact strategy.
 Collaborative work has been central to the development of research across the Helena Kennedy
 Centre. We have established and sustained academic partnerships throughout the UK, Europe,
 North America, Australia and Asia, and work with a variety of governmental agencies, charities,
 public and private sector bodies. Research staff are focused on engaging three principal groups
 through a range of fora: 1) the general public; 2) policy makers, practitioners and service users;
 3) academic communities.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We run a range of public engagement events and activities annually that showcase our research,
 engage diverse communities, and create a dialogue around key social justice and human rights
 issues. For example, our ability to translate our research into knowledge exchange activities that
 engage the general public is illustrated by Cole's 2017 research on knife crime in London, which
 was funded by the UK charity the Tutu Foundation. This work helped form the Ubuntu Round
 Tables Project, led by Youth Futures and the Tutu Foundation, with joint funding support from the
 Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime and Sir John Cass’s Foundation, to help youth provision in
 different areas of the capital. Locally SHU law students have benefited from this collaborative work
 by hearing from young people involved in the project who have experienced knife crime. SHU's
 students have shared these experiences in outreach work with young people at Sheffield Springs
 Academy where they delivered sessions on knife crime, gangs, and safety, as well as dispensing
 legal advice.

 Notable events include the Helena Kennedy Centre's Social Justice Week, an annual week of
 free events across the city of Sheffield that engages local communities in understanding the
 challenges and barriers to achieving social justice. We have very deliberately focused these
 events on ensuring vulnerable people in society are being given access to adequate support and
 access to justice, and our events raise awareness of these issues and give voice to evidence and
 opinions that may not be readily accessible to the general public. We have utilised our research
 to address a range of subject matter including homelessness, human trafficking, recovery from
 drug, alcohol and gambling addiction, and public law and policing.

 We also host the Helena Kennedy Centre's Justice Talks, which occur across each year and
 have seen prominent figures, including Terry Waite, Shami Chakrabarti, Trevor Phillips,
 Baroness Sayeeda Warsi and Albie Sachs (who along with Clive Stafford Smith has been
 awarded an Honorary Doctorate from SHU), visit SHU to discuss issues around social justice,
 politics and human rights. These events are open to the public and encourage debate and
 discussion with our academics of some of the most pertinent social justice issues in society.

 The Helena Kennedy Centre regularly contribute to the ESRC Festival of Social Sciences, an
 annual knowledge transfer and public engagement event. For example, Heap explored the impact
 of public spaces protection orders; Phillips worked with the Head of Policy at Inquest to examine
 deaths on probation; Chowbey discussed the extent and nature of economic abuse among
 households; Paterson, in collaboration with South Yorkshire Modern Slavery partnership, South
 Yorkshire Police, Resilient World Solution, South Yorkshire's Police and Crime Commissioner,
 and Mama Africa, sought to raise awareness of modern slavery amongst the business community;
 and Dickinson engaged school children to explore the future of green spaces.

 As detailed in Sections 1, 2, 3 and above, the Helena Kennedy Centre’s research engages policy
 makers, practitioners and service users in order to build stronger and more inclusive communities.
 To achieve this, our researchers collaborate nationally and internationally with a variety of
 stakeholders, including public and private organisations and the third sector, as well as other
 academic institutions. Examples include:

    1. Best’s work engages desistance and recovery communities and practitioners, and is in
       partnership with numerous academic institutions including Monash University, Ghent
       University, University of Manchester and University of Queensland.

    2. Murphy has collaborated with range of organisations to create training, guidance, and
       webinars based on her research into human trafficking, modern slavery and supply chains.
       This includes Covenant House International, the US Department of Health and Human
       Services, the Runaway and Homeless Youth Training and Technical Assistance Center,
       the National Human Trafficking Training and Technical Assistance Center, the US Family
       Youth Services Bureau, and the public health non-profit HEAL Trafficking.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. Phillips' research into probation practice is in collaboration with HMI Probation, the
       University of Cambridge, the Howard League for Penal Reform, the Equality and Human
       Rights Commission, and Inquest.

    4. Banks’ research on lived experiences of gambling and gambling-related harm has
       engaged service users, as well as treatment and service providers such as the National
       Problem Gambling Clinic, Gamcare and Citizens Advice.

    5. Black has worked with Loughborough University and frontline civilian police staff on a
       research project exploring the impacts of austerity, and emotional responses and
       strategies engaged in by staff when responding to 101 non-emergency calls and 999
       emergency calls.

    6. Grace’s collaborative research, which led to the creation of a guidance framework on data
       analytics for policing in the UK, has been promoted by the National Police Chiefs' Council,
       and involved the University of Cambridge, Northumbria University and Durham
       Constabulary.

    7. Brooks’ research into workplace personal assistants for the physically disabled is in
       partnership with the Social Policy Research Unit at the University of York.

    8. Dean works extensively with third sector organisations and charities and with colleagues
       from Bowling Green State University and the University of Florida, pursuing non-profit
       research.

    9. Peroni’s work on gender, migration and human rights involves colleagues at Lund
       University, Turku University, Ghent University, Valencia University and Deusto University.

 In addition to the research collaborations, networks and partnerships with other universities and
 academic communities detailed above, the Helena Kennedy Centre contributes to the
 sustainability of the discipline through a range of other activities. Our researchers are involved
 in the organisation, coordination and delivery of a number of national and international networks
 and events that facilitate collaboration and knowledge exchange across desistance and recovery,
 criminal justice and healthcare domains. Most notably, in 2017, the British Society of Criminology
 conference titled 'Forging Social Justice: Local Challenges, Global Complexities' was held at SHU.
 The conference was accompanied by a special issue in the British Journal of Criminology, edited
 by Heap, Waters and Best. As a consequence of the success of our conference, Heap was elected
 on to the Executive Committee in 2019, as Chair of the Conference Committee.

 Helena Kennedy Centre researchers provide leadership as editors and/or members of editorial
 and advisory boards for a host of different journals since 2014: Addiction Research and Theory,
 Journal of Recovery Science (Best); Crime Prevention and Community Safety, The African Journal
 of Criminology and Justice Studies, Police Journal: Theory, Practice and Principles (Cole); People,
 Place & Policy; Journal of Property, Planning & Environmental Law (Dickinson); Safer
 Communities (Heap); International Journal of Offender Therapy and Comparative Criminology,
 Probation Journal, European Journal of Probation (Phillips); Journal of Information Rights, Policy
 & Practice (Grace); Sociological Research Online (Chowbey, Dean); Planning & Environmental
 Law (Dickinson); British Journal of Community Justice (Waters); Voluntary Sector Review (Dean);
 Journal of Instituto de Investigaciones Juridicas y Sociales Ambrosio Gioja (Peroni); Social Work
 in Transition, Sociascapes, Mediterranean Journal of Society, Politics and Communication
 (Nelson). Most submitted staff, as a matter of course, act as journal and book editors and
 reviewers.

 Helena Kennedy Centre researchers have been invited to deliver keynotes, lectures, and
 roundtables and awarded associate roles and fellowships. Notable examples include:



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. Best was made an Honorary Professor in the School of Regulation and Global Governance
       (RegNet) at the Australian National University and is a visiting Associate Professor of
       Addiction Studies at Monash University, and Turning Point Alcohol and Drug Centre.

    2. In 2017, Banks was invited to join the International Gambling Think Tank, organised and
       coordinated by the Gambling and Addictions Research Centre at Auckland University, and
       delivered a keynote presentation on Online Gambling and Crime at the 16th Annual Alberta
       Gambling Research Institute Conference, Banff, Canada.

    3. Grace held a Visiting Fellowship at the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies at the Centre
       for Information Law and Policy, University of London in 2020.

    4. Nelson has held visiting lectureships at the University of Palermo and the University of
       Lund.

 The Helena Kennedy Centre is involved in collaborative postgraduate research training
 through the Marie Sklodowska-Curie PhD Fellowship programme. In cooperation with 12
 University Alliance institutions, we have delivered training and support to 45 students undertaking
 social policy focused PhDs.




                                                                                            Page 15
