Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Robert Gordon University

 Unit of Assessment: 13: Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact

 Our research has a clear focus on the relationships between people, their environment and
 technology. Across our research, our emphasis has been on considering ways in which these
 aspects interact with one another, and on the ways in which emerging technologies and
 processes of participatory design can be developed and applied to improve the
 environmental, economic and social relationships which exist in our built environment.

 The staff cohort from which the submission is drawn has evolved considerably during the
 REF period, and work has been undertaken by teams which include both experienced
 academics and early career researchers. Of the nine submitted staff members, three were
 promoted or appointed to senior positions during the REF period (Bennadji, Dounas and
 Leon), two are at an early career stage (Hood and Victoria), and three are full Professors
 (Deveci, Gray and Laing). Among the cohort from REF 2014, two staff have since moved
 on to other institutions, two moved to careers in industry, and one staff member retired.

 We have placed a strong emphasis throughout the REF period on identifying and supporting
 routes through which outputs of the highest quality can emerge from studies and through
 activities undertaken in collaboration with external partners.

 We regard these characteristics of the submitting Unit as being critical to its success, and
 they will remain key to its long-term sustainability and vitality. It has also been particularly
 heartening during the submission period to witness externally funded research being secured
 by team members across the group. All members of staff submitted were active in proposal
 instigation and writing, and all secured external research grant income during the REF
 period. In almost all cases this has also been a result of deliberate and targeted
 collaboration, and often across disciplines.

 Our strategic research aims during the REF period concentrated on growing and undertaking
 applied research within our identified thematic areas (Digital Cities and Society;
 Sustainable Housing; Project Management) and ensured that such effort and activity were
 reflected through high-quality research outputs. Furthermore, the development of a strong
 cohort of researchers, including research students, has remained central to our recruitment
 policies and behaviour.

 The research themes strategically set out in REF2014 have been maintained to a significant
 degree, evolving to respond to changing societal drivers and needs.

    Visualisation has since evolved to encompass “Digital Cities and Society”, to incorporate
     aspects of the relationships between the built environment and digital technology,
     including the pervasive use of building information modelling, urban sustainability,
     mobility and the emergence of blockchain.
    Sustainable Housing has continued to undertake work within both academic and
     practice-based contexts, and remains one of our strongest and most visible areas.
    Project, Processes, Performance (now titled “Project Management”) has embraced the
     manner in which project management and participant behaviours have been affected by
     both technological and economic drivers.

 In REF 2014, we included a thematic research area concerning pedagogy and theory. This
 work has continued, but has taken place within the context of academic enhancement and
 the application of innovative teaching methods and approaches. Therefore, the work of that

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 group has become associated with the enhancement of teaching excellence, rather than
 within research.

 We regard the integration of our research and teaching activity to be critical to the
 development of a strong intellectual culture within the host disciplines. Indeed, it has been
 possible to develop a thematic framework for the University’s activities within architecture
 and the built environment where the topics, challenges and activities of our research are
 often common with those under consideration within our taught courses. We regard this
 relationship across our activities to be extremely important, and one which allows us to
 respond to external challenges in creative and agile ways. For example, our research work
 concerning innovations in mobility (Civitas PORTIS, Interreg PAV and Art-Forum) have had
 direct input to our Master of Architecture course at stages 3 and 5, as has our work with
 James Fisher and Sons, concerning visualisation and infrastructure management (at PG
 level, especially).

 Since our submission to REF2014, we have maintained a trajectory of strengthening the
 outputs from our research in terms of both published academic outputs and through
 research-led practice (Deveci). We have also continued to work extensively and
 collaboratively with external partners, and often with municipal authorities from across the
 North Sea region (including the municipal authorities in Aalborg, Almere, Antwerp, Bremen,
 Hanover and Malmo). Our research during the current REF period has continued to receive
 funding through European Commission programmes, including H2020 and Interreg, and we
 have managed to extend our range of research collaborators and clients, working in
 particular with industry and local government partners. We have also been particularly
 successful in undertaking work funded by Innovate UK, including Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships (in association with Abertay Housing Association; Highlands and Islands
 Transport Partnership; James Fisher & Sons; and, Kishorn Specialist Contractors) and
 funded research commissions (through Transforming Construction Network Plus).

 At a strategic level within Scotland, we have been active in undertaking research through the
 Construction Scotland Innovation Centre, where representatives from the Unit were able to
 co-chair one of the four thematic strands (Laing), and to participate as innovation champions
 (Deveci, Dounas, Laing). The Innovation Centre was established to connect industry,
 academia and the public sector in order to derive the benefits which can emerge through
 cross-sector collaboration and creativity. The Centre is supported by the Scottish Funding
 Council, Scottish Enterprise and Highlands and Islands Enterprise, and RGU has been a
 partner since inception. In relation to this Unit, a series of projects were developed via the
 Centre which have extended our digitisation research into highly creative industry practice,
 including robotic fabrication of timber components and innovative affordable housing
 typologies. These resulted in the creation of a new university spin-off company (Roubo Ltd).

 All of these activities have benefitted from us recognising the importance of stakeholder
 engagement within our research, which in turn resulted in the formation of research consortia
 and activity which respond to concerns of society, as well as seeking to advance academic
 knowledge.

 We have had a long-standing strategic aim to increase the number of research students
 studying within the Unit. During the submission period, we have been successful in this
 aspiration, with the Unit’s 2020 research student community numbering 25 candidates at the
 census date, an increase from 14 in 2014. It was also extremely important within the Unit to
 ensure that there was a close connection between the key strategic research themes within
 the Unit and studies undertaken by our postgraduate research community. This was
 especially true within Project Management, where we have been able to foster strong
 connections between research and our taught postgraduate courses (including graduates
 from our MSc courses in Construction Project Management and Advanced Architectural
 Design continuing to research degree study).


                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During the submission period the University established an Institution-wide Graduate School,
 which manages processes and formal training in relation to our research degree candidates.
 One clear and distinctive benefit of this University-wide initiative has been the establishment
 of a strong peer group of research degree candidates, which is cross-disciplinary in nature.
 The strength of that community is perhaps most clearly evidenced by its continuation
 throughout the pandemic of 2020, where students continued to meet in significant numbers,
 to present their work, and to engage in discussion and debate (albeit online).

 In addition to training which has been made available to the postgraduate research student
 community, our Graduate School has been active in the running of staff development and
 training. Staff within the submitting Unit (Laing, Salman) have drawn on their extensive
 experience of research degree supervision and examination to provide instruction, advice
 and peer support to colleagues across the University, and all staff involved in the supervision
 of research degrees have been required to engage with a regular series of training events,
 designed to best support our students through the academic journey towards a PhD
 (including registration, research design, monitoring and preparation for the viva itself).

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 Our strategic goal over the next five years is to foster a vibrant and creative research
 environment, within which we can undertake work of the highest quality, explore our core
 research themes, and do so in a manner which has a demonstrably positive impact on our
 industry, society and environment. In so doing, we will enhance and nourish all areas of activity
 within the School, and make the strongest possible contribution to the wider community.

 In order to ensure the ongoing vitality of the submitting Unit, we have in place a strategy to
 secure a reliable stream of external research funding. That strategy operates both at a unit-
 wide level and operationally within individual objectives and targets. This involves the
 establishment of collective unit-wide targets for external grant income on an annual basis,
 which translate to individual targets for volume of research applications.

 The relationship between these is founded on a presumption of likely success rates
 (depending on funding stream and scale) and is coupled with a recognition that proposals will
 often involve numerous participants. This has helped to ensure that the efforts are regarded
 and treated as a team responsibility, and all submitted staff have extensive experience of
 proposal instigation and writing, and of undertaking funded work.

 The Unit has a long track record of securing international research funding, extending over 20
 years. This has included work supported by the European Frameworks 4 and 5, through a
 series of Interreg programmes, Framework 7 and ongoing research within Horizon 2020. A
 key aim for the Unit will be to strategically target national (UK and Scottish) funding streams,
 and to continue working within our relevant city and region deals (including those for
 Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire, and the Islands). Where rules permit, we will continue to
 collaborate with other European partners, and we continue to explore opportunities including
 through the British Council, and with key collaborators internationally (including Aarhus
 University and Politecnico di Milano).

 The Unit includes staff from a range of academic and professional disciplines, and this
 supports us producing a diverse range of high quality outputs. Research themes within the
 Unit will continue to benefit from cross-discipline collaboration and knowledge sharing,
 including expertise from materials science (Jafarifar) and transport policy (Gray).
 Furthermore, the thematic areas targeted by the Unit will benefit through working as part of
 well-established quadruple helixes (including long-standing partnerships with government,
 industry and community groups).

 These aspirations for research support and content are vital to the future sustainability and
 vitality of the Unit. They have enabled the Unit to apply and demonstrate the impact of

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research activity within policy and practice (as noted within the associated impact case
 studies), and developing that aspect of the research is seen as key to its continued success.

 Extending the reach and impact of our research is therefore a key strategic objective for the
 forthcoming period, and we have put in place structures to facilitate such activity.

 Structure of the Unit and forward strategy

 Our research activity can be conceptualised through three themes, where individual participation
 and involvement is encouraged across disciplines. These thematic areas will form our research
 direction and focus in the coming five years, with the drivers being both internal and external to
 the University.

 Internally, we regard these themes as being essential to maintaining currency and vibrancy in
 the academic environment, and to ensure that we derive and encourage the greatest benefits
 from colleagues. Externally, the industry and the built environment are going through a period of
 significant change, driven by the need to respond to the climate emergency, and to apply
 emerging digital technology in ways which improve lives and the environment. We argue that all
 three of our thematic areas address these challenges, and have done so in a manner which is
 both applied and creative.

 Staff in the Unit have been active in leading academic and industry groups relevant to each
 theme, and this has enabled the Unit to develop and undertake research which is intellectually
 challenging whilst being applicable across society and industry. Staff are indicated alongside
 their central area of research focus, although cross-theme working is supported and common.
 Each of the thematic areas contain core staff membership, with evidence of collaboration across
 themes (e.g. digital technology and housing). The staff submitted all have a demonstrable track
 record of publication, attraction of funding, and of engagement with external partners.

 The themes identify key challenges, where the strategy to address these embraces staff
 development, engagement with our PGR community, pursuance of funding with objectives at
 unit and individual levels, and continued engagement with stakeholders.

 Theme 1: Digital Cities and Society (Dounas, Gray, Hood, Laing)

 Our Centre for Digital Cities and Society was formally established in 2020 and brings together
 interdisciplinary expertise from across the University. The Centre is founded on shared research
 interests in the impact which digital technologies have on people and their physical
 environments, including through design, fabrication and study of wellbeing.

 This focus on people has become the predominant driver within the theme, and activities within
 the centre have been framed in relation to related challenges. The theme has a strong network
 of external stakeholders and partners (including from the digital technology sector, as well as
 partners in leading universities including Politecnico di Milano and within innovative Municipal
 Authorities, such as Bremen and Antwerp), which has enabled us to participate fully in the
 development and application of solutions. Recent work has concerned studying the impact of
 digital sensor technology and autonomous vehicles on urban and rural mobility (PORTIS, PAV,
 Art-Forum, G-PATRA) and the development of blockchain-enabled communication and project
 organisation (https://archchain.cc).

 Through our activities in research and teaching, we will aim to work with external colleagues,
 from both the public and private sectors, and including academic partners internationally. In
 particular, much of our work is defined by engagement with the wider community, and the way in
 which we can assist, inform, advise and stimulate positive change with regards to urban design
 and management, mobility, productivity and the impact of emerging technology.



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research has been supported by external funding bodies and clients including the European
 Commission (FP7 and Horizon 2020), Interreg North Sea Region and Northern Peripheries,
 UKRI, Aberdeen City Council, Aberdeenshire Council, the Construction Scotland Innovation
 Centre and Innovate UK.

 Theme 2: Sustainable Housing (Bennadji, Deveci, Jafarifar)

 This is a broad, interdisciplinary theme with a focus on the design, retrofitting and environment
 assessment of housing and domestic scale architecture. Continuing as a long-term theme within
 the Unit, the research concerns the technical design and monitoring of energy use in buildings,
 and has engaged with the study of human interactions and influences on sustainable housing.
 The theme has extended the application of assessment approaches and tools developed over a
 long time period, and recently funded work has considered the implications of the research
 within the contexts of new mass-market housing and policy and practice with regard to
 upgrading to mitigate fuel poverty.

 A prominent aspect of work in the School of Architecture and Built Environment is that of
 practice-led research. This has led to a series of highly acclaimed built designs which, in
 developing sustainability principles, have won a number of awards pertaining to social inclusion,
 environmental performance and architectural design. These have included recognition for the
 work of Professor Deveci (‘Integra House’ shortlisted for the 2018 TRADA- JJ Design Innovation
 Awards; ‘Heritage Way’ awarded distinction in the 2019 Aberdeenshire Design Awards) and Dr
 Bennadji (2014 CIOB International Award in Research and Innovation; 2014 Saltire Award; 2018
 Scottish Energy Efficiency Award).

 Research in the theme takes place through funded research projects, PhDs, and student
 scholarships. Research interests from the theme have been published in leading journals (e.g.
 Energy in Buildings), and widely disseminated at international conferences (e.g. PLEA,
 ASCAAD). Engagement with CSIC and industry partners has also led to the development of
 products for the built environment via industrial research, such as a zero-fixings timber panel,
 and a robotically fabricated timber joint (Dounas). These products are now in the market
 development phase.

 The importance of our research in terms of its implications for our occupants, society and the
 environment has been demonstrated through long-term collaboration between the contributing
 staff and external stakeholders including housing associations and the manufacturers of
 materials and components. The theme has a track record of securing external funding through
 UKRI, Interreg, Innovate UK (Knowledge Transfer Partnerships) and via research commissions
 from building owners and occupants themselves.

 Theme 3: Project Management (Leon, Victoria)

 Our Project Management theme has a strong track record of funded research, and team
 members also undertake related high-quality teaching, corporate training and other commercial
 activities within Management, Construction, Infrastructure and Oil and Gas. We also have
 established collaborations with key industry players and other institutions worldwide.

 Drivers for work within the theme have included a need to respond directly where our industry
 sectors have faced organisational and strategic challenges. Within architecture and the built
 environment, and during the submission period, pervasive digitisation of the industry and
 development of the manner in which teams operate have been central to much of this activity.

 Work from the theme is regularly presented in both local and international events, conferences
 (e.g. Leon, ARCOM) and public forums and we have robust links with both industry and
 professional bodies (including Victoria and Laing research with the RICS). We have a strong
 focus on applying Research and Development to support the local and wider industries,
 including among others Oil and Gas, Construction, Infrastructure and Business Development.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Members of the theme have collaborative links with other relevant disciplines, including the
 Computing, Business and Engineering Schools and the Energy Transition Institute within RGU,
 together with the Oil and Gas Innovation Centre, the Construction Scotland Innovation Centre,
 and through our Innovate UK KTPs. These provide a wider knowledge base for complex
 problem-solving, and support a greater reach in terms of research impact. Furthermore, we have
 access to high-end digital tools, from high-definition laser scanning, VR and AR equipment to
 simulation suites to complement our existing capabilities.

 Activity of researchers in the theme can be evidenced through research commissions (including
 the application of digital data capture in the management of heritage assets) and knowledge
 transfer (including a current KTP with James Fisher and Sons regarding infrastructure
 management).

 Priority developmental areas and initiatives

 During the submission period, the Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and Built Environment
 moved to a new purpose-built building, which incorporates a dedicated research hub containing
 our on-campus postgraduate research students, academic research staff and Research
 Professors. A further benefit has been drawn from the physically connected Schools of
 Computing and Engineering, which has enabled more seamless and regular communication and
 collaboration to take place. In the next period, we will work towards extending the number of
 postgraduate research students within the Unit and will also aim strategically to align the
 associated projects with the core themes of the Unit, and with staff expertise.

 Impact strategy

 Within the submitting Unit and working across themes, specified staff (Laing and Victoria, in
 particular) will continue to direct support and encourage external engagement through numerous
 routes and methods. In keeping with the research themes of the Unit, we regard these activities
 as being central to the research, and we have adopted many approaches and mechanisms
 through which the research itself can develop in a manner which is genuinely collaborative and
 outward facing.

    Partnership working, through advisory committee work, innovation champions (CSIC) and
     professional bodies (RICS, CIAT, RIBA)
    Collaborative application for grant funding (e.g. with Aberdeen City Council)
    Extension of work with Innovate UK, including KTPs (e.g. James Fisher and Sons, Abertay
     Housing Association)
    Engagement with the RGU Innovation Hub and the wider innovation agenda at the University
    To extend the frequency and reach of public and externally-focussed research events and
     activities (including Professorial lectures and public events through funded research)

 A strategic priority has been working with partners from outside of academia to address issues
 which are being experienced within practice and within society. As a result of this focus, the
 great majority of our most heavily funded research has been undertaken within consortia which
 have included external partners with whom we have an established track record of collaboration.
 This includes participation in public debate, informing of regional and local policy and operating
 as an independent group of experts.

 Indeed, with regard to impact from our research outside of academia, the network of
 stakeholders with whom we habitually work (local and national government, industry and
 community groups) has meant that our work has been able to have an impact on economic
 performance, policy direction and the widespread application of innovative architectural and
 construction methods in industry. This has been particularly true in our work concerning
 housing and sustainable urban behaviours (within the thematic area of ‘Digital Cities and
 Society’). This has helped to ensure that there is a seamless connection between the research

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 undertaken and its external impact, as opposed to the research being undertaken in an initially
 detached or isolated manner.

 Ongoing and recent research activity includes work funded by the European Commission H2020
 (Civitas PORTIS, URBANOME), UKRI, Interreg North Sea Region (Art-Forum, PAV, G-PATRA,
 Stronghouse) and Innovate UK (KTP). All of these projects have collaboration with known
 academic partners at their heart, and all include mechanisms and activities geared towards
 external impact as a core part of their methodology.

 Wider impact from our research themes has been realised through a number of initiatives and
 platforms.

    Engagement with policy communities

 Our research work, and especially that funded through various European funding streams, has
 enabled the research team within the Unit to disseminate, discuss and debate research findings
 with stakeholders across the continent. Our formal position within projects including PORTIS
 (Civitas H2020) and PAV (Interreg) has been to guide and undertake stakeholder engagement
 and evaluation work, in close collaboration with municipal authorities, private sector partners and
 members of the local community (including in Aberdeen, throughout the North of Scotland, and
 in Orkney).

 Through our EU funded work, we are able to share and develop new areas of knowledge with
 partners from across Europe (e.g. with cities through the Civitas initiative).

 Members of the research cohort have also been active in terms of providing evidence within the
 Scottish Government pertaining, in particular, to sustainable mobility (Gray). The University
 prides itself on having a strong connection with external stakeholder groups and the work
 undertaken within our research mirrors that approach and policy.

    Engagement with professional bodies and industry groups

 Our researchers have been especially active in its collaboration with relevant professional
 bodies and policy organisations. With regards to the core academic disciplines represented
 within this research submission, work in collaboration with the RICS, RIBA and HiTRANS
 (Highlands and Islands Transport Partnership) is especially relevant.

 Specifically, we undertook research supported by the RICS together with CHOBE (Council for
 the Heads of Built Environment) concerning the worldwide education of surveyors. Members of
 the cohort have continued to act as expert reviewers for the RICS Research Trust and have
 been active in terms of the RICS APS (Research Route), including taking on the role of
 chairperson in assessments (Laing). Laing and Kouider were chair and co-chair of the CIAT
 Research Group between 2016 and 2019, and continue as members of the Education group.
 With the RIBA, the Unit has engaged with research concerning issues of mental health and
 architecture students, with the work supported by an RIBA research grant. The Unit has also
 been very active in researching the connections between sustainable mobility on the design and
 management of our built environment. Gray has been an expert member of the board of the
 Highlands and Islands Transport Partnership (HiTRANS) since 2009, which has been especially
 beneficial in terms of formulating collaborative research projects and helped to ensure that the
 results of that research can then be applied through policy and practice. Dounas was invited to
 lead the technical committee of the Construction Blockchain Consortium in Oct 2020, and to lead
 the 2nd international research workshop for blockchain in construction during 2021.

    Strategic collaboration

 The research staff cohort has formed numerous strategic partnerships with leading collaborators
 outside of the UK, including municipal authorities in Bremen, Antwerp, Almere and Varberg, and

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has been able to forge connections with leading universities (including the appointment of
 visiting Professors from Aarhus and Curtin). We are also currently involved with numerous
 research activities funded through the Horizon 2020 and Interreg programmes, which have
 enabled close collaboration with key municipal authorities in the North of Europe in addition to
 leading universities and consultants. These projects extend across the next 3-4 years, and will
 enable strong collaborative bidding for Horizon Europe funding.

    Invited and arranged external lectures to industry groups

 Submitted staff have been active in terms of delivering invited external lectures to industry
 groups. These have extended across all three of our research themes, and have included
 presentations to and invited attendance at the International Smart City Summit (Laing), TM
 Forum Yinchuan Smart City conference (Laing), Forum 8 urban modelling (Bennadji),
 presentation to the Chevening Alliance (Laing) and participation in the 2020 Royal Academy of
 Engineers “Frontiers of Development” symposium (Jafarifar), the Consortium for Blockchain in
 Construction and the Industrial Construction Chair in ETH Zurich (Dounas). Deveci has been a
 judge of the World Architectural Awards since 2012, and has been a design panel member for
 both Aberdeen City and the Highland Council, also since 2012.

 The group has also been active in terms of instigating public debate, including in the
 organisation of conferences (including BuiltViz, IV, ASCAAD), seminars, public events and
 delivery of public lectures.

    Case studies

 We present in our submission two impact case studies, which demonstrate how the research
 across our thematic areas applies robust and externally informed methodologies, to improve the
 built environment in tangible and verifiable ways. In the case of those studies presented, this
 relates specifically to the instigation and enacting of significant improvement to our housing
 stock, and to the impact which urban mobility can have on people and the environment. Each
 demonstrates a sustained commitment to external collaboration, knowledge generation and to
 making a positive impact on policy and practice.

 Data management policy and practice

 The University has recognised the importance of open research data position through its Research
 Data Management policy. Training has been provided for staff regarding open access to research
 data and research outputs, and staff are able to draw on expertise within the University regarding
 the writing and application of research data management plans. These are typically developed
 using funder guidance (e.g. EU, UKRI), and their development is included within research work
 plans. The University has used its digital research repository (Worktribe) to host research outputs
 (including written work and designs), including during embargo periods, and as a mechanism to
 facilitate wide access.

 Research integrity

 Research undertaken within the submitting Unit is all subject to ethics assessment prior to
 submission of proposals, and the University regards this as being an intrinsically valuable part of
 research development. The School of Architecture and Built Environment has a research
 committee, which takes an overview of ethical issues across our thematic areas. PGR studies are
 assessed by the supervisory team, and may be referred for consideration by the committee. This
 is to ensure that researchers can seek guidance, to aid adherence to best practice.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 As a modern University with a strong focus on applied and impactful research, the REF period
 has seen the appointment of 6 new staff within the School of Architecture and the Built
 Environment who came with strong research records. Throughout the REF period, the
 University has had a research-oriented recruitment policy for new academic staff, which has
 given priority to the appointment of lecturers who hold a research degree.

 Indeed, within the submitting Unit we have been extremely proactive in terms of utilising the
 policy to drive the recruitment of a cohort of post-doctoral lecturing staff. In turn, we have
 been able to foster a close connection between their own individual areas of research,
 research themes which exist across the Unit, and with their teaching at all levels. All of the
 category A submitted staff are on permanent contracts.

 This strong thematic connection across all activities within the submitting Unit has greatly
 supported our aspirations to operate collaboratively and be able to demonstrate a clear
 nexus between teaching, research and scholarship.

 The host school for the majority of Unit members (the Scott Sutherland School of Architecture
 and the Built Environment) applies an operational workload planning model, which ensures that
 early career researchers are given sufficient time to develop their own areas of research, and to
 do so within the broader context of developing as rounded academics. In practice, this has
 resulted in staff, wherever possible, being engaged with research, PhD supervision and teaching
 which is thematically connected. Staff are eligible to apply for 6-month research sabbaticals
 (awarded during the REF period to Gray and Laing).

 The Unit has an established programme of research seminars, with involvement from academic
 staff as well as research degree candidates. Staff within the Unit are also active in public
 speaking, including through the University’s own Professorial lecture series (Deveci, Gray,
 Laing). Such events are open to the wide community, and staff are encouraged to participate.
 Staff are also supported to disseminate research findings through the press, and the University
 communications team provide support and guidance.

 Within the Unit, we make extensive use of regular staff planning and review structures (in the
 context of this Unit, where we have specifically used the ‘Employee Performance Review’, or
 EPR, for this purpose). Each staff member included within the submission, through
 discussion with their research coordinator and Head of School, participates in regular
 personal career review sessions, which within the context of research development have
 provided a useful mechanism in terms of time management, strategic application for external
 research funding, engagement with our postgraduate research community, and targets and
 direction setting with regards to research outputs. With regard to staff development, these
 discussions take place within the context of consideration for how a strong staff cohort can
 work together and across disciplines to achieve larger and more ambitious goals.

 Therefore, the EPR is regarded by the University as a key mechanism through which we can
 encourage and support the development of individual research activity and achievement.
 Although the review process is undertaken at an individual level, staff are encouraged to
 work in a collaborative manner, and overall departmental targets with regard to research
 income and outputs are ultimately assessed at a collective level. As described in section 1
 (Future Strategic Aims), for research active staff the EPR contains individual targets for
 volume of funding applications, which is then fostered, tracked (through regular reviews) and
 supported (through collaboration, peer review and through the University’s Research
 Strategy and Policy department). We believe that this has helped to cultivate an atmosphere
 of collegiality within the Unit, which in itself has been demonstrated to hold the potential for
 greater collective success.

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff within the Unit are supported to attend and present at high-level research conferences,
 especially where these relate directly to ongoing research activity. The Unit also makes
 strategic use of overheads recovered from funded research projects to support project
 investigators as they work to develop and strengthen their research networks and develop
 further research proposals. Specific and key examples are provided in section 4 of this
 document.

 Staff with leadership and management roles are supported by RGU’s Leadership
 Development team, offering a suite of both ILM accredited and non-accredited development
 programmes and activities which include:

       Pioneer: RGU Future Leaders' Programme
       Voyager: RGU Middle Managers' Programme (ILM Level 5 Certificate in Leadership
        and Management)
       Discoverer: RGU First Line and Aspiring Managers' Programme (ILM Level 3 Award
        in Leadership and Management)
       The RGU Manager: For those new to managing at RGU

 All staff are also able to access the Skills4Success portfolio of staff development workshops
 to help with generic and interpersonal skills such as time management, communication and
 personal effectiveness.

 The Unit also offers staff individual coaching sessions with experienced leadership coaches,
 team development, facilitation and other bespoke development interventions. Our Research
 Strategy and Policy department has during the REF period established a strong programme
 of researcher development training, which includes guidance and support for proposal writing
 and submission, peer review, research project management and research impact.

 The staff cohort within the submitting Unit is comprised of a diverse group of staff, especially
 in terms of nationality and ethnicity, and the University as a whole has worked to establish
 routes through which the careers of research active staff can progress in line with their
 research achievements. Within the submitting group, two staff members (Bennadji and
 Leon) were promoted to Senior Lecturer level in direct recognition of the quality of their work,
 and for the contribution which this makes to the University community.

 Postgraduate research students

 The PGR cohort within Architecture and Built Environment are located in a dedicated space,
 within a new building constructed during the submission period. This has enabled the Unit to
 develop a stronger research ethos among the PGR community, and to provide PGR candidates
 with full access to specialist facilities.

 In the period since REF 2014, and guided both by the outcomes from that process and from the
 recommendations arising from the external review of research degree provision in 2018, there
 have been profound changes in respect to the research organisation and administration within
 the University. Focussing on the research environment for postgraduate research (PGR)
 students, the three Research Institute-based Graduate Schools were amalgamated into one
 single pan-institution School in 2016. The intention behind the consolidation was the desire to
 ensure best practice was being followed consistently for all PGR students regardless of their
 individual discipline of study. An important aspect of this restructure was to ensure all PGR
 students would benefit from the changes. The evidence from 2016 is unequivocal in confirming
 that the overall research degree experience from the PGR community has improved, based on
 returns from Advance HE and equivalent internal Postgraduate Research Experience Surveys
 (PRES).



                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Taking the measure of Overall Satisfaction as a key performance indicator, in 2015 the rating
 was 71% and below sector and benchmark comparators. In 2017 this rose to 77% but remained
 marginally below the sector average. From 2018 to the present, the University has implemented
 a bespoke survey, covering similar aspects to those in PRES, but also recognising specific local
 issues and context. In November 2020 the survey was adjusted to account for the disruptions
 caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, that necessitated campus lockdown for several months.

 Although the surveys are not directly comparable, the Overall Satisfaction level in the internal
 PRES (for students in Architecture and Built Environment) elicited a value of 91% (where the
 national Advance HE PRES value was 80% for Overall Satisfaction). A contributory factor to the
 considerable improvement was in part the result of the introduction of the Researcher
 Development Programme for all PGR students and Early Career Researchers (ECRs) within
 RGU https://www.rgu.ac.uk/research/the-graduate-school/researcher-development-programme.
 This programme was launched in September 2020 and was the first occasion when the
 University offered a comprehensive and structured training programme for researchers,
 focussed on PGR students and ECRs. This builds upon the PgCert Researcher Development
 course, a course that all PhD students must successfully complete, that was successfully
 revalidated in September 2019. Delivered by the Graduate School and taught by highly
 experienced researchers from the academic community this provides an excellent foundation in
 developing the broader skills necessary to become an independent researcher. By necessity,
 since March 2020 the course has been delivered online and the most recent feedback from the
 module taught in November 2020 provided a rating of 95% Excellent (this figure is for the cohort
 as a whole, to provide statistical validity).

 In addition to the considerable progress in Overall Experience as observed in PRES, the other
 critical aspect to evidence the success of the new Graduate School relates to PGR student
 performance. Historically research degree graduate success has been high, with those passing
 being above 85% (when taking into account those who had failed the initial attempt but passed
 on resubmission). Working from this positive baseline, the University-wide Graduate School
 focussed on time taken for completion. Setting a target of 70% completion within registration
 period for the whole PGR student community, in 2019/20 completions across the University
 within registration period moved up from less than 40% overall around 70% currently, and rising.

 Postgraduate research students in the submitting Unit were, and are, all registered as studying
 towards PhDs, and the Unit does not at present offer Professional Doctorates.

 Submitting unit support and promotion of equality and diversity

 As in the period of REF2014, all staff submitted under category ‘A’ are on long-term
 (permanent) contracts. Furthermore, all submitted staff are on full-time contracts. The Unit also
 has a healthy demographic profile, including in terms of sex, age and nationality, and this
 provides additional evidence of the Unit’s sustainability in the long-term. Indeed, the submitted
 staff group is diverse, with 5 male, 4 female, and submitted staff having places of birth in the
 UK (2), the EU (2 from Greece) and further afield (5, including Algeria, Canada, Iran, Sri
 Lanka and Turkey). This has resulted in a genuine diversity and vitality, founded upon
 notions of collaboration, creativity and respect.

 RGU operates an Equality and Diversity policy, where one of the submitting Unit’s Academic
 Subject Leads (Bjeirmi) is the RGU Race Equality Champion. It has also implemented a
 Dignity at Work and Study policy, through which the University and School aim to support an
 inclusive culture in which differences are respected and any form of bullying, harassment or
 victimisation deemed unacceptable.

 This informs our approach to the definition of staff recruitment, and to the ongoing operation
 of the organisation. Staff are formally supported by their HR colleagues during periods of ill
 health, as well as informally by peers and colleagues. Where staff suffer from conditions
 which require particular working conditions, it is normal for the organisation to be flexible in

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 terms of attendance on campus, and the environment when on site. Career promotion
 pathways are open to all staff, both part- and full-time, and revised policies were established
 during the REF period to support career advancement through research excellence. In this
 sense, especially, staff are able to map a career path based on a diversity of drivers.

 The University has supported 76 women through AdvanceHE’s Aurora Women in
 Leadership programme since its inception in 2013, which has allowed the University to tap
 into the hidden potential of a wide variety of women throughout the University, and to support
 them in moving forward with their career, be that at RGU or beyond. From the submitting
 Unit, Leon undertook the Aurora programme where it helped her to develop, identify,
 crystallise and communicate her aims within academia. She contends that it also assisted
 with managing work, leadership responsibilities, politics and relations.

 It has enabled women across the organisation to continue a journey of personal
 development and has built their confidence, networks and continued career satisfaction. It
 has also allowed RGU to raise the profile of women and the important contributions they are
 making in the University.

 As noted elsewhere the Unit operates an Employment Performance Review process, which
 involves co-design and agreement of annual objectives (including those for research income,
 outputs and impact) between staff and their line manager. In the case of research active
 staff, input is always sought from the Research Coordinator. Staff are encouraged to keep in
 regular informal communication with peers as well as line managers, to foster a supportive,
 creative and fulfilling work environment.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income, infrastructure and facilities pertaining to research and research impact

 During the submission period, the Unit has undertaken research with a grant value in excess of
 £2.2Million. This equates to approximately £250K per submitted FTE, which compares
 favourably with sector-wide submissions to the previous REF. The grant value includes
 significant research commissions from the EU (£746K), Interreg (£272), UKRI (£150K), Innovate
 UK (£360K) and through collaboration with Scottish Local and Regional Authorities. The Unit
 continues to collaborate with partners from across Europe to work towards engagement in
 current and future international research challenges, and specifically in the areas of sustainable
 urban environments, energy efficiency in buildings and the use of robotics and digital technology
 in construction and architecture. As stated, establishment of the Construction Scotland
 Innovation Centre (CSIC) during the submission period introduced a significant and very positive
 mechanism to foster and support academic-industry collaboration through funded academic-
 industry partnering.

 The Research Strategy and Policy department provides dedicated guidance and expertise with
 regard to the governance surrounding writing and submission of research proposals, and
 dedicated staff then offer experience and support to successful applicants. This is extremely
 important to the success of any research group, and enables academic members of the team to
 concentrate efforts on undertaking the research itself. The RS&P team is also proactive in terms
 of identifying forthcoming research calls, and their efforts have been invaluable, especially when
 dealing with complex or large research consortia.

 During the submission period, RGU has been proactive in the development and introduction of a
 digital research management system (Worktribe), which enables the online sharing, recording
 and archiving of all project information. This extends from the instigation of a proposal through
 budgeting, award, completion, outputs and impact. This has positively contributed to team
 collaboration, and has ensured that there is a seamless and current connection between staff
 details, research activity and governance.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 At a subject specific level, the submitting Unit has continued to develop and support access to
 state of the art technology, and during the submission period there has been further focus on the
 use of digital data capture technology (including HD laser scanning and drone equipment, with
 Dounas trained as a drone pilot). We have extensive and long-term experience of working with
 Leica Geosystems (Hexagon) technology, and submitted staff (Laing, Leon) have tutored at the
 annual digital data summer school organised by the world-leading 3D Survey Group (Politecnico
 di Milano). That activity has been aimed at exploring how such technology can be used within
 the study of heritage and community engagement, and represents a distinctive research
 approach by the Unit.

 Staff members within the group (Dounas, Deveci) have been able to collaborate with CSIC to
 explore the use of robotic technology within construction and architectural technical design.
 Drawing on our experience of and access to state of the art 3D printing, CNC routing and laser
 cutting equipment.

 This knowledge and infrastructure are central to our aspirations regarding the future of the digital
 city, and to the digitisation of our core industry. It enables us to explore innovative and creative
 research paths, which are likely to become pervasive in the next five years.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations

 A strategic priority of the Unit has been to develop extensive and valuable networks of
 collaborators and research colleagues, across institutions and disciplines. This has resulted in
 us being able to build strong collaborative consortia for research bids, as well as enabling us to
 participate in larger scale research projects, where these are led by other Universities.

 We recognise and value cross-discipline and external collaboration as being of central and
 invaluable importance to our research. We recognise that collaboration can foster higher quality
 research and generation of ideas, whilst offering a route towards applying and realising potential
 impact beyond academia. We also regard collaboration as being essential to the vitality of the
 Unit as a whole, where we have been able to witness very significant development within our
 own expertise as a direct result of such collaboration taking place. This includes within the
 University itself, and across Schools and discipline areas including computing (Dounas, Laing
 and Leon collaborating on digital heritage research), social studies (Laing and Leon,
 collaborating on studies concerning urban design) and creative and cultural business (where
 Gray and Laing have a long standing collaboration concerning sustainable mobility, and where
 this has recently extended to collaboration with data analytics in Computing).

 This is certainly true in relation to our work concerning Digital Cities and Society (e.g. with
 Polytecnico di Milano, through tutoring at digital data capture summer school, and PhD
 examination), Sustainable Housing (e.g. with the Passivhaus Institute) and Project Management
 (including KTP collaboration with James Fisher and Sons PLC), where the research
 collaboration has often challenged us to address applied problems, and to do so in a manner
 which supports the collaborating team to develop, refine and benefit from the attainment of new
 skills.

 Networks and partnerships

 The Unit engages with an extensive network of external partners, and to contribute whatever
 possible to external forums and debate. Our growing reputation with regard to participation in
 European research led to us being invited to participate in numerous research commissions (e.g.
 Bennadji, Gray, Laing, Leon with Art-Forum, PAV and Stronghouse), and has enabled us to
 develop strong research consortia. This has been manifest through the Unit bringing together
 consortia to undertake cross-discipline and transnational research (e,g. Gray and Laing through
 G-PATRA), and through our participation in large scale EU research (e.g. Gray, Hood, Laing,

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leon through PORTIS, PAV), where staff in the Unit have been enabled to work with leading
 research institutions and consultancies (e.g. Rupprecht, POLIS).

 Staff in the Unit were instrumental in establishing an international research network concerning
 blockchain in construction (Dounas), in collaboration with researchers from China and Cardiff
 (archchain.cc). They also conduct research on low-carbon seismic-resistant construction, in
 partnership with the University of Aberdeen, and Turkish Universities (Ozyegin University and
 Boğazici University), supported by GCRF (Jafarifar).

 Our network has also developed to include Visiting Professorships from key external partner
 institutions (Jensen, Aarhus; Whyte, Curtin), and staff within the Unit are active as adjunct staff
 (Curtin) and as research degree examiners to an extensive range of institutions (including
 Dundee, Greenwich, Heriot-Watt, Naples Federico II, Salford, UWE).

 It is important to note that many of our strongest research collaborations have also been with
 non-academic partners. This has included collaboration through Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships (Abertay Housing and James Fisher & Sons Ltd) and has been central to our ability
 to realise impact from the research activity, most notably in collaboration with local authorities
 and regional transport partnerships.

 Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

 With regard to the organisation, chairing and academic leadership of conferences, Bennadji
 was a co-chair for ASCAAD (2021 online) and he and Deveci were co-chairs and theme leaders
 at PLEA (2017 Edinburgh). The Scott Sutherland School was an associate partner of “The 6th
 World Construction Symposium” (2017, Sri Lanka), organised and hosted by University of
 Moratuwa. Victoria was a rapporteur for the conference, and her research was recognised with
 a BEPAM Highly Commended paper award.

 Urbanism at Borders has been a biannual research-led conference, initiated in 2017, with RGU
 (Zaman) taking a lead for all activities. Each conference (Aberdeen, Malaga) has engaged with
 Springer to publish edited books of selected and extended papers. The conference has links to
 more than 30 countries and aims to form a ‘Border Urbanism Research Centre’.

 Hood is part of the Road Safety North East Scotland Lead Officer’s Group. This association led
 to further collaboration with Aberdeenshire Council and a funding award through the Transport
 Scotland Road Safety Evaluation Fund. Hood also sits on the Transport and Public Health
 Subgroup for the regions Health and Action Transport Plan.

 We remain actively engaged with our Professional Bodies, and have been able to take a lead in
 the research, professional assessment and educational policy and practice activities of CIAT
 (Laing chaired the research group, and together with colleagues Kouider and Scott sits on the
 Education Group), the RIBA (including current research being undertaken by McClean, and
 membership of visiting boards) and the RICS (Hood, Laing and Victoria undertook a global
 scoping study during 2019-20, and Laing is a Chair for the Assessment of Professional
 Competence).




                                                                                              Page 14
