Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Worcester

 Unit of Assessment: 5 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 Following strategic investment in the life sciences over the last assessment period, through
 development of dedicated research infrastructure and recruitment of excellent researchers and
 research leaders to its Institute of Science and the Environment and its Pollen and Aerobiology
 Research Unit, the University submitted to UoA5 for the first time in REF2014. Prior to this, a
 small number of researchers in the Institute had been included in an “Allied Health Studies”
 submission in RAE2008. This submission builds on the 2014 submission, demonstrating the
 maintenance and development of research in this subject area.

 In 2018, the University went through an academic restructure introducing Colleges and Schools
 (see REF5a 1.1.4-1.1.5). Staff in the submitting unit are based in the School of Science and the
 Environment in the College of Life, Health and Environmental Sciences, and are primarily drawn
 from the Department of Biological Sciences with a small number from the Department of
 Geography, Archaeology and the Environment (Adams-Groom, Westbury).

 The University Research Strategy 2014 – 2019 outlined the key role played by Research Groups
 in operationalising plans and ambitions for excellent research. The strategy outlined 4 Areas of
 Distinction to recognise areas of existing and potential research excellence. To support the
 overall delivery of the strategy, the University held a series of events focused on each of the
 Areas of Distinction. These events were designed to bring researchers together from across the
 University whose research aligned with the areas with aim of highlighting existing areas of
 strength, establishing new collaborations, and developing cross- and interdisciplinary responses
 to problems. The events identified areas of strength and areas for development and led to
 development of new research groups and collaborations. Two of these Areas of Distinction were
 ‘Economic, Social and Environmental Sustainability’ and ‘Human Health and Wellbeing’,
 achievements against which are reflected in this submission. In 2019, to further enhance the
 vitality and sustainability of the research environment, research groupings within the School of
 Science and the Environment were reviewed. The review of research groupings provided the
 opportunity to link established research fields more closely than previously, to encourage
 contributions from a wider group of staff, to support inter-disciplinary research and to encourage
 new areas of across College and University research.

 These groups are:
    • Sustainable Environments Research Group (SERG) (Ashbrook, Hanson, Herbert,
       Keane, Tör, Westbury, Wheeler): members are committed to developing a vibrant,
       internationally engaged research group that encourages the exchange of ideas and the
       development of new research agendas. Research achievements and activities of
       members reflect this strategic agenda as follows: Ashbrook’s research interests focus
       on understanding the impacts of habitat and climate change, and species interactions in
       ecological systems. Hanson’s research focuses on detecting plant pathogens using
       molecular techniques. She has been working in this area for over 10 years and her
       previous research has developed diagnostic tests for use in the agricultural industry.
       Currently she is using next generation sequencing to study fungal ecology in atmospheric
       samples in order to investigate the impacts of climate change on crop pathogens.
       Herbert has been working on molecular and cell biology of flowering plant cell,
       particularly on the plant cell cycle in the tobacco BY-2 cell line. Keane has been
       generating monoclonal antibodies and developing Lateral Flow Devices (LFDs) for
       disease diagnostics. Tör has been carrying out fundamental and translational research in
       the area of food security, specifically on molecular plant-microbe interactions with
       particular emphasis on the role of circadian regulation in pathogenicity; the role of small

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        RNAs in plant-microbe interactions; biological control of fungal and oomycete pathogens;
        genome editing for generating disease resistant plants and the use of genomics to
        accelerate plant breeding. Westbury works on the management of agro-ecosystems to
        support biodiversity and therefore the delivery of ecosystem services within agricultural
        landscapes. Since 2012, Westbury has focussed on approaches to enhance pollination
        and pest regulation services in apple, cherry and orange orchards with the aim of
        enabling growers to produce food more sustainably. Wheeler’s research centres on
        elucidating the function of a large family of secreted proteins unique to dicotyledonous
        plants and mosses, some of which involves in the regulation of self-incompatibility.
    •   Worcester Biomedical Research Group (WBRG) (Bueno, Cherry, Coles, Martin,
        Seville): the group aims to promote multidisciplinary Biomedical Science research at
        University of Worcester. The WBRG fosters collaborations between University of
        Worcester (UoW) staff, students, local health organisations & academic institutions.
        Current research aims to address the major health issues of our time. Building
        sustainable societies through research into disease prevention, disease treatment and
        disease diagnostics, lies at the heart of the WBRG research ethos. WBRG aims to
        achieve this goal through basic and translational Biomedical Research, with particular
        focus on key themes, including Cancer (leukaemia), Cardiovascular Disease,
        Neurodegeneration & Infectious Disease. Bueno has been working on the effects of
        plant polyphenols and essential fatty acid supplementation on cell membrane
        phospholipid composition in obese rats and in cell models of neural degeneration.
        Cherry’s research focuses on understanding how proteins work at the molecular level
        and on how one can use knowledge of protein structure to tackle disease. Currently, her
        research focuses into the Hedgehog signalling pathway, specifically focussing on its role
        in Leukaemia. Coles’ interests include basic and translational biomedical research in the
        fields of haemato-oncology, immunology and redox biochemistry; Martin focuses on
        wound management, formulation and assay development of novel antimicrobial agents,
        and drug delivery systems for the treatment of oropharyngeal and gastrointestinal
        infections; Seville’s research interests lie within the drug delivery systems, with particular
        emphasis on delivery of drugs to the respiratory tract.
    •   Pollen and Aerobiology Research Group (PARG) (Adams-Groom) the group seeks to
        understand the formation, release, transport, transformation and removal of bioaerosols
        in the atmosphere and how this affects the general environment. There are three areas
        of focus within the group: human health and exposure to bioaerosols; plant health, crop
        diseases and invasive species; atmospheric processes and detection of bioaerosols. The
        rest of this group are returned to UoA14. Adams-Groom has been providing pollen
        forecasts and exploring the detection and concentrations of allergenic pollen and spores
        in the atmosphere for over 25 years. After working as a forensic palynologist for 10
        years, she has also engaged in studies of pollen in soil in a forensic context. Current
        research interests include real-time molecular and laser detection of pollen and
        spores and analysis of pollen in honey.

 Research across the College is overseen by a College Director of Research and Knowledge
 Exchange (Professor Eleanor Bradley) who works closely with the School senior leadership
 teams and the Research School on areas of research strategy; recruitment and staff
 development; chairs the College RKE subcommittee which oversees implementation of
 University RKE strategy; works with Research Group leads and organises College-wide
 research events.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Unit’s strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 Over the assessment period, research activities were guided by the central aspiration outlined
 within the UW Research Strategy 2014-2019: ‘To develop excellent research with social, cultural
 and economic impact’ (see REF5a 2.1).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Building on its core strategic objective in the 2014 submission, the unit has sought to build
 critical mass and infrastructure within its research groups. The Sustainable Environments
 Research Group and Worcester Biomedical Research Group have developed their own research
 strategies and approaches to achieve these ambitions and work is underway to align these
 strategies with the newly approved UW Research Strategy 2020 – 2025.

 Strategies for both recognise the cross-disciplinary nature of the research underway and the
 groups have adopted approaches to encourage the continuation of research across traditional
 boundaries. To support the important research underway in these areas, the University has
 invested in essential infrastructure, encompassing well equipped molecular biology laboratories,
 bioimaging facilities, plant growth rooms and cabinets, proteomics facilities, and high-
 performance computing (see Section 3).

 Impact Strategy

 The unit engages in research from basic to translational to applied. In all cases, its goal is, long
 and short term, to generate benefits (health, economic, environmental) for identified groups
 which include, the general public, growers, seed and breeding companies, allergy sufferers,
 cancer patients. The unit drives impact through close collaboration with users and beneficiaries
 in the design and delivery of its research and through a dissemination strategy that targets key
 audiences for the research (including the general public), e.g. through presentation to
 practitioners, training, media and social media presence, web resources.

 The two case studies selected for REF2021 are a direct result of our strategy to pursue and
 support research that makes a difference. Research on pollen and pollen forecasting carried out
 by Adams-Groom has been helping patients and allergy specialists to understand which types
 of pollen are, or will be, causing symptoms, and contributing to the need of pharmaceutical
 companies, epidemiologists, immunologists, weather providers and providers of allergy
 treatments, all of which plan their activities around the pollen predictions. Its close collaboration
 with the Met Office and with other organisations providing pollen information to the public has
 been key to enabling impact.

 Similarly, research led by Westbury into wildflower interventions, has led to the mandatory
 adoption of wildflower strips in all new UK Jazz apple orchards. This was due to the discovery
 that wildflower strips increased biodiversity, an outcome that has potential economic and health
 benefit for growers and the society through a reduction in the use of insecticides, whilst
 promoting biodiversity. The research has been developed and delivered working directly with
 growers and impact has been enabled through a diverse dissemination strategy focused on
 reaching key stakeholders.

 Beyond the case studies: translational science carried out by Tör has been actively helping
 national and international plant breeding companies. Tör has run workshops for growers, and
 seed and breeding companies in Turkey. This led him to establish an international collaboration
 with two plant breeding companies (Yüksel Tohum and Multi Tohum) to develop tightly linked
 molecular markers to disease resistance genes in pepper, tomato and cucumber crops to
 accelerate marker assisted selection of plant lines that are resistant to economically important
 fungal and viral pathogens. Recently, in collaboration with Professor Claire Domoney (John
 Innes Centre, Norwich UK) and Dr Jane Thomas and Dr Tom Wood (NIAB, Cambridge, UK), he
 has led a BBSRC-Link project on pulse-downy mildew pathosystem that aims to identify new
 resistance sources to include in breeding programmes; develop molecular markers to enable
 rapid identification and monitoring pathogen isolates; and use biological control agents to control
 downy mildew disease. The proposal brings together a comprehensive consortium representing
 the UK pulse industry, including 8 plant breeding companies - LSPB, Birds Eye, Syngenta,
 Elsoms, KWS, Limagrain, Senova, and Storm Seeds, a farm management and advice company
 (Velcourt), PULSES-UK (representative of users of pulse crops in the UK) and two pulse crop
 expert consultancy companies (IAR-AGRI, and Keith Costello). In addition, the UK pulse levy


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organisation (PGRO) fully supports the proposal and the Agriculture and Horticulture
 Development Board (AHDB) provides direct and in-kind financial support.

 The WBRG group, in collaboration with the Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust, has
 worked on novel biomarkers in acute coronary syndrome (ACS), which occur when the flow of
 blood is restricted to the heart muscle. This can lead to the presentation of several clinical
 manifestations and ultimately myocardial infarction (MI). They are running a clinical trial
 (OXY_ACS), to establish new predictive biomarkers for ACS. They have recruited around 130
 patients at the point of an MI and follow up sampling at various time-points. They hope to
 establish new predictive biomarkers for a secondary MI event and currently the investigation is
 being carried out.

 Inter-disciplinary Research

 The University’s College Structure was developed as an enabler of interdisciplinary research
 (REF5a 2.5). College Directors of RKE are tasked with identifying and developing
 interdisciplinary opportunities across Schools in a College but also between Colleges where
 appropriate.

 This is manifested in the submitting unit through the research groups outlined above. SERG in
 particular is fundamentally interdisciplinary drawing on staff from across Biological Sciences but
 also Geography, Environmental Studies and specific topics such as environmental archaeology.
 WBRG has membership from across the College, notably researchers focused on genetic
 understanding of bipolar disorder (returned to UoA4) contribute to the group as well as
 researchers from sport and exercise science (returned to UoA24) focused on exercise
 physiology.

 Open Research


 The University is committed to developing and maintaining an Open Research environment. It
 fundamentally recognises the value of open access publication to the HE sector, to the public, to
 the University and its researchers but most vitally to the integrity and value of the research.
 All staff are required to upload outputs from research onto WRaP, the University’s research
 repository. The College is provided with monthly reports on Open Access (OA) compliance from
 a central Open Access Team based in Library Services (see REF5a 2.6). Information about
 WRaP and OA features in staff induction, training workshops are offered through the staff
 development programme, and 1-1 support is available on request from the Open Access and
 Advocacy Support officer. In addition, there is an OA funding scheme to support Gold Open
 Access which has been utilised by staff in the unit (Tor, Coles, Bueno).
 The University will look to review and revise its Open Access Policy in 2021 in light of national
 and international developments, in particular Plan S. The University has recently signed up to
 the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and has established a working
 group to implement its principles.


 Research Integrity

 At University level, the University’s Research Integrity & Governance Committee has oversight
 of policies and procedures to support research integrity and its Chair is the University’s
 Research Integrity Champion. The champion is expected to embed a culture of integrity across
 University through developing training and support for staff but also raising its profile.
 At College level, Research Ethics Panels are responsible for review of all staff and research
 student projects to ensure they are conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Panel Chairs and Vice Chairs are
 experienced researchers whilst panel reviewers are drawn from across the College; lay

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reviewers are also recruited to the panel. Training is provided to all reviewers before they
 engage in the role. There is an annual audit of reviews to ensure the Panels are fulfilling their
 role.
 For those staff and students conducting research in healthcare organisations (e.g colleagues
 within the WBRG), the NIHR Local Comprehensive Network West Midlands has provided IRAS,
 governance and Good Clinical Practice for research (GCP) training at the University over the
 period.

 The University’s Research Integrity champion works closely with the Chairs of Ethics Panels at
 College level to ensure a culture of research integrity is embedded in the wider research culture
 of the College, offering support and guidance to research students and staff and maintaining a
 high profile for the research integrity agenda.

 Future strategic aims

 In 2020, the University produced a new RKE strategy identifying 5 Areas of Challenge (REF5a
 2.3). Colleagues are already conducting impactful research in 2 of these areas (‘Human Health
 and Wellbeing’ and ‘Sustainable Futures’) but have the potential to support developments across
 all 5. To achieve this will require ongoing support for inter-disciplinary research and across-
 University collaboration.

 The unit’s research groups will be supported to sustain the excellent research already underway
 as well as to introduce new developments in key areas:
    • SERG will support members to develop research within the thematic areas of priority
         (food security, sustainable livelihoods, sustainable places, rivers science, conservation
         and management of species and habits), utilising university and College mechanisms of
         support for research, in addition to focusing bidding activity in these areas. New
         stakeholder relationships will be pursued (local, regional, national, and international) with
         a focus on policy makers. Clear routes for KE and research will be identified through a
         mapping exercise to identify new, and existing, stakeholders.
    • WBRG aims to increase research capacity by successfully obtaining funding to support
         research students and early career researchers. The group will also build on existing
         external collaborations and actively seek new collaborations with research institutes,
         universities, government agencies, non-government organisations, including industry.
         This approach will provide defined routes for knowledge exchange and research impact.
         The success of the strategy will be underpinned by the University research support
         schemes, whilst becoming increasingly reliant on the acquisition of external funding.
    • PARG will build on its previous successes influencing policy by maintaining and creating
         new research collaborations both nationally and internationally.

 We will continue to retain and recruit excellent researchers at all career stages. Job descriptions
 will reflect research underway across the School and will be designed to attract colleagues who
 can contribute to work across the research groups. A review of plans to support staff on
 teaching, full academic and research posts will be undertaken at School level, with a focus on
 aligning staff with research group activities as appropriate. This will include the provision of
 training for Heads of Department around setting research objectives and workload planning for
 all academic staff; routine evaluation of research and KE objectives at annual performance
 reviews; identification of staff for the research mentor and coaching scheme.

 Research in new areas, not aligned with existing groups, will be identified through the regular
 College research update and School bidding reports. This information will enable colleagues to
 consider joining groups aligned to their areas of research from across the University, as well as
 the development of new research groupings within the School. Any new research groupings will
 be required to be aligned to national and international areas of research priority, notably the
 UKRI. Excellence in research from across the School will be celebrated through all-staff School
 meetings and College events.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The opening of a new Medical School (anticipated first intake 2022/23) will provide further
 opportunities for inter-disciplinary research activity between new academic staff in the Medical
 School, associate staff from clinical practice, colleagues engaged with the WBRG, as well as
 colleagues working in areas aligned with UoA3 and UoA4.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Recruitment

 The Department of Biological Sciences comprises 19 academic staff, 3 research staff and 3
 technical staff. The College Director of RKE is routinely involved in new standard academic
 appointments, providing input to the post details, outlining specific areas of research experience
 and expertise (to align with RKE priority areas) as well as interview and selection processes.
 One member of staff has been promoted to Professor over the period (Tor) and here has been
 an additional professorial appointment as Head of School (Seville).

 In addition to these senior research leadership appointments, Honorary Professors have been
 appointed to strengthen regional and international research links. Professor Stephen O’Hickey
 (Worcester Acute Hospitals NHS Trust) has worked with colleagues submitting to this unit since
 the last REF period and contributes to teaching on Allergy Management as well as inter-
 disciplinary research into severe allergy (submitted to UoA4). Professor Yiguo Hong from
 Hangzhou Normal University has been an Honorary Professor within SSE and collaborates with
 Tör to carry out research on Plant Health. Professors Tör and Hong established the Worcester-
 Hangzhou Joint Plant Health Laboratory with an aim to: enable reciprocal research visits; deliver
 seminars and lectures in the Joint Laboratory at both locations; carry out joint supervision of
 research MSc and PhD students; develop collaborative research projects for international
 funding for both Universities; publish co-authored papers in high impact journals; and share
 ownership of IPRs from joint scientific research projects.

 Visiting researchers have supported ongoing international research collaborations. Six visiting
 researchers have been located in the unit over the period, from Brazil, Turkey and Syria, funded
 through international researcher mobility schemes such as CAPES and through CARA (Council
 for At-Risk Academics) scheme. Their time with the university has ranged from 3 months – 2
 years and they have supported the research undertaken by Bueno and Tor. There has been an
 additional visiting research student from Brazil, also funded by CAPES, who worked for a 12-
 month period with Bueno.

 Progression and Succession Planning

 The contribution of senior lecturers to the submission demonstrates the success the School has
 had in enabling colleagues working across an academic portfolio (teaching and research) to
 maintain their research activities (see Table 1):

  Contract level                           % Eligible              % Submitted
  F1 (Professor)                           9                       14
  I0 (PL/Head of School)                   32                      29
  J0 (SL)                                  41                      43
  K0 (Lecturer /Research Fellow or         18                      14
  Assistant)
                          Table 1: Proportion of staff by contract level

 There are opportunities for colleagues to progress their careers at the University.
 Colleagues (e.g. Hanson) have been supported to move from fixed term research contracts to
 permanent academic positions. Several have also been promoted to Principal Lecturer positions
 over the period (e.g. Prankel, Westbury, Wheeler). Aspiring research leaders are supported

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through an annual Research Leadership Programme. There is a Professorial Mentoring scheme
 available to those senior colleagues preparing their professorial applications. Research outputs
 are rewarded through the annual University recruitment and promotion scheme.

 Staff Development

 To support a thriving and inclusive research culture, the University is committed to developing
 and maximising the research potential of all staff on standard academic contacts, and at all
 stages of their careers. All academic staff are required to engage in research, appraisals are
 instrumental in providing a framework to discuss research income and output writing objectives,
 but also staff development needs, which might include attendance at relevant courses and
 workshops for which there is a budget at School level. Staff are also supported to participate in
 national and international conferences (see Section 4).

 University research support schemes have supported the ongoing development of staff within
 this submitting unit as follows:
 • The Research Outputs Facilitation Fund (ROFF) is a College fund awarded to researchers to
     facilitate the final stage of research projects into publication. Three grants have been
     awarded including to Bueno, Hanson, Keane.
 • Supporting Research Excellence Scheme – the scheme provides staff with full or partial
     remission from teaching and / or other duties for a period of up to two semesters (8 months)
     to undertake a project with a clear set of outcomes (see REF5a 3.2.3). Staff from the
     submitting unit have successfully applied for SRES (Bueno, Coles, Westbury, Wheeler), all
     subsequently produced research aligned with this submission.
 • The Vacation Research Assistantship Scheme (VRAS) - staff submit a proposal for research
     to be supported by a student working as a research assistant for up to three months over the
     Summer period. Within this submitting unit, the scheme has provided early career
     researchers with support for unfunded research, as well as valuable experience in supporting
     and developing new researchers. Eight projects from colleagues in this submission were
     funded, including Bueno, Cherry, Coles, Hanson, Westbury, Wheeler.

 The Head of School engages in discussions on research aspirations with all new academic staff
 during their induction period, new colleagues are also encouraged to meet with the College
 Director of RKE and provided with a mentor as an independent source of advice and information
 about available University sources of research support. There is a school budget to support staff
 to undertake external training which is also used to support staff to undertake higher degrees,
 notably doctoral study. This support includes the route to a PhD by Published and Creative work
 which is a valuable opportunity for staff joining the university from senior professional and
 practice positions. One member of staff within this submitting unit has been supported to
 complete a doctorate via this route over this period (Adams-Groom).

 An important resource for early career researchers and staff is the Research Development
 Programme which comprises a series of workshops over each academic year (see REF5a
 3.2.4). Workshops are delivered by senior researchers and professional staff at the University
 but also draw on external presenters and utilises resources offered through Vitae and other
 professional development organisations. The programme includes a Research Leadership
 Programme, designed for more experienced research staff, including research group leads and
 newly appointment Professorial staff. As these are University-wide programmes, they provide
 the opportunity to meet other research active staff which has encouraged interdisciplinary
 research.

 Staff across the University also come together on a regular basis for the School’s Research
 Seminar Series and the College Research Seminar series. The School seminar series has run
 throughout this REF period and draws on a scholarly mix of internal and external staff and
 postgraduate speakers throughout the academic year. The series includes an annual Lovett
 lecture which is open to members of the public as well as staff from across the University. The
 COVID-19 pandemic has escalated work to make these seminars more widely available to

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internal and external colleagues through recordings and by hosting online. Both seminar series
 moved online in 2020, attracting higher average attendance numbers, whilst providing the
 opportunity to make them widely available to relevant external organisations.

 Mentoring is also an important aspect of staff development. There is a university wide mentoring
 and coaching scheme which brings together senior and emerging researchers, according to
 expertise and experience. There are a range of training and resources available for mentors and
 mentees engaged with this scheme. Overall, the department is committed to meeting its staff
 development demands and aims to provide relevant opportunities enabling all to maximise their
 academic potential.

 UW has implemented the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
 developed an action plan based on its recommendations, subsequently being given the HR
 Excellence in Research award in 2016. Key aspects of this plan have been the development of a
 bespoke training programme for its research staff, the establishment of a research staff forum,
 and the development of training for principal investigators around the commitments of the
 Concordat.

 Research Students

 There has been an increase in research student numbers from 8 students in REF2014 to 12
 students in this submission. There has been a more notable increase in the numbers of
 students supported to study full-time, with 9 currently studying full-time compared to 5 full-time
 students in 2014. This reflects success in applications to external funding schemes over the
 period, which has included The Leverhulme Trust and the Turkish Ministry of Education but also
 the University’s ongoing investment in PhD studentships. The University has funded 10
 studentships over the assessment period in areas of research priority aligned with this
 submission. This has included 6 fully funded and 4 co-funded studentships. Three of the co-
 funded studentships (Westbury) have developed ongoing research to consider the role of
 wildflower strips as a sustainable method of fruit production (for apples, cherries and citrus) and
 involved partnership with industry, specifically Waitrose plus a specific fruit producer. The fourth
 co-funded studentship (Ashbrook) is co-funded by the Bumblebee Conservation Trust and
 investigates bumblebee wildflower meadow habitat preferences using multi-scale remote
 sensing data.

 There have been 12 successful doctoral completions over the period, with a number of these
 students co-supervised with colleagues submitted to UoA14. Amongst those students who have
 completed in the period, notably one has become Research Fellow in the College of Life and
 Environmental Sciences, University of Exeter and another is the Technical Manager at
 Worldwide Fruit.

 Recruitment and selection to the PhD programmes is overseen locally by a PhD course leader.
 Their role is to ensure that only excellent students are accepted onto the doctoral programme
 and that supervisory teams meet the requirements of our Research Degree Programme
 regulations. The course leader also works with academic staff, Research Group leads and the
 College Director of RKE to advertise self-funded PhD opportunities. The course leader also
 monitors progress, providing advice and support to supervisory teams and students where
 required, as well as overseeing the School’s enhancement plan for its Research Degree
 Programme.

 The University has a well-established graduate school (branded as the Research School) that is
 responsible for the management of all Research Degree Programmes from recruitment to
 examination, in partnership with the academic schools (see REF5a 3.3.2- 3.3.3).

 The University has expanded the Research School team to reflect the growth in student
 numbers over the REF period. It provides a dedicated work and social space for students. The
 Research School team, co-located in the student space, provides advice and guidance for

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students on their programmes, and, working closely with other student-facing departments such
 as the Disability & Dyslexia Service, the student mental health team, careers service, also offers
 pastoral and wider support. A comprehensive programme of support and guidance has been
 developed for PGR students and supervisors around mental health and wellbeing.

 All students on research degree programmes are required to undertake an associated training
 programme, run by the Research School (REF5a 3.3.4-3.3.5). The programme has been
 mapped against Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. The programme offers a suite of
 modules, short courses and workshops, delivered face-to-face or online, some of which are
 compulsory for all doctoral students, focused on the following core areas: planning and
 managing research; academic writing; research methods; data analysis; research integrity and
 ethics; dissemination, engagement and impact; careers and employability.
 The University also supports students to engage with external training where this is specialist
 and not available through the University’s programmes. Students are also able to access training
 offered through the GuildHE Research network
 Beyond the programme, the Research School offers additional development opportunities.
 Research Students have opportunities to teach and can access modules and workshops to
 develop their skills in this area, with the opportunity to gain associate or full fellowship of the
 Higher Education Academy. The University offers research student-specific dissemination
 opportunities including an annual “Images of Research” exhibition and student-led PGR
 Conference. The University provides funding opportunities for students to attend and speak at
 external conference and events and separate funds to support students to develop inter and
 cross-disciplinary networks, seminar series, conferences and events. The University is a
 member of the Brilliant Club, a charity focused on improving access to University, which
 provides opportunities for doctoral students to go into schools and deliver tutorials in their area
 of expertise. The Research School also provides ad hoc opportunities: for example, in 2019 the
 lead for the development programme worked with a student team to deliver a University
 programme for Pint of Science.

 Office space for PhD students is provided at the Research School, but there is additional space
 available for those students who require access to specific on campus facilities (for example,
 laboratory space). Feedback is sought from doctoral students via the Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (PRES) every 2 years (see REF5a 3.3.6) and feedback has been utilised
 over this period to encourage doctoral students to feel more embedded within the culture of the
 College. For example:
 • The School and College Research Seminar series encourage participation from doctoral
     students
 • Students have been invited to provide posters at College Research events and work is also
     displayed within the School
 • There is research student representation on the College RKE Subcommittee which ensures
     the student voice is fed into the development of research strategy at College level
 • Doctoral students are provided with opportunities to work with UG students to support the
     development of student societies (e.g. the UW Biology Society), help with specialist teaching,
     serve on committees of external organisations, and make significant contributions to STEM
     outreach and widening participation activities

 Supervision at Worcester is always by a team consisting of a DoS (who must be based at the
 university) and up to two other supervisors. The team must have relevant expertise and
 collective experience of supervision. Staff with no prior experience of supervision are supported
 to take on Director of Studies (DoS) roles with the support of a supervisory mentor. Supervisors
 are therefore selected in relation fit to the project. All supervisory teams must be approved by
 the University’s Research Degrees Board.

 The Research School maintains a register of approved supervisors which identifies the expertise
 and experience of supervisors. The register is reviewed on an annual basis. There are currently
 15 approved supervisors from the submitting unit, a significant increase from 8 in 2014.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Research School provides opportunities for the professional development of experienced
 and new supervisors through a supervisor development programme. This programme has been
 in place for some 20 years but was rethought and relaunched in 2018/19. The programme offers
 a wide range of support for supervisors at various career stages on themes such as: introduction
 to supervision, supervisory styles, regulations and processes, supervising international students,
 PGR mental health and wellbeing, supporting student progress. New supervisors must
 complete the whole programme but more experienced supervisors must also engage with core
 elements and all supervisors are required to engage in regular refresher training (every 3 years).

 Training is complemented by other development opportunities including: supervisor lunches that
 bring together supervisors to discuss key topics and challenges in supervision; the Share and
 Inspire series, and external professional development for supervisors provided through the UK
 Council for Graduate Education (UKCGE).

 Equality and diversity

 The University has a fundamental commitment to equality and diversity (REF5a 3.4). It seeks to
 consider and apply equality and diversity principles in all that it does. Its policies and processes
 are designed to disadvantage no-one and are subject to ongoing equality impact assessment to
 ensure this is the case.

 The unit’s approach flows from this with the Head of School ensuring that the University’s
 principles and policies are fully enacted. Line managers are sure staff are aware of and are
 supported to engage with, for example, the University’s flexible working policy, its parental leave
 policies, its policies which support carers (such as its Critical Illness Policy) and its staff
 wellbeing initiatives (see REF5a 3.1.8)

 Several staff in the unit have benefitted from the University’s flexible working policy (REF5a
 3.1.8) with a move to part-time or compressed hours. There is no evidence that this has
 impacted on research productivity, access to funding or progression. It is notable that both at
 institutional (REF5a table 2) and unit level, part time staff are as well-represented in the
 Category A submitted as eligible category.

 Staff in the unit have taken parental leave in the assessment period. They have received active
 support to transition back to work after the leave period, through “keeping-in-touch” days,
 phased return, mentoring. It is ensured that where a staff member takes parental leave this does
 not impact on research leadership or supervisory roles. The School has a fair and flexible
 approach to working, particularly during the current lockdown period in recognition of the
 challenges of home schooling.

 Staff in the unit are committed to equality and diversity. Staff were members of the University’s
 Athena SWAN self-assessment team; the University received its institutional Bronze Award in
 April 2018 and is committed to making departmental applications in the next 2 years. Staff are
 also engaged with various staff networks focused on protected characteristics and with the
 LGBTQ+ Allies scheme.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The development of new facilities, infrastructure and research strategy have resulted in an
 increased research grant income to a total of £1,784,990 over the period. Colleagues have
 engaged with a diverse range of funders over the period. Examples include:
 • Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC)
     Three projects have been funded by the BBSRC over the assessment period.
      ➢ New approaches for the early detection of tree health pests and pathogens (2014-18)
          led by FERA, part of the council’s Tree Health and Plant Biosecurity Initiative (£192k)

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      ➢    Global threats from Phytophthora spp. and their mitigation through nursery best
           practice (2016-19), also part of the Tree Health and Plant Biosecurity Initiative (£45k)
      ➢ Pulse-Downy Mildew Pathosystem: Deploying disease resistance, pathogenomics and
           microbial biocontrol (2020-23), led by Worcester (Tor) with academic partners at the
           John Innes Centre and NIAB, Cambridge (£512k).
 •   Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board (AHDB)
     Four projects were funded by the AHDB over the period, targeted at plant disease and
     detection. The initial 2 projects included an evaluation of an integrated disease management
     system to ascribe risk of downy mildew disease on commercial salad and bulb onion crops in
     the UK; followed by a review of best practice for oomycete root-rot detection and control CP
     126. The completion of these led to a further 2 funded pieces to new methods of detection,
     including the employ of a lateral flow device to detect Gummy Stem Blight and the second
     tested single and multiple diagnostic devices for early detection of oomycete root.
 •   British Council
     The University received funding for 2 projects in the area of food security (Tor). These
     included an overview of the latest technologies for crop improvement (2014) and an
     evaluation of current plant health challenges and solutions (2016).
 •   Sir Halley Stewart Trust
     The Trust has funded two projects led by the WBRG (Coles); the first looked at the efficacy
     of novel therapeutics in the treatment of parasitic infections and haematological malignancy.
     The second focused on the development of point of care testing for detection of Ureaplasma
     infection amongst preterm infants.
 •   Institute of Biomedical Sciences
     Colleagues working within the WBRG have been successful with funding from this
     professional body, with 4 projects funded over the period. These have included two in the
     area of antibody development (Coles), one which investigated MLF1 as a marker for
     Treatment of Acute Myeloid Leukaemia (Cherry) and one to develop a lateral flow diagnostic
     device for the diagnosis of Acanthamoeba Keratitis (corneal infection).

 Infrastructure

 The university has invested significantly in research support infrastructure over the REF period
 (see REF5a 4.1.1) and established robust Pre- and Post-Award processes for externally funded
 projects (approved in 2018/19 and subject to evaluation and review in 2020/21). These
 processes scaffold the Research Office support systems set out above and ensure good
 governance for bids and for projects. Staff within the submitting unit work closely with colleagues
 based in the Research Office to develop bids for funding, with support available at pre- and post-
 award. Within the College, there is an RKE facilitator who disseminates information about new
 opportunities for research funding to colleagues, works closely with Research Group leads to
 develop a research funding profile (including fingerprinting for Research Professional), provides
 tailored information about specific opportunities on request and registers information about bids
 in preparation.

 Peer review for draft bids is encouraged for every submission, and mandated for larger value
 bids, as well as those targeting Research Council and UKRI opportunities. A peer review
 process is co-ordinated by the College Director of RKE, utilising expert feedback from academic
 colleagues across the College. It has been recognised that the processes need to incorporate
 Equality Impact Assessments at various stages of both pre- and post-award. In lieu of this
 broader development, the University has adopted the BBSRC EIA guidance and template for
 reviewing research bids. It has also been agreed to undertake a review of bidding over a 5-year
 period from an equality perspective and this will be completed in 2021. The review will inform the
 development of support mechanisms for bidding.

 Biology researchers are proactively supported by the Information & Learning Services through
 subject-focused staff. The University opened a new Library (The Hive, which has won 46
 awards) jointly with Worcestershire County Council, providing a central location for public
 engagement as well as ready access to the book stock.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Facilities

 The University has invested significantly over the last decade in developing and maintaining its
 research facilities in the biosciences. It has established:
 • A fully equipped molecular biology laboratory.
 • A well-equipped laboratory for Leukaemia research
 • A laboratory dedicated to monoclonal antibody production that is linked to plate readers for
    conducting ELISAs and generating lateral flow devices.
 • A laboratory dedicated to disease diagnostics using immunochemical detection as well as
    carrying out ordinary plant pathology work. Linked to this are growth cabinets and growth
    rooms.
 • A proteomic laboratory equipped with LC/MS single quadrupole, GC/MS, AKTAPure
    chromatography system, Crystallography incubator and GavaCyte 2/4 flow cytometer. An
    environmental test chamber allowing researchers to conduct environmental research at
    various temperature and humidity.
 • In-field facilities including drones for carrying out aerobiological research that allows
    capturing airborne pollens, fungal spores and particles and a large collection of detectors for
    bioaerosols.
 • A large collection of pollen samples that allow researchers to perform palynology and
    students to be trained for pollen identification.
 • A High-Performance Computing (HPC) facility, which is linked to high speed internet, that
    helps researchers process and analyse very large data sets and perform complex
    computational tasks including modelling and next generation sequencing analysis.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration

 Staff within the submitting unit have engaged in collaborative research with other universities
 and research organisations internationally and nationally.

 Colleagues have been supported to initiate and sustain links with international academic
 partners over this period. For example, Dr Allain Bueno graduated from the Paulista School of
 Medicine, Sao Paulo Federal University, Brazil. During his time at the University of Worcester,
 he has maintained his links with former colleagues and has produced research outputs through
 this collaboration in the area of experimental biology. Dr Bueno has also been supported to
 retain his collaborative relationships with the School of Nutrition, Bahia Federal University and,
 as well as publishing several outputs together over this period, he is currently working with these
 colleagues to conduct a large clinical study in the area of clinical nutrition, cancer aetiology and
 survivorship. Other successful international collaborative links include: Adams-Groom
 (University of Madrid; University of Parma, Italy; University of Salamanca; University of
 Gothenburg, Sweden; University College Dublin; University of Wellington, New Zealand);
 Ashbrook (University College Cork, Univeristy of Vienna); Bueno (Texas Tech University);
 Cherry (Karolinska Institute); Coles (Aarhus University, Denmark); Martin (Universiti
 Kebangsaan Malaysis; University of Douala, Cameroon); Tor (Hangzou Normal University,
 China; Akdeniz University, Turkey), Wheeler (Montana State University).

 Colleagues are also supported to collaborate with colleagues from universities across the UK.
 For example, Dr Steve Coles completed 2 post-doctoral associate posts at Cardiff University
 before taking up his post at the University of Worcester in 2013. Dr Coles has retained close
 links with Cardiff, working with colleagues in the Darley/Tonks laboratory in order to publish 2
 collaborative research outputs over the period to consider immune responses and AML
 suppression. Dr Coles continues to be mentored by senior colleagues at Cardiff. Other
 colleagues also have successful national collaborative relationships universities across the UK
 including: Leicester, Bangor, Aberystwyth (Adams-Groom); Wolverhampton (Martin, Keane);
 Liverpool John Moores (Martin); Oxford (Wheeler); Sussex (Coles); Coventry (Coles);

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Birmingham (Bueno, Martin, Wheeler); Leeds Beckett (Bueno); Bristol (Bueno, Coles);
 Loughborough (Coles); York St John (Martin); Cardiff (Keane); Exeter (Adams-Groom, Tor);
 Cardiff Metropolitan (Coles); Leeds (Cherry); Chester (Prankel); Francis Crick Institute
 (Cherry).

 Contributions to the Research Base

 Colleagues have been invited to give keynote presentations at international conferences
 including: Plenary Public lecture, Nutritional approaches for the prevention and management of
 Depression; 21 April 2018 (Bueno); SIGS and HIGS: investigation into silencing genes in the
 obligate downy mildew pathogen. International Molecular Plant Protection Congress Adana
 TURKEY - April 10-13, 2019 (Tor). Molecular plant-microbe interactions: systems for defence
 and strategies for attack. Plant Health Meeting, February, Antalya, Turkey, 2016 (Tor).

 Staff within the submitting unit are engaged in a range of activities which make wider
 contributions to the research base economy and society. These include:
 • Membership of external committees, societies and associations including the Association of
     Nutrition (Bueno), The Encephalitis Society (Bueno); Academic of Pharmaceutical Sciences
     Board of Directors (Martin), Treasurer of the British Society for Plant Pathology (Tor);
     Malvern Hills Trust – Wildlife Expert Panel (Westbury); Royal Pharmaceutical Society of
     Great Britain (Seville); Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Great British (Seville),
     International Society for Aerosols in MEdicine Member, UKI Controlled Release Society
     (Seville).
 • Reviewers to grant committees: Pool member for BBSRC Grant Committee, 2016-2019
     (Tor), Core member for BBSRC Grant Committee (Tor), Assessor of Innovate UK grants
     (Tor)
 • Membership of Editorial Boards / Editors e.g. Journal of Physiology and Biochemistry
     (Bueno); Cancer and Oncology (Coles); Frontiers in Plant-Microbe Interactions (Tor), Journal
     of Environment and Agricultural Studies (Tor); Journal of Agriculture and Sustainability (Tor;
     Westbury); Advances in Agriculture (Westbury); The Scientific World Journal (Westbury);
     Research and Reviews in Drug Delivery (Seville).
 • Reviewers for journals, publishers etc including Aerobiologia; Journal of Nutritional
     Biochemistry; Chemical Nutrition; European Journal of Clinical Nutrition; International Journal
     of Clinical Practice; Neurochemical Research; Journal of Pharmaceutical Science; Powder
     Technology; Functional Genomics; Molecular Plant Pathology; Plant and Soil; Sustainability;
     Journal for Nature Conservation; Oxford University Press; Routledge;

 Contributions to Economy and Society

 Colleagues have engaged members of the public with their research over the period with a
 range of public engagement activities including:
 • Adams-Groom: Pollen forecasting to the Media. U3A, Science Seminar, Gloucester, July
     2016. Analysis of the pollen content of commercial honey. Worcestershire Beekeepers
     annual meeting, Worcester, February 2015 and April 2016.
 • Cherry: Programme at Worcester Sixth Form “Proteins and Drug Design; The devil is in the
     detail”; 2019; Impetus Programme at Christopher Whitehead School “Developing novel anti-
     viral and anti-cancer agents”, 2019.
 • Coles: Pint of Science Festival, Worcester, 2019: Future Treatments for Leukaemia:
     Immune checkpoints point the way forward; Science Week Worcester Hive Micro-science
     Festival, 2018: AML Immune Checkpoints: CD200 & PD-1 crosstalk; The Worcester
     Infirmary Museum, 2016: Natural Born Killers: the immune cell vs cancer.
 • Westbury: Public event at the Hive for British Science Week “Ecology Forum” March 2019;
     Public lecture at the Hive “Gardening for wildlife” March 2017

 Colleagues have also acted in an expert capacity in the following roles:
 • Scientific Advisor of the Food Standards agency. Scientific Advisor, Registered Specialist.
     May 2019 to present (Bueno)

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Trustee of the British Society for Plant Pathology. 2017 – Present (Tor)
 •   Wildlife Expert Panel for Malvern Hills Trust. 2012 – Present (Westbury)




                                                                                Page 14
