Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: UoA12 Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  The UoA has undergone significant change over the last seven years resulting in a more
  focussed identity than presented in REF2014. We have had major successes in research and
  impact that have enhanced our position as international leaders in engineering science. Of
  particular note are:

        The 2018 launch of the £2M Nanjing Iron and Steel Company (NISCO)-UK Research
         Centre that aims to advance impactful research in new materials and the development
         of advanced manufacturing techniques in materials processing. To date it has achieved
         considerable funding success, including: WeldGalaxy (EU, £326k); FLEXIBAT (Innovate
         UK, £369k); Leicester Materials Knowledge Exchange (LMKE) Regional Engagement
         Award (Royal Academy of Engineering, £75k); Superslab (Innovate UK, £161k); The
         Royal Society (£43k), and attracted £978k of in-kind support from industrial
         collaborators.

        Significant investment in our digital communications infrastructure resulting in our
         consortium leadership of a highly prestigious DSTL/EPSRC University Defence
         Research Collaboration project supported by QinetiQ, Thales, Selex ES, Texas
         Instruments, Steepest Ascent and Prism Technology, (£3.6M project).

  These and other examples are detailed in what follows.

  Overview and 2016 restructure
  The UoA is a General Engineering unit with a strategic vision to address challenges facing
  industry and society with a particular focus on Aerospace & Computational Engineering (ACE)
  and Mechanics of Materials (MoM). These broadly define our two research groups: ACE and
  MoM (membership is listed in Table 1). Our research and impact strategies are underpinned by
  strong institutional, national, international, and industrial collaborations and benefit from
  interdisciplinary links within traditional physical science disciplines (e.g. mathematics, computer
  science, and chemistry) and outside (e.g. medical science). Interactions across UoL provide a
  vibrant environment for cross-disciplinary research and impact. Medical applications are a
  particular growth area and feature strongly in our future strategy in both materials and
  computational activities.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


             Aerospace & Computational                  Mechanics of Materials (MoM) Group
              Engineering (ACE) Group                         (15 members, 15 FTE)
               (19 members, 17.4 FTE)
      Angelino*      Lefley     Su*                    Azeem*       Panwisawas* Ye*
      Bagdanavicius McEwan Visintini                   Bocian*      Pearce
      Chambers*     McMullan Warrington                Bo Chen* Schlindwein
      Gaojie Chen*      Morales     Eugene Zhang* Dong              Shepherd*
      Garrett           Prempain Yue Zhang*            Gill         Sinka
      Hussain*          Rona                           Li*          Tsamis*
      Ji*               Ruiz*                          Pan          Weston

   Table 1: UoA membership and group allocation.* indicates a new member, not represented in
                                     REF2014 return.


  The two-group structure results from an expert external review in 2016, which recommended
  reorganising away from the six small research groups presented in REF2014 and consolidating
  critical mass in computational engineering and re-shaping the long-established MoM group
  (aligned with the College’s research themes). This provides strategic focus to the UoA allowing
  us to react to and select emerging research and impact opportunities. As a relatively small unit
  (32.4 FTE), this focus is key to our success and frames our future expansion strategy. These
  changes have prompted a review of our undergraduate and postgraduate teaching profile,
  ensuring the integration of our teaching and research for the benefit of our students (UG and
  PGT) and research environment.

  The restructure prompted a departure from the strategy outlined in our REF2014 return. The
  most significant changes being our extraction from embedded systems and analogue
  communication activities (replaced by digital communications within ACE); a scaling back of the
  electrical power and power electronics activities (now aligned to the energy activities within
  ACE); an extraction from forensic activity within the MoM group; and a significant refocus of the
  then bioengineering group (now in MoM). These changes have been necessary to ensure
  critical mass within materials and computational approaches. The united ACE group is the most
  significant change to arise from the restructure and allows coordinated research in fluids, digital
  communications and control to operate under shared leadership.

  The reorganisation produced immediate and substantive impact and significantly improved the
  research culture in the School: there has been an order of magnitude increase in grant
  applications. It is particularly striking that £3M of new research awards FEC were secured in
  the financial year 2018/19, in contrast to £300k in 2016/17. The new structure has further
  proved successful as a vehicle for interdisciplinary interactions and international initiatives. This
  is evidenced by four flagship developments: 1) NISCO-UK Research Centre discussed above;
  2) the Materials Innovation Centre (MatIC), a long-term strategic partnership with The Welding
  Institute (TWI); 3) as one of the founding members of the University’s Artificial Intelligence,
  Data Analytics & Modelling (AIDAM) Centre, jointly with the Schools of Mathematics & Actuarial
  Science (SMAS) and Informatics; and 4) the space engineering component of the £13.75M UK
  Research Partnership Investment Fund (UKRPIF) support for the Manufacturing, Engineering,
  Technology and Earth Observation Centre (METEOR) project arising from Space Park

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Leicester (SPL).

  SPL is an important development in this REF cycle and forms a leading part of the research
  strategy for the School, College and University [IES 2.4, 4.4]. This ambitious new project is led
  by the University in partnership with the City, Council, LEP and National Space Centre (NSC)
  and secured an initial investment of £26M through a combination of Local Growth Fund, NERC
  and the University itself. Members of the UoA have been fully engaged in the development of
  the various activities of SPL, including: building design and associated infrastructure
  (Chambers, Garrett, Gill, Pan); industrial engagement (Dong, Panwisawas, Williams,
  Vladimirova); and training (Dong, Garrett, McEwan).

  Research and impact strategies
  The UoA’s research and impact strategy consists of the following main components:

        To continue a programme of world-leading research aligned with the activities of ACE
         and MoM, producing discovery-led engineering science and challenge-led impact in
         collaboration with industry.
        Nurturing a productive and diverse research environment across the two groups to
         ensure our staff can conduct ground-breaking research over the next decade.
        To grow our staff base, ensuring we maintain the quality of our research and impact
         whilst retaining a clear focus and identity. We have an excellent team and policies which
         deliver staff satisfaction across all job roles (e.g. development opportunities, mentoring,
         flexible working, and industrial placements).
        To maintain access to and invest in the development of our research infrastructure
         consistent with the needs of our academics in activities aligned to our research groups.
         This involves a particular focus on growing biomedical capabilities and retaining cutting-
         edge computational facilities.
        To facilitate new links and strengthen existing relationships between the international
         academic and industrial sectors (particularly the medical, aerospace and space
         sectors), as well as the public. We engage with UoL initiatives involved in this (SPL,
         Leicester Innovation Hub, Leicester Institute of Advanced Studies, [IES 2.2, 2.5]) as well
         as engaging positively with industrial partners at all levels, from multi-nationals (e.g.
         Rolls Royce, Landis+Gyr, Centrica) to regional SMEs (e.g. CellCare Technologies Ltd,
         Red Monkey Play Ltd).
        To work alongside industry to identify areas of fundamental and applied research in
         which cooperative alliances/collaborations can be formed, consistent with our identity.
         SPL, NISCO-UK Research Centre, MaTIC, and AIDAM will be invaluable assets in
         attracting industrial partners to form new cooperative alliances and collaborations.

  Group identities
  Names in bold refer to members of this UoA return listed in Table 1.

  The ACE Group
  Led by Garrett, also Head of School (HoS), the ACE Group focuses on fields relevant to
  aerospace systems, computational engineering and supporting technologies. It has 19
  members of staff [17.4 FTE] and was formed in 2016 from four smaller groups to create a
  collaborative environment for computational and aerospace-related research. ACE’s strategy
  has been to build critical mass in key strengths and forward-facing areas and now has two
  primary areas of headline activity: Computational Engineering and Control & Energy.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  I. Computational Engineering. ACE consists of colleagues within the School with
  backgrounds from mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, physics, computer science,
  and applied mathematics. These diverse backgrounds generate a dynamic environment for
  computational approaches in engineering that reach outwards into other discipline areas of
  CSE. The group is well known for its fundamental work in fluid mechanics (including transition
  in mixing/boundary layers) and digital communications (including wireless communication in the
  context of 5G and beyond).

  Examples of major achievements and impact in this REF period include:

         The development of digital solutions for robust space and defence systems that exploit
          multi-sensor data fusion techniques, fault-tolerant embedded computing, intelligent
          sensing and remote sensing. (Interdisciplinary work led by Chambers in conjunction
          with DSTL, QinetiQ and Thales, as partners in the University Defence Research
          Collaboration Phase II, £3.6M project).

         The hypothesis and subsequent discovery of an alternative instability mode within
          rotating boundary-layer flows for which Garrett was awarded a Royal Academy of
          Engineering Senior Research Fellowship during 2015/16 and Hussain an EPSRC New
          Investigator Award (EP/R028699/1) in 2018 (combined total £500k). Collaborative
          projects have subsequently been launched with Delft (Holland) and KTH (Sweden) to
          draw in experimental and DNS approaches. [Headline papers in journals: Garrett,
          Hussain et al J. Fluid Mech. 775, 788, 818].

         Garrett, Hussain and McMullan led special interest groups in the EPSRC-funded UK
          Fluids Network (£800k national project led from Cambridge, EP/N032861/1),
          coordinating national teams with a particular focus on transition in complex rotating
          boundary layers and shear layers. The boundary-layer work resulted in the design and
          development of a UK national rotating disk facility at Warwick, and collaborative
          projects between Leicester and the Universities of Sydney and Macquarie, Australia.

         The design of a safer, secure, customisable, scalable and intelligent network in
          buildings using millimetre Wave (mmWave) and Visible Light Communications (VLC)
          for 5G and beyond for which Yue Zhang was awarded an EU Horizon 2020 5GPPP
          phase 2 project IoRL 2017/20, totaling £8.7M. Collaborative projects have since been
          established with Tsinghua University (China), Viavi Solutions and Fraunhofer IIS
          (Germany) to research into the Beyond 5G C-RAN network technology modelling and
          architecture. A further EU Horizon 2020 project 6G BRAINS (Bring Reinforcement-
          learning Into Radio Light Network for Massive Connections) 2021/23 was recently
          awarded to Yue Zhang (€5.7m project).

         The unique analysis of Simultaneous Wireless Information and Power Transfer
          (SWIPT) massive MIMO Systems with active eavesdropping, for which Chambers and
          Gaojie Chen were awarded an EPSRC project in 2018 (EP/R006377/1, £275k). The
          results of the proposed new optimization-based precoder and physical layer security
          design in the massive MIMO systems bring a fundamental revolution in terms of the
          optimization of the trade-off between the achievable secrecy rate and energy efficiency.
          Collaborative projects have been built with Loughborough, Queen Mary and BT. These


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          have the potential to bring unprecedented societal and economic benefits, including
          developments in smart homes, smart city, intelligent transportation, e‐health and
          environmental monitoring.

  II. Control & Energy. ACE is engaged with the fundamental theory and practice of control
  engineering and its application to aerospace and energy systems. It is one of the few UK
  control teams to combine theoretical rigour with practical applicability and has received a
  diverse array of funding (industrial and from government bodies).

  Examples of major achievements and impact in this REF period include:

         The development of improved design and certification methods for emerging vibration
          reduction technologies for rotary-wing vehicles, for which Morales was awarded a
          Royal Academy of Engineering Industrial Fellowship 2014/15, allowing him to be
          seconded to Leonardo Helicopters Division and to perform a short research study for
          the Aerospace Technology Institute (ATI), funded by the ADS group. Collaborative work
          took place within the UK Vertical Lift Network (UKVLN), a group of UK
          rotorcraft specialists including Glasgow, Manchester, Bristol, Bath, Liverpool, Cranfield
          Universities, with Leonardo Helicopters, DSTL, ATI, Hybrid Air Vehicles, and Vertical
          Aerospace. The UKVLN has been awarded an EPSRC Network Grant (£145k) and the
          parent EPSRC grant MENtOR (EP/S009981/1, £3.5M). Morales led the MENtOR work
          package on improved control algorithms for novel rotorcraft configurations and
          consultancy work for the control and operation of a national rotor test rig facility with the
          Aircraft Research Association, of strategic importance to keep UK rotorcraft R&D
          competitive. Resulting publications [including Morales et al, IET Control Theory and
          Applications 8(6) and IEEE Trans on Control Systems Technology
          doi:10.1109/TCST.2020.3004996] detail the development and application of advanced
          principles of robust control and optimisation theory to improve the reliability and
          performance of production active vibration suppression algorithms for helicopters when
          practical implementation aspects are considered. This work forms an impact case study
          submitted in this REF return (Morales, ICS1).

         The development of robust adaptive control laws for aerospace systems. This resulted
          from funding (totaling £320k) that began in 2014 with a two-year research grant from
          MoD/MBDA-UK and follow-up funding between Nov 2016 and Feb 2019 (Prempain,
          Turner, Visintini). Subsequent EPSRC funding (£290k) widened the research to an
          international collaboration with MBDA (Bristol, Stevenage and Paris) and CNRS-LAAS
          (Toulouse) and the National University of Colombia (Bogota). [Headline papers in
          journals: Turner, Prempain, Visintini et al, Systems & Control Letters 137;
          International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control 30(2); ASME Journal of Dynamic
          Systems, Measurement and Control 139(1); European Journal of Control, 38; Systems
          and Control Letters 102.]

         Visintini is collaborating with Rolls-Royce Control Systems (Birmingham) on
          the development of control-oriented models and practical adaptive control algorithms
          for the fueldraulic actuation system of the UltraFan engines - the next generation of
          Rolls-Royce civil turbofan engines expected to enter operation in 2025. The work takes
          place in the framework of the government backed Rolls-Royce ENCASE project
          devoted to reaching a 25% fuel efficiency improvement over the current generation of


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Trent engines. The collaboration started in 2014 with the award of an industrial PhD
          scholarship, which was then followed by the industrial grant ‘Nonlinear modelling and
          control of fueldraulic systems’ to Visintini in 2018, and the award of a Royal Academy
          of Engineering Industrial Fellowship in 2019. £160k in total.

  The MoM Group
  Following a number of years under the leadership of Pan, the MoM Group is now led by Bo
  Chen who joined the School in 2019 as Professor of Engineering Materials and EPSRC Early
  Career Research Fellow. The group was established by Prof Frederick Leckie in 1968 and
  currently has 15 academic staff [15 FTE]. The group has two primary and overlapping research
  areas: modelling-enabled materials engineering and bioengineering & biomaterials. As part of
  the restructure, MoM absorbed the smaller Bioengineering group in 2016.

  I. Modelling-enabled materials engineering. The group consists of colleagues with both
  material science and computational mechanics backgrounds. This has proved a unique
  strength and the group is internationally leading in its research on material processing and
  material behaviours. It is underpinned by computational materials science, AI technologies
  (providing a link to computational expertise in ACE and AIDAM) and micro-mechanics.

  Examples of major achievements and impact in this REF period include:

         Developing new processing routes to characterise and improve properties of brittle
          surrogate radioisotope ceramics and thermoelectric intermetallic materials (Williams,
          Weston). This represents a major advance in powering deep-space exploration (where
          solar power is unavailable) and enables the exploration of previously inaccessible
          regions of space. It has led to substantial economic impact by creating new
          international export markets and job creation; policy and practice changes; and
          environmental impact by developing energy-harvesting technologies and reducing the
          environmental cost of nuclear power. This work forms an impact case study submitted
          in this REF return (Williams, ICS3).

         The development of material selection procedures subsequently used across the
          energy sector to avoid pipeline failures and minimise environmental impact. For
          example, by the National Grid for the asset management of underground power
          transmission cables (Pan, Weston, £370k project); the oil & gas sector for joining
          dissimilar metals in subsea oil and gas pipelines (MINTWELD, supported by the
          European Commission via FP7, Dong, €5m project) and in improving materials for
          flexible systems that give longer lifetimes in ultrathin printed batteries (FLEXIBAT,
          supported by Innovate UK, Weston, £1.2M project). This work forms an impact case
          study submitted in this REF return (Weston, ICS2).

         The development of a multi-scale modelling strategy for powder-based processing of
          advanced materials. This includes ceramics (for which Pan was awarded the
          2018 Verulam Medal and Prize by IoM3) and pharmaceutical materials (for which
          Sinka led an EPSRC funded consortium with Imperial, Leeds, Surrey and Greenwich,
          £1.7M project, EP/N025261/1). Pan is currently a partner on the UKRI Strength in
          Places Fund (SIPF) Stage 2 bid ‘Midlands Advanced Ceramics for Industry 4.0’ (total
          £1.9M).



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         The development of a multiscale and multi-physics modelling strategy for casting and
          welding for which Dong was appointed a Research Chair by the Royal Academy of
          Engineering and the School received £2M funding from NISCO to establish the NISCO-
          UK research centre. Bo Chen is co-director of the centre and holds a £1.2M EPSRC
          Fellowship (EP/R043973/1). The group hosts an EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training
          ‘IMPaCT’ in this area (Innovative Metal Processing) led by Dong and Gill
          (EP/L016206/1, total £3.1M). Azeem was recently recruited to further support the
          growing momentum in this area.

         The development of coatings using nano-technologies for materials working within
          extreme environments. This is led by Ye and Weston in collaboration with the School
          of Chemistry, and has led to the formation of the Materials Innovation Centre jointly with
          TWI, one of the world's foremost independent research and technology organisations
          with expertise in materials joining and engineering processes. Following this, Ye is
          leading an EU-funded international consortium ‘D-SPA’ (€1.05m) with partners from
          UK, Spain, Ireland, and USA to develop diamond coatings for electronic and photonic
          applications. He is also a key partner of an Innovate UK funded industrial challenge
          project to develop antimicrobial coatings for aerospace application. The invention has
          been patented and will be adopted by Teer Coatings Ltd into their future products.

  II. Bioengineering & biomaterials. MoM is engaged with the development of engineering
  technologies and materials to improve quality of life through better physical health. This
  consists of activities linked to international networks and also via membership of the College’s
  Life Science Interface theme that links to Leicester Microbial Sciences and Infectious Disease
  Network (LeMID).

  Examples of major achievements and impact in this REF period include:

         The development of methods and technologies that have improved the cure rate for
          cardiac arrhythmias (both atrial fibrillation and ventricular arrhythmias causing sudden
          cardiac death and ventricular arrhythmia). Working with the NHS, Schlindwein has
          minimized false positives and false negatives from implantable cardiac defibrillators.
          The project won the European Heart Rhythm Association Inventors Award in 2016.
          R2I2 patent (WO2011117608) has been granted in USA (13/3/2018), Australia
          (9/4/2018), China (2015) and Japan (2015) and is under review in Canada, Europe,
          and India. PERS patent (WO2015150831), was granted in Australia (9/4/2019), USA
          (4/6/2019) and Japan (30/3/2020) and is in the national phase in four other countries.
          The technology is being improved for non-invasive use backed by a £1M project funded
          by the MRC (Schlindwein).

         The development of biologically inspired computational algorithms for chemical
          processing and brain modelling/signal processing strategies for neuroscience (Pearce)
          developed together with a consortium of scientists and engineers including Max Planck
          Institute for Chemical Ecology (Germany), KTH (Sweden) and NCBS (India - originally
          funded through two EU Future and Emerging Technologies projects - Neurochem and
          iChem). This laid the foundations for collaborative grants with Sussex and Luebeck
          (Germany) to investigate fast neuromorphic hardware for chemical sensing and ‘big
          data’ approaches to cracking the olfactory code, the relationships between molecular
          structure and neural representation of odours (EPSRC eFutures programme and


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Volkswagen Foundation). The work is acknowledged as the world’s first neuromorphic
          implementation of the first (main olfactory bulb/antennal lobe) and second (piriform
          cortex/mushroom bodies) stages of olfactory processing in mammals/invertebrates,
          integrated with a large-scale biomimetic chemical sensor array for odour classification,
          learning and segmentation. [Headline papers in journals: Pearce et al Bioinspiration &
          Biomimetics, 10(4) and Microsystem Technologies, 20(4-5), FWCI 7.84].

  Future strategy
  The School has developed a robust and sustainable identity that sets its future direction. This
  identity will serve as a platform for growth beyond the current REF cycle and provide the ability
  to react to (and select) future research challenges from the opportunities provided by the
  rapidly changing world.

  The School has grown significantly since REF2014 (from 30 to 47 academic staff members,
  including teaching focused staff within the Engineering Learning and Professional Practice
  (ELPP) group not returned here) and intends to grow further. The staffing strategy for the
  School aims to further improve the research environment by growing critical mass in key areas
  and better aligning our research and impact portfolios:

        ACE will continue to evolve towards a clear focus on activities within computational
         engineering – particularly in fluids and digital communications – and the group intends
         to invest in talent to bring these areas in line with its aerospace ambitions, for example,
         the recent appointment of Angelino and Hussain.

        MoM will continue to grow under the modelling-enabled materials and bioengineering
         themes, but with a priority focus on bioengineering. The appointments of Bocian,
         Shepherd and Tsamis demonstrate this commitment and others are expected to follow.
         This includes hosting Kaul’s RAEng Research Fellowship (£500k) from January 2021-
         2026, entitled the Lung Pharmacome, to develop an in-silico lung to be used by
         pharmaceutical companies as a drug design/discovery tool and by clinicians as a
         disease management pipeline.

  The School’s strategic aims include pursuing a policy of continuous improvement by uplifting
  the quality and volume of research, including outputs and improved success rates for funding
  applications through sustaining a dynamic and supportive research environment. We will
  continue to grow our national and international collaborations and be ambitious in our outlook.
  We will exploit and contribute to the unique research environment at Leicester that is entirely
  consistent with our new identity (including SPL and AIDAM), and also those external to it. This
  will allow us to support growth in research and knowledge transfer and to improve our
  equipment infrastructure. This wider institutional environment provides an ideal context and
  mechanisms to engage in interdisciplinary science and industrial collaborations; these unique
  local opportunities have motivated our particular strategic choices. Furthermore, these flagship
  programmes complement our UoA’s world-class reputation in providing a significant draw for
  talented PGR students.

  Governance and integrity
  The review, development, and implementation of our research and impact strategy is the
  responsibility of the School Research Committee. The Committee is also primarily responsible
  for promoting a culture of research integrity, ensuring that researchers (particularly students


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  and ECRs) understand the expected standards and obligations, as outlined in the Concordat to
  Support Research Integrity. We adhere to institutional requirements (IES 2.7) and expect
  researchers to observe these standards, promote an ethos of professionalism, and embed
  good practice in all aspects of their work.

  Open research
  We aim to embed a culture of open science to increase the global visibility of, and engagement
  with, our research. We do this by: (1) complying with REF open access (OA) requirements and
  institutional policy and procedures (IES, 2.6), and (2) utilising local, national, and international
  open scholarly infrastructures to disseminate outputs and data. In Leicester’s first Open
  Research Survey, 100% of Engineering staff who responded agreed that they believed there is
  value in anyone being able to access their research and 67% agreed that they had actively
  made more of their research freely available and accessible since 2014. Researchers in the
  UoA also regularly ensure outputs such as conference contributions, reports, book chapters,
  preprints, and codes are made openly accessible via open research platforms such as
  Figshare, Github, and arXiv. Many of our researchers are editors and/or on the editorial board
  of fully open-access peer-reviewed journals, including Frontiers in Physiology: Computational
  Physiology and Medicine (Li) and Crystals (Ye).



 2. People

  Staffing strategy
  New academic staff are appointed on proven research merit (strategic fit, publication record,
  and prior funding success unless ECR) whilst ensuring that all aspects of the curriculum are
  delivered to a high standard. Consideration is also given to the EDI profile of the school. The
  HoS in conjunction with the School Management Group (SMG) is responsible for consulting
  and recommending to the College where and at what level new appointments should be made.
  Our newly articulated direction will continue to influence new appointments to ensure the
  maintenance of critical mass in our key areas. Highly specialised technical staff (seven) and
  experimental officers (two) provide support to the research.

  Since REF14 the School’s academic head count has grown from 30 to 47 reflecting a strategy
  of growth in the research groups. In terms of the UoA, seventeen new appointments were
  made at all career levels (ACE: 9, MoM: 8). ACE recruited two Professors (Chambers, Eugene
  Zhang) and seven Lecturers (Angelino, Gaojie Chen, Hussain, Ji, Ruiz, Su, Yue Zhang) all
  to permanent contracts, with Yue Zhang being recently promoted to Associate Professor. MoM
  recruited two Professors (Bo Chen, Ye), one Associate Professor (Panwisawas), and five
  Lecturers (Azeem, Bocian, Li, Shepherd, Tsamis). The Professorial appointments in MoM
  (Bo Chen, Ye) followed the departure of Atkinson and Hainsworth to replace energy and
  intellectual leadership in materials engineering. Chambers and Eugene Zhang’s appointments
  in ACE were to bolster intellectual leadership in computational engineering, and the
  appointments have facilitated interdisciplinary collaborations with researchers specialising in
  informatics and computer science. Garrett’s appointment as HoS in 2019 saw him return from
  SMAS and provide stability and long-term vision to the School following the restructure. His
  intellectual leadership within the fluids area is a key feature of the School’s future ambitions,
  along with improved interdisciplinary interactions with the AIDAM initiative that he was
  instrumental in launching from SMAS.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Of the thirteen non-professorial appointments made, three (Azeem, Shepherd, Su) were an
  active expansion funded by the School’s involvement in the Dalian-Leicester Institute (DLI).
  This is a joint educational partnership led by Pan, as Dean of DLI, and encompassing
  Engineering, Chemistry and Mathematics programmes in collaboration with Dalian University of
  Technology, China. Other early career staff were brought in to replace a natural turnover of
  more senior staff members. Replacement of senior members at the lecturer level has been a
  conscious decision to rejuvenate the research base and reshape the unified ACE group. This
  has resulted in the UoA having a younger age profile than in 2014, with more than 54% of our
  staff now younger than 45 (including 38% of our Professors). This represents an opportunity to
  grow our own future leaders. Of the staff also present in REF14, there have been three
  promotions to Professor (Garrett, Gill, Sinka) and three promotions to Associate Professor
  (McEwan, Morales, Rona).

  Our recent appointments and promotions have been extremely successful as evidenced by the
  increased success in securing research income and uplift in research performance across the
  UoA. The planned growth of DLI, the anticipated increase in our UG cohorts and PGT offer,
  and some very recent staff departures provide further opportunities for new appointments in the
  near future. These will be actioned once the uncertainties of COVID have been navigated.

  EDI
  The School is committed to providing a good working environment for its staff and has a
  dedicated committee overseeing our EDI action plan. The committee aims to promote equality
  and diversity in the workplace, to continually assess and improve working practices, and to
  provide a culture of participation and inclusivity. EDI is embedded across all management
  committees (with EDI as a standing agenda item) and the EDI committee is represented on the
  SMG and the newly formed staffing committee where promotion cases are discussed and staff
  supported. The diversity of the School (in terms of gender, ethnicity, job role, and family
  situation) is represented within the committee to ensure all perspectives are considered. It is
  leading the School’s application for an Athena SWAN award in 2021.

  The UoA has an exemplary 91% completion of our Equality and Diversity Training (Jan 2021),
  compared to an 80% University average. This training encompasses all protected
  characteristics, with gender awareness comprising the first section.

  In the interests of inclusion, School activities are kept as far as possible to core hours 10am-
  4pm. Research meetings and committees are often flexible by nature and arranged at the
  mutual convenience of members. We are promoting inclusivity through better communication
  and shared common spaces. Staff in all roles, and PGR students, can request part-time or
  formal flexible-working arrangements. These are agreed so that teaching duties can be
  organised around them as necessary. Currently, several staff have formal flexible working
  arrangements and/or reduced FTE.

  All academic appointments are advertised internationally, and academic staff represent more
  than eight different nationalities spanning South America, Europe and Asia. New staff
  appointments over the REF period have been from British, European, Chinese, Thai and Indian
  backgrounds resulting in a sustained and diverse community. We are proud of our ethnic
  diversity with more than 30% BAME staff (38% of our Professors), which is on the higher side
  of sector norms.

  The gender distribution within the School has however been historically heavily imbalanced

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  and, despite three female appointments during this REF cycle, the departure of Atkinson,
  Hainsworth (who took up PVC level positions at Cranfield and Aston, respectively, following
  UoL career support and successful tenures as HoS) and Vladimirova (being returned under
  UoA11) means that female engineers still represent only 10% of our UoA return. Moving
  towards a more balanced distribution in line with sector norms (c20% female) will be a key
  priority in our recruitment activities throughout the coming REF period by, for example, ensuring
  representation on shortlists and advertising flexible appointments at negotiable FTE. The
  School promotes female role models at all levels, and successful female graduates are heavily
  promoted within undergraduate literature and at open day events; Vladimirova is Director of
  Enterprise and more junior female academic staff are provided with significant support and
  mentoring. The post-graduate tutor (Shepherd) is female and plays a key role in post-graduate
  recruitment. She is ideally placed to promote the role of women in academia. Female PGRs
  represent about one third of those enrolled within the UoA and the most recent Postgraduate
  Research Experience Survey (PRES) indicates our female PGR students are particularly
  satisfied with their experience, with 100% satisfaction in nearly all areas. The support and
  careers advice given to our female PGRs is intended to encourage onwards academic careers,
  improving the through-flow of female talent into staff recruitment.

  Staff development
  The annual Performance Development Discussion (PDD) provides an opportunity for academic
  staff to reflect on their career progress and discuss with a senior colleague their career
  aspirations. Individual performance targets for the next year are set with individuals’ and School
  priorities in mind. The annual process includes a mid-year follow-up meeting to ensure all
  targets remain stretching yet feasible, and the environment in which staff operate remains
  supportive and appropriate.

  All new academics are given reduced teaching loads and academic staff who teach on
  programmes in China are primarily engaged in research when they are based at Leicester.
  Early career researchers have mentors and receive support organised by their research group
  head. This is focussed on writing papers, writing research applications, and developing
  knowledge transfer opportunities, as well as teaching skills and any specific support deemed
  necessary for the individual. A robust and institution-wide probation process is adopted within
  the School to ensure all mentoring support is focussed and aligned with the School and
  institutional ambitions. Broad research support (including commercial support) is provided by
  UoL’s Research and Enterprise Division (RED) and training is organised centrally by the
  University on these and related areas, such as the supervision of PhD students.

  Academics (outside of probation) may apply for study leave for one semester in eight. The
  application process requires a statement of their research strategy and how this will be
  developed by the leave. In every year throughout this REF period at least one member of staff
  has been granted study leave to refresh their research activities (Garrett, Hainsworth,
  McMullan, Pan, Schlindwein, Sinka, Visintini). This is a key component of our research
  culture and provides academics with dedicated research time away from all teaching and
  administrative duties. Many of the achievements presented in Section 1 can be traced back to
  periods of study leave and the practice will continue.

  UoL is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
  many practical measures are implemented at the School level. Engagement in career
  development is mandatory and all staff are mentored via the PDD process. In addition to this,
  particular attention is given to early career staff, those close to promotion, and those with

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  particular leadership aspirations. At the root of this support is a robust mentoring scheme in
  which all researchers are paired with a senior member of staff. This is typically the group head
  (but sometimes delegated to ensure the advice is relevant to a sub-discipline), and all
  professors are paired with the HoS who is, in turn, mentored at the PVC level. The mentoring
  mechanisms are continuous and typically informal, but with particular fixed-point formal meeting
  points within the PDD cycle. Here staff ambitions (and School needs) are compared with
  existing skills to identify development needs. Specific development needs are accommodated
  via internal training programmes delivered by the central Leicester Learning Institute, and
  external professional bodies and learned societies. Development needs are fed into the
  workload allocations so that practical leadership skills, for example, can be developed within
  the School’s operations and succession planning of the key roles accommodated. A particular
  example of this is Garrett, who has moved from Group Head, to Research Director and Deputy
  Dean of Research for CSE, and now HoS within this REF cycle. This was made possible from
  the mentoring from previous Heads, College leaders, and engagement with central leadership
  training programmes and the provision of wider College opportunities to aid his development.
  Similarly, Gill is now Director of Research and Deputy HoS, and Bo Chen now leads the MoM
  Group. Both have demonstrated excellent leadership potential and have been given the
  opportunity to develop in appropriate roles under the close mentorship of the HoS and wider
  College community.

  Development of researchers at Leicester builds on Vitae’s Researcher Development
  Framework to develop the skills and capabilities required of researchers from PhD to academic
  and as leaders of large research programmes. The programmes are highly focused and aim to
  add value to individuals’ professional development, as well as institutional performance.
  Examples of ECR development include Morales who has been supported since joining the
  UoA as a PDRA in 2008 and moved to a permanent lectureship just prior to the REF2014
  submission. During this REF cycle he has been mentored via his research group head, RED,
  and the wider national rotor-lift community. He is now a key member of the ACE group, with
  significant and impactful achievements as detailed in Section 1. Morales was promoted to
  Associate Professor in 2020. Ruiz is on a similar track and has been supported by his group
  head and the EPSRC Funder Group (via RED) leading to a successful EPSRC New
  Investigator Grant application £243k, EP/S025707/1.

  The interdisciplinary nature of much of the UoA’s work offers additional opportunities for career
  development. For example, McEwan and Schlindwein play a leading role in AIDAM, working
  closely with SMAS and Informatics; and Bocian, Pearce, Schlindwein, Shepherd and Tsamis
  work closely with the College of Life Sciences. Industry placements are further opportunities for
  development and these have been embraced by Dong, Morales and Visintini via the
  placements discussed elsewhere in this document. Engagement with this wide portfolio of
  development opportunities is accounted for within the annual workload allocations to ensure
  time is made available. Sufficient funds are also made available within the School’s financial
  planning.

  Research Students
  The UoA has increased the number of annual PhD completions compared to the REF2014
  cycle. It has a current steady-state population of c70 students and typically graduates around
  20 doctoral students per annum, compared to around 10 in 2014. Students are typically funded
  by research grants and contracts, industrial fellowships, DTP income, and through funding from
  the University, College and School. Approximately 60% of our PhD students are full fee-paying
  students, generally from overseas. Around 10 research studentships are built into the College

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  financial plans each year and the UoA has been successful in competing for these, averaging
  two or three studentships per year from this source. The University also committed over £1M to
  the Doctoral Training Centre in Innovative Metal Processing (IMPaCT) led by the UoA
  throughout the REF period. This collaboration with Nottingham and Birmingham has graduated
  c80 PhD students with c40 from Leicester. IMPaCT draws on cross-College expertise, including
  from within Chemistry, Physics & Astronomy, and SMAS. The UoA is also a partner in the PhD
  student-focussed National Structural Integrity Centre led by TWI to address the shortage of
  qualified structural integrity specialists.

  All PGR students are matched to their supervisory team (first and second supervisors) at
  application. The online myPGR system provides a management tool for monitoring student
  progress throughout their registration and ensures that the institutional requirements for
  progression are adhered to, in line with the University’s policy as determined by the Doctoral
  College (IES, 3.2). The progression hurdles consist of year-end assessments at the end of the
  first and second years that simulate the thesis submission and viva experience. These are
  conducted by two members of academic staff outside of the supervisory team.
  PhD students, like ECRs, are integrated into a research group. The School runs a seminar
  series on alternate weeks with each group chairing on a rotating basis; the students also
  organise and host an annual research showcase event within the School. This complements
  other institutional showcasing events organised by the Doctoral College; for example, annual
  poster competitions and the Doctoral Inaugural Lecture series that celebrates and shares PGR
  success across the institution.

  The UoA provides a nurturing and robust programme of research skills training delivered
  through the School, College, and the Doctoral College, building up postgraduate research
  students as effective and confident researchers, whilst also enhancing their transferable skills
  and future employability. The initial training needs of individual students are determined at the
  induction stage and through discussion with the supervisory team and the PGR Tutor. In
  addition to the specialist training that happens within the supervision, academic knowledge and
  skill development is delivered through attendance of relevant graduate level modules (across
  CSE) and training programmes (delivered by the Doctoral College). These include: Managing
  your Research – small group activities and support directly related to their thesis, their project
  and their time management, and highlighting the important milestones on the journey;
  Communicating your Research – a comprehensive programme of transferable skills training;
  Employability and Career Management – a range of events/activities, training, and advice and
  guidance sessions to help researchers enhance their employability. Various computing
  modules are also available. Once needs are identified, attendance of relevant training courses
  is mandatory and confirmation of a student’s engagement is part of the probation hurdles for
  the end of their first year. At the most recent PRES, more than 90% of PGR students in the
  UoA agreed that their research skills had been sufficiently developed during their programme.

  Since 2014, our PGR graduates have progressed onto a wide range of highly competitive
  academic, industry, and related professional roles. Around 40% have gone on to secure
  Postdoctoral positions in the UK (including Cambridge, Nottingham, Oxford, Southampton, and
  UCL) and internationally in Australia, Brazil, and China. Furthermore, a number of Lectureships
  have been secured at universities across the UK, China, Europe, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and
  Turkey. Around 50% have progressed to posts across an array of international industries
  including R&D roles in, for example, British Steel, HORIBA, and Sandvik.



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  Research Income
  During the REF period, the UoA has received external grant income of £7.6M and the
  University has invested more than £1.5M into the research environment specific to the School.
  This includes £1M to the IMPaCt CDT and various infrastructure items detailed below. The
  annual external grant income is shown in the figure and reflects year on year growth since the
  restructure in 2016. HESA data for ‘general engineering’ schools suggests we are currently
  ranked around 18th (from 41) in terms of income/FTE/year and it is our aspiration to move
  upwards towards 14th over the next 5 years. This necessitates an ambitious increase in awards
  from around £80k/FTE/year in 2019/20 to £110k/FTE/year by 2024/25.



                                         Annual external grant income (£)
                         1.8
              Millions




                         1.6
                         1.4
                         1.2
                          1
                         0.8
                         0.6
                         0.4
                         0.2
                          0
                               2013/14    2014/15   2015/16   2016/17   2017/18   2018/19   2019/20

                                     Figure 1: annual external grant income (£)



  Grant income has been won by staff at all career stages within the UoA and is from a diverse
  range of sources; for example, EPSRC, the EU, the Royal Society, NERC, RICS Research
  Trust, Innovate UK, the British Heart Foundation, and multiple private sector partners.
  In some cases the salaries of staff are part- or fully-funded by industrial research partners: in
  MoM, 33% of Dong’s salary is provided by RAEng via his Research Chair, and he receives
  tailored career development support from TWI. Panwisawas and Bo Chen are currently funded
  by EPSRC through their Innovation and UKRI Early Career Research Fellowships. In ACE,
  Visintini’s RAEng Industrial Fellowship covered 70% of his salary for the 2019/20 academic
  year, while he was seconded to Rolls Royce. Similarly for Garrett, Gill, McMullan and Morales
  during their fellowship buy-outs.

  Consultancies and professional services
  The UoA has undertaken a number of consultancy contracts totaling £1.8M during the
  assessment period. Our broad portfolio of consultancy contracts has provided a mechanism for
  the application of our research and routes to impact. Full details are not included here owing to
  confidentiality agreements, but work has been undertaken for a number of industrial concerns
  and government agencies including Rolls-Royce Plc (Visintini, Bagdanavicius), European


                                                                                                      Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Space Agency (Warrington), AstraZeneca UK Limited (Sinka), EURAMET e.V. (Gill), National
  Grid (Pan, Weston), Aero Engine Controls (Visintini), ADS Group Ltd (Morales), NISCO Ltd
  (Dong), and the Aircraft Research Association (Morales). Represented in the headline figure is
  £1M of income from Innovate UK via KTP projects (Lefley) with local SMEs and larger
  concerns including Centrica plc. This growing KTP activity falls within the Energy activities of
  ACE and showcases applied research in home energy usage and metering.

  Infrastructure and facilities
  The School has a range of laboratories and specialist equipment supporting its research
  programmes. These have been expanded over the REF period to reflect our new focus,
  including, for example, a massive MIMO lab for 5G and beyond (£250k) and a directional
  solidification furnace (£115k). These arose from successful engagement with the University’s
  competitive mechanism for funding prioritised strategic and interdisciplinary initiatives. In
  addition, UoL has invested in a new Biomechanics and Immersive Technology Laboratory
  (£100k), which features interactive virtual/extended reality equipment to allow researchers to
  study human interaction and gait within our emerging Bioengineering activities (Bocian,
  Pearce). Furthermore, UoL contributed £200k for high temperature fatigue equipment to
  support Bo Chen’s EPSRC Fellowship. Further investment in bioengineering and digital comms
  is a key future priority via competitive internal and external funding mechanisms and lobbying
  for strategic UoL investment.

  College-wide facilities are an important aspect of our research infrastructure within our
  interdisciplinary environment. The Advanced Microscopy Facility (AMF) was developed under
  Engineering leadership funded through SRIF 2. The AMF (housed in Engineering) supports
  major experimental and analytical research activities in Engineering, Chemistry, Physics &
  Astronomy, and Geology, Geography & the Environment; it advances multidisciplinary research
  activities across the Physical and Biological Sciences. It comprises: a FEGSEM with EBSD
  and EDX, an Environmental SEM, a TEM with EDX and the associated specimen preparation
  equipment. The TEM, FEGSEM and AF are hosted within Engineering. UoL investment in the
  AMF during this REF cycle exceeds £1M.

  Many UoA research projects require significant computing resources for modelling, simulation,
  data processing and analysis that are satisfied by the University's High-Performance
  Computing systems. ALICE (£2.2M, >3k cores) primarily provides a batch service, and
  SPECTRE (>2,600 cores) an interactive environment. ACE is Leicester’s dominant user of
  ALICE (Angelino, Garrett, Hussain, McMullan, Rona). Leicester is also a partner in the Tier 2
  regional services HPC Midlands+ Athena (£1M, 15k cores) (Dong, Rona CIs, EP/K000063/1)
  and Sulis (£3.2M, 15k cores, 180 GPUs ensemble computing) (Rona CI, EP/P020232/1). The
  College invests significantly (£100k pa) in providing research software support services
  (ReSET) that is functional to the upscaling of codes on the national supercomputing facility.

  AIDAM unites researchers with shared interests in advanced modelling and simulation
  methods. Cutting across traditional disciplinary boundaries, AIDAM facilitates active, funded
  collaborations between Engineering, SMAS and Informatics (e.g. Chambers with Vladimorova;
  McEwan with Tyukin (UKRI Turing AI Fellow) and Gorban; Dong, Pan and Sinka with
  Davidchack; Garrett, Hussain, McMullan and Rona with Georgoulis, Paganini and Lescke).

  Organisational infrastructure
  The SMG within Engineering is chaired by HoS (Garrett) and consists of five other key
  members of staff. SMG operates in an advisory capacity to the HoS and determines School

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  strategy; members of direct relevance to the research structure are the Research Director and
  Operations Manager. The Research Director (Gill) chairs the Research Committee which
  consists of the Enterprise Director (Vladimirova), Post Graduate Tutor (Sheppard) and
  Research Group Heads who line manage staff within the two research groups. The Operations
  Manager advises on budgetary matters and also line manages technical staff within the
  research laboratories. Performance management is contained within the groups and follows
  principles determined by SMG to ensure consistency. In addition to monthly SMG meetings, the
  HoS meets the Research Director in fortnightly meetings and the Operations Manager on a
  weekly basis. Research strategy within the School is determined by the HoS and Research
  Director in consultation with the Research Committee. Links to the College are provided by the
  College Research Committee which meets bi-monthly. It is chaired by the Dean of Research
  and consists of the Research Directors of all constituent schools. Furthermore, the HoS sits on
  the College Leadership Team that is chaired by the PVC & Head of College and consists of
  other heads, the College Operations Director, and the Dean of Research. College level strategy
  is determined through these channels and the research themes mentioned in this statement.
  The College Research Committee encourages cross-disciplinary activities within the College.
  Institutional strategy is influenced by the School through the College Research Committee and
  College Leadership Team, as well as via more specialist interdisciplinary research centres
  including AIDAM.

  Research in the UoA is supported by our award-winning Library (IES, 4.2) and IT services, both
  of which provide excellent services. The library provides a dedicated space for researchers to
  study and network, with 156 study spaces, a group study room, and a one-to-one consultation
  area where researchers can access support from Library Research Consultants and Doctoral
  College Researcher Developers. Since 2014, UoL has invested £830k in growing its primary
  source collections, databases, and e-journals.

  We are also actively supported by staff from RED that provides support for all funder groups,
  research committees, and individual researchers from planning and writing proposals, through
  to the submission process. Our Finance Office is also actively engaged throughout this
  process.

  Future income and investment plans
  A specific aim is to generate research income at the level of £110k/FTE/annum, consistent with
  other leading national schools (as determined from HESA data). Note that our annual grant
  income/FTE/year has increased some 250% since the 2016 restructure which is a direct result
  of our new focus in areas where we have critical mass. We intend to maintain and grow this
  momentum within the context of the two research groups. This will be achieved through the
  cultivation of a culture of improved productivity in grant income and engagement with
  institutional initiatives such as the funder groups and collaborative ventures.

  Funder groups at UoL represent each of the main UKRI funders and provide a mechanism for
  strategic engagement with the funders and inter-school interactions around, for example, peer
  review, ECR mentoring (e.g. Ruiz’s EPSRC New Investigator Grant £243k, EP/S025707/1),
  and interdisciplinary projects. Funder groups complement the numerous interdisciplinary
  research interactions evident at Leicester (e.g. AIDAM, MaTIC, bioengineering interactions) by
  providing support that facilitates funding.

  SPL is an important institutional initiative with significant opportunities for the UoA that will
  prompt investment in many areas of direct benefit. Following the initial investment in SPL,

                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  further investment has been secured through UKRPIF Round 6 funding for the new
  Manufacturing, Engineering, Technology and Earth Observation Research Centre (METEOR)
  that the UoA feeds into (Bo Chen, Dong, Pan, Warrington). This new Centre will form the
  basis of Phase 2 of SPL and will drive the research excellence that underpins industry growth
  in the space sector. This research translates into and supports Phase 3, focused on supporting
  growth of the UK space sector by providing facilities to businesses for the manufacture of small
  to mid-range (30kg–200kg) satellites through the Low-Cost Access to Space Facility (LOCAS).
  All the main areas of activity within METEOR have direct relevance to Engineering: The
  Advanced Manufacturing Research Laboratory; Next Generation Intelligent Systems Facility;
  Services and Solutions Laboratory; and Building Research Capacity. Importantly these
  activities underpin our strategy for research, impact and training developments. Planning for
  Phase 3 continues in conjunction with local government and national/international industrial
  partners. To further support industrial collaboration an ERDF grant (matching UoL funds) to a
  total of £4.7M has been secured to provide state of the art manufacturing equipment including
  additive manufacturing (3D printing) and 5-axis CNC to work with regional SMEs on prototyping
  new products and providing equipment for use within SPL work. This is of direct relevance to
  the ambitions of the MoM group.

  Outside of SPL, Engineering is a strategic priority for the University. In addition to increasing
  the staff base over the next REF period, UoL is intending to invest in specialist lab facilities to
  nurture the growing bioengineering and digital communications activities. This will be, in part,
  funded by growing student numbers through the launch of new UG/PGT programmes in
  computational engineering (that reflect our changed research focus) and the coming
  demographic uplift.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

   1. Research Collaboration, Networks and Partnerships
  The UoA is actively engaged in a variety of projects taking advantage of the facilities and
  expertise in the School, College and University, and our staff engage proactively with the
  interdisciplinary research centres in Leicester. Cross disciplinary links are promoted within
  CSE, the University and beyond through research themes.

  An interdisciplinary collaboration of particular note is Schlindwein’s work with the Department
  of Cardiovascular Sciences, mentioned in Section 1. Furthermore, Tsamis and Gill, and
  Hussain, Angelino and McMullan are engaged with projects in collaboration with the
  Department of Respiratory Science. These intend to bring modelling expertise to problems
  associated with the collapse of small airways in the human lung and its effect on asthma, and
  ventilation design in Covid testing environments, respectively. Clinical collaborators are
  providing the interpretation of computational simulation results and opening routes to impact.

  The UoA has a number of collaborations with national and international HEIs. Each project is
  consistent with our new strategic aims and identity. As discussed elsewhere, this is true across
  both ACE and MoM and involves staff at all levels. A number of Leicester researchers are the
  overall leads for significant multi-partner projects, including, for example the following.
  Successful outcomes of many of these partnerships are detailed in Section 1.

        Bo Chen, Dong, Pan, Warrington: Involvement in the £13.75M UKRPIF funding for
         SPL under the METEOR project in collaboration with Surrey, Open University, Aston,


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         MTC, Thales Alenia Space, Lockheed Martin, Spherea, Tyvak, Open Cosmos, ATM,
         ETL and Omnidea. The project intends to revolutionise how satellites are conceived,
         designed, operated and produced, as well as how data derived from them is interpreted
         and used to solve real world problems.
        Chambers and Gaojie Chen: £1M EPSRC M3NETs project working with
         Loughborough, Queen Mary and Kings College London to tackle the critical challenges
         of massive Machine to Machine communications in 5G (EP/R006377/1).
        Yue: €5.7m EU Horizon 2020 grant as the consortium Scientific and Technical Project
         Manager for 6G BRAINS (Bring Reinforcement-learning Into Radio Light Network for
         Massive Connections).
        Bo Chen: £1.2M EPSRC Fellowship working with Oxford and EDF Energy UK as well
         as several international research partners in Europe and China on advanced sodium-
         cooled fast nuclear reactors (EP/R043973/1).
        Dong: £2M NISCO project on the development and application of new casting
         technology for extra-thick steel products and of high-performance steels for marine
         application.
        Sinka: £1.7M EPSRC project working with Imperial College, Leeds and Greenwich to
         build a Virtual Formulation Laboratory for the prediction and optimisation of the
         manufacturability of advanced solid-based formulations.
        Ye: €1.1M EU H2020 D-SPA project to investigate diamond-based nanomaterials and
         nanostructures for advanced electronic and photonic applications.
        Dong and Gill: £3.2M EPSRC funded CDT IMPaCT. UoL is the lead partner with
         Birmingham and Nottingham. An additional £1M cash support from industry plus £1.4M
         matched funding from universities; a total of £5.6M (EP/L016206/1).

  2. Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences
  The growing international reach of the UoA is evidenced, for example, by its research
  interaction with the Dalian University of Technology, a top 20 Chinese university, as part of the
  Dalian-Leicester Institute opened at DUT’s Panjin Campus in March 2017. Further evidence is
  provided by the establishment of the NISCO-UK Research Centre in July 2018 with more than
  £2M financial support provided by NISCO. The strengthening of the Materials Innovation
  Centre (MatIC) in January 2018 through a new partnership with TWI is an example of national
  and industrial collaboration which has already secured more than £1M in new research projects
  including Geo-Coat: Development of novel and cost effective corrosion resistant coatings for
  high temperature geothermal applications (EU H2020-LCE-2017-RES-RIA, TWI €922k); Acorn:
  Advanced coatings for offshore renewable energy (EU FP7 SME, TWI €400k); FlexiBat:
  Graphene-enhanced flexible battery (I-UK, UoL £294k).

  3. Exemplars of wider activities and contributions to the research base

  Fellowships and prizes
  Chambers is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, FREng, and FIEEE, FIET and
  FIMA. Other elected Fellowships of professional institutions include: FRAeS (Garrett), FIMMM
  (Sinka), and FInstP (Panwisawas). The School has been successful throughout the REF cycle
  in securing Senior Research and Industrial Fellowship funding from the Royal Academy of
  Engineering (Garrett, McMullan, Morales, Visitini). Furthermore, Gill was awarded an APEX
  fellowship from the Royal Society. Dong is a RAEng Research Chair. High-profile
  EPSRC/UKRI Fellowships have been won by Bo Chen and Panwisawas who are currently an
  Early Career Research Fellow and Innovation Fellow, respectively. In 2018, Pan was awarded


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  the Verulam Medal and Prize by IoM3. Bocian won a four-year fellowship funded by the Polish
  National Agency for Academic Exchange (NAWA).

  Conference Chair Roles and Invited Keynote Lectures
  We play a major role in leading and contributing to the scientific and local organisation of many
  national/international conferences, symposia, and workshops and do not detail these here.
  Around 20 plenary and keynote lectures have been given by members of the UoA. Select
  examples include: Chinese Underwater Conference 2017 (Chambers); Sintering 2014 (Pan);
  2020 International Symposium on Structural Integrity (Bo Chen); SIAM conference on
  Mathematical Aspects of Materials Science (Gill); CHoPS18 - 9th International Conference for
  Conveying and Handling of Particulate Solids 2018 (Sinka); and the International Conference
  on Information and Communications Technology Convergence (Yue Zhang).

  Journal Editorship
  Our staff play active roles in Journal Editorship and as members of Journal Editorial Boards.
  These include, but are not limited to, the following Q1 journals: IEEE Communications Letters
  (Gaojie Chen); Frontiers in Neuroscience (Neuromorphic Engineering) (Pearce); International
  Journal of Adaptive Control and Signal Processing (Visintini); International Journal of Control
  (Lecchini-Visintini); IET Power Electronics (Ji); IEEE Transactions on Broadcasting (Yue
  Zhang); and IEEE Access (Yue Zhang).

  Refereeing Academic Publications or Research proposals
  All research staff contribute to the peer review process for both refereed journals and for grant
  proposals. This is expected of all our staff including ECRs and is the norm for the discipline.

  Co-operative/Collaborative arrangements for PGR Training
  The IMPaCT CDT hosted within the UoA has trained c40 PhD students over the last 7 years.
  They have all undertaken a one-year training course of 120 credits of technical modules
  provided in collaboration across the three partner institutions (Leicester, Birmingham and
  Nottingham). Every year the partners have also organised a bespoke annual 2-week summer
  school in professional and personal skills training, e.g. future leaders, research ethics, and
  public engagement activities. This has included career workshops with visits to industry
  (Doncasters and MPI) and large facilities (Diamond Light). The CDT received an NPIF award
  from the EPSRC for innovative placements, which has been used to support PGR students to
  travel abroad for 3-6-month placements (e.g. to Brazil, Australia, France). Annual research
  days are organised where students present and discuss their research. The students are
  registered at all three partner institutions and have access to experimental facilities and
  software across all.

  Honorary Positions Elsewhere
  Chambers is in the 1000 Talents Scheme Academician run by the Chinese Government and is
  International Honorary Dean at Harbin Engineering University, China. He also holds visiting
  professorships at Kings College London, Newcastle, and Loughborough. Garrett held a visiting
  professorship at the University of Sydney and was a Distinguished Honorary Fellow at
  Macquarie University, Sydney. Visiting researcher positions have been held at various
  institutions Sydney (Hussain), KTH (Garrett, Hussain). Honorary positions at Sydney and
  Macquarie are reciprocated with positions for female Australian researchers (Stephen [Hon.
  Prof], Calabretto [Hon. A/Prof]). These close links facilitate increased mobility for shared PhD
  students and access to complementary techniques in fluid mechanics not currently represented
  in ACE. Bocian is a visiting professor at Wroclaw University of Science and Technology,

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Poland.

  Final Words
  Our UoA has made substantial enhancements to every aspect of our activity in this REF cycle:
  grant capture, PGR completions, industrial impact, and discipline leadership. We have
  achieved beyond our size through pursuing extensive interdisciplinary and cross-institutional
  collaborations. Our global reputation has been extended through discipline-leading publications
  and an active pursuit of partnerships. Our successes have been enabled through a substantial
  overhaul of our identity and reshaping of our activities. Our forwards vision is to continue our
  upward trajectory through the pursuit of a core strategy based on this new identity to achieve
  meaningful internationally-reaching research and impact in our rapidly changing world.




                                                                                           Page 20
