Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA13 - Architecture, Built Environment and Planning


 1      UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY


 1.1    Overview and Context

        Our Unit’s mission coheres around a core intellectual agenda, which is to drive forward a
        concern with social and environmental justice within disadvantaged communities
        and the places and economies in which they live and work. Since REF2014 we have
        expanded our ambitions, bringing contemporary debates around sociotechnical systems,
        environmental science, governance and the role of community in our economic, social,
        technological and political futures more consciously into view, whilst effecting a step-
        change in our international collaborations. We have also intensified our impact,
        addressing the grand challenges of our time – socioeconomic precarity, climate crisis and
        global interconnectedness – through new interdisciplinary connections, increased
        collaboration with academic and non-academic stakeholders, and an acute focus on
        knowledge exchange and impact.

        Our overarching strategic aim flows from this agenda: to develop the strongest possible
        environment for undertaking rigorous empirical and conceptual research which will
        contribute to the wider discipline, attract funding and yield impacts benefiting the public,
        charitable and private sectors. The accessibility and tractability of our findings remains key.
        We aim to build genuine pathways to policy, societal and environmental impact into
        our research by tackling social, economic and technical issues identified by stakeholders.

        At the heart of the Unit is the Centre for Regional Economic and Social Research
        (CRESR), one of the UK’s leading policy research centres. For over 30 years CRESR has
        developed a sustainable model of applied empirical research and impact activity
        which influences policymaking at the highest levels. We have significantly scaled our
        Unit’s research intensity and outputs by investing in new appointments to build a multi-
        disciplinary research staff group in the Department of Natural and Built Environment
        (DNBE), with a plan to launch a new Research Centre to address scientific (social and
        physical) challenges in Climate Change and Sustainability.


 1.2    Structure

        CRESR is a distinct and self-sustaining business unit undertaking over £2m per year of
        externally funded research. It is one of the University’s five Strategic Research Centres.
        CRESR is home to 25 (19.9 FTE) of our submitted Category A staff, all being academics
        on permanent research-only contracts, led by a centre director (Ferrari).

        DNBE is a large academic department with staff working across the full range of the Unit’s
        subject areas, including expertise in architecture, town and regional planning, real estate,
        construction, environmental science and sustainability. 16 members of DNBE staff (15.6
        FTE), all on permanent academic contracts, have Significant Responsibility for Research
        (SRR) and are Category A submitted staff. Research strategy and activity in DNBE is
        coordinated through a dedicated Head of Research (Storrar).

        CRESR and DNBE are part of the College of Social Sciences and Arts and are also allied
        to the University’s Social and Economic Research Institute (SERI).



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3      Research and Impact Strategy

          In pursuit of our mission and strategic aim outlined above, we have developed a unique
          and sustainable model of income generation, empirical analysis, publication and impact
          within a ‘virtuous circle’. Since REF2014 we have focused on deploying this model to
          significantly scale-up research intensity, quality and impact within DNBE. This has led to
          more than double the number of staff with SRR (38.7 FTE [2014: 19.2 FTE submitted]),
          a substantial increase in the number of outputs submitted (92 [2014: 79]) and delivery
          of impact at the highest levels of policymaking and influence (as exemplified by our
          four Impact Case Studies drawn from all areas of our research strength – see Section
          1.3.2).

          To achieve this, we invested heavily in our staff, nurturing an expanded pool of research
          talent through developing their skills, expertise and cohesiveness as a team (see Section
          2.1). We have also focused on promoting a positive and open culture of intellectual
          inquiry and professional and public engagement, leading to new academic and research
          user collaborations (see Section 4). Finally, we have successfully built the infrastructure
          required to build a research capability at the highest levels of impact, competitiveness and
          professionalism (see Section 3.2).


 1.3.1     Achievement of strategic aims during the assessment period

          In executing our strategy, we met or exceeded our REF2014 objectives and have sought
          to further build on these. Specifically:

           (i)   We have sustained and enhanced CRESR’s profile for undertaking policy-
                 relevant research of excellence and impact and authoring high-quality academic
                 outputs, continuously growing and exceeding our income targets (now >£2m p.a.)
                 through a sustainable, mixed portfolio of funding (contract research, UK/EU grants,
                 knowledge exchange and consultancy). We have strategically emphasised the role of
                 contract research income in supporting our academic objectives – a model which
                 has directly supported our increased levels of academic outputs. Beyond the strategic
                 allocation of institutional QR, much of our research is undertaken on a full cost-
                 recovery basis and we strategically cross-subsidise scholarly and academic activity
                 from net contributions from contract research. 92% (against a target of 90%) of our
                 submitted outputs are in international academic journals (defined as those listed in
                 the Web of Science Master Journal List and abstracted in SSCI or SCI Expanded).
                 We have successfully nurtured an interdisciplinary cluster on sustainable futures
                 (see also Section 1.3.4), developing the potential we identified in REF2014 to draw
                 together our emerging research strengths in environmental policy, energy, building
                 technology and architecture. This has led to significant international profile and
                 collaborations, particularly around our work on energy policy.

         (ii)    We have further developed an international reputation through targeting specific
                 resources and support to academics with the potential to develop international
                 collaborations. This has included providing seed-corn funding and work-plan
                 allocations to support the preparation of funding applications with overseas
                 universities. This yielded 29 collaborative funding applications with international
                 academic partners during the REF period, of which 8 were successful (target: 5).
                 Through these projects we established several new collaborative relationships with
                 international universities, and we lead and participate in major international
                 scholarly networks (see Section 4.1). We have increased co-authorship with
                 scholars at overseas institutions (22 returned outputs against a target of 10,
                 including products of collaboration with scholars in Austria, Australia, Argentina,
                 Belgium, Canada, Chile, China, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland,
                 Ireland, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Russia, Sweden,

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                 Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand and USA). As managing editor of Housing Studies,
                 Ferrari has stabled the journal’s editorial and administrative functions at Hallam,
                 cementing our Unit’s reputation as a leading international cluster for housing
                 studies.

         (iii)   We have continued to promote academic research as a career option through
                 recruitment and career progression opportunities and targeted support. Our Unit
                 has a positive, proactive approach to recruitment and staff development which focuses
                 on equalities, diversity and inclusion (EDI), and identifying and nurturing research
                 potential among early career researchers (ECRs) and staff new to research. As a
                 result, we are returning significantly more staff than in 2014 (21 more against a target
                 of 5). DNBE has seen a significant increase in staff submitted to REF, from 4 in 2014
                 to 16 in 2021, reflecting: (i) increased emphasis on research in the recruitment of new
                 staff, (ii) investment in research time (~0.24 FTE) and funding support (~£68K p/a) for
                 research active staff, (iii) support for ECRs and staff with industry backgrounds (e.g.
                 supporting staff PhD completion e.g. Tang), and (iv) support for research career
                 progression, evidenced by promotions (see Section 2.3.4). Notwithstanding the
                 external recruitment of a Director of CRESR in 2017 (Ferrari), our focus has been on
                 developing our senior academic leadership capacity internally.

         (iv)    Finally, we have maintained a higher degree programme, whilst further
                 improving PhD completion rates. Our Unit has continued to support an active and
                 high-quality doctoral school in CRESR and DNBE. We have successfully funded at
                 least one student each year from internal resources, whilst increasing our success in
                 attracting competitive bursaries and scholarships, including from the ESRC White
                 Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP) and University Alliance Doctoral
                 Training Alliance. In 2019 DNBE launched a Graduate Teaching Assistant scheme for
                 funding PhD students, bringing in four new PhD students in the last two years.
                 Completion rates have continued to improve, and we have supported 33 completions
                 since REF2014 (target: 20).


 1.3.2     Key areas of research and impact strength

           Our strategy has involved supporting several key areas of significant international profile.


           Housing and place

           We are an internationally recognised centre for research into housing and place. Here,
           the group’s work is methodologically varied and multidisciplinary in nature but coalesces
           around two broad lines of enquiry. First, the planning and organisation of housing
           systems at the level of strategic policy and politics. This includes substantial bodies of
           work on the governance and changing roles of housing associations (e.g., Cole [outputs
           1069, 1071], Ferrari [output 1089] and Manzi [outputs 1229, 2563]), community housing
           (e.g., Archer [output 3149]) and the interrelationship of housing and social policy (e.g.,
           detailed research by Hickman, Pattison, Powell, Reeve, Sanderson and Wilson into the
           UK’s housing benefit system [outputs 3624, 1034, 1175, 1238, 1243, 1337]). This latter
           work yielded significant impacts on government policy such as to the design of aspects
           of Universal Credit (see REF3 ‘Direct Payment of Housing Benefit’).

           Second, understanding the role and effectiveness of providers and policy in meeting the
           housing needs of vulnerable people. Reflecting shifts in academic and policy debate
           globally since 2014 the group has increased attention on researching the Private Rented
           Sector (PRS), homelessness and groups with multiple vulnerabilities or complex needs
           (e.g., McCarthy, Reeve and Parr’s work on homeless mothers [outputs 1203, 1277, 3622]
           and rough sleepers [output 1277], Green, Maye-Banbury and Robinson’s research into


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        older people’s housing options [outputs 1173, 1266] and Sanderson’s research into
        affordability for younger populations [e.g. output 1034]).

        Socioeconomic governance of localities and regions

        Our programme of research into the socioeconomic governance of localities and
        regions comprises two overarching strands. First, and reflecting ongoing global processes
        of change in urban governance, our research on the voluntary and community sector
        (VCS) has taken on a new prominence. Here the Unit’s interdisciplinary research with
        Sheffield Business School constitutes perhaps the largest grouping of UK scholars
        engaged in studies of the third sector, with considerably increased research income. Since
        2014 this group has developed strengths in the co-production of research and service
        evaluations with vulnerable groups at both the national and community level. Examples
        are Batty’s research into ‘troubled families’ (output 886), research by Bashir, Damm, Crisp,
        Powell, Sanderson, White and Wells on the co-production of the national Talent Match
        evaluation and impacts of other labour market programmes (outputs 933, 1037, 1087,
        1283, 1304), Pearson’s work on lone parents (output 893) and voluntary action research
        by Ellen Bennett, Cerulli, Dayson, Dobson, Macmillan, Pearson and Sanderson (outputs
        940, 1016, 1085, 3146, 3150).

        Second, our academics are engaged in substantial ongoing programmes of work into the
        subnational impacts of welfare reform. This is exemplified by Batty, Ellen Bennett and
        Fletcher’s work on welfare conditionality (outputs 886, 939, 1101, 1157, 2561), Beatty,
        Fothergill (Category C), Gore and Wells’ research into industrial restructuring and its
        impacts (outputs 937, 983, 1141, 1183) and studies of public service reform (notably
        Dayson’s research into social impact bonds and the use of social prescribing in
        community health and social care systems [outputs 1086, 1126]). Work here has generated
        significant impacts on organisational strategy and national policy development. Our
        programme of work on social prescribing has influenced local and national NHS
        spending plans (see REF3, ‘NHS Investment in Social Prescribing’), whilst our extensive
        research on welfare reform has shaped political and public debate (see REF3, ‘The
        Uneven Spatial Impact of Welfare Reform’).


        Sustainable built and natural environments

        The third key area is our major interdisciplinary focus on sustainable built and natural
        environments. Here, our research conjoins social and technical perspectives in an
        integrated body of empirical and applied work on a range of policy and environmental
        determinants of sustainability. This work has three discernible strands.

        First is a major interdisciplinary focus on domestic energy efficiency and the
        development of sustainable built environments (including construction methods e.g. [Al-
        Obaidi, Laycock, O’Flaherty and Tang’s research into cooling systems, daylighting and
        construction materials [outputs 848, 853, 862, 1185, 1186, 1297, 3621] and Ambrose,
        Gilbertson, Goodchild and O’Flaherty’s sociotechnical analyses of domestic energy
        practices [outputs 834, 876, 880, 1136]).

        Second is a corpus of environmental scientific research applied to questions of
        anthropogenic climate change and adaptability (e.g., Bridge’s work on particle
        transport [outputs 984, 985, 989] and Bridge, Holmes and Storrar’s research on glaciology
        [outputs 987, 1192, 1200, 1291, 1295, 1306, 1333, 3144, 3623]).

        Finally, the Unit has developed a substantial body of expertise in infrastructure
        engineering and governance (notably Ambrose, Dobson and Eadson’s research into the
        politics of energy transitions [outputs 884, 1084, 1122, 1124, 1132, 3148], Goodchild,
        Sharpe and Spence’s work on urban water and waste systems [outputs 1142, 1286, 1287,

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         1299] and Dobson, Ferrari, Parkes and Rotherham’s studies of active transport, sporting
         and ‘green’ urban infrastructure [outputs 1090, 3151, 3152, 3620]). The above research
         strengths can be demonstrated by Wells’ co-investigator role and Eadson’s leadership of
         the Cities, Environment and Liveability (CEL) pathway in the £17.4m WRDTP, whilst the
         impact of our interdisciplinary work on infrastructure governance is exemplified by its effect
         on affordability assistance provided by all water companies in England and Wales,
         benefiting over two million vulnerable customers (see REF3, ‘Utility Poverty’).


 1.3.3   Impact strategy

         Our key areas of strength show how impact sits at the heart of our Unit’s approach to
         delivering applied research. Our impact strategy for 2014-21 was to embed a virtuous circle
         of research funding (often from contracts with government departments and agencies),
         influence and impact on policy and practice, and high-quality publication based on rigorous
         peer-reviewed research. Key features of our approach included (a) investment in new
         research collaborations to either challenge existing policies or to develop new
         programmes. This is exemplified by Dayson’s work where we supported the pump priming
         of a local initiative to develop a new model of social prescribing; (b) investment in people
         where new appointments and staff development activity have focused on developing
         collaborations with new partner organisations (e.g., ECR Damm’s partnership with the
         National Council for Voluntary Organisations to develop new methods of visualising
         charity data); and (c) participation in government and charitable foundation research
         and evaluation framework agreements, including for DWP, BEIS, DEFRA and the Youth
         Futures Foundation. Participation in frameworks has led to higher levels of rigour in our
         policy research through compliance with Standards of Evidence, and underpinned our
         impact case studies by Hickman et al. and Ambrose et al.

         We have taken a leading role in developing Hallam’s research relationships with its locality,
         and primarily the Sheffield City Region. In our Unit this has led to around 30 projects with
         local agencies totalling over £800,000, including on low carbon skills, just transitions, active
         travel, housing market assessment, health and social care. CRESR is leading the
         development of a Civic Framework for the Civic University Network (UPP Foundation,
         DfE, Arts Council England and Carnegie Trust), providing a sector-leading tool to help
         universities assess their impacts on their localities. Other examples include Ferrari’s role
         as a Knowledge Exchange lead for the £6m UK Collaborative Centre for Housing
         Evidence (CaCHE); a successful Knowledge Transfer Partnership with leading facilities
         management company Mitie, realising productivity increases among occupants of The
         Shard in London through biophilic design and IoT integration; and a series of projects with
         Network Rail led by Spence to assess and mitigate flood risks to rail infrastructure.

         In 2020 we established Sonnet Advisory & Impact, a Community Interest Company
         whose aims are to help charities and public and private sector bodies achieve positive
         social impact. Sonnet applies our research insights to strategic change projects in major
         organisations like Marie Curie, The Children’s Society and Hyde housing group. Surpluses
         will be reinvested in ‘social innovation pilot’ research projects through the next REF Census
         period. Pearson and Wells are Directors of Sonnet.


 1.3.4   Forward strategy for research and impact

         Our specific objectives for 2021-26 are to:

         (i)   Continue to develop the Unit’s profile and capacity for applied policy-relevant
               research with impact. The principal measures of success relate to research and
               knowledge exchange funding (target: average annual income from all sources of
               £2.4m, including an increase in income to DNBE to £500,000p.a. by 2026) and
               increased non-academic engagement and impact. Supporting this objective, we will

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

            build a community of Honorary Associates, Fellows and Visiting Professors drawn
            from external industry, policy, practice and research participant communities to help
            advise on and deliver impact, alongside continued support for open research and
            public engagement initiatives.

        (ii) Develop an environment known for its vitality and world-leading research. We
             will increase further the proportion of outputs published in leading international
             journals or monographs (target: 95% of published articles) and grow the number of
             funded projects undertaken with international collaborators (target: 10). Supporting
             this, we will pump-prime international collaborations, targeting junior and intermediate
             grade staff; provide funding and time to support participation in international
             conferences and collaboration meetings; and map staff Research and Innovation
             Plans (see Section 2.1.1) against collaborative funding opportunities. We will also
             support development of internationally leading practice-based outputs, drawing on our
             identified strengths in architecture.

        (iii) Extend our ambitions around successful applications to UK and international
              research councils. We will explicitly target scaling-up existing research networks and
              collaborations into new projects, building on our trajectory of recent successful UKRI
              and international collaborative grants (see Section 3.1). We will align with the UKRI
              mission to convene close partner collaborations and connect research to societal
              good, capitalising our strengths in place-based policy and practice. In support, we will
              commit internal PhD scholarships to large-scale project proposals and research
              priorities; draw on our significant experience of co-production with communities; and
              support new networks (e.g., Civic Universities Network) aimed at building collaborative
              capacity to scale-up research ideas.

        (iv) Develop staff and team research culture and capabilities. Building on our strong
             practice of recruiting and supporting ECRs, we will focus on developing and
             embedding a clear plan for equalities, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in all aspects of
             our work. We will commit to ensuring the great majority (target: over 90%) of research
             capacity is within roles with permanent contracts, whilst focusing on staff progression
             (target: support promotion of at least four staff to Associate Professor/Professor whilst
             redressing imbalances in protected characteristics). We will maintain our higher
             degree programme and support a vibrant and successful PhD community across the
             Unit, focusing growth in our priority research areas. We will seek to orientate research
             agendas to address intersectionality and structural inequalities, such as those arising
             from racism and Covid-19.

        (v) Nurture new interdisciplinary research agendas in sustainability and
            infrastructure. We will develop significant new research agendas by promoting
            interdisciplinary connections within the Unit’s full range of research themes and
            external collaborations. Success will be marked by establishing a leading international
            profile in academic and policy research in relation to sustainability, adaptation and
            resilience in built and natural environments. Supporting this objective, our Unit will
            launch a new cross-cutting Centre for Sustainability and Climate (CSC) to
            coordinate the University’s multidisciplinary research into environmental and socio-
            technical systems and transformative, applied research into the cultures and
            capacities of sustainability. CSC will also lead the University’s response to the Climate
            Emergency locally, regionally and globally, whilst convening research strengths in
            sustainability and climate from across Hallam’s research institutes.


 1.4    Interdisciplinary Research

        CRESR and DNBE bring staff together in interdisciplinary teams from across the social
        and physical sciences, applying insights across a diverse array of fields. The University’s
        Research Institutes and interdisciplinary impact platforms (see REF 5a) provide a

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        mechanism through which we have scaled up this approach, leading to notable successes
        including: our collaboration with academics in Hallam’s Centre for Behavioural Science and
        Applied Psychology (CeBSAP) and University of Manchester, culminating in the only
        University-led consortium to be appointed to the UK Government’s Behavioural
        Insights Framework; the establishment of our Voluntary Action Research Group with
        researchers in Sheffield Business School collaborating closely with colleagues at Open
        University and Universities of Birmingham and Wolverhampton; and Cerulli’s work with
        architects, artists and educationalists on the British Pavilion at the Venice Biennale
        (postponed to 2021 due to Covid-19). Dayson is seconded (0.4 FTE) to Hallam’s £14m
        Advanced Wellbeing Research Centre to lead its ‘Healthy and Active 100’ theme,
        drawing on our Unit’s leading work on social prescribing.


 1.5    Open Research and Research Integrity

        We are committed to open research. We seek to publish outputs as Open Access wherever
        possible. Since 2014 our staff published 73 Gold OA articles, many supported by
        funding article processing charges. We seek to publish, or link to, commissioned outputs
        from our own website whenever funding agreements allow. We continue to invest in our
        in-house open access journal People, Place and Policy (see Section 4.4), increasing
        the accessibility of policy research to non-academic communities. Storrar is associate
        editor of Open Quaternary, an international open access journal. All staff are encouraged
        to use Sheffield Hallam University’s Research Archive (SHURA) and Research Data
        Archive (SHURDA) as the principal means through which publications and data sets are
        stored and shared, to utilise academic networking sites such as ResearchGate to share
        pre-print publications, and to obtain an Open Researcher and Contributor ID (ORCID). Our
        research also provides the platform for significant open data assets. Highlights here
        include Beatty and Fothergill’s work with the Financial Times to develop its open access
        Austerity Audit (which won an EPPY Digital Publishing award) and Damm’s work on new
        open data derived from Charities Commission and Giving365 records.

        CRESR and DNBE staff play important leadership roles for research ethics and
        integrity, especially as ambassadors for good ethical practice in contract research and on
        projects involving fieldwork with vulnerable groups. Ethics responsibility sits with the
        Director of CRESR and Head of DNBE and is delegated to dedicated ethics teams and
        reviewer pools in CRESR and DNBE, whilst reporting to the University Research Ethics
        Committee. Almost all submitted staff serve as trained ethics reviewers across the
        university. Detailed understanding of information governance and research ethics,
        particularly in relation to working with vulnerable groups, are essential criteria on CRESR
        job specifications, and we require relevant Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks
        for all researchers working with vulnerable participants.




 2      PEOPLE


 2.1    Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

        We have developed a professional, multi-disciplinary team of academic staff specialising
        in research. To achieve this, we have committed to permanent contracts, focused on staff
        retention, supported staff progression, cultivated a collaborative ethos and promoted
        equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in all staffing policies and actions. Three decades of
        pursuing this strategy has demonstrated its proven success in building an adaptable and
        resilient team with world-class research capabilities.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         To grow our capacity and research intensity we are continuing our established approach
         to nurturing a permanent professional research team in CRESR, whilst developing new
         capacity in DNBE. An approach has been developed to carefully balance the development
         of sustainable research careers through progression against the need to support the Unit’s
         growth and innovation through the development of new talent. All but two (95%) submitted
         Category A staff are on permanent contracts.


 2.1.1   Career development

         Our strategy places specific emphasis on research career development and a progressive
         approach to EDI. In CRESR, growth has been focused principally on the recruitment of
         early career researchers (ECRs) and the provision of opportunities for staff to quickly
         develop their own independence as researchers. Low staff turnover coupled with capacity
         growth (2014: 19.2 FTE, 2020: 38.7 FTE) testify to the development of a stable and
         sustainable environment for the development of academic research careers. Our
         commitment to staff is reflected in promotions across all grades: since 2014, Bashir,
         Bennett, Damm, Eadson, Harris, McCarthy, Parkes and Sanderson were promoted from
         Research Associate to Fellow and took on Significant Responsibility for Research (SRR);
         Ambrose, Crisp, Eadson, Parr, Sanderson and Wilson were promoted to Senior Research
         Fellow; while Cadman and Sharpe were awarded Senior Lectureships. Reeve and Wilson
         were promoted to Principal Research Fellow, Storrar became a Principal Lecturer, Dayson
         was awarded an Associate Professorship, and Readerships were bestowed on Bridge,
         Cerulli, Crisp, Eadson, Manzi, Powell and White. Ambrose, Laycock and Pearson were
         promoted to Professor. CRESR now has three female Professors (50% of the
         permanent professoriate). Several members of staff, including Ambrose, Crisp, Dayson,
         Eadson, Storrar and Wilson, have progressed through multiple promotions over the REF
         period to senior academic roles, exemplifying our commitment to staff development.
         Recruitment of new staff has also enabled us to strengthen research priorities such as
         transport (Parkes), building technology (Al-Obaidi), housing (Ferrari, Manzi) and civil
         society (Dobson, Macmillan).

         Over the last REF period, DNBE recruitment has emphasised the growth of research
         active staff: nine of the 18 DNBE staff submitted joined since 2014. In DNBE, staff with
         SRR are provided with dedicated support through identified time in their work plan for both
         scholarship and research (at least 20%), membership of a research theme, and QR funding
         to support research projects and bid development. DNBE staff can also work with
         undergraduate students, who receive bursaries to act as research assistants for six weeks.

         Staff Development funding is available to all staff, which is used to support attendance
         at conferences, engagement in learned societies and other academic networks, and
         training in research skills and methods. From 2020-21 a proportion of staff development
         funding has been devolved to research clusters to support team-based activities such as
         writing collaborations and team building. Staff development funding provided to CRESR
         staff in the academic years 2017-18 to 2019-20 averaged £1,622 per annum per FTE.
         During the REF period 35 staff in DNBE received direct support for research. DNBE staff
         work on CRESR research projects on a directly allocated basis (e.g., Manzi) and through
         teaching buyouts and formal secondments (e.g., Maye-Banbury).

         Our investment in support for academic publication has included dedicated writing
         advisory roles (Cole, Goodchild, Lawless, Maye-Banbury), strategic secondments
         across the Unit (Ambrose, Hickman, Maye-Banbury), and work-planned time for writing,
         contributing directly to the increases in research intensity and outputs noted in Section 1.1.

         All staff are line managed by a senior academic with responsibility for a small team of direct
         reports. Staff are supported with the writing of individual Research and Innovation
         Plans. These take a 3–5-year view on how funding, research, output and impact activities
         work together; research networks and collaborations can be developed; and the support

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         required to scale-up research ambitions. These plans are reviewed at least annually within
         Performance and Development Review (PDR) meetings with line managers and feed into
         academic work planning. Staff are also encouraged to share research plans within their
         research clusters and groups, and with personal mentors.


 2.1.2   Research and impact leave, sabbaticals and exchanges

         Staff at all stages of their career are provided with opportunities to focus on scholarship
         and research. Rather than fund periods of research leave or sabbaticals on a cyclical
         basis, we have embedded a minimum level of support for all researchers within our
         approach to work planning – all staff have scholarly activity time and can bid for
         ‘writing release’ (most receive a minimum of 20 days p.a.). In CRESR the workload model
         allows for a minimum of 50 days p.a. (pro rata) of ‘non project days’ for all members of
         staff, which can be used to support personal research and scholarship, career
         development and the development of funding proposals. Staff can also bid for additional
         targeted support for team writing, new initiatives and impact activities (funded through
         internal investment – see REF5a).

         We encourage staff and research students to develop opportunities for researcher
         mobility and engagement with industry and policy communities. We have had
         considerable success in securing cash and in-kind support for collaborative studentships
         which involve periods of placement within host organisations. Staff have held visiting
         positions in overseas institutions and our Unit has hosted several secondments from other
         academic departments (e.g., Sheffield Business School, Law & Criminology). Our research
         culture and capacity continue to be enhanced through Fothergill’s (Cat. C) long-term
         attachment to our Unit from the Industrial Communities Alliance.


 2.1.3   Recognition and reward

         In addition to the approach to recognition and reward promoted by the University’s Hallam
         Deal (see REF 5a), we have a strong, inclusive framework for celebrating and rewarding
         research success. Regular communications across our teams highlight new publications,
         research projects and impact and engagement activities, ensuring that a wide spectrum of
         staff and achievements are recognised. A bimonthly staff newsletter and regular staff
         meetings are used among other things to recognise and openly thank academic and
         professional staff contributions. CRESR launched a dedicated staff intranet in 2020 which
         is used to highlight notable successes, and our external Annual Report draws attention to
         significant collaborative achievements. We nominate staff for University and external
         awards wherever possible, including Times Higher and Guardian University Awards.

         Staff are supported by line managers and mentors to develop cases for academic
         regrading. The staff progression noted in section 2.1.1 evidences our transparent and
         rigorously assessed approach to recognising and rewarding contribution and responsibility.


 2.2     Early-Career Researchers

         Our commitment to building a permanent research capacity provides a compelling
         environment in which post-doctoral researchers can establish a distinctive academic
         career and progress quickly to positions of research independence and leadership.
         ECRs are encouraged to develop their own portfolio of research interests whilst
         contributing to larger research projects. In CRESR, staff are supported to develop a wide
         range of transferrable research, project management and impact skills within an applied,
         contract research environment.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         Within our Unit, 10 members of Category A staff (8.70 FTE) are classed as ECRs,
         representing 22.5% by FTE of all Category A staff. Our recruitment activity has been
         specifically targeted at attracting new early-career academics with significant research
         potential. CRESR has appointed 8 new early career staff to permanent contracts since
         2014 (Archer, Bimpson, Ellen Bennett, Damm, Harris, Leather, Parkes, Pattison), 5 of
         whom achieved SRR during this time. Several members of staff, including Archer, Ellen
         Bennett, Eadson, McCarthy, have been recruited from our PhD school. Researchers
         without SRR but who are in the early stages of their research career are on permanent
         contracts and are fully involved in the academic life of their Centre or Department by
         attending all relevant staff meetings and playing a full role in delivering our academic
         environment (e.g., reviewing ethics applications, acting as junior editors of People, Place
         and Policy and organising seminars).

         A dedicated role (currently Damm) is provided with workplan time to act as a liaison
         between ECRs, college governance and the University-wide ECR Network. CRESR has
         established a Research Associates and Research Fellows Forum which provides a
         regular conduit to the centre’s leadership team on specific issues facing ECRs. This has
         led to development of new policies and initiatives such as more supportive line
         management structures and the organisation of theory and methods discussion groups.


 2.3     Postgraduate Research Students

         We offer a fully integrated research environment for our postgraduate research (PGR)
         students, supporting 33 completions during the REF period. 43 students are currently
         registered on PhD (3 or 1+3) programmes based in either CRESR or DNBE. All
         completions in REF4a are PhDs (no professional doctorates). PGRs are full members of
         our academic community, enjoying dedicated workspace co-located with academic staff.
         Students are provided opportunities to work on staff research projects and gain valuable
         teaching, research and project management experience; they also play a key role in the
         organisation of seminars, events and conferences. Students are equal contributors to
         academic discussions, such as fully participating in CRESR’s research cluster meetings.
         DNBE launched a Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) scheme in 2019, providing two PhD
         studentships per year in return for a modest contribution (< 20%) to teaching in the
         Department. The GTA scheme provides PGRs with valuable teaching experience and
         supports them through structured training and support through the Doctoral School and
         Social and Economic Research Institute (SERI).


 2.3.1   Strategy and leadership

         Our strategy is to develop the sustainability and vitality of our research school by focusing
         on the recruitment of students with excellent research potential who demonstrate a close
         fit with our thematic and applied priorities. This highly selective approach ensures a tight-
         knit and supportive PGR community, closely integrated into the Unit’s research activities.
         Strategic leadership of our research school is provided by dedicated PGR Tutors (PGRTs)
         in CRESR (Parr) and DNBE (Cerulli).

         A high proportion of our PGRs develop leading research careers. Recent graduates
         have been appointed by inter alia the Universities of Liverpool, Newcastle, Nottingham,
         Sheffield, as well as to senior positions in organisations such as NHS Research and
         IpsosMORI. We have also been particularly successful in identifying and nurturing
         research talent, supporting graduates into postdoctoral research positions within our own
         Unit. For example, within our current staff Ambrose, Ellen Bennett, Eadson, Foden,
         McCarthy, Dobson and Tang all completed PhDs at Hallam and we are supporting staff
         PhDs (e.g., Sanderson).



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.3.2   Training and supervision

         We provide PGRs with a range of training and development opportunities. In addition to a
         compulsory University-led induction programme, we require all students to undertake
         methods training. We provide a Professional Skills for Research Leadership programme,
         delivered jointly with colleagues in the College of Social Sciences and Arts. Students
         undertake annual training needs assessment (TNA) mapped against the Vitae
         Researcher Development Framework.

         In CRESR all students are expected to attend our established PhD Forum, which provides
         a structured programme of monthly activities, many student-designed and led. Students
         participate in local training and development activities in response to identified needs: for
         example, students and staff jointly attended a series of internal workshops on topics such
         as using NVivo and conducting remote qualitative fieldwork during the Covid-19
         lockdowns.

         All PGRs present to an annual research conference and ‘showcase’ event.
         Presentations are assessed to facilitate structured feedback. PGRTs also host regular
         informal drop-ins in addition to the Doctoral School’s virtual café.


 2.3.3   Recruitment and studentships

         We proactively identify and recruit talented PGR students from taught research
         programmes, notably our Masters in Research (MRes) Social Sciences degree, and
         through our strong traditional and social media presence. We publish an annual call for
         potential projects aligned to our research strengths and priorities, and provide support to
         prospective students in developing applications. We are committed to furthering the
         diversity and inclusivity of our student base. Through the White Rose DTP we advertised
         for two ring-fenced scholarships for Black British students. We offer flexible and part-time
         modes of study: on average 39% of our PGRs study part-time.

         Our students have access to a range of scholarship and funding opportunities including
         Vice-Chancellor’s scholarships, GTAs, WRDTP Pathway and Collaborative awards and
         self-funded students. In recent years we have had significant success in attractive
         competitive studentships, with a total of five recent WRDTP awards. These have included
         collaborative PhDs with organisations like Power to Change, Living Streets, Mitie and
         Sheffield City Region.


 2.3.4   Progression and support

         Our focus on an excellent student experience has resulted in consistently high levels of
         satisfaction (five-year average PRES satisfaction score of 84.4%, increasing). Progression
         and support are provided through PGRTs, dedicated administrative support for PGRs, local
         peer-support arrangements and student representation on the SERI PGR student
         committee. Students have their own society and organise events such as the Friendly
         Writing Feedback Group. PGRs can claim research support funds and training grants up
         to £500 p.a.

         We have a strong framework for PGR wellbeing and researcher safety. Recognising the
         challenges of undertaking research with vulnerable populations, CRESR provides
         dedicated PGR wellbeing support (Batty), access to specialised training (e.g., courses on
         lone working), and oversight of researcher safety through CRESR’s established system of
         tracking fieldworker whereabouts and check-ins.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         Student progress is monitored by SERI’s bimonthly PGR committee, chaired by the Head
         of Research Degrees and attended by PGRTs and Administrators. Ongoing registration is
         conditional upon making satisfactory progress reviewed at key assessment points.


 2.4     Equality and Diversity

         We are committed to EDI throughout our staffing strategies and actions, which have
         resulted in significant progress in equality of opportunity. By mainstreaming flexible working
         policies and modelling behaviours at a senior level, we have provided considerable support
         for staff to balance a successful research career with caring, family, volunteering and other
         commitments. We also recognise the considerable progress that we still need to make,
         especially in ensuring greater ethnic diversity in our research staff base and to continue
         towards more equal representation of African, Asian and other Minoritised Groups
         (AAMG), staff with disabilities, and LGBT+ staff across our academic grades.


 2.4.1   Flexible arrangements

         Providing a range of progressive mechanisms to support staff with flexible working
         arrangements remains at the heart of our approach to inclusivity. We actively promote part-
         time research careers and always emphasise work-life balance and staff wellbeing over
         short-term business needs. Our collegiate and team-based approach to research activity
         facilitates this and is a significant benefit of our commitment to permanent contracts. Even
         before the Covid-19 pandemic we had invested heavily in videoconferencing and remote
         technology to assist flexible working: for example, all CRESR staff are provided with an
         iPhone, iPad and laptop with access to collaboration software. All recruitment is open to
         job-share and part-time working.


 2.4.2   Equal opportunities and support for staff with protected characteristics

         Of the 43 Category A staff submitted, 17 are female representing 40% of our submission
         by headcount, an increase since REF2014 (32%). The CRESR leadership team is
         gender balanced (5 male, 5 female) and comprises a range of grades and seniority
         (Principal Research Fellow, Reader/Assoc. Prof., Professor). AAMG staff remain
         significantly underrepresented across our Unit (four out of 40 submitted staff who have
         stated their ethnicity). Five submitted staff have disclosed a disability.

         We assess the equalities impact of internal policies and actions, including ensuring that
         staff are not disadvantaged on account of sexuality, age, religion, caring and parental
         responsibilities and illness. We support staff returning from parental leave or long
         absences with phased return plans and provide additional support in reintegrating
         returners within staff and project teams.

         The majority of academic leadership opportunities are advertised internally to eligible staff
         (dependent on grade). All staff can express interest in informal leadership roles (e.g.,
         coordination of research clusters, ethics, health and safety, and line management) and
         there is a transparent and equitable approach to appointing to these, recognising the
         career advantages they provide. We are working to increase the representation of
         academics from AAMG backgrounds, including through use of positive ‘equal merit’
         policies in recruitment. Our Unit is represented on the University’s BAME researcher
         network.


 2.4.3   Part-time/fixed term staff

         Thirteen of our submitted staff are on part-time contracts (30%, up from 23% in REF2014).
         Staff are encouraged to adopt working patterns which allow them to develop a successful

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         research career around other commitments including family and caring responsibilities.
         Our team approach facilitates this by allowing for the dynamic reallocation of research
         activity in response to changes in staff availability. Demonstrative of our commitment is an
         additional allowance against workplans (up to 3 days per annum) provided to CRESR
         staff on part-time research contracts, mitigating the indivisible core demands on all
         employees to respond to management requests and attend meetings. Monthly risk
         reviews, quarterly project management reviews and frequent one-to-ones with line
         managers help to avoid staff being over-committed on research projects.




 3       INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES


 3.1     Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income

         Our Unit has developed the strategies, infrastructure and facilities to support a sustainable
         and successful model of income generation, research outputs and impact. We have
         generated over £9.5 million of research income over the REF period which, together
         with institutional investment of QR and income from consultancy and other sources, has
         sustained total research and knowledge exchange income to our Unit of over £2m per
         annum, managed on a multi-year portfolio basis. This has directly addressed the REF2014
         Panel’s feedback and reversed a previously declining trend. Net contributions from contract
         research are reinvested into buying-out staff from other activities to develop research
         council and charitable bids, supporting staff, impact and public engagement activity, and
         pump-priming new areas of research.


 3.1.1   Funding sources

         The key strategic change has been to reflect changes in the public policy landscape by
         pivoting away from a reliance on government research and evaluation contracts towards
         greater working with charitable foundations and UKRI. In 2014, around 87% of our
         research income came from UK central and local government contracts. Whilst this has
         declined to around 41%, we have increased the proportion of funding from charities, from
         around 6% in 2014 to 38% by 2019/20. We have developed important relationships with
         key repeat funders in national charitable foundations, including the Joseph Rowntree
         Foundation (JRF), the Nationwide Foundation, the National Lottery Community (‘Big
         Lottery’) and Heritage Funds, and key endowed trusts such as Power to Change. Since
         2014 we have won an average of 28 new research projects each year with an average
         value of £50,000 each. Highlights of this successful strategy to deepen our collaboration
         with charitable funders include:

             •   Our £1.6m evaluation of Big Lottery’s £108 million Talent Match programme
                 (2013-2020, PI: Wells), which established a longitudinal dataset on the labour
                 market experience of over 25,000 young people and supported outputs by Bashir,
                 Sanderson, Pearson and Wells.

             •   Six projects with Power to Change since 2018 totalling £749,000 (PIs: Archer,
                 Eadson, Macmillan and Wells) leading to the development of a collaborative
                 WRDTP PhD.

             •   A programme of six linked projects led by Crisp for JRF between 2014 and 2018
                 examining place-based approaches to inclusive growth and tackling poverty
                 within devolved city-regions (total value £233,000), leading to new impact
                 pathways including an advisory role for Crisp on the Scottish Poverty and
                 Inequality Commission, discussions with UN special rapporteur on extreme

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                 poverty Philip Alston’s team, and policy workshops with Department for Transport
                 (DfT) and Cities and Local Growth Unit.

         These and other similar projects exemplify our ‘virtuous circle’ model of integrated income,
         outputs and impact activity, particularly through leveraging charity funders’ strong public
         profiles and their vertical connections between community action and national policy
         influence.

         Alongside increased charitable funding we have nearly quadrupled the proportion of our
         research income from UKRI and international funding councils. Recognising that this
         remains a comparatively small proportion of our overall portfolio (12% excluding QR), we
         are focusing on developing the infrastructure, collaborations and skills that will ensure
         continued increases in research council funding. Two significant recent successes provide
         a foundation: Ferrari, Hickman and Reeve’s roles as co-investigators in CaCHE (£6m,
         ESRC/AHRC/JRF, 2018-2023) and Macmillan’s series of collaborations with University of
         Birmingham on ESRC-funded studies of voluntary action.

         Whilst reducing our reliance on public sector contracts, we have successfully diversified
         the range of government departments and bodies we work with, including building or
         strengthening relationships with inter alia the Ministry of Communities and Local
         Government (MHCLG), Departments of Work and Pensions (DWP), Business, Energy and
         Industrial Strategy (BEIS), Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Education (DfE)
         and Transport (DfT), and public bodies like Network Rail and Arts Council. We have
         developed partnerships with devolved authorities, including research, knowledge
         exchange, impact and PhD collaborations with combined authorities (Sheffield City Region
         MCA, Greater Manchester CA, West Yorkshire CA, Tees Valley CA) and national
         governments in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.


 3.2     Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

         Our Unit plays a key role in the University’s new Social and Economic Research Institute
         (SERI), which is facilitating enhanced disciplinary collaboration. SERI provides two key
         mechanisms that are supporting our ambitions to scale up interdisciplinary and
         international research: first, enhanced support for horizon scanning, pump-priming
         collaboration and developing large and complex funding proposals (e.g. to UKRI’s
         Strategic Priorities Fund); and, second, providing a central coordination role in managing
         our appointment to public sector research frameworks (e.g. those managed by BEIS and
         Cabinet Office such as the Behavioural Insights Framework discussed earlier). Two
         members of the CRESR professoriate (Pearson and Wells) play senior roles as Director of
         SERI and Associate Dean for Research and Innovation (College of Social Sciences and
         Arts) respectively, and CRESR is led by a permanently appointed Director (Ferrari). All
         three remain research active whilst being members of the University’s Senior Leaders
         Group.


 3.2.1   Technical and support staff

         CRESR is supported by a dedicated team of research and knowledge exchange
         professionals (3.7 FTE). In addition to managing all aspects of pre- and post-award
         administration, this team provides essential capabilities in information governance (IG)
         compliance, research data acquisition (e.g., managing surveys) and management,
         marketing and communications, report production and editorial support for our People
         Place and Policy journal.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.2.2   Scholarly infrastructure

         Our scholarly infrastructure is coordinated by dedicated roles overseeing Academic
         Development (Eadson) and Academic Infrastructure (Green) working with the CRESR
         leadership team and DNBE’s Head of Research (Storrar). We have developed a
         coordinated package of investment and support in core infrastructure to support
         bidding, income generation and project delivery success, including class-leading
         approaches to bid-writing, ethics, researcher health and safety, IG and IT. CRESR’s IG
         policies are accredited annually against NHS Data Security and Protection Toolkit and
         government General Security Accreditation Document (GSAD) requirements, enabling the
         provision of research services on classified and secure datasets.

         We have also enhanced opportunities to foster academic leadership in CRESR and DNBE
         by establishing a series of research clusters, which provide a renewed sense of
         academic mission and identity; enhanced opportunities for scholarly debate and
         interdisciplinary connections; and an emphasis on academic career development and
         collegiality. We have sought to devolve aspects of governance and resource around
         scholarly priorities. For example, CRESR’s research clusters have democratic control over
         the allocation of a portion of the Centre’s staff development funding and QR allocation.


 3.2.3   Supporting funding applications

         Our approach to supporting funding applications is to dynamically balance short-term
         responsiveness with the Unit’s longer-term academic development, whilst managing and
         allocating workload. Staff at all levels are encouraged to gain experience in bid-writing. In
         CRESR, for example, a Strategic Bidding Group, led by the Deputy Director (Wilson),
         meets weekly to consider new contract and academic funding opportunities. These
         meetings are open to all staff, including ECRs, and decisions are reached consensually
         and transparently. Prioritised funding applications are sponsored by a nominated academic
         supported by the proposed research team. This approach is particularly helpful in helping
         ECRs gain practical early experience of collaborative research income generation.
         Wherever appropriate, the Unit works with the University’s recently expanded Research
         and Innovation Services, drawing especially on their expertise in supporting UKRI,
         international and responsive-mode applications. This model has yielded significant
         benefits: over the REF period CRESR submitted nearly 290 separate bids and funding
         proposals, winning 165 of these (a success rate of over 57%).

         The delivery of research projects to the highest standards is overseen by well-established
         post-award management processes. In CRESR all projects have a nominated project
         manager alongside a director/principal investigator. Key project risks are monitored
         monthly and reported to senior leadership. Staff time spent on projects is reconciled
         monthly against project plans and individual staff workplans, with reallocation of tasks
         within project teams occurring dynamically where required. This ensures effective
         management of delivery whilst helping to protect staff against overcommitments. The Unit
         has established quality assurance processes with outputs overseen by senior academics.
         A system of project closure and Post Project Review ensures adherence to data retention
         and deposit obligations, encouragement of academic writing and impact plans, and
         collation of feedback from funders.


 3.3     Research Facilities

         Our Unit has purpose-built research facilities. CRESR has a strong physical presence,
         located in its own unit within Sheffield Science Park, whilst DNBE staff all have dedicated
         office space. Investment over several years in collaborative IT hardware (laptops and
         secure mobile devices), software (Microsoft 365, secure remote desktop,

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        WebEx/Zoom/Teams) and staff training meant we were well placed to transition our
        research to remote working in March 2020. We have a suite of research, analysis and
        design software including R, Stata, SPSS, Imagine, ArcGIS, NVivo, AutoCAD and Revit,
        alongside secure GDPR-compliant installations of Snap Surveys and Tableau. Our
        collaboration with the Advanced Wellbeing Research Centre provides a physical presence
        in a disadvantaged Sheffield neighbourhood (Darnall), supporting co-production and
        community research. CRESR staff also have access to London office space through
        Sonnet Advisory & Impact (see Section 1.3.3), enhancing our ability to collaborate with
        leading national charities and government bodies. We have invested in laboratory
        analysis and testing and field resources (including drones, ground penetrating radar,
        Global Navigation Satellite System receivers, equipment for sediment coring and hydrology
        monitoring and sensors to measure X-Ray Fluorescence, magnetic susceptibility and
        particle size), which will support our new Centre for Sustainability and Climate (see
        Section 1.3.4).




 4      COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY
        AND SOCIETY


 4.1    Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

        Our staff have been successful over the REF period in leading and participating in key
        research collaborations nationally and internationally aligned to our Unit’s core mission.

        Highlights include significant funded centres and projects which have resulted from
        involvement in research networks, such as Ferrari, Hickman and Reeve’s CI roles on the
        UK Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence [CaCHE] (2018-22), Fletcher’s key role on
        the ESRC Welfare Conditionality large grant (2013-2018) and WelCond International
        network, Parkes’ leadership of an EPSRC Decarbon8 project into Covid-19 road space
        reallocation schemes (2020-21), and Macmillan’s collaboration with University of
        Birmingham on a series of ESRC-funded studies of voluntary action.

        Involvement in key national and international collaborations, networks and partnerships is
        central to our approach to engaging and impacting the academy, society and economy. In
        the REF period we have established new international collaborations, including with
        Adam Mickiewicz University (Poland), Linköping University (Sweden), Lund University
        (Sweden), Mutah University (Jordan) and the University of Oregon (United States). Staff
        are active in numerous research networks, including the Fuel Poverty Research Network
        (Ambrose: Chair), Voluntary Sector Studies Network (Macmillan: Chair and Trustee;
        Damm and Dayson: Trustees) and European Network for Housing Research (institutional
        member). Our research environment continues to be enhanced by the contribution of
        Fothergill (Category C), whose role as national secretary to the Industrial Communities
        Alliance has helped build research collaborations with organisations such as the Coalfields
        Regeneration Trust, Sheffield City Region and the Labour Party.


 4.2    Engagement with Key Research Users

        Since 2007 CRESR has committed to engaging research users and promoting an open
        approach to research through its own open access journal People, Place and Policy
        (PPP), edited by Parr and now in its 14th year (see Section 1.5). In the REF period PPP
        published 112 peer-reviewed articles, 52 book reviews and 18 editorials across 23
        separate issues. The journal’s website has served over 154,000 unique page views during
        the REF period. Associated with the journal’s editorial mission, CRESR hosts an annual
        PPP Conference which attracts over 100 participants from academia, government,

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        the third sector and the public. Recent keynotes have been given by Guy Standing
        (SOAS), Rebecca Tunstall (York), Annette Hastings (Glasgow), Donald Hirsch
        (Loughborough), Ruth Lupton (Manchester) and Andrew Cumbers (Glasgow). In 2016
        CRESR organised a two-day open symposium with Löic Wacquant (UC Berkeley) at the
        invitation of Powell. Reflections on Wacquant’s addresses to the symposium formed the
        basis of a special issue of PPP.

        The longstanding and successful CRESR Seminar Series has enabled an interchange of
        ideas and research findings between academics and professional and public audiences.
        Each seminar attracts around 50 participants and has been particularly effective as a
        platform for engaging ECRs and emerging research leaders. In recent years, the
        programme has featured a mix of international participants e.g., Justus Uitermark
        (Amsterdam); Jonathan Rutherford (Paris Est); Sea Rotmann (International Energy
        Agency); Rob Kitchin (Maynooth) and UK scholars e.g., Suzanne Fitzpatrick (Heriot-Watt),
        Rowland Atkinson (Sheffield), Andy Pike (Newcastle). We are invited regularly to research
        seminars organised by policy makers, e.g., DWP, Core Cities and National Audit Office. In
        2020 we established a joint workshop series for staff within Government’s Cities and
        Local Growth Unit, where our research findings and policy implications are discussed by
        senior regional team leaders.


 4.3    Wider Activities and Impact

        Beyond the impact detailed in our Impact Case Studies, our staff contribute widely to
        societal impact through engagement with the policy-making process in the UK and
        internationally. For example, our work on energy and utilities poverty is reflected in
        Ambrose’s expert advisory roles for the International Energy Agency (Chief Academic
        Adviser to IEA Hard to Reach Energy Users Technology Collaboration Programme and UK
        National Expert to IEA Task 24 on Changing Energy Behaviour). Beatty and Fothergill
        (Category C) have invested heavily in ensuring that research findings from their work on
        austerity impacts influences domestic and international policy, through inter alia their work
        advising the National Audit Office, the Northern Ireland Audit Office and the Scottish
        Parliament, as well as providing evidence to the United Nations. In 2017 Crisp acted as
        academic adviser to the Royal Society of Arts’ Inclusive Growth Commission and, in
        2019, its ‘Inclusive economic development and health’ workstream. Crisp was also a
        member of the Transport working group of the Poverty and Inequality Commission in
        Scotland (2019). Staff have presented evidence to parliamentary inquiries and committees,
        for example Cole advised the 2018 Communities and Local Government Committee inquiry
        into Land Value Capture. Staff have served on numerous advisory boards, for example
        Beatty (Valuation Office Agency Residential Statistics Advisory Panel, 2013-16), Ferrari
        (MHCLG Housing Infrastructure Fund evaluation advisory group, 2020; Greater
        Manchester Housing Strategy drafting group, 2019). Cole chairs South Yorkshire Housing
        Association, whilst Green chaired the board of trustees of Nomad Opening Doors, a local
        housing charity.


 4.4    Engagement with Diverse Communities and Publics

        Our Unit has developed significant strengths in co-production with research users and
        service beneficiaries, which has supported multiple projects to the value of at least £2m.
        These have included training of peer researchers within major evaluations for Big
        Lottery including several Fulfilling Lives partnerships, Centre for Ageing Better, housing
        associations and local authorities. We are also committed to expanding public engagement
        with research, for participating regularly in the ESRC’s Festival of Social Sciences.




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.5     Contributions to the Sustainability of the Discipline

         Our researchers make nationally significant contribution to their disciplines. Three
         examples demonstrate this. Our work on voluntary action has provided the basis of
         CRESR’s rapid response to the needs of charitable and community groups in developing
         Covid-19 resilience and recovery plans, in so doing exerting significant leadership on
         disciplinary research agendas. Our key roles in CaCHE, the Housing Studies Association
         and as the base for Housing Studies represent major investments in the housing sub-
         discipline. Our Unit has made a commitment to the sustainability and vitality of energy
         research, continuing the Eaga Charitable Trust’s legacy as trustee of the Fuel Poverty
         Research Network (under Ambrose’s leadership).


 4.6     Indicators of Wider Influence, Contributions to and Recognition by the Research
         Base

         Staff make a significant contribution to several disciplines through leadership and
         governance of learned societies, editorial service to international journals, peer review
         of research outputs and grant applications. In the REF period staff have held senior
         positions in the Housing Studies Association (McCarthy: Secretary; Wilson: Treasurer;
         Manzi: Committee member), Royal Geographical Society (Bridge: Regional secretary;
         Eadson: Board member, Planning and Environment Research Group); Regional Studies
         Association (Eadson: Yorkshire and Humber Branch Chair); Voluntary Sector Studies
         Network (Macmillan: Chair; Dayson and Macmillan: Trustees), Fuel Poverty Research
         Network (Ambrose: Chair). Staff are also active throughout disciplinary societies, including
         fellowships of the Regional Society of Arts (Beatty), Regional Studies Association
         (Eadson), Royal Geographical Society (Bridge, Holmes, Eadson, Storrar, White) and
         Higher Education Academy (Luke Bennett, Bridge, Holmes, Ferrari, Laycock, Storrar).


 4.6.1   Invited keynotes

         Our staff regularly accept invitations to give international keynote addresses. For
         example, Ferrari addressed the Korea Research Institute for Human Settlements 10th
         anniversary conference in Seoul, December 2018; and the Japan Local Government
         Centre annual seminar 2018. Macmillan was invited keynote speaker at the National
         Volunteering Conference, March 2020, Perth, Australia). We are also committed to
         supporting international exchange. Visiting positions held by our staff have included
         Ambrose’s appointment as a visiting researcher at the International Institute for Industrial
         Environmental Economics, Lund University (Sweden). We have hosted visits of
         international scholars and policymakers including delegations of officials from South Korea
         and Australia. In 2016 Fletcher hosted a visit of Winston Churchill Trust fellow Claire
         Seppings, who was researching the UK experience of ex-offender labour market
         rehabilitation.


 4.6.2   Journal editorships

         Our disciplinary contribution is also manifest through our editorial leadership of
         international journals. These include: Housing Studies (Ferrari: Managing Editor; Parr:
         International Editorial Advisory Board), Journal of European Real Estate Research (Ferrari:
         Editorial Advisory Board), Open Quaternary (Storrar: Associate Editor), Voluntary Sector
         Review (Macmillan: Editor; Dayson: Practice Editor), Geography Compass (Eadson:
         Environment and Society Editor), Social Policy and Administration (Beatty: Editorial
         Board), ACME: An International Journal for Critical Geographies (White: International




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         Advisory Board), Arkitekturax Visión FUA (Al-Obaidi: Editorial Committee) and Journal of
         Resistance Studies (Maye-Banbury: Editor).


 4.6.3   Refereeing academic publications and research proposals, and grant committee
         membership

         Staff have served as peer reviewers for over 120 journals covering most of the leading
         publications in their fields, including Q1 journals that span the full range of the Unit’s
         disciplines.

         Staff have peer-reviewed proposals or been members of review colleges and panels for,
         inter alia, AHRC (Luke Bennett), EPSRC (Goodchild), ESRC (Ambrose; Dayson,
         Gilbertson, Goodchild, Ferrari, Macmillan; Parr; Wells, White), Leverhulme (Dayson,
         White); MRC (Bridge, Dayson), NERC (Bridge, Goodchild), NIHR (Reeve), Innovate UK
         (Goodchild), UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships (Bridge), Science and Technology
         Facilities Council (Bridge), FWO/Research Foundation Flanders (Cerulli), German Federal
         Government (Eadson); RIBA President Medal for Research (Cerulli); Welsh Government
         (Ambrose); Scottish Government (Ambrose); National Science Centre, Poland (Storrar),
         NASA (Storrar), The Icelandic Centre for Research (Storrar), National Science Foundation,
         US (Reeve); Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia (FCT) Carnegie Mellon Portugal
         program (Wells).


 4.6.4   Fellowships and prizes

         Academic prizes awarded to our staff include Hickman’s 2019 Social Policy
         Association/Cambridge University Press Award for Excellence in Social Policy (for output
         1144) and Beatty and Fothergill’s 2018 RSA prize for ‘The impact on welfare and public
         finances of job loss in industrial Britain’.




                                                                                           Page 19
