Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Beckett University

 Unit of Assessment: Unit 24 – Sport and Exercise Science, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 1.1 Overview and Context
 Our submission comprises 76 staff (up from 53 staff in REF2014) from two Schools at Leeds
 Beckett University (LBU): the Carnegie School of Sport (CSS; n=59) and the School of Events,
 Tourism and Hospitality Management (ETHM; n=17). Collectively and purposefully driven by a
 focus on making a “positive and decisive difference to people, communities and organisations”
 (LBU Strategic Planning Framework, 2016-2021), we deploy innovative, high-quality research
 that impacts on local, national and international policy and practice. Pursuing an inclusive and
 ambitious research agenda, we cross the broad spectrum of the sciences, social sciences, and
 humanities. Our research culture is founded upon a genuine commitment and capacity to work
 with others on real-world applied interdisciplinary problems, to achieve impact beyond academia,
 for the benefit of wider society.

 Since REF2014 we have further enhanced our research environment through strategic investment
 in staff and students (Section 2), infrastructure and facilities (Section 3), and partnerships and
 collaboration (Section 4). Notable achievements include:
 • £45M investment in a new state-of-the-art building for the Carnegie School of Sport.
 • Six-fold increase in research income (from £1.2M to £7M).
 • Substantial rise in PhD completions (from 47 to 91), current doctoral study registrations (from
     42 to 180), competitively awarded PhD studentships (from 22 to 75) and Graduate Teaching
     Assistant appointments (from 10 to 28).
 • Growth in the Unit and network of Research Centres in response to strategic appointments
     and income generation (37/76 staff in the submission are new appointments since REF2014).
 • Strengthened links with research beneficiaries, communities, practitioners and policy-makers
     at local, national and international levels.

 1.2 Research Ecosystem
 We recognise that impact starts
 and ends with the societal
 change we seek to address,
 rather than the research problem
 or project we have created.
 Congruent with the University’s
 Strategic Planning Framework
 and enabled by our six
 University-Designated
 Research Centres (Figure 1),
 our applied and interdisciplinary
 research ecosystem is designed
 with clear purpose, coherence
 and energy. Research investment
 is targeted towards multi- and
 interdisciplinary Research
 Centres that bring together
 expertise and build critical mass.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Strategic Research Centre Developments Since REF2014
 i) New Research Centres and Themes
 Since REF2014 we have continually reviewed our infrastructure to ensure fitness-for-purpose and
 alignment between our programmes of research, curriculum, and knowledge exchange activities.
 Responding to strategic opportunities for growth (e.g., externally funded research activity,
 appointments, and partnerships), we launched two new Research Centres – the Applied Obesity
 Research Centre (AORC; led by Profs Gately, Cooke and Ells) and the Carnegie Applied Rugby
 Research Centre (CARR; led by Profs Jones and Till). AORC works with policy, practice and
 community partners, and those living with or at risk of obesity, to deliver the highest quality
 research to improve understanding of how obesity develops, and to co-create effective prevention
 and management approaches. CARR works with rugby union and rugby league professional
 clubs, international and national governing bodies, as well as sports technology companies, to
 increase the effectiveness of talent identification and development strategies, while improving
 player performance, and reducing the risk of injury and illness. Led by Prof Sparkes, we also
 established the Advancement of Qualitative Methodologies in Sport and Physical Culture
 Theme to provide resources to underpin the use of qualitative research conducted by staff and
 students across our Research Centres. Within each Research Centre, Research Themes have
 been formally recognised, underpinned by collaborative research projects (e.g., Protecting
 Sporting Integrity and Welfare in the Centre for Human Performance; Coach Learning,
 Development and Education in the Centre for Sport Coaching).

 ii) Leadership and Accountability
 Recognising that leaders drive research excellence and impact, we have appointed new Centre
 Directors; Prof Norman (Centre for Social Justice in Sport and Society), Prof O’Hara (Centre
 for Human Performance) and Dr North (Centre for Sport Coaching). Prof McKenna continues
 to lead our Centre for Active Lifestyles. Centre Directors ensure our continual focus and
 investment in Research Themes of societal significance. By adopting this approach, we safeguard
 our sustainability and impact. Research Centres are accountable for their activity, providing annual
 reports on their current and planned activities to the Director of Research (Prof Backhouse). These
 reports are reviewed at the University Annual Accountability meeting, chaired by the Vice
 Chancellor.

 iii) Integrative and Collaborative Approach
 This strategic evolution over this REF period has enabled Research Centres to become more
 coherent, intellectually creative and impactful mechanisms where like-minded researchers
 develop themselves and one another; this ensures growth within and between Centres. Through
 this non-hierarchical and networked system, we continue to develop and enhance the capabilities
 of our staff and students. This deliberately integrative approach has successfully encouraged both
 staff and students to establish fluid connections and collaborative interdisciplinary exchanges.
 These exchanges have generated a profound increase in the depth and rigour of our research
 addressing real world problems, leading to greater impact. Our culture is one of enablement and
 facilitation, rather than prescription. Driven by purpose, coherence and flexibility, our research
 community increasingly responds to the context and complexity of the challenges we address.

 1.4 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our Strategic Plan 2021 aligns with the overarching aims and objectives of the LBU Strategic
 Planning Framework, 2016-2021. Led by the Director of Research (Backhouse), and supported
 by Deans of School, Heads of Subject and Directors of Research Centres, it focused on four
 strategic objectives:


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Develop, recruit, and retain staff capable of leading independent programmes of impactful
     research.
 •   Sustain existing and develop new doctoral programmes (e.g., Professional Doctorate in Sport)
     in areas of significant research strength.
 •   Grow and maintain diverse income streams and secure infrastructure investment to support
     our impactful research.
 •   Ensure our research informs, and is informed by, stakeholders and beneficiaries.

 Our strategy for pursuing these objectives, during the REF2021 period and beyond, involves
 several initiative and investments. Our achievements in relation to our strategic objectives are now
 considered.

 i) Develop, Recruit, and Retain Staff Capable of Leading Independent Programmes of
 Impactful Research
 Our strategy targeted recruitment of research independent academic staff – as well as those
 working towards research independence - with interests aligned to our Research Centres, and
 curriculum portfolio. For example, we appointed (n=8) and promoted (n=15) Professors and
 Readers to ensure strategic research leadership (Professors Backhouse, Beggs, Buda, Cooke,
 Cooper, Fitzgerald, Jones, O’Hara, Norman, Pritchard, Schilders, Seetaram, Till, Wood, Woods;
 Readers Dashper, Fletcher, Griffiths, Ispoglou, Lara-Bercial, North, Quarmby and Watson). We
 also made strategic appointments at Lecturer (n=19) and Senior Lecturer (n=47) level, to ensure
 the sustainability of our research environment. This includes the recruitment and retention of early
 career academics. We also appointed twelve Postdoctoral Research Fellows through external
 funding.

 Consistent with our ethos of being a developmentally-focused unit, 16 colleagues have been
 awarded sabbaticals (semester-long REF2021 Fellowships) via £400K investment of our QR
 income (Alder, Campbell, Daly-Smith, Dashper, Didymus, Emmonds, Griffiths, Hanley, Ispoglou,
 Kaiseler, Patterson, Stanger, Price, Quarmby, Rongen, and T.Williams). Five Fellowship
 recipients have already secured subsequent promotion to Reader (Internal: Griffiths, Dashper,
 Quarmby, Ispoglou; External: Daly-Smith, to University of Bradford), demonstrating how this
 mechanism for developing research excellence has accelerated career progression. The
 Fellowships have also connected to our strategic research vision, through strong engagement with
 policy-makers and research beneficiaries.

 We committed £283K of QR income over this REF period by awarding 85 Research Development
 Grants, providing (i) First Grants for early career researchers (e.g., Bond, Didymus, Lamond);
 (ii) Impact Facilitation Grants (e.g., Backhouse, Erickson, Patterson produced a short-film
 illuminating the reality of blowing the whistle on doping in sport with the Northern Film School
 (For details of our impact, see our Anti-Doping Impact Case Study), and; (iii) multi- and
 interdisciplinary teams with Network Grant funding (e.g., Prof Norman brought together Profs
 LaVoi (University of Minneapolis), Knoppers & De Haan (Utrecht University) to undertake a
 global study of national football coaches; Prof McKenna secured funding to support the Yorkshire
 and Humber Physical Activity Knowledge Exchange (YoHPAKE)).

 ii) Sustain Existing and Develop New Doctoral Programmes (e.g., Professional Doctorate
 in Sport) in Areas of Significant Research Strength
 Since 2014, we have successfully targeted growth in our postgraduate researcher (PGR)
 community to further enhance the vibrancy of our research environment. Growth has been


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 achieved through a rigorous recruitment policy and offering competitive and strategically-relevant
 PhD studentships (i.e., industry match-funded and School-funded). Over the REF period, we have
 therefore invested £4.5M in PGR students and Graduate Teaching Assistants (providing a
 career development pathway for research and teaching). Currently, 180 students are registered
 for doctoral awards (73 FT, 107 PT), representing an increase of 329% since REF2014 (n=42).
 This includes 23 professionals registered on our new Professional Doctorate in Sport (PD)
 programme. We are growing the PD programme further by diversifying the range of professions
 registering for it. Further, we will continue to make strategic investment in doctoral training
 programmes to develop and educate future leaders of our disciplines, industries, and
 communities.

 PhD completions have nearly doubled; from 47 across the REF 2014 period to 91 for REF2021.
 To ensure succession and sustainability, we implemented a number of mechanisms to support
 progression and clear lines of responsibility for postgraduate research students within the Schools,
 including the appointment of Prof Fitzgerald (CSS) and Dr Dashper (ETHM) as Directors of
 Postgraduate Research. The employability of our PGRs is of vital importance to our students,
 and also the vibrancy of our PGR community, through continued recruitment to our doctoral
 programmes. During their registration, we focus on helping students acquire skills in research,
 teaching, and industry. Doctoral students awarded their PhDs over the REF period have been
 successful in securing postdoctoral and academic positions within CSS (n=21), other HEIs in the
 UK (e.g., at Bristol, Cardiff Metropolitan, Coventry, Durham, Exeter, Newcastle, Northumbria and
 Sheffield Hallam) and overseas (e.g., University of Canterbury, New Zealand; Australian Catholic
 University), as well as in industry (e.g., USA Cycling, Leinster Rugby, UK Coaching).

 iii) Grow and Maintain Diverse Income Streams and Secure Infrastructure Investment to
 Support our Impactful Research
 Over the REF period, the University invested £45M in a purpose-built home for the CSS. The new
 building is a physical manifestation of how we work with our community; integrating our research,
 teaching and knowledge exchange portfolios within one physical space. Equipped with state-of-
 the art equipment - procured in part via a research partnership model with industry leaders (e.g.,
 Perform Better, Catapult and Cranlea) - this long-term investment recognises the excellence of
 our contributions and ensures the sustainability of high-quality programmes of research, and
 impact.

 Since 2014, our awarded research income has grown six-fold (from £1.2M to £7M). This
 improvement is especially notable given our income predominantly supports our sport and social
 science research. For example, we secured a prestigious EU Marie Curie Individual Fellowship
 (Dr Pang, €180,000). Supporting this improvement in research awards was the University-wide
 support for grant writing. In this, dedicated funding advisors work closely with colleagues to alert
 them to research opportunities. An established grant review process also provides development
 feedback, while supporting capability-building and persistence for submitting competitive bids.

 These processes were instrumental in the submission of large-scale (£1M plus) collaborative bids
 to prestigious funders (e.g., European Research Council, Economic and Social Research Council,
 Public Health England (PHE) and Medical Research Council) to advance our Tourism and
 Obesity-related research programmes. Our recent ERC Tourism bid was short-listed, suggesting
 the likelihood of success in subsequent, revised, bids. Over the next REF period, we will continue
 to bid for prestigious peer-reviewed grants to secure the conditions that will extend the successes
 of Research Centres and Research Themes.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 iv) Ensure our Research Informs, and is Informed by, Stakeholders and Beneficiaries
 To enrich our research environment and reinforce our impact, we have accelerated actions to
 become an advanced, impact-literate and enabling community, so that more colleagues can lead
 impactful research programmes addressing real world problems (as evidenced in our six impact
 case studies). Led by Prof Norman, our Research Impact Strategy focuses on the why (to make
 a positive and decisive difference to people, communities and organisations), how (processes by
 which impact is achieved), who (skills and people-based factors) and what (demonstratable
 benefits) of research impact. We are strongly committed to deepening research impact across the
 Unit, through working with strategic partners (e.g., The Royal British Legion, UEFA, Public
 Health England, World Anti-Doping Agency, World Rugby, UK Sport) to co-create and embed
 research, leading to impact. Our six impact case studies build on strong foundations and heritage
 in addressing the societal challenges of doping, obesity, inactivity, health and wellbeing, gender
 inequality, talent development, and coaching development and education.

 We secure and invest resources to ‘bridge the gap’ between research, policy and practice, as
 illustrated by our success in obtaining EU Erasmus+ Sport funding for eight Collaborative
 Partnership projects (e.g., CoachForce21, iCoachKids, RESPECT). Such projects involve our
 researchers working alongside EU researchers, policy-makers and practitioners to develop and
 transfer research informed practices in sport. The research-practice model established by Jones
 and Till has also informed the academic community (e.g., ‘Accessing Off-field Brains in Sport; an
 Applied Research Model to Develop Practice’ published in 2018 in British Journal of Sports
 Medicine) and been implemented in various professional sports clubs (e.g., Leeds Rhinos RLFC,
 Wasps, Bath Rugby) and national governing bodies (e.g., Rugby Football Union, Rugby
 Football League). Furthermore, our approach to research impact has benefitted from the
 experience gained by undertaking five funded projects for the Economic and Social Research
 Council (ESRC), from exploratory projects on how to ‘value’ social science research to
 evaluations of two major investments (e.g., ESRC funded economics centres). This impact
 evaluation work was led by Prof Thomas and Visiting Prof Parsons.

 MoreLife, a University spin out subsidiary company established to commercialise 20 years of
 obesity research conducted by academics in AORC and CSS, has grown in strength over this
 REF period; securing £40M+ of new contracts in Integrated Healthy Lifestyle Services. Prof Gately
 is the Chief Executive of MoreLife and the company interfaces between health care providers and
 universities to facilitate research collaboration and two-way knowledge exchange, structurally
 embedding a strong user-voice which adds value for all parties. OneLife Suffolk is a notable
 example of a partnership between LBU (as the research partner) and MoreLife (as the provider
 of integrated healthy lifestyle services), commissioned by Suffolk County Council for five years
 and recently extended by two years. The impact of work in Suffolk over the REF period was
 recognised by MoreLife winning ‘The Primary Care Network, GP or Primary Care Provider of the
 year’, in March 2021, for, “Providing life changing healthy lifestyle services in East Anglia to protect
 our NHS”. Such contracts provide opportunities for PGRs and independent researchers to
 conduct high quality impactful research in real world settings. In turn, this supports the further
 development of MoreLife as a provider of evidence-based weight management services. A further
 example of facilitating user-voice, Prof Gately co-founded and is a director of Obesity UK, the
 leading charity dedicated to supporting people living with obesity (> 23,000 members). They have
 produced media guidelines for the responsible reporting of obesity, and a joint consensus
 statement on the importance of language in engagement between health-care professionals and
 people living with obesity.



                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5 Fostering an Open Research Culture
 Aligned with our impact ethos, we have developed new, open mechanisms to share our research.
 We have proactively utilised the University’s institutional repository and engaged with the open
 access agenda prior to the introduction of the, then, HEFCE OA policy in 2016. Nearly 70% of our
 out-of-scope journal articles have been deposited in the repository. The Unit also has the highest
 number of in-scope gold OA articles within the University (despite budget constraints: the
 institution receives no UKRI block grant or COAF grant for APCs). As the University deploys its
 institutional data research repository, we are working towards making our data openly available
 according to the FAIR principles. Our strong working relationship with Library, Learning and
 Innovation colleagues will continue to facilitate this process.

 CSS deliver the carnegieXchange and ETHM host theme-led seminars, open to all staff, students
 and the wider community. These programmes bring together internal and external speakers from
 academia, industry, policy and community organisations to stimulate collaboration and co-
 production. Our match-funded PhD and Post-Doctoral Research Fellowship programme supports
 new strategic partnerships with industry (e.g., English Institute of Sport, The Royal British
 Legion, the FA, Suffolk County Council, Institute of Travel and Tourism) and create direct
 pathways to share our research and impact directly on policy and practice. Our Research Centre
 websites also help widen the reach and accessibility of our research (see images below from the
 Centre for Social Justice in Sport and Society, as an example).




 Our EU Erasmus+ Sport Collaborative Partnership projects (e.g., iCoachKids, RESPECT)
 also evidence the utility of our open, embedded and participatory approach. All the associated
 research and project outputs are freely available on open knowledge exchange platforms (e.g.,
 www.icoachkids.eu/ and www.cleansportalliance.org). Research outputs are shared as pre-prints
 and findings and implications are synthesised and shared via video outputs (housed on YouTube
 Channels). iCoachKids is now present across 5 continents and engaging 100,000 online users.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6 Building for Future Success
 We are proud of our research achievements and beyond REF 2021 we remain committed to
 delivering a highly integrated and interdisciplinary research environment cementing our real world
 applied focus. In July 2021, we will adopt a new University Strategic Plan which will consolidate
 research activity around areas of demonstrable strength and significance. Research will continue
 to be an integral part of CSS and ETHM, as we sustain our involvement in, and leadership of,
 novel and rigorous applied and impactful research. Each Research Centre, Theme and Subject
 Group will continue to have area-specific strategic objectives as well as building on existing
 processes and achievements. Schools will further accelerate the integration of research, teaching
 and knowledge exchange in all subjects, so research informs teaching/knowledge exchange and
 vice versa. To illustrate, Unit actions will include:
 • Impacting local, national and international policies, practices and provisions to make a positive
     and decisive difference to people, communities and organisations.
 • Sustaining the synergies between existing Research Centres and investment in people;
     enabling all staff to move towards research independence and deliver impactful research.
 • Strengthening thematic areas, defined by a critical mass of researchers, sustained
     outputs/income generation and collaborative partnerships.
 • Involving research users and beneficiaries in our research programmes, ensuring a strong
     user voice in all that we do.
 • Scaling our collaborative and interdisciplinary multi-centre research programmes through
     grant capture to address some of society’s biggest challenges (e.g., obesity, inequalities).
 • Addressing Covid-19 impacts as they will influence our research agenda through changes in
     socio-economic behaviour, the climate crisis (in relation to tourism) and potentially
     technological advancements (which may impact on integrated health services, sports
     performance and forms of participation in physical activity, non-competitive sport and in
     tourism).

 2. People

 2.1 Equality and Diversity
 LBU is committed to creating a positive working environment for all employees. To ensure we
 continue to deliver high quality, impactful research that contributes to social change, we strive to
 provide a supportive, inclusive and positive environment in which to work. Underpinning this is a
 sense of shared values and behaviours, united by a common purpose: to use our knowledge and
 resources to make a positive and decisive difference to people, organisations and communities.

 Unit processes are underpinned by principles of equality, diversity, and social justice. Our success
 rests on drawing from the broadest population of researchers to conduct research that makes a
 compelling contribution to society. Indeed, through our Centre for Social Justice in Sport and
 Society we lead research that identifies the root causes of injustices in sport with the purpose of
 driving social change. Creating a diverse workforce and an inclusive working environment is
 critical to our continued success. Our equality impact assessment of academic staff returned in
 this Unit did not identify any issues regarding representation across the protected characteristics
 compared to overall staff profile in the Schools, or institution as a whole. For example, our
 submission population comprises 39.5% women (n=30), which is proportionate to the population
 of women in CSS and ETHM. The selection of outputs was also proportionate to the submission
 population and in line with our REF2021 Code of Practice.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Over the REF period the number of women in senior leadership roles has quadrupled within the
 Unit (from 1 to 4). Backhouse was appointed as Director of Research, Norman appointed as the
 Director of the Centre for Social Justice in Sport and Society and Unit Impact Coordinator,
 while Dashper and Fitzgerald were appointed as Directors of Postgraduate Research in ETHM
 and CSS, respectively.

 Diversity and inclusion are ongoing priorities and we remain committed to ensuring more staff are
 recruited and progressed from other underrepresented groups, including people from Black or
 Minoritised Ethnic groups and/or those who identify as having a disability. Therefore, we will be
 running consultations with existing staff as to how they experience inclusion within our workplace
 to understand any areas that will help us develop further update our Schools’ strategies. This is
 part of our commitment to existing staff. Alongside this, we will be actively changing how we recruit
 to staff vacancies; our recruitment will be more inclusive and representative to make our workplace
 attractive to new and diverse staff. As an anchor institution, we are also committed to raising our
 regional visibility to be the employer of choice for a greater diversity of communities.

 We are maximising the benefits of our Flexible Working Policy and Procedure for both the
 University and individuals, including the location, pattern and hours of work. Colleagues and
 managers are encouraged to informally discuss and agree flexible working requests, and most
 flexible working requests are resolved through informal discussion. The Unit is family-friendly and
 supportive of flexible working to suit individuals, taking into account their caring responsibilities
 (including transitions to and from parental/maternity/adoption leave). For example, by working
 flexibly around work commitments (e.g., meeting times), sharing of roles and responsibilities, and
 providing equitable research and development opportunities across the Unit.

 Staff have access to either formal or informal career mentoring (e.g., via the Carnegie Research
 Mentoring programme or through Research Centres) with one or more experienced researchers
 within the University. We support the individualised career progression of our colleagues through
 one-to-one discussions with experienced researchers, research development training
 opportunities (e.g., research cafes and theme-team support sessions), wider School and
 University training programmes, and providing collaborative, externally funded research
 opportunities. This person-centred approach extends to our PGR students as we seek to ensure
 they feel connected and a sense of belonging to our Research Centres, Schools and Unit through
 meet and greet sessions, regular catch-ups, and opportunities to share their research and get
 involved in staff research initiatives and projects.

 We take active leadership within the Unit to celebrate international days of difference, including
 International Day of People with Disabilities and International Women’s Day and global issues
 such as the Black Lives Matter campaign. We raise awareness of difference through our research,
 particularly through the work conducted within our Centre for Social Justice in Sport and
 Society.

 Our recruitment processes and practices adhere to HR guidelines concerning equality, diversity
 and inclusion. We are Disability Positive employers, hold Bronze Institutional Athena Swan
 accreditation (in the process of applying for Silver), have received Stonewall Top 100 employer
 status, and are members of the pilot group of universities for the Race Equality Charter Mark.
 Our University continues to provide a range of equality and diversity development sessions –
 which include contributions from our Unit. For example, Trans Awareness training and a new
 ‘Cultural Awareness’ session. Our active Equality Forums (Race and Equality, Disability Action
 Group, Gender, Faith and Belief, Rainbow Rose) facilitate activities including annual race lectures,

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gender Research Conference, participation in Leeds Pride and events supporting Disability, LGBT
 and Women’s History Months. Our equality work has been recognised with a VERCIDA award in
 2018 (Top 10 of the UK’s most LGBT-inclusive employers), and singled out as one of only 11 HEIs
 with a consistently gender balanced Board in the Women Count, Leaders in Education Report
 (2018). In relation to the Gender Pay Gap, we have reported improvements in our mean, median
 and bonus pay gap (e.g., the mean gender pay gap was 9.2% in 2019 which is significantly below
 the sector mean of 16.1%).

 2.2. Research Governance and Integrity
 The University Research and Enterprise Committee provides the governance for research,
 Chaired by the DVC (Research and Enterprise). Directors of Research are ex-officio members, as
 is the Director of Research and Enterprise. It is a sub-committee of Academic Board and the
 following sub-committees have devolved responsibilities:
 • Research Degrees Sub-Committee (RDSC) overseeing PGR matters.
 • Research Ethics Sub-Committee (RESC) overseeing research ethics (including annual
      audits to provide assurance of compliance by staff and students).
 • REF Strategy Panel provides oversight of our submission as stated in REF2021 Code of
      Practice.
 Research integrity is upheld by all members of the Unit, who assume personal and collective
 responsibility for their actions. All research projects are subject to ethical scrutiny. Local Research
 Ethics Co-ordinators manage most cases and report to RESC annually. An online system
 provides auditable ethics assurance. Within CSS, a Research Support Coordinator (1.0FTE)
 provides dedicated research support to staff and students.

 2.3 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Our LBU Strategic Planning Framework (2016-2021) prioritises being a ‘Community of Great
 People’ because our people are key to our success. Consequently, we strive to provide a positive,
 supportive and inclusive working environment for staff and students. To support this aim, the
 University implemented a new People Strategy 2016-2021 with a research-specific objective of
 “leading research and academic enterprise by attracting, retaining, and growing great people to
 help us deliver our strategy”. Actions undertaken to achieve this objective are illustrated in this
 section. Further, we have successfully retained the European Commission HR Excellence in
 Research Award (first awarded in 2015), in recognition of our continued commitment to the career
 development and management of research staff through the seven principles of the UK
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

 What follows illustrates some of the actions that support our aim of attracting, retaining and
 growing great people over the REF period. The future vitality of the Unit is enhanced by our age
 profile (the mean age in the Unit is 43 years) and staff and doctoral student retention.

 i) Attracting and Promoting Established Leaders (Promotions and Senior Appointments)
 • To ensure research leadership across the Unit, we recruited eight ‘external’ Professors (3
     women): Beggs (2015-2019, 0.4 FTE), Buda (2017-2020, 1.0 FTE), Cooke (2020-, 1.0 FTE),
     Cooper (2017-, 0.2 FTE), Pritchard (2020-, 0.2 FTE), Schilders (2015-, 0.2 FTE), Seetaram
     (2020-, 1.0 FTE) and Woods (2015-, 0.2 FTE).
 • We continued investment in future research leaders in thematic areas of strength and critical
     mass, making internal promotions to Professor (Backhouse, Fitzgerald, Jones, Norman,
     O’Hara, Till, Wood), Reader (Dashper, Fletcher, Griffiths, Ispoglou, Lara-Bercial, North,
     Quarmby, Watson) and Senior Research Fellow (Kay, Erickson, Roe, Wainwright).


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   We established powerful activating exchanges and governance procedures to stimulate links
     with business and industry, as well as public and third sector bodies. For example, we have
     invested in doctoral students and Post-Doctoral Research Fellows, supported by
     established research leaders (e.g., Cooke, Gately, Griffiths, Sparkes) to ensure we are
     delivering evidence-informed healthy lifestyle behavioural interventions through our successful
     spin out company, MoreLife.

 ii) Recruiting and Developing Future Leaders (Early and Mid-Career Researchers)
 • We continued to support our doctoral students transition to research independence and
      significant responsibility for research, by providing access to resources and mentorship.
      Eleven of the staff in this submission completed their PhDs with us over the REF2021 period.
 • We supported 16 staff with semester-long research sabbaticals (REF2021 Fellowships;
      investing £400k of our QR Income to support Alder, Campbell, Daly-Smith, Dashper, Didymus,
      Emmonds, Griffiths, Hanley, Ispoglou, Kaiseler, Patterson, Price, Quarmby, Rongen, Stanger,
      T.Williams) to develop independent research programmes. Five Fellowship recipients have
      already secured subsequent promotion to Reader (Internal: Griffiths, Dashper, Quarmby,
      Ispoglou; External: Daly-Smith, University of Bradford), demonstrating how this mechanism for
      developing research excellence has accelerated career progression.
 • We secured a prestigious EU Marie Curie Individual Fellowship, enabling Dr Pang to join
      us as a Senior Research Fellow for three years (Rethinking the Health Experience and Active
      Lifestyles of Chinese Students, €180,000 funding).
 • We have successfully retained our doctoral students as Post-Doctoral Research Fellows
      using external funding, recruiting 12 Fellows over the REF period. The largest appointment
      clusters have been to research programmes in the Carnegie Applied Rugby Research
      Centre (n = 6) and Applied Obesity Research Centre (n=3).
 • Doctoral students awarded their PhDs over the REF period have been successful in securing
      postdoctoral and academic positions within CSS (n=21), other HEIs in the UK (e.g., at Bristol,
      Cardiff Metropolitan, Coventry, Durham, Exeter, Newcastle, Northumbria and Sheffield
      Hallam) and overseas (e.g., University of Canterbury, New Zealand; Australian Catholic
      University), as well as in industry (e.g., USA Cycling, English Institute of Sport, UK Coaching).

 iii) Providing Career Development and Research Training
 • We sustained investment in staff development, supporting part-time doctorate fees,
      conference attendance and continuous professional development over the review period (e.g.,
      £252K+ invested through 245 Conference Awards to enable colleagues to attend established
      national and international conferences to present their research, and build their networks).
 • Awarded 85 strategic Research Development Grants (e.g., ‘First Grants’, ‘Impact
      Facilitation’, ‘Network Grants’; £283K investment).
 • Human Resources, the Graduate School, and representatives of the Research community
      coordinated our implementation of the Concordat to map our support activities for the career
      development of researchers at all stages of their research journey from postgraduate
      researchers to professors. University-wide staff development workshops are open to all staff
      and PG research award students.
 • We ran training courses on research impact, led by Prof Mark Reed from FastTrack Impact.
 • Carnegie Research Mentoring (CaRM) provided a formal mentoring mechanism. CaRM is
      part of workload allocation for mentors and mentees. Extensive informal mentoring between
      colleagues, reflects the positive culture of the research environment.
 • We delivered an annual programme of monthly research seminars by staff and external
      speakers, via our carnegieXchange & ETHM speaker series. This series has included annual

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     public lectures that bring high-profile international speakers to LBU (e.g., Profs Blair; Baker,
     Chambers and Eisenmann).
 •   We offered weekly supervised Shut up and Write sessions in timetabled spaces (moved
     online due to Covid-19), to provide focused time to write, and think.
 •   Academic staff were supported to undertake an annual Performance Development Review
     with their line manager to review research progress, identify and agree objectives and
     individual staff development needs.

 iv) Enriching our Research Environment Through Visiting Professorships and
 Fellowships
 Over the REF period, we adopted a more strategic approach to appointing Visiting Professors
 and Fellows to our Unit, based on expertise and strategic priorities. Consequently, our research
 environment has been enriched by 29 visiting appointments. For example, Prof Carrington (USA)
 contributes to our research on race and racism in sport, Prof Coalter (UK) supports our research
 on sport for development, Prof Eisenmann (USA) provides expertise in paediatric exercise science
 and youth sport, Prof Gilthorpe (UK) contributes his statistical epidemiological expertise to our
 applied obesity work, Profs London and Harris (UK) support our research in musculoskeletal and
 orthopaedic sport medicine, Profs Mellor and Boos (UK) contribute to our high-altitude expedition
 research, Prof Phillips (Canada) offers expertise on sarcopenia and ageing, and Prof ShiNa Li
 (China) contributes to our work on the economics of tourism and events. Illustrating our Visiting
 Fellow contributions, Dr Hendricks (South Africa) contributes expertise on tackling to our applied
 rugby research, and Dr Erickson (USA) contributes to our research on doping prevention. Our
 research environment is further enriched by our Emeritus Professors (Scraton, Long, Flintoff,
 Hylton, King, Beggs).

 2.4 Research Students
 i) Sustained and Strategic Investment in our Research Student Community
 We invested £4.5M in our PGR community (and developing the next generation of leaders in the
 field) through strategic recruitment and integration within areas of thematic strength and critical
 mass. Our investment focused on match-funding research with local, national and international
 partners. Since 2014 we have delivered on our strategic aims and achievements and
 developments include:
 • Awarded 91 doctoral degrees, almost double the 47 awarded in REF2014.
 • Registered 180 students on doctoral degree programmes (73 FT, 107 PT), including 23
      professional doctorates; an increase of 329% since REF2014 (n=42).
 • Invested in 75 competitively awarded PhD studentships (69 PhD, 6 MRes; £1.5m investment),
      by combining School and externally funded studentships (e.g., with Public Health England,
      The English Institute of Sport, British Triathlon, UK Coaching, The Rugby Football
      Union, Leeds United FC, Leeds Rhinos Rugby League Club, Suffolk County Council,
      Huddersfield Town FC, The Football Association, and Institute of Travel and Tourism).
 • Established two international PhD programmes with the University of Copenhagen (spinal
      cord injury and adapted physical activity; Sparkes, T.Williams) and UMIT in Austria (doping
      prevention; Patterson).
 • Following the first appointment of 10 Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) in 2013/14, 28
      School-funded GTAs were appointed. This investment of £3M over the REF period, helped
      enrich our Research Centres and Research Themes, and supported the next generation of
      academics (e.g., 29/38 GTAs have secured academic positions at HEIs, 10 within CSS), via
      this career development pathway.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Thirty-five current staff are being financially supported to study either a PhD or EdD. In addition
     to covering postgraduate research fees, staff are deployed to undertake their doctoral
     qualifications within our workload model. Over the REF2021 period, 27 staff members have
     completed their School-funded PhDs, with eleven already achieving independent researcher
     status (and thus having significant responsibility for research), and twelve are moving towards
     independent researcher status. This investment in our staff, sustained over successive REF
     periods, evidences our commitment to growing and sustaining our own community of
     independent researchers who can lead programmes of research that align with our thematic
     areas of research strength, and impact pathways.

 ii) Supporting Research Students Progress and Development
 The Graduate School oversees all aspects of our doctoral training and research staff
 development (and staff from the Unit contribute to this programme), integrating institution-wide
 PGR support with research career development. Tailored professional development workshops
 are based on Vitae’s Research Development Framework and delivered through the research
 training programme for research students. Importantly, Schools and Research Centres provide
 the primary academic home for our integrated research community and provide tailored
 professional, career and personal development for individual PGR students.

 We have well established mechanisms to support students, monitor progress, and promote on-
 time completions. Four to six months after registration, students prepare a report that is reviewed
 by a panel made up of an independent chair and a senior academic not connected with the project
 and the supervisory team (Confirmation of Registration). The panel can confirm the target
 award, recommend an alternative target award (e.g., rather than register for a PhD the student
 shifts to an MPhil), recommend that the student either addresses specific areas of weakness and
 resubmits their report, or withdraws from the University. At the end of each year of their doctoral
 research, students are required to present their work to a progress panel (Annual Progression)
 consisting of supervisors, an independent chair, and another experienced researcher from within
 the School. These meetings provide invaluable, constructive feedback and advice.

 Students experiencing difficulties at any stage in the doctoral process may apply to the University
 Research Degrees Sub Committee (RDSC) (e.g., for an extension or temporary suspension).
 Locally, PGRs are encouraged to quickly highlight any issues affecting their progress with
 supervisors (who formally record progress, issues and agreed objectives at supervision meetings),
 the Director of PGR or the Director of Research, to provide appropriate guidance. Over the REF
 period the University invested in and implemented a comprehensive postgraduate research
 student management platform (PhD Manager by Haplo) to ensure that all our PGR information is
 held in one place, streamlining the process of supervision meetings, progression monitoring,
 examinations management, and reporting.

 A tailored Research Training Programme (RTP), designed with supervisors, provides PGR
 students with the skills and competences needed to undertake research and to work towards the
 successful completion and defence of a written thesis and/or disciplinary equivalent. Our PGR
 students must complete this programme prior to thesis submission. This approach reflects national
 good practice guidelines and specifically relates to QAA guidelines and Vitae’s Researcher
 Development Framework. Methodological innovation has added vibrancy to the intellectual
 climate surrounding our research students. For example, our annual research methods
 programmes develop students understanding of qualitative (led by Sparkes) and quantitative (led



                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by Griffiths and Beggs) research methodologies and methods, and have been instrumental in
 expanding research capabilities and innovations.

 Students are invited to present their work within informal, supportive contexts (e.g., at our Annual
 PhD festival, internal seminars, Research Centre/Theme meetings). We also encourage doctoral
 students to submit and publish journal articles with supervisors during their registration. We have
 an excellent track record of students exiting their PhD studies with at least one journal article with
 supervisors. As a key indicator of research quality, four of our Tourism PhD students won national
 awards from subject associations and professional associations, and international awards have
 also been secured across the Unit (e.g., Young Investigator Award at the annual conference of
 the European College of Sport Sciences). Recognising the importance of connecting with the
 wider community, all PGR students are financially supported to attend up to three external
 workshops, seminars, courses or conferences throughout their period of study. Students can
 augment these funds to attend at least one international conference to present their work during
 their period of study with us. An annual budget supports research-related costs (e.g., equipment
 and travel) for every PGR bursary student and GTA.

 The most recent (2019) Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) indicated high
 levels of satisfaction with supervision and support within our Unit. For example, within CSS, scores
 of 90%+ were noted for satisfaction with supervision, research skills and professional development
 (e.g., 96% agreed their supervisor/s provide feedback that helps them direct their research
 activities and have the skills and subject knowledge required to support their research). Covid-19
 affected our PGR community and the Unit is committed to financially supporting students requiring
 extensions to their registration and studentships due to the pandemic.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 3.1 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Over the REF period, the University has made substantial investments in our infrastructure and
 facilities to further enhance our capacity to deliver high-quality research and impact activities. This
 includes investment in a £45M state-of-the-art building that co-locates our highly specialist
 research, teaching and knowledge exchange spaces. Opened in May 2020, the building is a
 physical manifestation of how we work with our community, bringing the people, organisations and
 communities we serve into the 8,500m 2 hub. Many elements of the building were implemented in
 consultation with our stakeholders, such as the 400m 2 strength and conditioning suite and
 performance training and analysis laboratories (Leeds United FC, Leeds Rhinos RLFC,
 Yorkshire Carnegie RUFC), the exercise and health studio (e.g., Leeds Teaching Hospital
 Trust), the 60m indoor athletics track (British and England Athletics) and the two 40m2
 environmental chambers (Defence Medical Services). The environmental chambers can
 simulate altitudes up to 8849m, temperatures from -30 to 50 degree Celsius and relative humidity
 from 15 to 95% (capable of simulating environmental conditions across the world).

 The investment of £3.5M in equipment within the new build includes a custom-built 180° Igloo
 creating an immersive, state-of-the-art simulation and visualisation facility, a h/p cosmos Gaitway
 3D Instrumented treadmill, h/p cosmos Saturn oversize treadmill which accommodates running,
 cycling and wheelchair use, Vyaire vyntus one pulmonary function system, Qualisys Oqus 7+
 cameras, fixed and portable Kistler force plates, Randox RX Daytona clinical chemistry analyser
 and a high-performance liquid chromatography mass spectrometry instrument. This investment



                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 adds to pre-existing equipment, including dual x-ray absorptiometry, anti-gravity treadmill and
 immunofluorescence microscope.




 New £45M state-of-the-art building for the Carnegie School of Sport (Opened May 2020)


 In equipping the new build spaces, we established research partnerships with industry leaders to
 ensure the sustainability of high-quality research and impact activities. For example, Catapult
 provided the latest software for our performance analysis labs and they will host their CPD and
 industry-training events in our new facility. Cranlea Human Performance Ltd and Perform
 Better are each funding four co-created MRes bursaries to advance scientific discovery in areas
 relevant to their industry.

 Through a partnership with ETHM, Jet2.com have funded improvements to the estate by creating
 a Jet2Suite. This incorporates a research ideas lab, connecting researchers and PGRs in
 Responsible Tourism with direct access to senior staff in the company.

 3.2 Six-Fold Increase in Research Funding
 During the REF period our total external research income is just over £7M, compared with £1.2M
 in our REF 2014 submission. The growth, as well as the diversity of our funding base, is important
 in securing the breadth, depth and sustainability of research across the Unit. The three major
 sources have been UK based charities (£1.5M), UK central government (£1.78M) and UK industry,
 commerce and public corporations (£1.6M). Longer-term funding from Public Health England
 and Suffolk County Council supports our whole system obesity work.

 Over the next REF period, we will continue to support staff to secure further research funding from
 a wider range of sources. In particular, we will target large collaborative funding opportunities (e.g.,
 Research Councils) to address some of societies biggest challenges; obesity, ageing, physical
 inactivity and social justice in sport and society. Early indications are positive for this strategic
 focus, given the recent award of £1.2M from National Institute for Health Research to evaluate
 the new NHS Low Calorie Diet Programme, aimed at targeting support to adults living with obesity
 and type 2 diabetes.


                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Strategies for Generating Research Income
 Support for research and impact in general, and for grant applications in particular, has become
 more deliberate and systemised during this REF period. QR funding was allocated as earned by
 the REF Units, and a new financial model, introduced in 2016, ensures Schools retain the majority
 of the research and knowledge exchange income they generate (all overheads minus a small
 central levy). This incentivises the acquisition of non-student income and is an example of how
 the University and the Unit continually seek to improve our funding processes to further enhance
 the vibrancy and sustainability of our research environment. Further examples are illustrated
 below.

 i) Increased Support from the University Research and Enterprise Office
 The University Research and Enterprise Office (UREO) has become more proactive in
 supporting research bids, appointing dedicated Research Funding Advisors and providing
 specialist funder insights and experience (e.g., institutional and sector wide success rates,
 financial rules, eligibility and participation criteria at the point of research idea / conception). The
 University also established a supportive Peer Review process for grant proposals in 2015 to
 provide encouragement and guidance for staff in applying for external funding. The process also
 guarantees feedback from at least two experienced colleagues with expertise in the field and/or
 experience with the funding organisation. Overall, this helps with quality control and grant writing
 skill development.

 Further direct support from the University for research includes:
  • Implementation of the Research and Enterprise Management System (REMS) in 2014
      ensuring better costing and data management of all bids across the Unit.
  • Dedicated funding available to support preparing bids (£20K per year).
  • Establishment of the Post Award Research Team within the wider UREO, supporting
      colleagues at the point of grants / projects awarded.
  • UREO also offered competitive QR Funded Research Awards between 2015-17. Targeting
      research career stage, awards included Early Career (up to £5K), Mid-Career (up to £15K)
      and LBU Research Cluster awards (Up to £30K). Unit researchers were awarded over 100K.

 ii) Increased Unit Investment to Develop Research Capability, Income Generation and
 Impact
 Our allocation of Research Development Funding totalled nearly £1M over the REF period,
 including awarding semester-long sabbaticals in the form of REF2021 Research Fellowships
 (£400K). This investment afforded 16 early career researchers the time and resources to develop
 independent programmes of research. For example, in 2015, Griffiths responded to a call from
 PHE regarding evidenced based policy around obesity (a focus of our Obesity Impact Case Study).
 She used her sabbatical to build research networks (e.g., via the ESRC Obesity Network, in
 which she was a principal investigator), write high quality research papers (since published in the
 International Journal of Obesity Special Issue on Big Data in Obesity Research) and firmly
 establish the collaboration with Prof Mark Gilthorpe (who is now a Visiting Professor in CSS)
 and other colleagues at the University of Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA). The
 Fellowship helped Griffiths build the capability and confidence to pursue Research Council funding
 which compliments and extends the PHE Whole Systems Obesity Toolkit (developed by LBU)
 by evaluating, for the first time, the application of systems theory (i.e., systems thinking and
 complexity science) as a framework to address obesity.




                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alongside Fellowships, we also awarded 85 Research Development Grants (£283K) to help
 generate research income. For example, Emmonds was awarded a First Grant in 2015 to examine
 the physiological and movement demands of elite female soccer players on match performance
 and physical characteristics. Since then, she has developed numerous research partnerships,
 including with The Football Association (securing funding for three PhD Studentships), where
 the programme of research is impacting practice and innovation across the Girls and Women’s
 England Talent Pathway.

 LBU has invested significantly in developing the capacity and capability around data science within
 sport, as well as obesity. Prof Beggs was recruited in 2015 to develop the expertise within data
 management and analytics, and accelerate innovations in sports data research (including novel
 analysis techniques applied to microtechnology sports data). At the same time, CSS further
 invested in four joint-funded data science PhD Studentships, in collaboration with the School of
 Built Environment, Engineering & Computing. By building a critical mass of researchers and
 developing expertise within data science, we have secured research investment to deliver league-
 wide sports data projects. For example, Jones leads the Super League (Rugby Football League)
 and Catapult project, managing the league-wide microtechnology data, quantifying the match
 characteristics of rugby league. We have also developed an accessible data visualisation tool to
 better communicate the research findings to a wide range of beneficiaries as part of a league-wide
 fitness testing project (involving the RFL Academy, Women's Super League and RFU Academy
 players). Our long-standing commitment to delivering impactful research in rugby is evident in our
 Rugby Impact Case Study.

 iii) Organisational Infrastructure - University-Designated Research Centres
 Our research infrastructure is also developed and sustained in Research Centres through
 Research Themes. As outlined in Section 1.3, we launched two new University-Designated
 Research Centres over the REF period – the Applied Obesity Research Centre (AORC; led by
 Profs Gately, Cooke and Ells) and the Carnegie Applied Rugby Research Centre (CARR; led
 by Profs Jones and Till). Including AORC and CARR, we now have six purpose-led Research
 Centres: Centre for Social Justice in Sport and Society (the first of its kind in the UK, led by
 Prof Norman), Centre for Sport Coaching (also unique in the UK and internationally, led by Dr
 North), Centre for Human Performance (led by Prof O’Hara), and the Centre for Active
 Lifestyles (led by Prof McKenna).

 Our research infrastructure extends beyond the University campus, as evidenced by our long-term
 involvement in the Battle Back Centre at the National Sports Centre at Lilleshall. The 10-year
 contract (~£10M) with The Royal British Legion and the Ministry of Defence (MoD) at The
 Battle Back Centre draws together researchers from across our Research Centres (e.g.,
 McKenna, Cooke, Kay) with expert coaches and project managers from Carnegie Great
 Outdoors (housed within the CSS). Our established research infrastructure, with embedded
 researchers, secures the continued impact of our research-led adapted sport, and adventurous
 training residential course on the recovery of military wounded, injured and sick (WIS) serving
 personnel. Working with the Scottish Universities Environmental Research Centre allows us
 to embed gold standard stable mass isotope techniques into cross-centre research on exercise
 metabolism and energy expenditure (e.g., O’Hara, Jones, Ispoglou).

 3.4 Libraries and Learning Innovation
 Library and Learning Innovation (LLI) plays a key role in the staff and student experience at the
 University, providing 24/7 access to physical (over 380K books) and online (150K journal titles)

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources supporting the research, teaching and learning needs of our community. Academic
 librarians ensure collections meet our research needs and can be used by our staff and research
 students. Academics are supported by experienced research support staff in LLI (2.5 FTE) and
 our research is managed through two complementary systems, Symplectic and EPrints. Outputs
 are made available as Open Access to comply with publisher, REF and funder requirements.
 Information from Symplectic also feeds through to the public-facing staff profiles on our web pages.

 Academic and support staff within the Unit have been proactive in working with colleagues in LLI
 and developing the use of Symplectic and the institutional repository, including piloting the use of
 modules that allow reporting on research environment activities. LLI research support staff, and
 colleagues within Research and Enterprise, provide training on the development and use of these
 modules to ensure consistent documentation of research environment activity.

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 Ensuring that our research informs, and is informed by, our research stakeholders and
 beneficiaries is one of our four strategic research objectives. This position aligns directly with our
 University mission to ‘use our knowledge and resources to make a positive and decisive difference
 to people, communities and organisations’. Our Research Impact Strategy helped us adopt a
 more proactive approach to maximising the benefits of our research for society and the
 communities we serve.

 A distinctive feature of our Unit, and its strategic direction, is the influence of collaboration with
 national and international agencies on our environment. Collaborative partnerships provide crucial
 opportunities for staff and PGR students to work in policy and practice contexts; undertaking
 applied and embedded research to understand the problems and issues as they are faced on the
 ground. Many of the challenges our researchers examine are underpinned by complex behaviours
 (e.g., obesity, physical inactivity, inequality, doping, coaching) and to address them requires a
 connected researcher-practitioner-beneficiary-policymaker community, that links a range of
 methodologies and disciplines, deploying them for specific and well-focussed investigations.

 The Unit has strategically supported the development of new research-policy-practice networks
 and interdisciplinary collaborations (e.g., via match-funded PhD studentships, match-funded post-
 doctoral fellowships, internal synergy and network grant funding), and colleagues have secured
 competitive funding (e.g., EU Erasmus+ Sport Collaborative Partnerships). Given the number
 of emerging researchers supported by the Unit, our collaborations thrive by intentionally combining
 their innovation with experienced cross-Centre and Subject mentoring, by experienced
 researchers. Relevant examples of our collaborations and contributions are highlighted in the
 following sub-sections.

 4.1 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 i) Embedded-Researcher Partnerships: Aligned with our commitment to deliver on our role as
 a regional anchor institution, colleagues within the Unit have partnered with multiple professional
 sports clubs, national governing bodies, international federations and Schools to integrate
 research and practice. In the multidisciplinary Carnegie Applied Rugby Research Centre
 (CARR), staff and students are embedded within sports organisations to positively impact the
 athlete, coach and wider community. The CARR model involves numerous researchers, research
 students, practitioners and senior management in collaboratively developing research, policy and
 practice. To foster these strategic partnerships, and to create direct pathways to impact, CSS
 support joint-funded doctoral and post-doctoral positions between the professional sporting

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organisations and CSS. As partnerships mature, the professional sporting organisation have
 begun to fully fund such positions. This partnership model is overseen by experienced academic
 staff (Jones, Till) who also work as practitioners within the sporting organisations. Key to the
 success of the model is the strategic investment by the senior management at both the university
 (e.g., Dean, Director of Research) and sporting organisation (e.g., CEO, Director of Rugby), who
 are all deeply committed to the value of translational research.

 Our embedded partnership model in rugby clubs (e.g., Bath Rugby, England Rugby League,
 England Rugby Union, Leeds Rhinos Rugby League, Wasps Rugby Union) has now
 extended to professional football clubs (e.g., Leeds United and Huddersfield Town), Super
 League netball clubs (e.g., Leeds Rhinos Netball) and tourism organisations (e.g., the Institute
 of Travel and Tourism, Jet2.Com). This embedded-researcher approach is also a feature of the
 Centre for Sport Coaching, where the concepts, frameworks and ideas developed through a
 continuous process of applied research now forms the basis of the Chartered Institute for the
 Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) Professional Standards for Coaching in
 High Performance Sport (launched in 2019).

 ii) International Multi-Agency Collaborations: We lead many international collaborations,
 including complex international, multi-agency projects involving academic institutions, policy-
 makers and practitioners. These collaborations seek to bridge the gap between research, policy
 and practice. Example collaborations over the REF period include working with:
 • Over 30 organisations (including Nike, UEFA, World Rugby, and the Special Olympics) and
      beneficiaries through iCoachKids (3-year EU Erasmus+ Sport Collaborative Partnership
      project, led by Dr Lara-Bercial) to support the development of a Specialist Children and Youth
      Coaching Workforce across the EU. iCoachKids has become a global leader in youth sport,
      with its website (www.icoachkids.eu/ c.100,000 users globally), massive open online courses
      (3,500 users), YouTube channel (c. 100,000 views across 120+ videos).
 • ESRC Obesity Network (PI: Griffiths) - brought together a cross-sector, cross-discipline
      community from the UK, US and Europe to use ‘Big Data’ to better understand and
      subsequently tackle obesity. The network published a series of seven papers in a Special
      Issue in the International Journal of Obesity.
 • International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) – we undertook a complex and
      comprehensive biomechanical analysis at the 2017 IAAF World Championship and 2018
      World Indoor Championships. At the 2018 Indoor event, data was recorded from 76 individual
      events, filming over 730 athletes with 49 high speed and HD cameras. This involved over 6500
      thousand hours in planning, data collection and data analysis, resulting in the 38 individual
      reports published by the IAAF (research team included Hanley, Nicholson, Tucker).
 • International Council for Coaching Excellence (ICCE) - hosted in the CSS, the ICCE guide
      sport coaching research, education and policy in 55 member countries.
 • Meeting Professionals International (the world’s largest professional association in the
      events sector, USA) - LBU provided a synthesis of international research on events tourism to
      the Japanese Tourist Board (Musgrave).
 • Five European National Anti-Doping Organisations and two UK universities (University of
      Birmingham, Kingston University London) through RESPECT (Research-Embedded Strategic
      Plan for Anti-Doping Education Clean Sport Alliance Initiative for Tackling Doping) - led by Prof
      Backhouse, RESPECT is a 3-year EU Erasmus+ Sport Collaborative Partnership project
      bridging the gap between research, policy and practice to develop effective anti-doping
      education (www.cleansportalliance.org). Intellectual outputs from the project have already
      guided the World Anti-Doping Agency’s Social Science Research Priorities.

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development - providing expert review of
     the international digitalisation challenges in the tourism sector, focusing on the skills and work
     organisation implications for managers and employees (Choi, Visiting Prof Parsons).
 •   UEFA - to evaluate Football Coach Education across Europe. Led by North, the findings were
     used to change the UEFA Coaching Convention to a new version 3 in 2020 with a greater
     emphasis on reality-based learning, further education/CPD, and the training of coach
     developers. We were also commissioned by UEFA to conduct research to underpin the
     development of two new flagship, pan-European (55 nations) programmes (Playmakers and
     Football in Schools) (led by Lara-Bercial and Stride).
 •   World Rugby - multi-national Global Rugby Match Characteristics project (led by Jones),
     involving a collaboration with the University of Cape Town and Rugby Unions in England,
     South Africa, USA, New Zealand, Portugal and Hong Kong.

 iii) National Multi-Agency Collaborations: We lead many national multi-agency collaborative
 research projects, particularly in obesity and physical activity, sports science and coaching.
 Examples include:
 • Battle Back Centre, The Royal British Legion, The Ministry of Defence and Injured
      Players Association - LBU research underpinned the decision of The Royal British Legion
      to invest £27M to fund the Battle Back recovery course, leading to the British Army and Royal
      Air Force mandating attendance of the Battle Back course for their wounded, injured and sick
      personnel. Beneficiaries of this collaboration now reach beyond serving personnel (e.g., in
      military veterans, junior soldiers and supporting spinal cord and brain injured rugby union
      players, their families and carers) (Cooke, Kaiseler, Kay, McKenna, T.Williams, Sparkes).
 • Become Charity – research conducted for Become on ‘perceptions of care’, led to them being
      a strategic partner and involved in two successful British Academy Small Grants (Quarmby).
 • Catapult, Super League Europe and the Rugby Football League - quantifying the demands
      of rugby league from all Super League teams, providing the first league-wide research project
      in any sport. This also links into our academy profiling project with England Rugby League
      (Jones, Till, Roe, Weaving).
 • Defence Medical Services – joint research has led to a strategic partnership, investigating
      point of case assessments of exertional heat and altitude illness, to inform military best practice
      (O’Hara, Woods).
 • Doncaster Council and Sport England - used the findings of a study on the social impact of
      The Tour de Yorkshire to develop a novel events strategy (McKenna, Ormerod).
 • English Institute of Sport - invested in two match-funded PhDs to inform their policies and
      practices: 1) examining heat acclimation interventions for Olympic competitions in hot and
      humid environments (with British Triathlon, O’Hara, Wainwright) and 2) the behavioural
      science of nutritional adherence (Backhouse, Patterson).
 • Fast Forward 15 - Dashper led research and contributed to a mentoring programme designed
      to challenge barriers to female career advancement in the industry.
 • Leeds City Council - developed its approach to problem gambling in the city based on
      collaborative research with ETHM (Kenyon, Ormerod, Visiting Prof Parsons).
 • Leeds Teaching Hospitals – conducting research in collaboration with clinicians from Leeds
      Teaching Hospitals and the University of Leeds on the acceptability and feasibility of
      essential amino acid nutritional supplements (developed by Ispoglou, with patent pending) to
      manage sarcopenia, a highly prevalent syndrome within a variety of conditions and diseases
      and negatively influences clinical outcomes and quality of life, particularly in the elderly.
 • Public Health England and local authorities - LBU produced a research-based guide and
      set of resources to support local authorities with implementing a whole system approach to

                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     address obesity and promote a healthy weight (Cooke, Gately, Griffiths, Radley). This guide
     is now being translated into other languages for international implementation (e.g., Better
     Health Programme Mexico, led by the Foreign & Commonwealth Office).
 •   Suffolk County Council - established the OneLife Suffolk Integrated Public Healthy
     Lifestyle Service with a focus on areas of deprivation and reducing health inequalities by
     targeting vulnerable and at-risk groups working directly with local communities and
     beneficiaries to identify conditions for successful interventions and address specific challenges
     (Cooke, Gately, Griffiths). Patient and public involvement is a common feature in the design
     and evaluation of such work in healthy lifestyle interventions. Driving this collaboration is
     MoreLife, a highly successful subsidiary company of LBU, founded by Gately.
 •   The Football Association (FA) - researching 1) Experiences of women coaches’ working in
     football to address issues of gender inequality in the game (Clarke, Didymus, Kaiseler,
     Norman), and 2) Match demands and characteristics of Girl’s and Women’s football to drive
     practice and innovation across the England Talent Pathway (3 PhD Studentships; Emmonds).
 •   Yorkshire Sport Foundation and Public Health England (Yorkshire and Humber) - in July
     2019, the Creating Active Schools conference at LBU brought together the expertise of 50
     regional, national and international stakeholders to integrate the many components of school-
     based physical activity. They included teachers and headteachers from across South
     Yorkshire and West Yorkshire and 18 UK and international experts in school-based physical
     activity from Universities This led to the first UK-based whole-school physical activity
     framework – the Creating Active Schools Framework (Archbold, McKenna, Quarmby).

 iv) National and International Expert Advisor Roles: Members of the Unit serve widely as
 experts, illustrated by the following roles:
 • Backhouse serves on the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) Social Science Expert
     Advisory Group (formally the Research Advisory panel), and was instrumental in restructuring
     the WADA Grant Program and developing WADA’s first Social Science Research Strategy
     (2020-2024). LBU research underpinned this global strategy. Backhouse is also a member of
     the English Institute of Sport (EIS) Technical Steering Panel.
 • Emmonds is a member of the FA’s Scientific Advisory Board for Women’s and Girl’s Football.
 • Gately is a member of the strategic council of 16 UK experts formed by the All-Party
     Parliamentary Group on Obesity, calling for the Government to take a new approach to
     tackling obesity through prevention and treatment; Gately co-founded and is a director of
     Obesity UK, the leading charity dedicated to supporting people living with obesity (> 23K
     members).
 • Jones is Research lead at the Rugby Football League.
 • Lara-Bercial is influencing policy across 27 EU Member States through his lead role in
     European Commission Human Resources Development in Sport Expert Group.
 • Norman is lead advisor to Sport England’s national taskforce on gender equality in sport
     coaching which is informing their new ten-year strategy (2021-2031), ‘Uniting the Movement’
     which places tackling inequalities at the heart of Sport England’s work.
 • North is Chair of the International Council for Coaching Excellence’s (ICCE) Research
     Committee.
 • Price is International Olympic Committee Sub-Group Member (Respiratory Illness) and
     European Respiratory Society Taskforce Member (Exercise and Asthma Management);
     Price is Elected Board Member of the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical
     Immunology (EAACI) - Allergy, Asthma and Sports Working Group, EAACI Taskforce Group
     Chair (diagnosis and management of allergic and respiratory disease in sport) and EAACI
     Research and Outreach Committee Member.

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Pritchard is Special Advisor to the Wales Tourism Alliance, an umbrella representative
     organisation that communicates with the Welsh Government on behalf of the tourism
     businesses and trade bodies.
 •   Robinson is a Board member of the Institute of Travel and Tourism & Tourism
     Management Institute. ETHM members sit on the Boards of all relevant national subject
     associations (Awards for Training & Higher Education (ATHE), Association for Events
     Management Education (AEME) and Council for Hospitality Management Education
     (CHME)).

 4.2 Contribution to Academic Disciplines and Learned Societies
 Many of our staff are at the forefront of their disciplines and influence the directions they take. For
 example, our Unit is influential in promoting diverse research methodologies in Sport and Exercise
 Science, Leisure and Tourism (e.g., advancing qualitative methodologies Clarke, Douglas,
 Dashper, Fitzgerald, Quarmby, Sparkes, T.Williams). Impact on the discipline has been achieved
 in various ways, including influential books, and editing and publishing in high profile journals. For
 example, LBU’s significant contribution to advancing the sociology of sport was acknowledged in
 the bibliometric study of Tian & Wise (2017; published in the International Review for the Sociology
 of Sport). Norman’s contribution was specifically acknowledged. Importantly, the evidence we
 provide across the Unit illustrates the contribution of staff at all stages of their careers to the
 discipline and learned societies, and all staff contribute to important activities such as reviewing
 for journals, examining PhD candidates and conference/event organisation.

 i) Editorships: During the REF period we have Edited, Co-Edited, or been Associate Editors of
 esteemed journals. For example, Thomas is Editor-in-Chief and Wood an Editor of the Journal of
 Policy Research in Tourism, Leisure and Events; Thomas is Co-ordinating Editor of the
 International Journal of Hospitality Management; Fitzgerald is Editor of Adapted Physical Activity
 Quarterly; Sparkes is Editor of Auto/Biography Yearbook (the annual refereed journal of the British
 Sociological Association's study group on Life Writing); Cooper is Co-Editor of Current Issues In
 Tourism; Pritchard is Associate Editor of Annals of Tourism Research; Dashper is Associate Editor
 of Sociology; Gledhill is Associate Editor of the British Journal of Sports Medicine; Watson is Editor
 of Leisure Sciences: An Interdisciplinary Journal and Annals of Leisure Research; Cowburn is
 Digest Editor of the International Sport Coaching Journal; Fletcher is Associate Editor of Soccer
 and Society; Lamond is Associate Editor of the Journal of Fandom Studies; Robinson is Associate
 Editor of the Journal of Destination Marketing and Management; Backhouse is Associate Editor
 of Frontiers in Anti-Doping Sciences; Fitzgerald and Quarmby are Associate Editor of Frontiers in
 Physical Education and Pedagogy.

 Staff in the Unit also contribute to Editorial and Advisory Boards (e.g., Annals of Tourism
 Research, Journal of Travel Research, Leisure Studies, Psychology of Sport and Exercise, Sports
 Coaching Review and Tourism Management). Colleagues are recognised for their services in
 consistently providing very high quality, thorough and professional peer reviews. For example,
 Stanger was awarded Reviewer of the Year 2019 for the APA academic journal Sport, Exercise
 and Performance Psychology and Fitzgerald was named Reviewer of the Year 2020 by the
 Curriculum Studies in Health and Physical Education journal.

 ii) Discipline Collections: Cooper edited the Sage Handbook of Tourism Management (two
 volumes); Fletcher, Long (Emeritus Prof) and Watson edited Sport, Leisure and Social Justice
 (Routledge); Sparkes edited Seeking the Senses in Physical Culture: Sensuous Scholarship in
 Action; Sparkes Co-Edited The Routledge Handbook of Qualitative Research in Sport and


                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exercise, and Advances in Biographical Methods: Creative Applications; Till and Jones co-edited
 Science of Sport: Rugby; Watson edited The Palgrave Handbook of Feminism and Sport, Leisure
 and Physical Education.

 iii) Academic Expert Committees, Panels and Learned Societies. Staff contribute widely:
 • Backhouse is convenor and Chair of the British Association of Sport and Exercise
      Sciences (BASES) Clean Sport Interest Group. She led the development of the BASES Expert
      Statement on Inadvertent Doping in Sport.
 • Burrai Chairs a Special Interest Group of ATLAS on Volunteer tourism.
 • Cooper is a member of the International Academy for the Study of Tourism and one of
      thirteen individuals to have received the United Nations WTO Ulysses Prize.
 • Fletcher is Chair of the Leisure Studies Association.
 • Didymus is Elected Chair of the Association for Applied Sport Psychology research
      development committee.
 • Gledhill is BASES Deputy Chair of the Division of Sport and Exercise Psychology. He authored
      the sport and exercise psychology education standards for the updated BASES
      Undergraduate Endorsement Scheme and developed the new Masters pre-SEPAR
      Endorsement Programme.
 • Ivanova is the Elected Secretary of Research Committee 50 (RC50) International Tourism
      Research (International Sociological Association).
 • Robinson and Musgrave are, respectively, Board members of the Association for Tourism
      in Higher Education (ATHE) and, formerly, EuroCHRIE.
 • Seetaram is an elected member of the International Association for Tourism Economics
      and a member of the pool of experts for the German Aviation Research Society.
 • Stride is co-convenor of the BERA Physical Education Special Interest Group.
 • Thomas acted as an international member of the Business and Economics Panel of New
      Zealand’s Performance-Based Research Fund (PBRF) (tourism specialist).
 • T.Williams is founding member and Treasurer of the International Society of Qualitative
      Research in Sport and Exercise (QRSEsoc).
 • Wood Chairs the Academy of Marketing SIG on Events and Experiential Marketing.

 Academics across the Unit serve as grant reviewers for multiple national and international
 organisations, including the European Commission, Economic and Social Research Council,
 Medical Research Council, Swedish Government Research Council, Portuguese Foundation for
 Science and Technology, Wellcome Trust, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of
 Canada.

 4.3 University Networks
 We collaborate with Universities in Australia (Curtin, New England, Sydney, Queensland, Western
 Sydney, Federation University, Brisbane); New Zealand (AUT, Canterbury, Otago, Waikato); USA
 (Michigan State, New Orleans, Wisconsin, Indiana University, University of Central Florida,
 Minneapolis); Canada (McMaster, Queens, McGill, Brock, British Columbia, Laval, Alberta,
 Western Ontario); South Africa (Cape Town); Africa (Botswana, Nairobi); Brazil (Sao Paulo);
 China (Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Sun Yat-Sen & Zhejiang); Europe (Catania, Milan, di
 Salerno – Italy; Mid Sweden University – Sweden; Maastricht University - The Netherlands; Bern
 – Switzerland; Norwegian School of Sport Sciences – Norway; Jyvaskyla – Finland, University of
 Barcelona – Spain, University of the Basque Country, Spain, Nord University – Norway, The
 Hague University of Applied Sciences – The Netherlands, Utrecht University – The Netherlands).


                                                                                        Page 22
