Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Abertay University

 Unit of Assessment: 03 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure
 Abertay is a focussed and compact University that in recent years has grown its reputation,
 including being named the top modern university in Scotland (Guardian Good University Guide
 2019; Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2017). Although we are one of the smallest
 Scottish universities, we produce high-quality research and knowledge exchange (RKE) aligned
 with international, national and local priorities, which delivers real impact for society (REF5a).
 The Allied Health Professions Unit has contributed significantly to these achievements.

 This UoA3 submission (10 FTE) is largely focussed within the Division of Health Sciences (DHS)
 in the School of Applied Sciences (SAS), which was formed in 2019 by merging previously
 separate Biomedical & Life Sciences and Nursing & Counselling departments to consolidate
 Allied Health activity. The Unit benefits from a £4M strategic investment in research facilities
 (Section 3.3) and has been formed from a mix of new (4 FTE) staff appointments in Allied
 Health, existing staff (3 FTE), and (3 FTE) academics previously submitted to REF2014 (UoAs
 4&5). New appointments include a Professorial position to provide leadership in mental health
 and an academic with extensive experience of professional practice. A combination of funding
 success, mentoring and support, have resulted in 7 promotions since 2014, thus supporting staff
 retention and Unit development.

 As a new Unit operating within a newly formed Division we have laid the foundations to
 purposefully build progress in terms of research quality, research income and external impact
 within UoA3 and, in line with Abertay’s interdisciplinary research strategy (below), UoA3 has
 developed strong collaborative links and accessed external funding with researchers across the
 University (e.g., UoAs 4, 6, 12, 24 and 32) and with external practitioners and stakeholders (e.g.
 NHS and Macmillan).

 UoA3 comprises three interacting research groups:

(i) Biology of Health and Disease: We focus on cancer systems biology, with the Universities of
    St Andrews and Edinburgh, and reproductive health, with the University of Dundee and the
    Assisted Conception Unit, Ninewells Hospital, Dundee. Our cancer systems biology combines
    experimental data streams and theoretical modelling (UoA12) to characterise cell signalling
    network responses to therapeutic interventions and oxidative stress and have developed a
    statistical model of patient survival based on the spatial distribution of cells in patient tissue.
    Drawing on our expertise in electrophysiology, we have extended our focus to reproductive
    health and IVF failure in particular. We have elucidated one of the causes of IVF failure, which
    has resulted in a spin-out company (Fertility Genomics) developing routine standardised
    screening tests that can inform clinical decisions, fast track patients to alternative treatments
    and reduce IVF treatment failure. We collaborate with our UoA6 colleagues focussed on
    molecular and comparative physiology and nutritional health, and on antibiotic resistance gene
    spread in wild animal populations, including links to environmental and public health. The
    Research Group makes a substantial contribution to income (Section 3), and partners with
    stakeholders for impact pathways.

(ii) Mental Health: Our research in mental health focuses on the development and delivery of
     effective interventions and support for people experiencing challenge, and the interplay between
     physical and mental health. Our research is community- and practice-based, undertaken via our
     on-site Tayside Centre for Counselling (TCC) that provides a venue for large-scale data
     collection. The TCC provides counselling to the local community and accepts referrals from NHS
     GP services, from the local Diabetes clinic, and from the Ophthalmology department at

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Ninewells Hospital. The TCC hosts projects examining the role of emotional and psychological
   support for long-term health conditions, and the evaluation of Pluralistic Counselling. The clinic
   is part of a UK-wide BACP-supported Research and Training Consortium (RTCC), which
   promotes collaborative working between clinics at York St John University, Newman University
   and the University of Salford (going forward also the University of East London and the
   University of Roehampton). This work involves strong alliances with external partners, including
   NHS Health Boards, further enabling development of research into interventions used in mental
   health support.

(iii) Practice Engagement: Our unifying focus is to inform the development and refinement of
      practice engagement through the allied health research we conduct. As well as the health and
      disease focus described in (i) and (ii), we explore the engagement with, and experiences of,
      healthcare practice. We recognise the value of person-centred care, where we have shown that
      contextualising care in a person’s situation is of particular importance, and interpersonal and
      complex trauma, relational and person-centred approaches are key. Our approach is typically
      based on detailed assessment of individual experiences (e.g., in-patient treatment for anorexia;
      how students with vision impairment experience inclusion and support in schools, experiences
      of harmful therapy). In population-based research on healthcare communication, we have
      assessed patient communication with practitioners in relation to symptoms indicative of cancer
      as a pathway to improve healthcare messaging and devised a taxonomy of explanations to aid
      healthcare practitioners in their care of patients with persistent physical symptoms. We have
      also explored broader perspectives in practice engagement, including the profiling of patient
      demand on the healthcare system and ethical aspects of healthcare, e.g., genetic modification
      of the human germline to improve health. We have extended our collaborative approach (with
      UoA4), combining our expertise in communication-based interventions and behavioural
      analyses, to examine the role of quantitative methods to characterise behaviour and enhance
      the quality of practitioner interventions (Section 3.4).

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our overall Unit strategy is to deliver research with impact, combining academic excellence with
 stakeholder collaboration. The Unit operates within the context of Abertay’s RKE Strategy
 (2014-19 & 2020-25), R-LINCS: Research-Led Innovation Nodes for Contemporary Society
 (REF5a). R-LINCS integrates our research into a single Abertay-wide initiative designed to
 capitalise on our compact, focused and collaborative nature. R-LINCS bridges conventional
 boundaries among research disciplines to devise innovative cross- and inter-disciplinary
 approaches that deliver research with impact. Essential for a small University, our strategy
 guides and supports our Unit research activity directly and brings together School and Divisional
 planning, staff management, research studentships, and central funding in five-year plans.

 R-LINCS (2014-19) was organised into 4 cross-cutting contemporary themes and was centrally
 led and managed. It provided:
     (i) A single, pan-University research leadership to drive our discipline strengths and
           interdisciplinary research agenda and foster external collaborations, including with
           external organisations (Sections 1, 3 and 4);
     (ii) A cross-University Graduate School, which offers us a coherent, Abertay-wide
           integrated training programme for staff and Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS)
           (Section 2);
     (iii) Intra- and inter-theme support for RKE including funded and co-funded doctoral
           studentships and Pump Priming awards (Section 1, 3);
     (iv) Facilitation of public engagement (Section 4).

 We have refreshed our strategy (R-LINCS2, 2020-25) to use our expertise to target specific
 Challenge Spaces presented by modern society, through research leadership in our Pools of
 Excellence, i.e. distinct ways of working that cross-cut Challenge Space areas and discipline
 strengths encapsulated in our academic Divisions (see Figure 1). Of particular note for UoA3 is
 one of four research Challenge Spaces, ‘Health and Care across the lifespan’, where UoA3 will
 play a leading role going forwards (see Section 1.3).

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1: R-LINCS2 2020-25

 The UoA3 approach to research integrity and progress towards an open research
 environment wholly aligns with the institution via centralised R-LINCS strategy and research
 management. Abertay fully engages with (and is a signatory to CSCDR and KEC):
    (i) the principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (CSRI)
    (ii) the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (CSCDR)
    (iii) the Knowledge Exchange Concordat (KEC)
    (iv) the Concordat on Open Research Data (CORD)
    (v) the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research (CEPR), which we use to guide
          development of supportive RKE policies, practices and structures (Section 2).

 We are compliant with our CSRI commitments: all staff and students and visiting researchers are
 required to adhere to the highest standards of integrity in the conduct of their research as set
 out in the Abertay Research Code of Conduct (ARCoC) and engage in mandatory research
 integrity training (including Research Ethics and GDPR for Researchers).

 The University has taken important strides to develop an open research environment.
 Published outputs are open-access compliant and we are working towards open access
 compliance with our research data by 12/2021. Our Open Access and Research Data
 Management Policies, researcher development training and individual support is provided by our
 dedicated Research Support Manager, increasing staff engagement with open research, pre-
 registration, and open-access data repositories. We are committed to the responsible use of

                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 metrics in research evaluation and are a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment (DORA). Our policy and practice on research metrics for research
 assessment is included within our ARCoC and informs our Recruitment and Promotions policies
 and procedures and our REF Code of Practice.

 Our strategy as a small nascent Unit, has focused on specific research areas and on
 interoperation with other disciplines (e.g., psychology, systems modelling, food & nutrition, art &
 design), as well as stakeholder engagement. We have used strategic investment of R-LINCS
 studentships to open up new areas of collaborative and interdisciplinary research, which has
 afforded us access to important consortia and high-quality funding sources, including UKRI
 (MRC), NHS, Chief Scientist Office (Scottish Government), Ministry of Defence, UK Charity and
 Trust funding.

 We have achieved the following strategic goals during the REF2021 period:

 (i) Produced high-quality research impacting physical and mental health and well-being:
 We have supported development of high-quality research through leadership, mentoring,
 investment in research facilities (Section 3), engagement with the Graduate School researcher
 development programme and one-to-one support (Section 2). We have prioritised high-quality
 research with impact in a targeted way through the use of personal appraisals, workload
 planning, resource allocation, appointments, and accessing institutional support. Unit growth
 was supported by 6 fully-funded R-LINCS PhD studentships (including one co-funded by the
 Northwood Trust) during the REF2021 period, and our ‘Future Scholarships’ scheme (fee
 waivers for strategic development) has provided a further 3 Research Degree fee-waivers since
 2018. Development of the postgraduate student base and associated research output has
 contributed to a research environment that has continuously improved during REF2021.

 (ii) Diversify income sources:
 UoA3 has secured income (individual and collaborative) for RKE, thus contributing to the
 generation of £718k during REF2021 (see Section 3 for cross-Unit project income). Early income
 was dominated by a single income stream (the Northwood Trust) and we have used this funding
 and strategic internal investment to diversify our sources of external funding and extend our
 consortia (see Section 3). We have supported the development of high-quality research funding
 submissions through provision of research leadership, mentoring, engagement with the
 Graduate School researcher development programme and one-to-one support (Section 2), and
 a revised peer-review process for grant applications that has improved grant success rates and
 scale across Abertay (e.g., in 2020 30% success rate (average award £335k) with peer review
 vs 10% success rate (average award £53k) without).

 (iii) Increase collaboration and impact:
 Our consistent and competitively won internal funding has allowed us to develop research
 projects and gain experience which has led to the growth of collaborations, grant applications
 and impact. We have used creative approaches and internal R-LINCS studentship and Pump
 Priming funding to deliver interdisciplinary research (Food & Nutrition; Forensic & Analytical
 Science; Systems Modelling; Sport & Exercise Sciences; Psychology; Art & Design). Since
 2014, we have had 15 completed PhDs, and 2 Pump-Priming awards (£10k) which have
 enabled us to develop our research and impact with a focused range of stakeholders (NHS,
 health charities).

 Our two REF2021 Impact Cases Studies, ‘Counselling for Sight Loss: Increasing the quality
 and availability of specialist counselling for people with sight loss in UK and Ireland’, and ‘More
 than one pathway to change: Innovating psychotherapeutic practice via Abertay’s pluralistic
 counselling model’, have emerged directly from our strategy of supporting effective KE and
 creation of partnerships. These case studies directly impact the delivery of counselling support
 practices for different patient/client groups in the UK and internationally, primarily through
 influencing the training of practitioners and more broadly in the delivery of therapy by adoption of


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the practice. Our Impact Case Studies do not exhaust the range of impact we achieve (Sections
 3 & 4), some of which will be realised substantially in the next assessment period.

 1.3 Future Strategic Aim and Objectives (2020-25)
 Our strategic research aim aligns with Abertay’s RKE Strategy (2020-25). UoA3 fundamental
 and translational research will lead the ‘Health and Care across the Lifespan’ Challenge
 Space. We will contribute to Pooled Excellence in ‘Experimentation and Systems Modelling’
 through basic research, ‘Co-creation and External Engagement’ through translational research,
 and ‘Human interaction and user experience’ and ‘Social identity and human behaviour’ through
 practice engagement RKE.
 Mental Health will maintain our national lead in counselling RKE and extend beyond therapeutic
 support to grow our mental health nursing care research, which aligns with our existing
 professional practice taught portfolio. Biology of Health and Disease will continue to undertake
 interdisciplinary RKE, particularly with our systems modelling researchers and through
 collaboration with stakeholders for impact. Our unifying Practice Engagement group will drive
 impact by enhancing health and wellbeing policy and practice, through collaboration with
 practitioners, stakeholders and across disciplines.
 Our strategic objectives going forward are to:
         (i) Produce high-quality research that impact physical and mental health and well-being;
         (ii) Develop sustainable research groups through leadership appointments and
               researcher development support.
         (iii) Increase funding success and income.
         (iv) Increase research impact, recognition and collaboration.
 The delivery of objectives will require continued investment in staff and facilities, R-LINCS/
 Future Scholar studentships, and networking support to stimulate new collaborations and grant
 applications. For R-LINCS2, Abertay has committed to c.15 fully funded PhD studentships,
 funded PhD studentships for newly appointed academic staff (dependent on R-LINCS2
 objectives alignment), and Pump Priming and Open Access funds.
 Key areas of focus for development are research Group leadership, mentoring (ECR and staff with
 practitioner background) and research-focused management. Central to leadership and mentoring
 will be strengthening the role of our Health Research Forum. This Forum will be key to maintaining
 and coordinating research focus, enhancing best practice in research (e.g., Open Science,
 research design), consolidating existing, and stimulating new, stakeholder links and landscaping
 funding opportunities. Having diversified our income sources (Section 1.2) we will drive up income
 through one-to-one grant application support from the Graduate School (including our grant
 application peer-review processes) and the availability of an exemplar applications repository.
 Research-focused management is a University-wide development agenda (Section 2) and will be
 effected via e.g. block teaching and sabbaticals.
 We have clear, sustainable plans to continue developing the vitality of our research environment
 as our Unit emerges from a recent period of transition and consolidation. We will continue to
 build on our existing strengths, providing a sustainable base of expertise.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Development
 This is a new UoA of 10 FTE, 3 of whom did not have significant responsibility for research in
 REF2014. Their REF2021 return reflects investment in research leadership with a new
 professorial appointment (2015). This appointment enabled an increased research focus within
 the Unit, and a growing ability to attract, develop and retain high quality researchers (4 FTE are
 new appointments) and secure funding. Appointments include 2 ECRs (interplay between
 physical and mental health) and 1 established researcher (experiences of healthcare service
 users and delivery).

 The UoA3 team comprises a good balance of experience: 1 Professor, 2 Heads of Division
 (HoDs), 4 Senior Lecturers (or equivalent) and 3 Lecturers; all are Category A eligible and on

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 permanent contracts. During the REF2021 period, 7 were internally promoted at least once,
 reflecting Abertay’s commitment to developing staff careers. The University’s commitment to
 investing in staff is further evidenced by a Gold award from Healthy Working Lives. New staff
 benefit from a comprehensive Induction Programme covering PGR degrees and regulations,
 Abertay’s RKE Strategy, ARCoC, CSRI, CORD and CSCDR.

 2.2 Staff Development
 Consistent with the CSCDR, line managers are committed to staff well-being and all UoA3 staff
 have twice-yearly Developmental Discussions with their line manager to appraise both short-
 term research objectives and long-term plans, discuss training and development needs, and
 review any well-being or workload issues.

 Training and development needs are met through the Graduate School and HoDs. The
 Graduate School has three Researcher Development Staff who, together with senior Abertay
 staff, provide >100 development opportunities annually. Training includes advanced
 statistics, GDPR, impact, enterprise, PGR supervision, public engagement, paper and grant
 writing. Where necessary, staff development needs were met by external organisations, (e.g.,
 Fast Track Impact; Transparent and Reproducible Science training; national Aurora leadership
 programme).

 Divisions provide internal support for national and international travel, conference attendance,
 dissemination (e.g., Refocus on Recovery conference in Nottingham; the BACP Conference
 Belfast) and international conferences in Europe (e.g., the European Conference on Mental
 Health in Split; Integrating Diversity into Psychotherapy Research, Amsterdam).

 R-LINCS provides leadership in Academic Enterprise (two academics with excellent track record
 in KE) and in 2019, Abertay initiated Bell Street Ventures, an enterprise hub situated on campus
 to develop enterprise and entrepreneurship skills and is supported by a charitable donation and
 Santander Universities Network. Successes in the allied health area to date include a local
 games company using games to improve healthcare and in UoA3 in supporting the spin-out
 company Fertility Genomics (Section 3.3).

 ECRs and other new appointments are given additional support in the form of a reduced
 teaching load in their first year to establish their research. There is a 2-year probation period to
 ensure regular objective setting and discussion with line managers. Depending on experience
 and qualifications, ECRs may also be required to complete Abertay’s Postgraduate Certificate in
 Academic Practice (PGCAP). This qualification has a research focus as well as developing
 teaching skills, including modules such as ‘Developing Academic Practice’ and ‘The Effective
 Research Academic’, covering the supervision of postgraduate students, the research funding
 landscape, project management, developing a research niche, and internal research procedures
 (e.g., ethics, data management). For established staff, additional research time can be provided
 through a formal Sabbatical scheme (Section 2.4).

 Within UoA3, all new staff are offered mentoring by a more experienced colleague. In addition,
 and given our small size, we joined a Cross-Institutional Academic Mentoring Scheme TRAM
 (from 2016) with 6 Universities including St Andrews, Dundee and Trinity College Dublin.
 Originally aimed at ECRs it has since been extended to senior academics/researchers and to
 three more HEIs. Five UoA3 staff have benefitted from being matched with mentors/mentees at
 external institutions to provide objective support for career development.

 An important environmental improvement during the current assessment period is that staff
 research has been supported by consistent internal funding. The R-LINCS scheme that provides
 PhD studentships (below) also awards Pump Priming research funding to support new projects
 and help ECRs develop a track record of independent research. Pump Priming funds have
 supported the initial production of data which supported larger project applications (e.g., £7k
 awarded for the purchase of microfluidics equipment enabled a larger collaborative project on
 reactive oxidative species and synaptic activity to secure RSE funding).

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Two UoA3 staff are members of the University Research Knowledge and Exchange Committee,
 and one Chairs the University Ethics Committee. Thus, we make a significant contribution to
 development of policy and practice that supports the University RKE environment and
 engagements with UK Concordats (Section 1.1).

 2.3 Training and Supervision of PGR Students
 Our postgraduate research students (PGRS) are essential to the vitality of our research
 community: they work alongside experts to pose new questions and find creative solutions to
 problems facing society. During REF2021, we awarded 15 PhD degrees (REF4a), 1 MPhil, and
 10.5 Masters by Research (MbR) degrees. Eight of these MbR awards were funded by the
 NMAHP unit of NHS Education for Scotland to increase the number of research active staff
 within the Allied Health workforce. Viva voce success rates have increased to 100% from
 2016/17 due to improved Research Degrees training, monitoring and support. We have a further
 7 continuing PhD students and 2 continuing MPhil/MbR students. This constitutes a healthy and
 sustainable PGR community for a Unit of 10 FTE.

 PGRS funding has been secured from external organisations (NHS Education for Scotland;
 Northwood Trust) as well as R-LINCS studentships, co-funded studentships and the Abertay
 Future Scholars programme. We have co-supervised students at several external institutions
 including Edinburgh Napier University, University of Nottingham, and University of Dundee.

 PGRS are named authors on >20 published papers in the current assessment period and have
 presented or co-authored more than 30 conference presentations and posters. Our PGRS have
 achieved excellent success after graduation, going on to lectureships (e.g., University of
 Dundee), research positions (National Phenotypic Screening Centre, Royal College of
 Psychiatrists, UCL Institute of Health), and clinical posts (Virology at Ninewells Hospital).

 All PGRS are based in Abertay’s Graduate School, allowing access to training and a large peer
 group from other disciplines. As well as providing physical resources (allocated desk in an open-
 plan office, social area, IT equipment), the Graduate School provides:
 − Progress panels: Students complete an annual progress report and presentation to a
     Review Panel to assure student progress, supervision quality and provide an opportunity to
     address any issues.
 − Personal development planning: Students track meetings, achievements, goals and
     training needs into a Vitae Researcher Development Framework system, which must be
     submitted for approval one month before the PhD thesis. This ensures that students are
     systematically focused on progress, and are able to articulate research, experience and
     wider achievements attained throughout their PG training.
 − Annual Graduate School conference: All PGRS are required to present their research to
     peers, supervisors and academic staff from across Abertay, helping students develop
     presentation skills and confidence in a professional context.
 − Training: Weekly skills-based seminars are held to meet training needs, including research
     methods, statistics, qualitative analysis, public engagement and outreach training, academic
     writing, funding applications and business development.
 − Access to Researcher Development Staff: providing tailored statistical support, and
     academic advice e.g., funding applications.
 − Funding opportunities: students can apply to a dedicated fund for conference attendance
     and researcher training support.

 To further support PGRS, staff inexperienced in postgraduate supervision are required to
 complete an online Epigeum course on Supervising Doctoral Studies and our in-house
 training before being mentored through a first PGRS supervision. Those new to Research
 Degrees examination must engage with our Novice Internal Examiners Process which
 involves in-house training and observation of viva voce.



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recruitment is centrally managed, and our procedures adhere to the UK Quality Code for Higher
 Education requiring that selection is undertaken by at least three suitably trained staff and is
 compliant with our Equality & Diversity Policy. The University’s Admissions Policy states that,
 subject to availability, admission is open to all those that have the ability to benefit from the
 opportunity to study for a given degree. Abertay will only admit students to programmes of
 research degree study that are properly resourced and supported.

 2.4 Equality Diversity and Inclusion
 To maintain consistency, inclusion, and fairness, all REF2021 Units have followed a centralised
 approach to EDI. Abertay’s ethos embeds inclusion, diversity and equality in all our policies,
 operations and strategic thinking. We recognise and value colleagues and students with different
 backgrounds, experiences and attitudes who bring fresh ideas and perspectives to the
 University. Since REF2014, the University has been awarded the Athena SWAN Bronze award
 (2015, 2018). Led by the Graduate School, the self-assessment team helped drive development
 of fair and equitable policies and practices to support researchers, staff and students across
 Abertay. In 2016, we were the first Scottish university to achieve the Race Equality Charter
 Mark.

 Our Academic Recruitment and Promotion Policies are applied to ensure a fair, equitable,
 transparent and consistent process for appointing and reviewing the grade of academic staff,
 which is integrated with the University’s grading, Role Profiles and underpinned by the principle
 of ‘equal pay for work of equal value’. As a signatory of DORA, when considering appointments
 and promotions, we evaluate research on its own merit rather than on the journal Impact Factor.

 For UoA3, 16 new appointments were made from a pool of 49 applicants during this part of the
 REF period (Table 1). A total of 13 applications for promotion were submitted from 12 members
 of staff, with 9 successfully promoted (some on more than one occasion) (67% female).

  Characteristic               Applicants                     Appointments
  Sex                          65% Female                     88% Female
  Age                          Average age =45                Average age = 42
  Race                         17% BAME                       31% BAME
  Sexual Orientation           12% LGBT+                      6% LGBT+
  Disability                   12% declared disability        6% declared disability
 Table 1. UoA3 Recruitment EDI Data (since introduction of a new HR system in 2017).

 Consistent with CSCDR, all staff have undergone mandatory Diversity in the Workplace and
 Unconscious Bias training, and Recruitment and Selection training is required for all involved in
 recruitment and promotion decisions. Our EDI Action Plan requires an Equality Impact
 Assessment (EIA) for policy, statements and procedures and makes accessible relevant
 software systems and supporting information. UoA3 staff are represented on committees that
 ensure EDI is promoted. UoA3 staff are representatives on the School Staff Engagement
 Advisory Team which has ensured that staff with caring or health responsibilities are supported
 during COVID restrictions.

 Our Sabbatical Policy encourages staff to apply for sabbatical leave for research (6-12
 months). The policy provides for particular consideration of leave following
 maternity/adoption/shared parental leave to help re-establish an employee’s career and allows
 for sabbatical leave to be explored as positive action to promote career development for under-
 represented groups. During REF2021 we have supported 6 Allied Health sabbaticals.

 The University’s suite of Work Life Balance Policies (Flexible Working, Maternity Leave,
 Parental Leave, Shared Paternal Leave, Adoption Leave, Carer’s Leave) are designed to
 support staff to balance work and home-life and deal with personal responsibilities. Well
 established policies are in place which both comply with current legislation and aim to establish
 a “best practice” culture. Abertay supports all periods of maternity leave regardless of provision
 by external research funders.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Support is also given for training in gender awareness, and opportunity for gender-equal work
 flexibility. Two female UoA3 staff have been funded to attend Equate Scotland workshops, and 4
 have been supported by the university to attend the Aurora programme. There is also support for
 flexible working, maternity and paternity leave. Staff who have taken maternity leave are given
 reduced teaching loads upon return to work to support resumption of research activities. Flexible
 (home) working is fully supported, with a new Digital Strategy launched in 2019 empowering
 staff to deliver in a way that works best for them.

 2.5 REF2021
 To facilitate the development of fair and equitable processes, the REF2021 Steering Group and
 particularly the REF2021 Code of Practice (CoP) Working Group represents a diverse
 membership. EIAs have been carried out by an independent panel during CoP development.
 Unit composition adhered to the CoP and the REF Unit Champion group for selecting outputs
 comprised 4 staff (3 female). Promoting research opportunity across all staff has been a focus of
 UoA3 during REF2021: the submission is 70% female, including one Professor and two Heads
 of Division; 54% of outputs are attributed to female staff.

 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Overview
 Our income generation strategy is in line with R-LINCS, where we combine academic excellence
 with stakeholder engagement to deliver research with impact. Our research partners include the
 Universities of Dundee, St Andrews and Edinburgh, and our research stakeholder partners
 include NHS Tayside, NHS Lothian and Macmillan Cancer Support. The following figure profiles
 income over REF2021 (£718K total).




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Income in 2013-14 and 2014-15 is dominated by Northwood Trust funding (Column 2, UK-based
 charities (open competitive process)) for cancer biology research and subsequent systems
 modelling based on experimental data streams (this research was returned in REF2014 UoA5
 and as such represents a long-standing research agenda). Funding from Northwood Trust in
 later years is co-returned with UoAs 12 and 32, reflecting the transition from experimental to
 theoretical modelling (Section 3.2) and computer games (Section 4).

 From 2015-16, funding streams diversified to include UKRI (MRC) and Chief Scientist Office
 (CSO, Scottish Government) funding for our reproductive health research (Section 3.3), funding
 in mental health from the Burdett Trust for Nursing (Section 3.4) and Ministry of Defence funding
 in behaviour and communication (Section 3.5 co-returned with UoA4).

 Our research is underpinned by facilities in the School of Applied Sciences. Our investments, in
 line with R-LINCS, impact multiple units. Abertay invested in a fully equipped suite of Science
 Laboratories (analytical chemistry, molecular biology, microbiology, tissue culture, forensic
 science), Sensory & Consumer Science, Food Innovation and a Food Processing Plant (£4M,
 2016-19). Biology of health and disease facilities include cell culturing, molecular biology
 (qPCR, nanodrop, imaging), AFM and fluorescent microscopy, mass spectrometry and HPLC.
 We provide incubators, ultracold storage and dedicated biowaste disposal required for cloning
 and microbiological methods supporting cancer research, sperm physiology and imaging
 capability, alongside the NHS facilities (reproductive health), and associated work in
 antimicrobial resistance, pollutant effects on animal health and food science (UoA6).

 Central to our Mental health infrastructure is the Tayside Centre for Counselling (TCC). The
 TCC is a six-room facility (five counselling rooms, one meeting room) that provides an
 environment for community-based mental health research. The TCC hosts projects examining
 the role of emotional and psychological support for long-term health conditions, and the
 evaluation of Pluralistic Counselling. The TCC also hosts ongoing service delivery with clients
 experiencing sight-loss and people living with Diabetes, both of which receive NHS referrals
 from local services. In the case of clients experiencing sight loss, the TCC provides a forum for
 participant recruitment from a marginalised group. The clinic space provides a space for
 research interviews, focus group activities and supervision when not in use for teaching and
 counselling. Data collection on the process and outcome of the counselling provided, including
 a unique corpus of over 1000 hours of audio recordings (with consent for future research) of
 therapy interactions, has been instrumental in obtaining DASA funding to examine non-verbal
 communication (Section 3.4). The TCC provides a venue for large-scale data collection on the
 process and outcome of counselling and underpinned research for both the impact case-studies
 for this submission.

 Below, we highlight major projects contributing to UoA3 income. Note that while REF4b requires
 data reporting on spend, our narrative reports on a research/applied research project basis to
 provide a clearer sense of the nature of funding received and to represent both cross-unit and
 cross-REF period income generation. These projects highlight working within and across
 disciplines, and we note both links to REF2021-returned output and follow-on funding.

 3.2 Cancer systems biology
 Within the REF period Abertay secured £0.6M (Northwood Trust co-returned with UoA12 and
 UoA32) in cancer systems biology. We developed a statistical model of cancer tissue structures
 (developed with the University of St Andrews) using spatial statistics to characterise the
 distributions of cancer and stroma cells, accounting for any voids in tissue. The model is able to
 predict patient survival based on no other information than the arrangement of cells in cancer
 tissue (UoA3 output 24144705).

 Our systems biology models of cancer cells combine proteomic time-series data from cell
 cultures with computational models of intracellular signalling in response to therapeutic insult.
 Working with the Universities of Edinburgh and St Andrews, we focused on cellular responses to
 reactive oxygen species (ROS) which can damage DNA and impact cell fate by modulating cell

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 signalling pathways. We used a mix of experimental and theoretical models to identify the role of
 the protein NRF2 in regulating cellular responses (including proliferation) to ROS (UoA3 output
 15636084). We went on to demonstrate the role of NRF2 in mediating cancer cell responses to
 combinations of a range of anti-cancer drugs and reinforced the importance of NRF2 in drug
 resistance and as a key anticancer target (UoA3 output 15636070, 15577784 and 15577803).

 In research on computational methods aligned to our experimental cancer biology work
 (returned in UoA12, output reference 17495132), we developed a computer games-based
 playable simulation of the intracellular signalling network that animates dynamics using an
 interactive interface. The tool allows clinicians and biologists to directly interact with the cancer
 cell model, introducing drugs and cancer-causing mutations through a menu interface. This
 visualisation toolkit was a catalyst for a £0.4M partnership (co-returned with UoA12) with
 Macmillan Cancer Support and the Scottish Funding Council supported Innovation Centre Digital
 Health and Social Care Institute (DHI) (2017-). We are combining our interactive network
 visualisation with machine learning to develop a service provisioning framework to allow
 Macmillan to profile current and future service demand for different age groups, cancer types
 etc. and the partnership will be rolling out an AI-backed service recommender engine to support
 persons affected by cancer across the UK.

 3.3 Reproductive Health
 Within REF2021 Abertay secured funding from MRC (£500K (2015-17), £35K to Abertay with
 NHS and Universities of Dundee and Birmingham) and from CSO (£300K (2018-21), £64K to
 Abertay with NHS (Ninewells Hospital) and Dundee University. Abertay conducted the
 electrophysiology investigations (MRC) and all assay development (CSO).

 Drug development for the treatment of male infertility has been a neglected area. We initiated
 research with strategic internal funding (sabbatical for Brown 2013-14, 2 studentships (one
 School-funded (2011-14), one R-LINCS (2016-19) for Brown’s team) to identify a number of
 compounds with novel pharmacology in human sperm with the capacity to evoke clinically
 relevant changes in function in patient sperm (UoA3 Output 17495649). We were the first to
 demonstrate that sperm with a loss of CatSper current failed to respond to progesterone and
 there was fertilization failure at IVF. This study was the first evidence that loss of CatSper
 function does not impair human spermatogenesis, is a possible cause of “unexplained” male
 infertility and would make a suitable novel male contraceptive target (UoA3 Output 17489560).

 Based on the above findings we secured MRC funding to characterise the nature and
 prevalence of patient sperm calcium signalling dysfunction and the consequence for IVF
 outcome. We demonstrated that defects are complex and common, and signalling can be
 uniquely manipulated by components of the female tract (UoA3 outputs 17489567, 17489538).
 We used pharma drug discovery approaches to transform investigations into novel therapeutics
 for male infertility by demonstrating that high-throughput screening (HTS) is a viable approach to
 much-needed drug discovery for male factor infertility (UoA3 output 17489546).

 We subsequently proposed that development and validation of assays that can detect ion
 channel dysfunction and sperm phenotypical failure prior to assisted conception treatment could
 inform and improve patient treatment pathways (now CSO supported).

 Determination of novel causes of infertility is critical to address the deficit of knowledge in 30% of
 unexplained fertility cases. In a funded studentship (Northwood Trust and R-LINCS) we are
 using next-generation sequencing (NGS) to determine genetic causes of infertility in a cohort of
 men with sperm that fail IVF. Our studies of patients who fail assisted conception treatment have
 demonstrated that if knowledge of genetic defects was available before assisted conception
 treatment then this knowledge could be used to inform treatment pathways.

 This observation was the founding idea for Fertility Genomics which was launched with the
 practical assistance of Abertay’s enterprise centre, Bell Street Ventures. Fertility Genomics is
 the first and only company to provide an NGS service direct to consumers and IVF clinics to

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 screen for causes of infertility and failed assisted conception. The company aims to accelerate
 fertilisation success to reduce the emotional, medical, and financial impact of infertility treatment.

 3.4 Transitions between services in people with Intellectual Difficulties: Development of a
 nurse-led person-centred education development programme
 This project funded by the Burdett Trust for Nursing (£195K total, £17K to Abertay from
 2018) with Napier University and NHS Lothian was brought to Abertay by the Co-PI (at
 Abertay from September 2018). The project combined a review of the literature on transitions for
 people with intellectual disabilities (Abertay co-authored) with qualitative research exploring the
 experiences of young adults with intellectual disabilities and their families at the point of
 transition from child to adult health services.

 Service users and their carers were interviewed and took part in focus groups to identify key
 themes. The project determined that transitions for this service-user group were a highly
 emotional and testing period. Practice recommendations included: early and coordinated
 planning; effective information sharing and communication; and clear transition processes and
 guidelines. Registered nurses were found to have a key role in providing information and
 support, along with coordinating care at the time of transition from child to adult health services
 for young adults with complex intellectual disabilities. It was identified that it is vital that nurses’
 input is person-centred and responds effectively to the expert knowledge of family carers, while
 at the same time ensuring the family’s need for information and support is also addressed.

 This project articulated skill-sets for person-centred care that enabled additional funding
 (£8K (2021), Burdett Trust for Nursing) to undertake a research project with nurse practitioners
 in children’s mental health services to explore the role of letters and cards given to staff by
 service users as ‘gratitudes’ for their care. It was proposed that these documents served to
 enhance feedback processes for care delivery, but additionally provided a sense of positive
 recognition and identity to staff in a particularly challenging work environment.

 3.5 Behaviour and communication
 The DASA-funded project ‘Validating non-verbal indicators of interaction partners’ emotion and
 rapport to predict communicative behaviour in a defence and security context’ (£100K, 2019, co-
 returned with UoA4) was a collaboration between counselling and psychology colleagues with
 the aim of developing methods for the fast appraisal of communicative success in emotionally
 charged situations such as counselling, therapy and high-stakes negotiation.

 Using a novel analytical approach based on Recurrence Quantification Analysis, the research
 team identified how aspects of communication on different levels – communication strategy,
 content, speech sounds or prosody – manifest themselves in dynamic patterns of change in
 basic speech parameters such as speech rate or pitch contour. Establishing such a link could
 support the development of automated technological solutions for real-time appraisal of
 communicative success in emotionally charged situations while preserving full interlocutor
 anonymity.

 Quantitative results were subsequently verified combining counselling practitioner expertise and
 expertise from experimental psychology, to ascertain whether interlocutor communication
 strategies and affective states are reflected in quantifiable patterns of recurrence of non-verbal
 speech parameters. The results found indications for a ‘non-verbal quantitative footprint’ of
 communicative success and produced several suggestions for the continuation of this research
 including (a) employing stronger and more ecologically valid affect and communication strategy
 manipulations in experimental research, (b) introducing Machine Learning techniques into the
 analysis of Recurrence Quantification parameters, (c) augmenting the range of non-verbal
 speech and communication parameters to test the generalisability of this analytical approach,
 and (d) conducting cross-linguistic and cross-cultural comparisons of how recurrence patterns
 relate to interlocutors’ affective states and communication strategies in different languages and
 cultural contexts to test the universal applicability of this approach.


                                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These lines of research are now ongoing, and the inter-disciplinary team is seeking further
 funding for this promising new approach. The implications of this project for Mental Health
 research lie in a potential extension of quantitative methods that can aid practitioners in rapid
 and objective appraisal of success of communication-based interventions.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Abertay is fully engaged with and a signatory of the KEC and the CEPR, which are used to guide
 our development of supportive RKE policies, practices and structures.

 4.1 Collaborations and networks
 UoA3 has productive collaborations across disciplines within Abertay, as well as with other
 institutions, the public and private sectors. Leadership from R-LINCS, research groups, and cross-
 institutional initiatives help foster these collaborations. For example, the School of Design and
 Informatics is a world leader in digital technologies and gaming and from this a number of
 interdisciplinary projects have emerged including the use of games narratives and design to
 support people with cancer (in partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support and part of the £0.6M
 Northwood Trust portfolio of projects). Another project which features intra-institutional
 collaboration uses statistical expertise within UoA3 coupled with biological modelling expertise
 within the School of Design and Informatics to predict the effects of anti-cancer drugs in 3D
 spheroids of cancer cells using data from 2D cell culture (UoA12), and whether pharmaceutical
 and illicit diazepam tablets could be differentiated and identified to manufacturer source with
 forensic science colleagues (UoA12) and Robert Gordon's University. UoA3 has created synergies
 among research groupings, for example with UoA6 staff developing models for physiology and
 microbial resistance for use in human medicine; and with UoA4 staff on big-data streams provided
 by the TCC to create predictive models of human interactions. A number of co-supervised
 studentships exist across Units which feed into the sustainability of groups by drawing on
 collaborations among researchers.

 We have collaborated with over 100 academic institutions and stakeholders in over 21 countries.
 These external collaborations have enhanced the work of the Unit and the work of others
 through shared learning, access to facilities, joint grant applications and publications. Of note are
 the collaborations with healthcare services including:
     - Work with colleagues at the Assisted Conception Unit at Ninewells Hospital on fertility
         and IVF failure (Section 3.3).
     - The RTCC described in Section 1.
     - Engagement in the external academic community through Social Pedagogy and Practice
         Research and Development International (SPPREAD), a multi-institution international
         academic/research collaboration with academics from Denmark, Brazil, Scotland, and
         England. This research informed curriculum development and publications in mental
         health.

 4.2 Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy, and society
 The unit has engaged in partnership working with the public sector in particular with NHS
 colleagues in Tayside, Lothian, and Fife. We are undertaking work within NHS Lothian on the
 transitions between services for people with learning disabilities (Burdett, £17,000) a project
 which will likely directly impact on NHS practices (published in the Journal of Advanced
 Nursing).

 A cross-disciplinary group exploring children and young people (CYP) created in 2018, which
 brings together researchers and stakeholders (including from the Dudhope Young Peoples
 Inpatient Unit, covering NHS Scotland North, and local NHS funded youth organisation ‘The
 Corner’) are collaborating on, i) a Burdett Trust funded project examining letters of gratitude from
 patients to nurses, and ii) a collaboration with Tayside Education aiding the establishment and
 evaluation of Schools Counselling in Scotland. The CYP group has fed directly into the British



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Psychological Society's Expert Reference Group on Children and Young People, helping to
 shape Ofsted policy recommendations for supporting wellbeing in education.

 Beyond the NHS, the spin-out company Fertility Genomics, founded by UoA3 researchers in
 2018 (company number SC604796), is starting to produce impact as a direct-to-consumer and
 direct-to-business (assisted conception clinics) genetic testing company that provides whole
 exome sequencing for causes of infertility and failed assisted conception treatment. We are
 currently in discussion with partner clinics in the UK and India to generate additional income
 streams and validate our findings using clinical outcomes (Williams et al., 2015 (doi
 10.1093/humrep/dev243), Brown et al., 2018 (doi 10.1093/humrep/dey278)). At the time of
 writing, we have an agreement in principle with one clinic.

 Our work within the counselling and sight-loss community is evidenced in our Impact Case
 Studies: We have collaborated with the Royal National Institute of Blind People (RNIB) to create
 the award-winning (highly commended for ‘excellence in service, support and care’, 2019)
 practitioner training course Counselling for Sight Loss, accredited by Vision UK. Work with RNIB
 on My Blind Pen-pal has resulted in a series of 12 podcasts for a closed Face Book group
 (n=8000 members globally) about the emotional impact of sight-loss, and we have compiled a
 global directory of counselling and support agencies for people with sight-loss. The TCC hub for
 practitioners working with pluralism, impacts the local community by providing pro bono
 counselling and psychotherapy to local clients (n>180 over REF2021), and those referred from
 NHS services in Tayside and Fife.

 UoA3 researchers have influenced healthcare policy: Nielson et al., 2015 BMJ Open cited in
 NICE Guidelines on ‘Emergency and acute medical care in over 16s: Service delivery and
 organisation’; Elliott et al., 2015 BMJ Open cited in Scottish Government ‘Main Report of the
 National Review of Primary Care Out of Hours Services’; and O’Shea et al., 2015 Journal of
 Intellectual Disability Research cited in NIHCE ‘Mental health problems in people with learning
 disabilities: prevention, assessment, and management’.

 We have raised our societal profile during the current assessment period via dissemination of
 our published work. Publications from staff submitted to UoA3 have attracted media attention
 with 145 articles in international news outlets (Altmetric), including Nursing Standard, American
 Journal of Managed Care, BBC, The Guardian, Daily Mail, The Independent, Business Standard
 (India), Nursing Times, and other outlets such as The Conversation and Reason. Some of these
 outputs have attracted high media attention for the journal in which they are published. For
 example, UoA3 Output 17489524 is the all-time #1 output for the journal Bioethics (also in the
 top 5% of all outputs on Altmetric (score of 894)). The paper “Time to start intervening in the
 human germline? A utilitarian perspective” concerns the ethics of creating ‘designer babies’, and
 generated a significant media interest, including national and international radio & TV interviews,
 discussions and debates with the author (totalling 110 news outlets).

 UoA3 researchers have been elected as members of professional bodies, associations of
 influence or invited onto advisory groups, during the assessment period: For example, as
 Governor and Trustee of the British Association of Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP);
 Chair of BACP research committee; Chair of Vision 2020UK Counselling and Emotional Support
 Services Group; Member of Cross- Party Advisory Group on Vision Impairment, Scottish
 Executive; Chair of the Pluralistic Practice Steering Group (disseminating the research impact of
 ICS 2); Governor of RNIB Scotland and Member of the BPS UK advisory group on Children and
 Young People. Advisory group membership includes: the ‘Need to Talk’ Partnership Board
 overseeing a European funded project in collaboration with RNIB; Fighting Blindness and Vision
 UK; Member of Sight Loss and Mental Health Committee - Vision UK/RNIB; Scottish Vision
 Strategy Advisory Group; Invited member of Project Board overseeing the Early Intervention and
 Rehabilitation in Eye Care Services project (EIRECS), funded by Innovation, Excellence and
 Strategic Development Fund (Department of Health).



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Awards received by staff include the Highly Commended Award - Vision UK John Thompson
 award for excellence in services, support and care (2019); and the BIGSPD Innovation Prize
 2019.

 Staff have been invited as keynote speakers, for example, Creating opportunities to talk about
 mental health in sight loss at the Rehabilitation Workers Professional Network Conference
 Scotland (2019), and at professional and public conferences including: RETINA International
 Conference 2018; Scottish Vision Strategy Conference (2014 and 2016); Vision UK 2015
 Conference ; Need to Talk (2018 and 2020); Children and Young People's mental health and
 wellbeing: Communities, families, resilience and resistance Conference (2019). We have also
 been invited to deliver workshops on Sight Loss and Mental Health; Scottish War Blind Training
 Day (2019); Embedding counselling for sight loss in rehabilitation pathways (2019).

 UoA3 staff have raised the profile of our Unit by chairing their own successful conferences for
 example:
       - 1st International Conference on Pluralistic Counselling and Psychotherapy 2018 with
            200 academic and practitioner delegates from 8 different countries, and co-chairing
            the event in 2019 (London), 2020 (Dublin/online).
       - 11th Scottish Mathematics Support Network (SMSN) annual meeting (2019);
       - Scottish Mental Health Nursing Research Conference (2016).

 We made successful bids for CETL-MSOR (Continuing Excellence in Teaching and Learning in
 Mathematics Statistics and Operations Research) meeting (2022) and are bringing the BACP
 research conference to Dundee in 2022.

 UoA3 colleagues have published one book and 8 book chapters during the REF2021 period.

 We have editorial board membership for journals including International Journal of Disability and
 Development; Disability and Society. Staff are regularly involved in peer-review for publications
 including Person-centred and Experiential Psychotherapies; Counselling and Psychotherapy
 Research; International Journal of Educational Research; Bereavement Care Journal,
 International Journal of Disability, Development, and Education, Mental Health Review Journal,
 and Human Reproduction, Contraceptive and Reproductive Healthcare. In addition, staff have
 been invited reviewers for funding agencies including Foundation Maladies Rare; Czech Health
 Research Council, and serve as PGR examiners, including external examinations at UK
 universities.




                                                                                           Page 15
