Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 11

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1a. Overview
 Our unit combines the research strengths of Computer Science (CS) and Information Security
 Group (ISG). Both Departments have significantly expanded over the assessment period with 41
 academics submitted to REF2021 (26 in REF2014). The unit is within the School of Engineering,
 Physical and Mathematical Sciences (EPMS), part of the College-wide six-School structure
 created in 2019. Staff are co-located in the newly refurbished Bedford Building, a prioritised £5.9m
 investment. This physical environment promotes collaboration, efficiency and hosts state-of-the-
 art computing resources and advanced laboratories, supported by cutting-edge cloud
 infrastructure.
 The unit’s diverse portfolio of inter-related activity ranges from well-established excellence in
 Algorithms, Machine Learning (ML) for Big Data, and Cybersecurity, including Post-quantum
 Cryptography, to strongly developing research in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Robotics. The
 vibrancy of our environment is enhanced by a demographic in which 38% of submitted academics
 are ECRs (28% women), with 40% of academic staff joining since 2014. The unit’s commitment to
 an equitable and sustainable future in the field is also represented by the pioneering role it plays
 in PGR training, including the current CDT in Information Security, which is the third in a
 consecutive series begun in 2013, with cumulative funding of £13.2m. Through its Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion policies it can boast a diverse annual cohort (currently 60% women, 40%
 on average) which will contribute to improved gender balance in the next generation of experts.
 An overview of strategic improvements since the last REF is depicted in Fig. 1.

                       BAME Staff (FTE)
                     Women Staff (FTE)
               Grant income spend (£M)
                          All Staff (FTE)
                   Total PhDs Awarded
                                            0     20      40      60     80     100

                                        REF2021        REF2014

                                  Figure 1: REF2014 vs REF2021

 As part of the Royal Holloway (RHUL) Strategy 2020-2024, the unit is playing a key role in two of
 the four catalyst research and knowledge exchange hubs. The Transformative Digital
 Technologies, Security and Society catalyst rests on the technological pillars developed from
 intertwining AI/robotics and information/cyber security, together with the other research strands
 discussed in detail below. The Advanced Quantum Science and Technologies catalyst will harness
 leadership in post-quantum cryptographic algorithms to protect legacy systems, while developing
 research on algorithms and quantum resource estimation for quantum computers. Both catalysts
 align with UKRI strategic priorities and will address fundamental research as well as real-world
 industrial and societal challenges.

 This unit is positioned to take full advantage of new opportunities and is well supported by RHUL’s
 investment and strategy.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1b. Unit Structure
 In REF14 we promised to retain our organisation and extend it with synergies in cloud computing
 for big data, systems security, distributed systems and ML, and new interdisciplinary activities in
 socio-technical security. To implement our REF14 strategy we extended our four CS centres and
 expanded our ISG activities with three thematic sub-groups, as shown in Fig. 2. The Centre for
 Algorithms and their Applications (CAA) focuses on the theory and applications of parameterised
 algorithms and solving problems previously too complex to tackle computationally. The Computer
 Learning Research Centre (CLRC) encompasses foundational studies in learning from data, with
 emphasis on reliable predictions for practical applications. Research within the Centre for Software
 Language Engineering (CSLE) ranges from traditional programming language design and
 implementation to customised computer architectures for embedded systems. The Centre for
 Distributed and Global Computing (CDGC) addresses theoretical and practical challenges in large-
 scale and dynamic distributed systems, with autonomous agents and intelligent capabilities such
 as automated planning. The Cryptography group, overlapping with Mathematics, focuses on
 designing, evaluating and implementing cryptographic algorithms and protocols. The Systems and
 Software Security Lab (S3Lab) studies how software vulnerabilities are introduced and exploited, and
 designs novel mitigation techniques to address them. The Social and Cultural aspects of Information
 Security explores technical issues overlapping with social sciences.




 Figure 2: Staff categories A&B with new appointments (underlined) and interdisciplinary work (*)

 1c. Research objectives
 Our research and impact activities, and the development of our staff and research environment
 have been directed by three strategic objectives, to deliver our REF14 strategy. These objectives,
 and a selection of highlights to illustrate achievements are:
    • To study fundamental problems of computation and information security, develop
    novel theoretical models and frameworks, investigate their properties and impact their
    related research communities.
    The cross-cutting challenges that we targeted are (i) new parameterized algorithms and input
    compression algorithms for theoretical and practical problems, including those in information
    security (ii) novel theoretical models that translate data to knowledge ranging over a number of

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    topics, from large scale data-management, prediction models with validity guarantees,
    autonomous systems models with planning and reasoning capabilities (iii) novel cryptographic
    models for lattice-based and post-quantum cryptography which linked us to the UK Quantum
    Technology Hub for Quantum Communications Technologies.
    • To develop innovative computational and information security mechanisms and open
    solutions for practical single and multidisciplinary applications to benefit society,
    business and national security.
    Some of the diverse areas at spotlight include: (i) semi-supervised learning for disease
    prediction and a novel algorithm for predicting biological processes ranked 1st in the CAFA-16
    competition on protein function prediction (ii) medical applications for diabetics patients and a
    controller that regulates the operation of an artificial pancreas (iii) work on autonomous UAVs
    for search and rescue and strategies intelligent agents can adopt for negotiating in e-markets
    (iv) a security engagement toolkit that has been adopted by the National Cyber Security Centre
    and used by security practitioners, civil society and teachers.
    • To offer advice and provide knowledge transfer to impact government and industry
    through technical innovation and commercialisation.
    Examples of our strategic priorities include: (i) working with British Gas to improve their Big
    Data analytics, and helping AstraZeneca to devise ML methods for drug discovery (ii) providing
    cybersecurity consultancy services to a wide range of clients, such as governments, transport
    operators, telecoms, standards bodies, private companies, and innovative start-ups (iii) an ISG
    member is the Deputy Director of the UK’s Research Institute for the Science of Cyber Security
    (iv) being instrumental in the creation of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Cyber Security
    and providing the secretariat ever since, arranging Westminster discussions to benefit
    parliamentarians and positively influence national policy.
 We have operationalised the above objectives with mechanisms that stimulate new grant income
 for a variety of collaborative projects (investigators Albrecht, Bernardini, Sgandurra, Gutin,
 Gammerman, Vovk), often inter-disciplinary (investigators Coles-Kemp, Paccanaro), and
 supported by diverse funding sources (section 3a). Since 2014, we have also responded to new
 challenges in computing and information security research (section 1d) reinforced by investment
 in people to sustain our research groupings (section 2a) and infrastructure (sections 3b and 3c).
 Strategy is discussed in research committees with all staff invited, and changes take place
 annually, in awaydays for both CS and ISG, where adjustments/revisions are agreed. Since 2019,
 strategic changes are coordinated by the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, chaired
 by the EPMS Research Director and attended by Research Leads and ECR representatives of
 School Departments.

 1d. Research strategy 2014-20
 The Centre for Algorithms and Applications (CAA) contributes to our first research objective.
 Funded by EPSRC (EP/K005162/1, £602,797) and Leverhulme (RPG-2018-161, £209,740),
 Cohen, Crampton and Gutin have focused on the Workflow Satisfiability Problem resulting in best
 paper awards in 20th and 21st ACM SACMAT. Work on Parameterized Algorithms, funded by
 Gutin’s Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (£75,000) and Wahlström’s EPSRC
 (EP/P007228/1 £100,847), solved four open problems in combinatorial optimization and
 parameterized complexity and a more than thirty years open question with practical significance.
 Wahlström received the EATCS-IPEC Nerode Prize 2018 for settling the long-standing open
 problem about the polynomial kernelizability of the Odd Cycle Transversal problem. Cohen and
 co-authors published several results on the complexity of (valued) constraints and won the journal

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 track paper award at CP. Tzameret’s research on Theoretical Complexity studied fundamental
 lower bounds in proof complexity (funded by NSFC/61373002, ~£100,000) and novel algebraic
 approaches. With colleagues, Tzameret resolved a long-standing open problem, establishing short
 propositional proofs for the determinant identities, which paved the way to establish with S. Cook
 (inventor of NP-completeness) a minimal theory in which linear algebra can be developed.
 The Centre for Distributed and Global Computing (CDGC) contributes to our first two
 objectives. Funded by IBM, work in resilient and trustworthy computing by Chockler and
 colleagues received best paper in DISC18. O‘Keefe, with IBM and Imperial, proposed novel
 algorithms to support data-parallel stream processing and efficient recovery from transient network
 failures. In Autonomous Systems for Uncertain Environments, Bernardini obtained ~£0.9M from
 Innovate UK. With Toronto and EPSRC funding (EP/S016473/1) she developed new UAV
 techniques locating a moving target, while her work in planning won best paper honourable
 mention award in ICAPS20. With EU funding (FP7-ICT 287841, £342,831) Stathis developed
 agents monitoring diabetic patients using smartphones. He also established negotiation heuristics
 for e-markets and, with Paoletti, used them to learn adaptive strategies using Deep Reinforcement
 Learning. Paoletti and colleagues in Oxford developed the first method for synthesis of stochastic
 chemical reaction networks, relevant beyond the biological domain.
 The Computer Learning Research Centre (CLRC) contributes to all our research objectives. In
 ML theory Vovk extended conformal prediction from set predictions to predictive distributions and
 Gammerman extended Venn prediction to predictive distributions. Both extensions facilitate
 applications of previous CLRC-developed work to decision-making. Kalnishkan developed
 aggregating algorithms to scenarios with multiple outcomes occurring at the same time
 (Leverhulme, £113K). Watkins developed genetic algorithms that satisfy detailed balance (FP7-
 ICT-270327, £266,427). Zhiyuan Luo and Watkins developed a novel tracking location mechanism
 for public transport on mobile devices, without using GPS. Paccanaro’s lab ranked 1st in the
 CAFA-16, an international competition on protein function prediction involving 126 methods from
 56 research groups. They also analysed network evolution of protein complexes through time in
 plants (NSF/BIO-BBSRC, £583,852). Zhiyuan Luo was one of the first to annotate an armed
 conflict database of Iraq and to apply ML to conflict analysis. Gammerman developed predictive
 maintenance models for British Gas (Centrica, £60,000), and with Zhiyuan Luo and Vovk
 developed conformal prediction for drug development (EU, £278,383, and AstraZeneca,
 £395,762).
 The Centre for Software Language Engineering (CSLE) contributes to all our research
 objectives. Funded by EPSRC (EP/I032509/1, £491,077), Scott and Johnstone developed the first
 fully general parsing technique that can directly implement the more concise and user preferred
 extended BNF language for grammar specification in collaboration with teams in Eindhoven, Delft
 and CWI Amsterdam. Using his EPSRC Early Career Fellowship (EP/K009907/1, £469,677) on
 Verification of Automata, Hague developed with Beijing, Uppsala, and others the theoretical
 foundations and state-of-the art implementations for constraint solving algorithms, supporting the
 first robust key operations on strings. He has also applied, with Oxford, verification techniques to
 web-site optimisation, formalising cascading style sheet (CSS) semantics and providing
 minimisation techniques for standalone CSS. In the area of Natural Language Semantics and
 Subtyping, Zhaohui Luo and colleagues have invented and developed Modern Type Theories
 (MTT) semantics, which have made a significant contribution to the field of formal semantics
 (Leverhulme F/07-537/AJ 148K, Royal Academy of Engineering 1314RECI027 10K, and EU Cost
 action CA15123 with 29 countries).



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Information Security Group (ISG) contributes to all research objectives. In the ISG
 cryptography (thematic-group), Albrecht’s work on lattice-based coding and cryptography
 (EP/S020330/1, 2019, £482,051; EP/S02087X/1, £379,964 and EU H2020 780701, with Paterson;
 total project £397,433) has yielded important results on core constructs such as learning with
 errors (with R. Player) that have been cited extensively. Paterson’s fellowship on ‘Cryptography:
 Bridging theory and practice’ (EP/H005455/1, £1,239,093) focused on block cipher modes of
 operation, timing, and pseudo-randomness, and resulted in top-tier publications, best paper at
 ACM CCS’16 and influencing the widely used IETF TLS protocol. Work on cryptanalysis
 (Poettering) received best paper at Crypto’19. Post-quantum and lattice-based cryptography
 research combined (with additional grants EP/P009417/1, EP/L018543/1) totals ~£1.46M and
 identifies, inter alia, the ability to rely on a subfield to solve overstretched versions of the NTRU
 assumption in lattice problems; this research linked the ISG to the UK Quantum Technology Hub
 for Quantum Communications Technologies (EP/M013472/1).
 The Systems and Software Security Lab (S3Lab) originated from Cavallaro collaborating with
 CS (Gammerman, Zhiyuan Luo, Shanahan and Vovk) to detect malware behaviour,
 malware behaviour reconstruction and mining (EP/K033344/1, EP/L022710/1, EP/L022710/2,
 ~£1.67m shared between the two Departments). This activity has been strengthened through new
 hires across S3Lab and ML. Sgandurra is part of an international consortium for developing a next
 generation Trusted Platform Module, which is embedded to make the host computer of a system
 trustworthy and secure (H2020 FutureTPM, GA-779391, RHUL £320,000, total ~£4.2M). Blasco-
 Alis and colleagues developed a declarative strategy for detecting collusions on Android and
 demonstrated how to discover collusions over 50,000 apps. Similarly, Happa and colleagues from
 Oxford, showed how sonification can solve some network monitoring challenges in security
 operations centres and reported significant performance improvements when sonification was
 used.
 The development of research on Social and cultural aspects of Information Security has been
 an important strategic direction, identified in REF14. Our work is well-aligned with and has helped
 to drive national priorities. Coles-Kemp’s work funded by EPSRC (EP/K006266/1, ~£750,000) and
 EU FP7 (Grant No. 318003, ~£350,000) has developed a security visualisation tool kit that can be
 used by security practitioners to both widen engagement in risk assessment, audit and security
 training and to identify how the social and cultural aspects of an organisation affect security
 practices. The National Cyber Security Centre has adopted and promoted this toolkit through its
 people-centred security guidance: You-Shape Security. Coles-Kemp’s fellowship (EP/N02561X/1,
 ~£775,000) supports her interdisciplinary work with Jensen for developing a critical approach to
 analyse digital security practices. Their approach makes policy recommendations based upon a
 better understanding of security technology barriers in marginalised communities and has received
 recognition by the CHI community.

 1e. Supporting interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinary work is reflected in our research objectives, structures and research permeating
 CS, ISG and Mathematics. Our activity spreads beyond these Departments through College
 interdisciplinary Doctoral Centres (e.g., the Leverhulme DTC and AHRC Techne) and
 interdisciplinary clusters (e.g. the AHRC StoryFutures). Our recent CDT led by ISG involves
 collaboration with Departments of Geography, Psychology, Economics, Politics, EE, CS and
 Mathematics. ISG also links anthropological studies of security engagement according to gender
 and social status (Coles-Kemp and Jensen). CS has always maintained close links with Biologists
 internationally (e.g., Paccanaro and colleagues in Yale). Work in Finance by Vovk has been carried

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 out with Economics, while activities by Johnstone and Scott have contributed to the Heritage
 sector. Stathis with Gao and our School of Law have applied AI to improve the ‘fitness to practise’
 process for UK, Australian and US regulators.

 1f. Approaches to enabling Impact
 Our ISG was founded to engage with industry and government (1990) and was recognised by a
 Queens’s industry award (1998). We have built upon this legacy as a unit, with a diversity of funded
 activities, as well as engaging external experts in research-led teaching, relevant to the world
 challenges of today. Our approach incorporates the following strategic directions.
 Responding to Industry Needs: A 30+ year association with Hewlett Packard, celebrated by the
 annual HP-Day event, has focussed on real-world application of cryptography. An association with
 Vodafone and Giesecke & Devrient led to the creation of the Smart Card Centre, now re-positioned
 as the Smart Card and IoT Security Centre. The S3Lab creation was supported by McAfee/Intel.
 A formalised engagement via an Industry Advisory Board in CS, established in 2011, tackles
 shared strategic issues through open dialogue with our industrial partners. Board members
 represent organisations such as Accenture, Blackrock, BT, Deutsche Bank, Salesforce, IBM,
 Gartner, Shell, Fujitsu and Spotify. The board advises on the industrial relevance and suitability of
 our teaching and research. We continue to influence standardisation bodies such as the IETF, BS,
 ISO and ETSI. Our best response to industry is exemplified by our TLS security impact case
 (Paterson), addressing the needs of companies such as Google and Apple.
 Responding to Government Needs: We influence and stay abreast of evolving needs in
 government and society, thus allowing us to adapt to satisfy them. We have been fully engaged
 with GCHQ/NCSC strategy to expand academic activity in cybersecurity. We were one of the first
 units to become a recognised Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research (ACE-
 CSR) and to gain NCSC approval for our MSc in Information Security, and we were the first to
 offer an NCSC approved BSc, in Computer Science with Information Security. We are also very
 active in government policy making, via NCSC and DCMS, policy think-tanks, parliamentary
 groups, strategy groups, and via our societal research activities. Evidence of our successful
 response to government needs is our case study with creative securities (Coles-Kemp).
 Rewarding Intellectual Property creation: We encourage all staff to identify, protect and
 consider exploitation, of their research innovation (R&I). Our R&I office in collaboration with
 research directors and experienced staff with patenting and commercial experience, act as
 advisors on promising work. Rewarding staff for successful commercialisation is a foundation
 principle of our intellectual property (IP) policy. IP creation and exploitation are promotion factors.
 Exploitation is not always directly commercial; in information security, the contribution of innovation
 to peer-reviewed and openly available algorithm and protocol standards (e.g. for the Internet) has
 massive security and financial impact. Innovation through IP creation and exploitation is also
 impressed on our research students and assistants (e.g., our CDT offers guest lectures on IP and
 innovation for PhD students).
 Industrial Collaborations: Most of our research includes collaborations with industry, e.g.,
 through partnership in UKRI and EU projects, but we also use direct industrial funding. We give
 some examples here. Cid’s and Albrecht’s work on post-quantum cryptography has been used by
 TLR Technology Ltd to develop a novel hardware implementation of post-quantum cryptographic
 schemes. Kalnishkan and Watkins apply ML techniques for trading with the start-up AlgoLabs
 (founder a CS alumnus) supporting systems for Divisa Capital Ltd and Equiti Global Markets.
 Johnstone’s and Scott’s GLL parsing algorithms research has been adopted by SonarQube, a very
 successful continuous code quality tool adopted by major development projects from organisations

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 such as eBay and BMW. The most fruitful industrial collaborations are reported in our impact cases
 with IBM (Chockler) and AstraZeneca (Gammerman et al).
 Consultancy: Staff are encouraged to capitalise on their expertise by undertaking external
 consultancy, working through our R&I office. The ISG staff have carried out confidential, security
 sensitive work in various sectors including communications, transportation, government, finance
 and payment, legal, and devices. Recent consultancy work related to post-quantum cryptography
 is designed to set future standards, with a massive impact potential worldwide. Since 2014, we
 have participated in 34 consulting projects with 26 external clients; these include private
 individuals, high-tech start-ups and large multinationals such as Softmorphis, Greycon, KPMG,
 Thales, British Gas and BAE.
 PhD Students: Our students are employed in organisations such as Amazon, Blackrock,
 Cloudflare, Facebook, Google, HP Inc, JP Morgan, Microsoft Research, Mozilla Foundation,
 Nomura, and Yahoo. This is a powerful mechanism for transferring our research, especially into
 the UK industrial base. CDT students are exposed to a variety of companies via lectures and
 organised visits and go on to participate in internships as part of their studies. We also provide
 female role models, for impact research, with the visiting professor appointments of Whitty and
 Ashenden. These measures are bearing fruit as a team of women students won the InfoSec prize
 for best cybersecurity students.

 1g. Research and Impact strategy 2021-2026
 Our research and impact strategy is supported by a diverse portfolio of active academic and
 industrial collaborations (section 4). The established centres have strong trajectories building on
 their research strengths and aligned with our strategic goals. The large influx of academic staff in
 the REF2021 period is an important driving force. Supporting their strongly developing research
 (section 2) will contribute to shaping this future.
 To further promote multidisciplinary research and impact, aligned with UKRI priorities, our
 organisation framework is currently being modified with several new initiatives.
 The potential for multidisciplinary collaboration on AI across the new College-wide Catalyst
 Transformative Digital Technologies and Society will be enhanced by initiating a Centre for
 Intelligent Systems. This will build on our expertise in applied ML and model-based AI to
 complement the work of Computer Learning Research Centre, which will focus on reliable ML.
 The technological pillars for the catalyst will be our strengths in AI/robotics and information/cyber
 security, linked to other research strands. This will be coupled to the human and social aspects of
 ISG and CS, which will also be strengthened. Combining all these areas in the Catalyst with
 distinctive research strengths in psychological, societal, economic and environmental contexts
 across College, we will promote widest possible impact of our capability and expertise. Research
 on post-quantum cryptography will be integral to the Advanced Quantum Science and Technology
 Catalyst.
 We will also build upon the capabilities of the S3LAB and create more project-level linkages with
 ISG’s Security and Smart Card centre (returned with RHUL’s Engineering submission), giving our
 future research a solid basis in software and hardware security.

 1h. Sustaining an open research environment and reproducibility of research
 We operationalise knowledge transfer (third research objective), by contributing to open standards,
 open-source libraries, and open-source projects. Albert is maintainer and author of the LWE
 Estimator for assessing lattice-based cryptography (the de facto tool for the Homomorphic
 Encryption Standard used by industry, government and academia). He is also maintainer and

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developer for lattice reduction libraries FPLLL (143 GitHub stars) and FPYLLL (43 GitHub stars)
 used to analyse post-quantum schemes, fully homomorphic encryption schemes and to perform
 side-channel attacks. Moreover, he is a credited developer of SageMath, a free viable alternative
 to Mathematica, Maple, Magma and Matlab (1.2k GitHub stars). Hague collaborates on SatCSS,
 a tool for minifying CSS stylesheets using constraint solving to discover semantics-preserving rule
 merge operations (11 GitHub stars). Franco-Aixela has contributed four planners (Complementary
 1&2, Planning-PDBS, Meta-Search Planner, and RIDA) to the International Planning Competition
 (IPC) website. Complementary 1&2 was runner up at IPC-18.
 We aim beyond typical open access, as cryptographic algorithms and protocols undergo peer-
 review, to avoid security-by-obscurity. Security standardisation also has strong preference for
 royalty free usage. Mitchell’s great service in this area includes ISO/IEC/BS/NIST/ITU and ETSI.
 We are also expanding our ambitions for open-data sharing, through our membership of the
 International Cyber Security Centre of Excellence (INCS-CoE). Workgroup 2 of INCS-CoE is
 devoted to international policy, affecting the cross-border free flow of data, information sharing and
 privacy; institutions are involved from Australia, Israel, Japan, UK and USA. We target open-data
 sharing, depending on legal collaboration agreements e.g., Zhiyuan Luo and colleagues describe
 the first Iraq Body Count Corpus dataset, as the first armed conflict-related dataset open for
 analysis. Furthermore, we influence international reproducibility e.g., Shanahan (Professor of
 Open Science) contributes to the `CODATA-RDA Schools for Research in Data Science’ initiative.

 2. People
 2a. Staffing strategy
 To deliver our strategy, we have developed and expanded the established research groups,
 summarised in Fig. 2, strengthening synergies between the growing areas of Algorithms, AI/ML,
 Programming Languages and Information Security. Expanding the unit has been an institutional
 priority. Over the assessment period our significant growth has emphasized the recruitment of
 ECRs with potential to become future research leaders. All new appointments, by gender balanced
 panels trained in unconscious bias, have been at lecturer level, and have improved gender
 equality.
 In CS we have expanded our Centre for Distributed and Global Computing with AI planning for
 autonomous systems (Bernardini/King’s), cyber-physical systems (Paoletti/Stony Brook), large-
 scale distributed systems with links to systems security (O’Keeffe/Imperial) and natural language
 processing (Gao/TU Darmstadt). We have also strengthened our Centre for Algorithms in
 computational complexity (Tzameret/Tsinghua), parameterised algorithms (Eiben/Vienna), and
 algorithmic game theory (Deligkas/Liverpool). We have reinforced the Centre for Software and
 Language Engineering in formal verification (Rowe/Kent and Sammartino/UCL), and supported
 ML Research in multi-dimensional data analysis (Colombo/UCL).
 In ISG, we have strengthened the Cryptography group with cryptanalysis and post-quantum
 cryptography (Albrecht/DTU and Player/RHUL), as well as identity-based and attribute-based
 encryption (Quaglia, Huawei Technologies), shifting the emphasis of research following the
 departure of Paterson to ETH (Zurich) in 2019. The successful establishment of capability in
 Software and Systems Security (S3LAB), driven originally by Cavallaro (who left to KCL), has been
 consolidated and built on by three hires by strengthening; malware systems research
 (Sgandurra/Imperial and Happa/Oxford); mobile applications security (Blasco-Alis/City), supported
 by hiring O’Keeffe. Multi-disciplinary research driven by Coles-Kemp in the social and cultural
 security area in collective security practices has been expanded by (Jensen/RHUL).


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 As a measure of the success of this strategy for sustainability, 46% of our existing staff were
 promoted, including many who were recruited as ECRs. To Senior lecturer - Blasco-Alis, Jensen,
 Ng and Quaglia; to Reader – Cavallaro, Sgandurra; to Professor - Albrecht, Bernardini, Cid, Coles-
 Kemp, Hague, Zhiyuan Luo, Paccanaro, Shanahan, Stathis, Tzameret, Wahlström and Watkins.
 High levels of retention also contribute positively to this healthy demographic. Only three of our
 senior academics left to other British institutions: Cavallaro to King’s; Chockler to Surrey; Fiadeiro
 to become Dean of Science and Engineering at Dundee. Long service is common, and Crampton
 left by retirement.
 Paterson held an EPSRC Leadership Fellowship (until May 2015), Coles-Kemp an EPSRC Digital
 Economy Fellowship (2016-2021), Hague an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship (2013-18).
 Tzameret was awarded an ERC Fellowship in December 2020.
 Our staffing and recruitment policies focus on merit, and on at least two occasions this has meant
 recognising untapped research talent in our teaching-only contract staff. Blasco-Alis made this
 transition and is now a driving force within the S3LAB, as did Jensen who is now carving a strong
 reputation in the human-factor/societal research. We also strive for better gender equality. In ISG
 for example, we have increased the number of permanent, research-active, women staff by 150%
 (2 to 5) since the last REF, adding Jensen, Quaglia and Player. We also appointed two women,
 Whitty and Ashenden, as ISG Honorary Professors. This is in part due to having Coles-Kemp as
 role model, within ISG’s human-factors domain.
 This strategy has paved the way for: establishing a new Centre in Intelligent Systems; playing a
 pivotal role in establishment of the Transformative Digital Technologies, Security and Society
 catalyst; and contributing to the Advanced Quantum Science and Technologies catalyst.

 2b. Staff development strategy
 New staff join an appropriate centre and have a trained academic mentor, who represents them
 at three annual probationary reviews. They have a reduced teaching load (50%) in the first year.
 RHUL is committed to the career development of staff at all levels. In 2019 we received the HR
 Excellence in Research award, demonstrating our commitment to the principles of the UK
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. A key of the developmental
 programme is ‘Advance’, providing training for researchers contributing to deliver of this
 commitment. ‘Advance’ also includes mandatory sessions on research integrity and research
 ethics. Developmental programmes have also been initiated for both ECRs and SL/Readers in
 research leadership.
 EPMS has a forum of all ECRs (as defined by HR Excellence in Research), with two
 representatives on the School Research Committee. The forum promotes peer-to-peer
 interactions, interdisciplinary research and supports ‘bottom-up’ delivery of the Concordat. An
 important contribution comes from ‘organic’ activity within a multi-disciplinary School, buzzing with
 projects and many PhD students. There are reading groups, discussions, co-supervisions of PhDs
 by ECRs, workshops and collaborative events that all help to broaden experience, identify
 collaborators and build confidence. The CDT contributes strongly to our environment’s vitality,
 through recruiting multi-disciplinary student cohorts, and engaging them in joint activities and in
 external engagement.
 All staff have an annual Performance Development Review (PDR) with their corresponding HoD
 or his nominee. All staff are assisted in proposal writing and the development of impact-related
 research by the Director of Research, senior academics and RHUL’s R&I. As a measure of our
 success, most new academics have obtained grant funding as PI within three years of their


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointments and all who have completed their probationary period have been promoted
 (Albrecht, Bernardini, Blasco-Alis, Hague, Jensen, Quaglia, Sgandurra, Tzameret, Wahlström).
 Applications for promotion are handled separately via an anonymous process to avoid
 unconscious bias. Applicants may seek advice from colleagues or local advisor panels, but the
 decision to submit is theirs, although HoDs provide comments on the application in consultation
 with a departmental promotions panel comprised of senior members of diverse background. Staff
 are either encouraged to consider the possibility of applying for promotion or given advice in terms
 of what steps they should take to improve on the applicable promotion criteria. The criteria are
 clearly identified on a matrix that is used by the Academic-Staffing-and-Titles Committee (ASTC)
 for making decisions.
 College sabbatical leave policy, managed at School level since 2019, allows for single term
 sabbaticals or build credit for a full year. Staff who serve three years as HoD receive an extra one-
 year entitlement, to compensate for the loss of research time. During the assessment period 20+
 terms of sabbatical were granted, that have resulted in establishing new collaborations (e.g.,
 Chockler, Kalnishkan, Zhiyuan Luo, Paccanaro, Shanahan, Wahlström), journal publications (e.g.
 Johnstone, Murphy, Scott, Tzameret, Watkins), publication of new books (e.g., Martin, Vovk, and
 Zhaohui Luo), and new research applications (e.g., Bernardini, Cid, Gutin, Kinder, Paterson).
 All members of staff with at least 26 weeks service are eligible for flexible working according to
 College Policy. They may change their working hours, the required times to work, or work from
 home. The policy is built on principles of equality and also recognises that staffing levels must
 remain in line with Departmental and EPMS School expectations. In this period, 5 members of our
 staff are working flexibly, two 0.2FTE, two 0.5FTE and one 0.6FTE. Changing from full-time to
 part-time involves discussions with the line manager and HR, to jointly agree on the adjustment to
 the volume of teaching and administration, including the tasks themselves in order to be
 compatible with the work pattern. One recent example is Paccanaro, who transitioned to 0.5FTE
 in 2019, after which he became responsible for teaching only one module, is assisted by a
 colleague in his main administrative role and has half of the average project supervision load.
 Where possible, essential meetings are confined within 10:00-16:00h.
 We support staff interchanges with industry, academia and the third sector (both ways), ensuring
 our research is informed by real world problems and is used in practical applications. We have 17
 visiting professors 11 from industry and 6 from academia: Helen Balinsky (HP), David Cooper
 (Enitor Consulting), Lars Carlsson (Stena Line), Pitt Lim (St George’s Hospital), Debi Ashenden
 (Portsmouth University), Steve Babbage (Vodafone), Henry Beker (Founder of Baltimore
 Technologies), Andrew Clark (Primary Key Associates Limited), Whitfield Diffie (Pioneer of Public
 Key Cryptography), Paul Dorey (CISO Confidential Ltd), Dieter Gollman (Technische Universitat
 Hamburg), Igor Muttik (Cyber Curio, McAfee Labs), David Naccache (Ecole Normale Supérieure),
 Fred Piper (ISG Founder, retired), Martin Sadler (Former VP of HP Labs), Richard Walton (Former
 Director of CESG), Monica Therese Whitty (University of New South Wales).
 We also support interchanges in the form of PhD placements (12 p.a. in our current Cyber CDT).
 In addition, we offer an honorary scheme allowing our PhD graduates and postdocs to maintain
 research links with us, e.g., Zukov (Blackrock) and Zhdanov (Amazon) are honorary research
 associates.

 2c. Supporting early career researchers
 Research and research-led teaching are our culture’s main pillars, which we use to have positive
 impact on the world. New academic recruits are assured that advancing their research is a top
 priority for them and for the College. This is made evident in a number of ways: funding support

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for specialised equipment and participation in conferences, workshops and research meetings;
 ensuring that their academic mentor advises on matters that affect their work, from explaining
 admin procedures to taking a strategic view of their research goals; supporting the funding of PhD
 studentships within their first three years; and reducing workload in the first year. The ISG also
 has an ECR mentor (Quaglia) with a particular focus on female ECRs. We further encourage new
 staff to co-supervise PhD students (with more senior colleagues), including our CDT. We also
 provide career development training for PDRAs and we inform them of new opportunities, from
 staff vacancies to new grant awards.
 A workload model takes into consideration variations of funding and teaching loads for research
 and teaching focused staff. Within the EPMS School, we have evaluated our key administrative
 tasks and rationalised them to optimise the time spent by academics on research. We have also
 welcomed College’s new teaching-focused route and recruited several teaching focused lecturers
 and fellows to increase research time for research active staff.
 We use meetings, workshops and seminars to maintain our strong research culture. We have very
 active seminar series in computer science and in information/cyber security, with a mix of internal
 speakers, academic visitors and guests, as well as government and industry experts. These are
 widely advertised and are frequented by staff, PDRAs and PhD students across the unit. We also
 have termly staff meetings and annual away days. These have been used to assimilate new
 academics and update everyone in the research themes. The spirit of cooperation inspired by
 these meetings has enabled us to generate new ideas and identify new collaborative research
 opportunities and strategy.

 2d. Research students
 We have increased the average number of PhD students entering p.a. from 17 in the previous
 period to about 29 in this period through a number of stimulating initiatives and complementary
 schemes: the Leverhulme CDT on ‘Freedom and the Rights of the Individual in the Digital Age’;
 EPSRC CDTs in Information Security; supportive departmental scholarships and collaborative
 PhDs with industry (half-funded by companies and College).
 Our large and diverse PhD community is a thriving source of energy and creativity, which although
 guided and nurtured by staff, provides a much greater return to them in terms of vitality and
 research output. Nowhere is this ‘buzz’ more evident than in the three consecutive EPSRC Cyber
 Security CDTs, in which every annual cohort (~10 students) contributes more than the sum of its
 parts. Across the whole CDT, the gender ratio is 40:60, women:men, but this figure reversed in
 the last cohort. The current CDT, ‘Cybersecurity for the Everyday Life’, which started in 2019,
 supports the sustainability of our PhD programme.
 Recruitment: We typically respond to 150 formal applications (plus more informal enquiries), and
 from these we recruit between 25-35 PhD students each academic year. Most of the recruited
 students have a first-class degree or a Merit/Distinction at Masters level, while applicants with
 work experience are strongly encouraged to apply. Potential supervisors interview candidates
 based on their research proposals and applications. Upon arrival students attend induction
 meetings with their supervisory team, the Director of Graduate Studies (DoGS), and IT support.
 Induction ends with sessions delivered by the Graduate School, where students meet colleagues
 from other disciplines.
 Support and monitoring: Students who join us are followed by a supervisory team consisting of
 a supervisor, possibly a co-supervisor and an advisor who has a pastoral role, and report quarterly
 to the DoGS. An annual review is based on a student’s report and a presentation at the annual
 PhD Colloquium, held each summer and organised by the students. An upgrade meeting from

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MPhil to PhD is held from the beginning of year 2 of study (year 3 in CDT). The supervisory team
 and an independent academic evaluate progress and a thesis plan, making their recommendation
 to Doctoral School, with oversight of the DoGS.
 Students are provided a high-end computer and desk space in an open-plan space to which they
 have full 24h secure access. New CDT cohorts are co-located to maximise group dynamics and
 training exercises. There are multiple funding models for different types of PhD student, but
 generally the Department and/or project PI will ensure that students receive financial support for
 attendance at academic events provided they present peer-reviewed research. Depending on the
 research group, students may also obtain grant-funded resources, such as access to specialised
 equipment, lab access and additional travel. Where possible, students of the same research group
 are co-located.
 Skills development and careers: Students attend researcher development programmes from
 RHUL’s Doctoral School providing transferable skills (e.g. thesis writing or managing publication
 data), and more general skills aiding employability (e.g. effective presentation skills or managing
 work/life balance). The programme is structured using the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework. Students also receive guidance on curriculum development and learning technology
 through inSTIL: a Programme in Skills of Teaching to Inspire Learning, a condition for participation
 in teaching activities. On top of this generic training, we provide subject-specific training on how
 to write scientific computing articles, present them in conferences and on preparation for PhD-
 vivas. We pay for ‘Wednesday cakes’, a student-run series of presentations that promotes
 scientific interaction.
 All PhD students are expected to regularly attend departmental seminars. Industry seminars (e.g.,
 Amazon, Blackrock, ASOS AI, PwC, Facebook) not only promote better understanding of industry
 needs, but are also career oriented, providing connections between employees and students. CDT
 students have an additional first year of training that involves lectures from industry and off-site
 visits. There is also opportunity to take placements with employers for on-the-job training. Industry
 placements are also available to non-CDT students, typically after their transfer to PhD. Of the 83
 students graduating from the unit (Fig. 3), almost 60% went to industry in research departments
 of organisations such as Amazon, Blackrock, Cloudfare, Facebook, Globalsign, HP Inc, JP
 Morgan, Microsoft Research, Mozilla Foundation, Nomura, and Yahoo.

 2e. Equality and diversity (E&D)
 RHUL was one of the very first women Colleges founded (1886). The doors are now open to all,
 but the equality ethos is very much in our DNA. Regarded as one of the most international UK
 universities, we welcome students from over 100 countries. The College actively endorses the
 seven principles outlined in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 and has policies and practices designed to fully implement these principles, e.g. mandatory
 training for selection panel members including equal opportunities training; equitable treatment for
 part-time and fixed-term staff; and an equitable promotions process. Extensive development
 opportunities include a centrally administered mentoring programme (supplemented by
 departmental ECRs mentoring), which is open to all research staff, and a comprehensive annual
 equality and diversity data-monitoring and review exercise. The College has an institutional policy
 to narrow the gender pay gap by 2021 and a working group was established in 2018-19.
 The School E&D Directorship is shared between ISG (Coles-Kemp) and Mathematics. The Athena
 SWAN Bronze was awarded to CS in 2013 and to ISG in 2020. Two Champions (Bernardini and
 Quaglia) chair E&D committees in CS and ISG respectively and manage a regular forum including
 E&D activities and external speakers. These committees meet termly to discuss and agree

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 departmental E&D initiatives. E&D issues are a standing item on the termly departmental board
 meetings. Since 2019, outputs from these fora feed into the EPMS School E&D committees,
 Research Committee and School Executive. E&D issues are embedded in a number of research
 and education activities. These include: a monthly E&D reading group for staff and students and
 a critical security reading group for staff and students. Diversity is further promoted through weekly
 ISG research seminars in research topics ranging from security of technology to security of
 underserved and vulnerable groups.
 In this period, our staffing strategy has created a more inclusive environment from the last period
 in terms of FTEs (a) BAME staff increased from 7% to 14% and (b) female staff increased from
 4% to 17%. An example of our E&D policy’s success is Bernardini’s trajectory in CS, appointed as
 lecturer in September 2015, promoted to SL in November 2017 and Professor in July 2019. In
 2018, she was offered a sabbatical term to take up a visiting professorship at MIT. As a result of
 her excellent work in AI planning, she has been supported by CS and our R&I office with a number
 of successful Innovate UK research applications and was selected at School level to apply for the
 Turing AI Acceleration Fellowship.




                       Figure 3: Demographic of PhDs awarded in this period
 Fig. 3 shows how E&D policy is reflected on our PhD graduates. Overall, the number of women in
 our PhD population has also increased by 20% in this period, which leads us to mention the
 ‘WISDOM’ group, another E&D success. The group was founded in May 2016 by two women PhD
 students, who wanted to create an opportunity to raise the profile of women working in
 Mathematics and Information Security, to encourage more women into these disciplines. WISDOM
 has since expanded across all disciplines within the EPMS School, including Computer Science.
 It discusses E&D in its broadest sense. WISDOM offers a strong support network to students and
 staff, who are interested in equality and exploring ways that more women can enter and prosper
 within academia. WISDOM activities include monthly lunch meetings, workshops, discussion
 groups and outreach activities including socials. The group’s achievements were recognised in
 2017 with the Principal's award for enhancing fairness. Since then WISDOM has focused on
 individuals from under-represented backgrounds with emphasis on broadening the horizons and
 supporting career progression of researchers, raising their research profile within the EPMS
 School and undertaking outreach.
 We also support members of staff returning after a period of absence (e.g. sick leave), by asking
 HoDs to allocate them duties that can be carried out as flexibly as possible. Moreover, support for
 staff with protected characteristics and equality and diversity issues affecting career progression
 are discussed and agreed as part of their PDR (section 2b). Advice and guidance are being
 developed for the next PDR period to further support staff in raising such issues where appropriate
 at their PDR meetings. The School E&D Director has an open-door policy where staff can raise
 E&D issues or seek advice from the E&D Director as a further line of support.
 We provide assistance before, during and after maternity or adoption leave. Besides flexibility in
 preparation arrangements, staff are provided resources that they may need during their leave, e.g.

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a laptop, and the College has a policy encouraging staff on maternity or adoption leave to keep in
 touch with their Department. The EPMS School has a specific policy for academic staff returning
 from maternity of reducing the teaching and administration workload. Typically, this would include
 a full term without teaching or administration, to give returning staff time to catch up with research.
 Funds are also made available for equipment, travel to conferences, and research visits to (or
 from) collaborators.

        2.5                                                            26
                   2.33                                   ISG
                   2.02           2.1          2.15                         37.5
                                  1.7          1.8
        1.57
                   1.23                        1.36
                               1.14                                                                    74
                                                          CS
                                                                                              62.5

      FEMALE       MALE       ECRS       NON-ECRS               0     20             40           60         80

                  CS        ISG         Unit                                Actual        Ideal


  Figure 4: Average output contributions                Figure 5: Outputs by Department
 Equality and Diversity in the REF submission. E&D considerations have played a key role in
 our output portfolio selection (Figures 4 and 5). Based on the College Code of Practice, all
 members with research responsibility and assessed as independent researchers were asked to
 nominate five outputs since January 2014 with the potential to be assessed as internationally
 excellent. A unit REF Lead (CS), with a REF co-lead (ISG), and the two HoDs have overseen that
 a rigorous assessment of output quality has taken place. Assessment involved critical evaluation
 according to a shared set of criteria, and all proposed outputs have been assessed internally by
 two reviewers. Where no suitably qualified academic staff was available to undertake this, or there
 was an indecision around borderline outputs, we engaged a reviewer from another institution,
 approved by the Chair of the College REF Steering Group. Once a rating for the outputs was
 agreed, the REF team selected the highest rated outputs for submission. For equally graded
 outputs, we prioritised any imbalance identified in the most current Equality Impact Assessment.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3a. Research income
 As part of our strategy, we encourage our members to target a variety of grants, with the aim to
 diversify the support of our research activities from different bodies. During this period we have
 secured grants that have reinforced the increasing vitality of our research environment and have
 made our research portfolio more sustainable. Fig. 6 shows the increase in our research income
 (spend) from ~£7.42m in the last period to ~£13.2m in this period. This funding comes mainly from
 UKRI, industry and the EU; the total values of research grants from these bodies increased by
 40%, 34% and 54% respectively. Our income from charities has risen by 70%. The overall
 research income in terms of grants awarded for this period has been ~£11.5M (~1.65M p.a.), with
 industry funding almost tripled since the last period. We have also complemented our grant income
 with ~£0.5m from consultancies.
 A selection of successes contributing to the development and diversification of our research over
 the period are as follows. Three EPSRC CDTs have made a major impact on our research. Growth
 of AI and robotics with potential future impact (Bernardini) has been strongly supported by UK
 Innovate (£0.9M). Research on cryptography has been supported by £3.5M awards, including
 EU’s Prometheus and FutureTPM. Socio-cultural aspects research has been boosted by £1.1M


                                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EPSRC awards to Coles-Kemp, as well as the Leverhulme CDT in ‘Freedom and the rights of the
 individual in the digital age’. Special unit events in joint areas of interest (e.g., cybersecurity and
 e-health) have fostered internal collaborations. Overall, from our 41 Category A staff, 30 have been
 investigators, 27 as PI.
                          2.00
                          1.75
                          1.50
                          1.25
                          1.00
                          0.75
                          0.50
                          0.25
                          0.00
                                        REF 2014            REF 2021

                                 UKRI    Industry   EU   Charities    Other

            Figure 6: Average annual spend by source (£M) in REF2014 and REF2021
 A brief summary of a selection of recently funded projects already impacting on strategy follows.
 In the Advanced Quantum Science and Technologies catalyst, ISG will continue with developing
 novel post-quantum algorithms for bridging the gap between lattice coding and lattice
 cryptography based on the new project by EPSRC EP/S02087X/1. The ISG will also build upon
 the Trusted Platform Modules project (EU-779391 FutureTPM, £321,794), for securing IoT
 systems within a post-quantum world. CS has been boosted by two recently awarded EPSRC
 projects: Hague (EP/T00021X/1, £393,618) will target regular expressions for programming
 languages used for internet applications; Sammartino (EP/S028641/1, £313,577) will target
 verification of software concurrency via model-learning. Research on algorithms and complexity
 has also received a further boost by the award of an ERC Consolidator grant to Tzameret in
 December 2020.

 3b. Operational infrastructure
 All our researchers have access to a dedicated computing infrastructure, which is supported by a
 technical team of four. This infrastructure provides access to a Virtual environment consisting of
 three HP BLADE servers, each server having resource of 32 CPUs 512GB RAM total resource or
 96 CPUs and 1.5TB RAM, which is connected to a 10GB VLAN network. Alongside this, the
 infrastructure has several GPU servers running NVidia Tesla K40 GPU Computing Accelerator -
 12GB and M60 8GB (GDDR5). A computer lab of 30 MSI trident desktop with GTX 1060 DDR5
 6GB GPU, each connected to 1GB network with 10GB uplink. The entire infrastructure is behind
 a dedicated active/passive Firewall, provides data transfer over JANET and has a separate
 internet connection of 300MB. Regular audits of our buildings ensure they are accessible to
 anyone with a disability.
 We also distribute infrastructure to individuals or groups, often in the form of small test and
 development units for microprocessors, FPGA, IoT, drones and robots. For ISG research, isolated
 equipment is sometimes necessary to prevent malware contamination, or loss of sensitive data;
 or to precisely control CPUs when detecting unintentional information leakage, or covert
 communication channels.

3c. Physical infrastructure
 The unit is housed in the completely re-purposed and refurbished Bedford building, a prioritised
 investment of £5.9m. PhD students from CS, ISG and Mathematics are co-located, promoting
 interactions and interdisciplinarity. The building co-locates researchers whose expertise falls

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within the two central technology pillars of the College’s digital research catalyst: Artificial
 Intelligence/Machine Learning and Information/Cyber Security. It also serves as the administrative
 hub of the EPMS School.
 We make full use of the further major infrastructural investment made by RHUL in this period, such
 as the Emily Wilding Davison library (£57 million). We used this fully accessible space for the ‘200
 Years of Becoming Digital’ exhibition to celebrate the 50 years of our CS Department. Bedford
 also provides us facilities for meetings, labs and workshops.
 As hosting workshops and conferences is an important part of our scholarly life, College provides
 numerous quality spaces and campus accommodation for attendees. We also host events in
 RHUL’s London base at Bedford Square and the UoL Senate House as part of our research
 operations. There we hold our Industry Advisory Board, PGR training events, including
 interdisciplinary consortia workshops (e.g. Techne AHRC DTP). Funding from Research and
 Innovation’s budget and from CS/ISG is also available for all unit members to host and promote
 new projects, specialist workshops and public debates in other London locations (e.g., the
 prestigious BCS London and British Academy).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4a. Collaboration, Networks and Partnerships
 We develop and maintain a variety of strategic collaborations at local, national and international
 level, ranging from research networks to major projects underpinned by collaboration agreements.
 These enable us to maximise opportunities to develop the discipline and strengthen the impact of
 our research. We encourage open research supporting sharing, transparency and reproducibility,
 whether this is about papers, data and/or software (section 1h).
 RHUL, via the ISG is recognised by GCHQ/NCSC as an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber
 Security. In 2019, our ISG was pivotal in the establishment of the International Cybersecurity
 Centre of Excellence (INCS-CoE). The founding members of this Centre along with RHUL via the
 ISG (Cid, Sgandurra) are Keio and Kyushu Universities (Japan), the University of Maryland
 Baltimore County and Northeastern University (US) and Imperial College (UK). INCS-CoE has
 since spread to Australia and Israel, and Cambridge University has joined in the UK. It serves as
 a hub for international collaboration between academia, government and industry.
 Our Computer Learning Research Centre has been carrying out pioneering work in statistical
 learning theory, conformal prediction (Gammerman & Vovk) and Q-Learning (Watkins). Recent
 work builds upon a series of international strategic collaborations, especially in the area of
 ‘Compound Activity Prediction Engines’ within the EXCAPE EU project (Gammerman, Zhiyuan
 Luo and Vovk), where a ‘multi-target ML’ framework is used for drug discovery. The novel
 techniques of this work are developed in collaboration with the Universities of Aalto (Finland), Linz
 (Austria) and Ostrava (Czech Republic) and industrial partners including Intel (Belgium).
 Further collaborations of individual members are as follows. Albrecht with ETH Zurich (Post-
 quantum cryptography, EPSRC funded), Bernardini with MIT and Toronto (Autonomous planning,
 EPSRC funded), Cohen and Hague with Oxford (Constraint satisfaction and Push-Down Automata
 respectively, both EPSRC funded). Coles-Kemp with Imperial and Newcastle (security and safety
 of services, EPSRC funded), Gutin with University of Southern Denmark and separately
 Universities of Shaoxing, Nanjing and Nankai (Graph Theory, funded by EPSRC and the Danish
 and Chinese governments). Hague with Uppsala University and TU Kaiserslautern (concurrency
 verification, EPSRC funded), Johnstone and Scott with Swansea, Newcastle, Delft, CWI
 Amsterdam and TU Eindhoven (programming languages, EPSRC funded). Zhaohui Luo with

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Toulouse and Gothenburg (type verification, EU funded). Paccanaro with Yale and Cornell (NSF
 and EPSRC funded) and Tzameret with Toronto, and Oxford (proof complexity, EU funded).

4b. Relationships with users and beneficiaries of our research and knowledge transfer
 Our research touches diverse communities as well as general audiences, beyond the work
 captured in our impact case studies. Our ISG has long-standing relationships with HP Research
 Labs (Paterson) and Vodafone, spanning joint research, internships and PhD sponsorship.
 Moreover, collaboration with a variety of companies, e.g., BAE Systems, BT, Cloudflare and IBM,
 have allowed us to train over 90 PhD students in areas such as embedded security, cryptography,
 geopolitics of security, and cyber economics. Some collaborations involve interdisciplinary
 projects e.g., the work with GSK on ‘Risky cyber-behaviour in organisations’ (Jensen). GSK used
 the research programme to test the effectiveness of various interventions to increase
 cybersecurity.
 Work on ML has already been taken up by AstraZeneca (Sweden) and Janssen (Spain). Similarly,
 recent work with British Gas and Centrica on ‘Big data analytics’ (Gammerman and Zhiyuan Luo)
 and with AlgoLabs on ‘Trading strategies using on-line ML’ (Kalnishkan and Watkins) are further
 examples illustrating our industrial links. Similarly, Chockler and O’Keefe collaborate closely with
 IBM on distributed and scalable infrastructures for trustworthy services. Bernardini maintains
 strong links with user organisations on autonomous systems, including NASA, the UK Atomic
 Energy Authority, and BAE systems.
 We engage with general audiences in the History of Computing through the work of Johnstone
 and Scott on a steam-driven version of Babbage’s Difference Engine. This shows how such an
 engine makes tables of mathematical functions that can be programmed to a limited extent and
 was broadcasted by the BBC2 documentary ‘Monkman and Seagull’s Genius Adventures’ on 25
 May 2020. The same Difference Engine was also exhibited during the 50 years celebration of our
 CS Department, linking the local community with our scientific heritage.

4c. Contribution to economy and society
 Our impact case study for the security improvement of the TLS protocol is used by billions of
 people on a daily basis for secure web browsing (and more). As a direct consequence, major
 vendors including Apple, Google, Microsoft and Mozilla removed RC4 as an encryption option in
 their browsers, and the figure is now well below 1%. The global annual impact of this study on e-
 commerce alone has been estimated at several trillions of USD.
 In another case study we provide algorithmic foundations for new distributed systems technology
 built by IBM in two key business areas: (a) a server platform facilitating management of
 applications hosted on the IBM cloud and (b) a generic permissioned blockchain facilitating secure
 management of critical assets (such as cryptocurrency) within an organisation’s network relying
 on distributed ledger technology (DLT). Consequently, IBM increased DLT scalability significantly,
 which in turn, boosted its attractiveness for customers of large computing bases.
 Our significant contribution to drug discovery is detailed in another impact case study and arose
 from the application of conformal and Venn predictors. These methods made a major contribution
 to reducing the time and costs involved in drug discovery at AstraZeneca and Janssen
 Pharmaceutical.
 A key finding in our final impact case was that evasive and non-compliant cybersecurity practices
 are likely to result if technology is deploying a service people regard as not useful or damaging
 their wellbeing. With ~1,470 participants, the research produced ‘creative securities’, a


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participatory method examining the intersections between risks to people and risks to technology.
 This work demonstrates how we have changed current cybersecurity policy and practice.

 4d. Contribution to and recognition by research base
 We regularly lead academic activities nationally and internationally, shaping agendas and
 strategies. Our research base contribution can be effectively measured by our involvement in
 editorial boards. Examples include Designs, Codes & Cryptography (Mitchell - Editor in Chief,
 Albrecht, Cid), AI Journal - Elsevier (Cohen), Journal of ML Research (Watkins), Nature Scientific
 Reports (Paccanaro), Discrete Optimization (Gutin), Order (Gutin), Memetic Computing (Gutin),
 Journal of Computer Languages – Elsevier (Scott), SN Computer Science (Gutin), Ambient
 Computing and Intelligence (Stathis), Cybersecurity Journal - Springer (Cid), IACR Transactions
 on Symmetric Cryptology (Cid), Data Science Journal (Shanahan), Information Processing Letters
 - Elsevier (Chockler), Information Management and Computer Security (Coles-Kemp), Journal of
 Cybersecurity - Oxford Academic (Coles-Kemp), Electronic Proceedings in Theoretical Computer
 Science (Fiadeiro), IET Cyber-systems and Robotics (Zhiyuan Luo), The Computer Journal
 (Martin, Mitchell, Sgandurra).
 Academic leadership is evident in our service to conferences and workshops. On average, each
 academic is in committees of 2-4 international conferences p.a. Our leadership here includes:
 •   Keynotes – We gave over 70 invited presentations and keynotes in national and international
     events. Examples of keynotes include Tzameret: CSL’20; Gutin: TAMC’20; Vovk: ISIPTA’19;
     Albrecht: AFRICACRYPT’19; Cid: IWSEC’19 (M&IS session); Stathis: ICDSST’18, JFSMA’18;
     Chockler: BTT’17; Mitchell: ACISP’16; Paccanaro: FEBS’16; Martin: CECC’15, ICCC’15;
     Quaglia: TRUST’15; Shanahan: CLOUDTECH’15; Zhaohui Luo: LACL’14.
 •   Conference chairs – We served in the organising committees of over 50
     conferences/workshops. Examples as Program or General Chair (GC) include Albrecht: IMA
     CCC’19, QuAC’19; Bernardini: InteX’17, SPARK’19; Cid: SAC’18 (GC), FSE’14; Chockler:
     P2P’14 (GC), LADIS’18, CCGRID’20; Fiadeiro: WADT’18 (GC); Gammerman: COPA’15-19;
     Hague: HOPA’14-15, INFINITY’16, HIGHLIGHTS’17, BCTCS’18 (GC); Zhiyuan Luo:
     SLDS’15; Mitchell: SSR’14&16, ISC’15, STM’17, ICICS’17; O’Keefe: RaSTEES’19; Paoletti:
     CMSB’16, VEMDB’18, HSB’19; Quaglia: WCS’17, Crossfyre’18; Scott: Parsing@SLE’16;
     Sgandurra: CYSARM’19; Stathis: AMI’18; Vovk: COPA’14 and GTP’14 (GC).
 We received prestigious awards and participated in review panels, advisory and policy shaping
 boards. Gutin is Member of Academia Europea and recipient of the Royal Society Wolfson
 Research Merit Award. Wahlström was awarded the 2018 Nerode Prize. Cohen, Johnstone,
 Martin, Scott and Stathis are BCS Fellows, while Cohen, Coles-Kemp, Johnstone, Hague, Zhaohui
 Luo, and Watkins EPSRC College members. Paccanaro is BBSRC expert and advisor to the
 Paraguayan Government. Our members regularly evaluate research from international funders
 e.g. China’s NNSF, Canada’s NSERC, EU’s (ESF, ERC), Israel’s ISF, Norway’s NWO, and
 Poland’s FNP. Chockler and Mitchell acted as senior consultants, the former to IBM Haifa on
 Cryptocurrency and the latter to Huawei UK on Security. Coles-Kemp has been a member of
 DCMS advisory panel for the code of practice on Consumer IoT security, and deputy director of
 the Research Institute for the Science of Cyber-Security.




                                                                                           Page 18
