Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: York St John University

 Unit of Assessment: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience (UoA 4)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 Research in Psychology at York St John University (YSJU) is led by a young and ambitious
 team enthusiastic about developing a greater understanding of fundamental principles
 underpinning human behaviour and applying this knowledge to benefit society. Our research has
 grown significantly over the REF2021 assessment period, with focused recruitment and
 investment in our core research strengths in cognitive, developmental, and social psychology,
 and a developing area of strength in mental health. The overall growth is reflected in substantial
 increases in research active staff (from 5.0 FTE in REF2014 to 14.6 FTE for REF2021), and in
 the number of outputs returned (from 14 to 37, selected from a total of 90 peer-reviewed outputs
 published in the REF2021 period). Our staff publish in top tier journals, and we have a strong
 network of national and international collaborators. Central to our ethos is research with impact,
 and here we build on our successes in REF2014, where 100% of our impact was rated 3* and
 4*.

 The unit is based within the School of Education, Language and Psychology (ELP). Research in
 ELP is the overall responsibility of the head of school and the school research and knowledge
 transfer lead (SRKTL). The associate head of school for Psychology and the Psychology
 research lead (PRL) have direct responsibility for research within the unit. The SRKTL chairs the
 School Research Steering Group, which acts as a consultative body comprised of
 representatives from the academic disciplines within the school, including the discipline research
 leads. The Psychology Research Committee (PRC), chaired by the PRL, leads on the
 development of the unit’s research strategy, and monitors its implementation. The PRC
 membership includes staff with research and impact-related leadership responsibilities, including
 an Impact and KEF lead and an Open Science champion.

 Research and impact objectives 2014–20
 In REF2014, 53% of our research overall was rated as world-leading or internationally excellent
 (50% of our outputs and 100% of impact cases were rated 3* and 4*, while 88% of the research
 environment was rated as conducive to producing research of internationally or nationally
 recognised quality).

 In the REF2014 environment statement, we articulated our strategic objectives for the upcoming
 period as 1) strengthening the wider research culture of the unit, 2) growing our external
 collaborations and networks by increasing the external visibility of the unit, and 3) further
 enhancing the impact of our research, including through our contributions to the institutional
 commitment to social justice and the widening participation agenda. The detail of how we have
 achieved these aims is set out in various places in this document. Here we briefly review our
 progress in implementing the strategy articulated at the time of REF2014:

 1. We have made significant achievements in enhancing the research culture in the unit. This is
    reflected in two key areas: a) staff development and support for high-quality research and b)
    the growth of postgraduate research (PGR) students.

        a) The three-fold increase in the number of research active staff in the unit was
           achieved by the recruitment of staff with strong or growing research profiles in areas
           of existing research strength (e.g., in cognitive psychology, Cole (recruited from
           Aarhus University, Denmark), Cutting (University of Birmingham), Mirković (University
           of York), Savill (University of York); in social psychology, Demasi (Loughborough
           University) Humă (Loughborough University)). We have increased opportunities for
           researchers to collaborate both within Psychology and across disciplines by
           embedding our research groups through regular meetings, and by running a

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           successful research seminar series for external and internal speakers and PhD
           students. We have established a competitive annual pump-priming funding stream to
           which all staff can apply for up to £3,000 for pilot work, research assistance and/or
           participant payments. We have formalised our processes for funding travel and
           conference attendance such that there are now regular calls for applications for travel
           funding throughout the academic year. In addition, the number of staff involved in
           PhD supervision has increased from 3 at the time of REF2014 to 13, with colleagues
           additionally engaged in supervision of doctoral research as part of our new Doctorate
           in Counselling Psychology programme. Finally, we have built research planning into
           our performance development review (PDR) systems. The PDR processes now
           incorporate specific goals for research activity, which are used to facilitate the setting
           of medium-term research plans.

       b) We have made a significant investment in the growth of PGR students. We have
          committed over £437,000 in funded PhD places through our graduate teaching
          assistant (GTA) scheme, launched in 2018. As a result of this scheme, PhD student
          registrations have increased from 3 at the time of REF2014 to 11 as of 31st July 2020.
          The scheme is underpinned by three key principles: a) quality of the applicant, b) fit
          between the proposed project and the unit’s areas of research strength and c)
          ensuring that a wide range of academic staff (particularly ECRs) are given
          opportunities to supervise PhD students, thereby increasing supervisory capacity
          within the unit.

    2. External collaborative relationships have been expanded in several areas, as evidenced
       in the impact case studies, in several co-edited books and special issues, and in jointly
       authored outputs and grant applications with external collaborators (detailed information
       is provided in Section 4). We have also recently established a partnership with the Tees,
       Esk and Wear Valleys (TEWV) NHS Foundation Trust, focused on the new Foss Park
       Mental Health Hospital in York, to support our developing area of strength in mental
       health. Additionally, to enhance international visibility of the unit, we have increased
       funding of international conference presentations. For example, in the last full academic
       year prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, eight international conference presentations were
       funded from the internal budget, totalling over £7,000.

    3. Central to our ethos is that every opportunity is taken to develop the impact of our
       research, including by focussing on the institutional themes of social justice and widening
       participation. We have built on a strong performance in impact in REF2014 (40% rated
       4*, 60% 3*) by a) enhancing our impact-specific support mechanisms, and b) in the way
       in which our research is practised.

       a) Impact is facilitated through internal funding to support colleagues in articulating,
          developing, and tracking the benefits of their research. The REF2021 impact case
          studies have developed organically from work that began to generate impact, and
          specific funding and support was directed towards the colleagues contributing to this
          work. This included the explicit allocation of time for impact-related activities over and
          above the time allocated for research. To provide continued support for tracking the
          benefits of our research, all academic staff can apply for funding to support impact
          activities through the pump-priming scheme. Good practice is shared at regular
          research meetings and annual research away days. We have also established an
          Impact and KEF Lead role within the unit in 2019, with leadership responsibilities in
          research-derived impact.

       b) As many of our students are the first in their family to go to university, or are
          otherwise from widening participation backgrounds, we take the following steps to
          ensure that they get the opportunity to be involved in research: undergraduate and
          master’s students are regularly employed as research assistants; we offer research
          experience in our research groups as part of our undergraduate work placement

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            scheme; we use funding from the central university Students as Researchers
            scheme; and we have been successful in securing two undergraduate research
            assistantship grants from the British Psychological Society (BPS). Moreover, we have
            sought to embed a culture of research participation amongst our student body
            through the launch of a research participation scheme in 2018. This scheme enables
            students across all levels of study to volunteer as research participants in our
            ongoing research.

 Outside the specific strategic objectives, we have developed support for interdisciplinary
 research and have engaged in various ways with the principles of open science.

 Interdisciplinary research is supported through three mechanisms:
 1) The university’s Research Development and Innovation Fund (RDIF), established in 2020,
 specifically supports interdisciplinary collaborations. Larkin was awarded funding in this stream
 to examine the effects of a physical activity intervention in adults with severe mental illness and
 autism, in collaboration with colleagues in Sport.
 2) A dedicated school-based funding stream established in 2019 enables researchers to bid for
 funding for projects that straddle disciplines within the school (Education, Languages and
 Linguistics, Psychology). Humă was awarded funding via this stream with a collaborator from
 Languages and Linguistics to examine interactional practices during viva voce examinations.
 3) The Psychology pump-priming scheme encourages applications for interdisciplinary projects
 through the inclusion of colleagues from other disciplines (either internal or external to the
 university) as co-applicants on the bids. More broadly, opportunities for cross-disciplinary
 networking and discussion are provided through regular school- and university-wide research
 events.

 We have readily engaged with the open research agenda through the Research at York St John
 (RaY) research repository, to which staff upload copies of the accepted versions of their
 publications. Beyond the requirements of the REF, we have also sought to embed the principles
 of open science in our everyday research practice by a) establishing the role of Open Science
 Champion leading on the open research agenda in the unit, b) incorporating open science
 principles and practices in the training of PGR students and c) joining initiatives such as the
 international open science journal club, ReproducibiliTea. Additionally, we have embedded the
 use of the Open Researcher and Contributor ID (ORCID) system, with all our returned staff
 having an ORCID number.

 Research conducted in the unit abides by all relevant institutional and professional ethical
 standards, such as the BPS Code of Human Research Ethics and the World Medical
 Association Declaration of Helsinki. Responsibility for oversight of research integrity and ethical
 standards within the unit is managed by the SRL, in conjunction with the PRL with specific
 responsibly for psychology. A School Research Ethics Committee, which consists of members
 drawn from across the disciplines of Education, Language and Psychology, reviews applications
 from the unit and is currently chaired by a member of the unit (Cole). All members of the ethics
 committee undergo training to ensure they are up to date on current developments around
 research integrity and ethical practice, with regular events organised by the university Research
 Office (RO) to ensure that the wider staffing base has opportunities for continuing professional
 development in relation to ethical issues and research integrity.

 Research and impact highlights 2014–20
 Here we highlight some of our contributions to the theoretical and applied development of
 psychological science over the REF2021 period to illustrate the results of our research and
 impact strategy.

 Cognitive psychology
 The Cognitive Psychology Group has a critical mass of researchers with interests in basic and
 applied cognitive psychology, including language, future thinking, and tool use. Our researchers
 with interests in language and literacy have demonstrated that the home literacy environment

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 plays an important role in literacy development in children at family-risk of dyslexia (Hamilton,
 Scientific Studies of Reading), that semantic representations strengthen phonological
 representations in both novel word learning and verbal short-term memory (Savill, Journal of
 Memory and Language, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition)
 and that sleep-related memory consolidation plays a different role in word vs grammar learning
 and long-term consolidation (Mirković, Cortex). Cole has proposed a novel theoretical account of
 spontaneous and deliberate future thinking and has co-edited a special issue on this emerging
 topic (Psychological Research). Cutting’s research has contributed to our understanding of the
 role of prior experience in tool innovation in child development (Journal of Experimental Child
 Psychology) and Coxon has shown that sound can further enhance the use of virtual reality as a
 non-pharmacological analgesic to aid pain management (Royal Society Open Science).

 Developmental psychology
 Our expertise in developmental psychology spans cognitive (Cutting, Hamilton) and social
 development (Noret), adolescence and emerging adulthood (Bell) and mental health (Davis,
 Larkin). Here we highlight our research in developmental psychology that underpins our impact
 case studies. Bell’s research underpinning her impact case study has demonstrated a key role
 for digital technologies in the development of adolescents’ body image and body shaping
 behaviours (Body Image, Journal of Medical Internet Research). Based on this research, Bell
 has developed and run the educational programme Body Image in the Digital Age, which
 includes interventions for adolescents and training for professionals working with young people.
 Bell’s work has shaped local and national policy, including National Institute for Health and Care
 Excellence (NICE) guidelines on digital and mobile health interventions. Noret has examined the
 role of perceived social support in the relationship between experiences of being bullied or
 cyberbullied and mental health in school-aged children (School Mental Health). Noret, in
 collaboration with Macklin and Douglass, has applied her research on bullying and peer-
 victimisation in a programme of activities to tackle sexual violence and harassment affecting
 university students (All About Respect project, our second impact case study). This project was
 a runner-up at the Guardian Student Experience Award in 2019.

 Social psychology
 In social psychology, we have a focus on social interaction, with colleagues in the Discursive
 Social Psychology group using approaches informed by discourse analysis and conversation
 analysis to address core topics such as social influence and applied issues such as Brexit.
 Humă has developed a novel approach to the core social psychological concept of social
 influence by drawing on the tools of discursive psychology (British Journal of Social Psychology).
 Demasi has explored political discourse in UK debates concerning membership of the European
 Union (Political Psychology). Gibson (former staff member and current visiting professor in the
 unit) has been at the forefront of the radical re-evaluation of Stanley Milgram’s obedience
 experiments, using rhetorical psychology to conduct secondary qualitative analysis on audio
 recordings from the experiments and developing a new conceptualisation of obedience based on
 this work (British Journal of Social Psychology, European Journal of Social Psychology, a
 monograph with Cambridge University Press). Stirrat has contributed to research examining the
 role of facial properties in aggressive competitive behaviours (Aggressive Behavior).

 Mental health
 Our researchers examine mental health-related issues in typical and atypical populations, and
 across the life span. Larkin has examined the role of mind-mindedness in reducing stress in
 parents of children with developmental disorders (Journal of Autism and Developmental
 Disorders), and Davis has shown that children with autism are less likely to have imaginary
 companions than typically developing children (Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders).
 Douglass has shown that the personality trait of narcissism moderates the relationship between
 age and loneliness in old age (Frontiers in Psychology).

 Research and impact objectives 2021–26
 The achievement of our goals over the past six years represents a process of building our
 research environment from a relatively low base. We believe that from those strengthened

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 foundations we can now focus on the following strategic aims: 1) growing research excellence in
 core areas of research strength, 2) expanding our portfolio of collaborative external relationships
 including by enhancing bidding activity and 3) continuing to grow our PhD community. These fit
 with the institutional research strategy which emphasises interdisciplinary working,
 demonstrating greater research excellence through external recognition, and wider
 dissemination of research as key goals. Our specific objectives over the next five years are thus
 as follows:

    a) Growing research excellence in our core research strengths of cognitive, developmental
       and social psychology, and our developing area of strength in mental health. Staff
       recruitment will be focussed in these four areas with the objective of continuing to grow
       world-leading and internationally excellent research. We will grow research leadership in
       these areas by supporting staff with strong research profiles for promotion via the
       associate professorship pathway (see Section 2).
    b) Increased bidding activity, with a focus on competitively awarded external grants at an
       appropriate level for the career stage of individual academics. This will be supported by
       mentoring, grant-writing training and academic leave in areas of demonstrable research
       strength. We will expand our strategic collaboration in mental health through further
       embedding our research partnership with the TEWV NHS Foundation Trust, with a
       particular view to expanding opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration.
    c) Further growth in PhD registrations and completions. We aim to recruit cohorts averaging
       three PhD students per annum through our fully funded GTA programme over the course
       of the next REF cycle.
    d) We will continue embedding the principles of open science through initiatives proposed
       and promoted by the Open Science Champion, including increased engagement with
       pre-registrations and data sharing.

 We will continue to provide support for achieving these goals by regular activities within the
 research groups, by continued financial support, including funded PhD places, pump-priming
 funding and support for international conference presentations, and by mentoring and training.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our staffing strategy has been focused on the growth in academic staff members, ensuring staff
 recruitment favours candidates with strong or growing research profiles (as illustrated in 1) and
 ensuring that staff are well supported to develop as researchers. This staffing strategy resulted
 in a significant increase in the number of staff submitted: 14.6 FTE in REF2021 vs 5 FTE in
 REF2014. Five of the staff appointed during the current REF cycle as lecturers were promoted to
 senior lecturers via the accelerated promotions route based partly on their research contributions
 (Cole, Cutting, Davis, Douglass, Savill). All staff are employed on permanent contracts which
 cover both teaching and research.

 Early career academics are assigned a formal mentor during the first year of their appointment.
 Ongoing mentoring at every career level is provided through a school run series of Research
 Conversations with senior research staff to help with publication planning and bidding activity,
 and these are used to inform goal setting at the PDR. Informal mentoring also occurs within the
 research groups. All members of the unit have the opportunity to discuss and reflect on both
 their own strategies and the wider unit strategy at annual research away days. The pump-
 priming scheme established in the current REF cycle is open annually for staff to apply, and all
 staff have access to funding to support conference presentations. Early career researchers
 (ECRs) are particularly encouraged to apply to these schemes. Through regular research group
 meetings and through the creation of opportunities for ECRs to be involved in PhD supervision
 we enable junior colleagues to receive guidance from more experienced researchers.
 Development is formally monitored through the annual PDR process.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Growth in staffing in the early years of the present REF cycle was followed by a significant
 investment in funded PhD opportunities through our GTA scheme. While prioritising quality of
 doctoral projects and candidates, the scheme was designed to ensure that opportunities were
 created for as wide a range of staff as possible to engage in PhD supervision. As a result, 13
 staff in the unit are currently engaged in PhD supervision.

 Excellence in research, including research impact, plays an important role in academic
 promotion. Staff are supported in applying for promotion by the head of school and SRL and
 explicitly encouraged to foreground achievements in research and impact. An accelerated
 promotions route to senior lectureship enables staff to apply for promotion for exceptional
 performance, including in research. The university’s associate professor pathway offers a route
 to progression to full professorship based around excellence in research, with associate
 professors being allocated additional time for research as part of the workload planning model.

 The university is a signatory of the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, which directly informs the approach to staff development. The
 approach recognises that the development needs of staff vary depending on the stage of career,
 while also acknowledging that a key set of skills underpins successful research careers. The
 university-run staff development programme is aligned with the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework (RDF) and is open to all academic staff. Within the unit, skills-based staff
 development has been provided at the annual research away days, via weekly writing retreats
 (also open to PhD students) and by regular activities within the research groups. Internal funding
 has been used to support training events in advanced statistical and methodological approaches
 delivered by external providers (e.g., systematic reviews and meta-analysis, mixed effects
 modelling).

 PGR students
 The growth in our research student numbers was a key area of strategic investment over the
 current REF cycle. The introduction of the GTA scheme in 2018 resulted in the recruitment of
 eight PhD students, who are funded at levels equivalent to a research council studentship. This
 represents a total investment of £437,000 over a three-year period. This increased visibility has
 led to a concomitant increase in self-funding students, resulting in a total of 11 PhD registrations
 as of July 2020. As described in Section 1, recruitment to the funded PhD places is underpinned
 by three key principles: a) quality of the applicant, b) fit between the proposed project and the
 unit’s areas of research strength, and c) ensuring that a wide range of academic staff
 (particularly ECRs) are given opportunities to supervise PhD students. Our focus on the growth
 of the PGR community within the unit has also resulted in an increase in PhD completions from
 none in REF2014 to three in this REF cycle, with two of our PhD graduates attaining lectureship
 positions and one a research fellowship.

 A further notable addition during the current REF period has been the introduction of a Doctorate
 in Counselling Psychology in 2018. This programme comprises a combination of taught doctoral
 modules and a research thesis and confers chartered status as a counselling psychologist on
 successful completion. This is a key mechanism through which we are building our collaborative
 work with the Foss Park Mental Health Hospital, and it provides further opportunities for our
 academic staff to engage in the supervision of doctoral research and to collaborate with mental
 health practitioners.

 YSJU has well-established processes for induction, training, and monitoring of PGR students.
 Formal reviews of PGR student progress are conducted every six months by academics external
 to the supervisory team. Progress is monitored centrally four times a year (by Research Degree
 Committee). All supervisory meetings are logged. Supervisory teams are made up of multiple
 academic staff from the PGR student supervisory register. To be added to the register, staff are
 required to meet stringent criteria for PGR supervision eligibility pertaining to engagement in
 research, continual professional development and formal YJSU training. Endorsement from
 Heads of School or School Research Leads is also required. Applications are assessed by a
 central committee of senior research staff (again, by Research Degree Committee). It is

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mandatory that all supervisory teams have at least one member of staff with experienced
 supervisory status (have previously supervised a PhD student to successful completion). In
 addition, all PGR students have a PGR tutor who is available to provide support outside of the
 supervisory team.

 All students undertake needs analysis periodically and an individually tailored training
 programme is created. The needs analysis is based on competencies in the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Support is provided by supervisory teams and via a centralised PGR
 training programme that includes core and supplementary workshops at each year of study. Like
 our staff training programme, our PGT training programme aligns with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Core parts of the programme include Research Ethics and Integrity,
 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for Research, Data Management, and Copyright
 and Intellectual Property rights. These sessions are compulsory for all PGR students.
 A range of other central and local support is available to PGR students that include (1) access to
 centralised services (e.g. Student Services, Chaplaincy, Library and Learning Services,
 Careers); (2) access to a stipend of up to £900 (£450 part-time) to support travel and
 consumables associated with their research and professional development; (3) access to the
 YSJU Graduate Centre providing study space and remote access to a range of specialist
 software; (4) opportunity to complete a postgraduate certificate in academic practice to achieve
 associate fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (HEA); (5) administrative support
 provided by the School and Research Office and (6) various PGR events held throughout the
 year (e.g., Three Minute Thesis (3MT), Bake Your Thesis, and the annual PGR conference).

 All psychology PhD students additionally have access to discipline-specific training through our
 60-credit master’s level research methods module, which is benchmarked against the Economic
 and Social Research Council (ESRC) Postgraduate Training and Development Guidelines. PhD
 students can take the entire module or can access specific sessions as relevant. PGR students
 are encouraged to attend training events in advanced statistical and methodological approaches
 organised within the unit. Support and development opportunities are also provided within the
 research groups through, for example, regular presentations, student-led journal clubs or hands-
 on data analysis sessions. PhD students are involved in the open science journal club
 ReproducibiliTea and regularly attend writing retreats organised by staff members. All PhD
 students present their work annually at the Psychology Research Seminar series.

 Our PhD students are actively engaged with the local, national, and international research
 community. For example, a Psychology PhD student won the institutional Three Minute Thesis
 competition introduced in 2020; PhD student members of the Cognitive Psychology Group are
 active participants in the regional cognitive psychology community, including as co-organisers of
 a regional memory conference (Greater Yorkshire Memory Meeting [GYMM]); a PhD student is a
 committee member (section representative) at the national psychology postgraduate
 organisation PsyPAG; our PhD students present regularly at national and international
 conferences as lead authors (e.g., BPS annual conferences, European Society for Cognitive
 Psychology [ESCoP], Interdisciplinary Approaches in the Language Sciences [IMPRS]).

 Equality and diversity
 UoA4 sits within a broader context of support for equality and diversity at YSJU which has
 implemented several initiatives which ensure policies and practices relevant to researchers are
 inclusive, equitable and transparent. This is formalised in the YSJU Equality, Diversity and
 Human Rights Policy and the targets within the YSJU 2026 strategy (e.g., 10% BAME student
 and staff population; all staff are engaged in equality and diversity training and development
 appropriate to their role; median gender pay gap below 10%; 95% of staff think the university is
 a good place to work). Equality impact assessments are a routine part of annual monitoring and
 progress towards YSJU targets are reported to executive board and the governing body on a
 yearly basis. Of additional note, YSJU is a member of the Athena SWAN Charter (and is
 currently applying for a Bronze Award), a Stonewall Diversity Champion (ranked 49th place on
 the 2020 Top 100 Employers list) and Top 20 Trans employer, a Disability Confident employer,
 and a Mindful Employer. There are also several active staff networks available for staff to join

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that align with these awards and this agenda including the LGBT+, BAME and Disability staff
 networks.

 UOA4 complied fully with the YSJU institutional code of practice in selecting research outputs.
 The UoA lead also undertook Advance HE training on equality and mitigating bias as part of the
 role. Due to the small size of our submission, it is not possible to report a profile at UoA level
 here while also complying with HESA guidelines on anonymous reporting when presenting
 Equality and Diversity data (e.g., all our percentages would be based on less than 22.5 FTE).
 However, equality and diversity data for the UoA was reviewed internally following the
 completion of output selections and reported to both the SALT and Athena SWAN development
 groups as part of promoting greater diversity and inclusion at UoA, school, and institutional
 levels. Our data was also included as part of an equality and diversity impact assessment at
 institutional level.

 Equality and diversity play a key role in our approach to staff development. For example,
 colleagues have been supported to participate in Aurora, Advance HE’s leadership programme
 aiming to develop women leaders in higher education (Hamilton, Macklin). Colleagues who are
 returning from an extended period of parental leave are encouraged to apply for internal funding
 to support their work, with a recognition that it is at precisely these points in one’s career where
 institutional support can be most useful. The university’s approach to promotion and
 appointment to research leadership roles considers the fact that colleagues may have had
 periods of time where they have been less able to actively pursue their research career. This
 approach is based on the understanding that in such circumstances individuals should not be
 penalised but that instead the internal processes of the institution should be used to support
 colleagues in establishing and maintaining their research careers.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External research income
 Our research income has increased significantly over the current REF period (from £10,978 in
 total HESA research income in the period covered by REF2014 to £61,727 during the current
 REF cycle). Our strategy is to support colleagues to build a track record in attracting external
 funding, with an emphasis on a staged approach (e.g., from internal funding and/or a small
 external grant to larger external grants), including by partnering with experienced colleagues at
 research-intensive institutions. This has resulted in several successes and an overall increase in
 bidding activity and has provided a platform from which to build beyond 2021.

 Over the current REF period we have significantly increased successes in funding awarded by
 external bodies on a competitive basis. Gibson was awarded a research fellowship from the
 Leverhulme Trust (£49,000) and funding from the British Academy (£9,900) for his work on
 Stanley Milgram’s obedience experiments. The Experimental Psychology Society awarded
 funding to Cole for two projects on spontaneous future thinking (£6,000 in total, with one project
 delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic) and to Cutting and Hamilton for a project examining
 the role of mentalising activities in reading comprehension (£3,500, not reported as HESA
 research income). Colleagues have also received funding from the BPS for undergraduate
 research assistantships (£1,600, Gibson, £1,600 Hamilton [not reported as HESA research
 income]), student researcher positions (£497, Humă), and conference organisation (£500,
 Humă).

 Our area of strength in generating research income has been as a result of partnerships with
 local organisations or charities for projects that facilitated impact from our research. Noret
 received funding from the York Innovation and Family Fund (£6,163) and Bell has attracted
 funding from the City of York Council in collaboration with the National Society for the Prevention
 of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC) (£3,712) and York Mind (£7,500, with Noret) for her work in
 digital media and adolescent mental health. These recent projects from Bell have been delayed
 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This strength is supported by additional finances not reported as HESA research income for
 service evaluations, consultancy, and other research activities. Noret received funding for
 evaluating anti-bullying programmes (£14,000 from the Anti-Bullying Alliance), designing anti-
 bullying programmes in school sport (£5,900 from the Ben Cohen StandUp Foundation, in
 collaboration with colleagues from UoA 24), and child attainment and service evaluations
 (£10,000 from the Army Families Foundation). Noret has extended her work to tackle sexual
 violence and harassment in the community (£11,000 from the North Yorkshire Police and Crime
 Commissioner), and additionally working together with Macklin on problems associated with
 excessive alcohol consumption (£5450 from North Yorkshire Police). Similarly, Bell received
 funding from a local high school to further develop her work with adolescents engaging with
 digital media and how this can influence body image and mental health (£800 from York High
 School).

 Unit members have also had success as co-investigators or members of research teams where
 funding has been held by other institutions. Bell was a co-investigator on two Engineering and
 Physical Sciences Research Council-National Institute for Health Research (ESPRC-NIHR)
 projects exploring mental health implications of digital technologies (£60,000 in total), led by
 Lancaster University. Hamilton was a co-investigator on a project examining reading
 experiences in secondary school pupils (£4,800), funded by a Newcastle University Humanities
 and Social Sciences Research Institute Pioneer Award. Larkin is a co-investigator on an ESRC
 grant examining maternal mind-mindedness (£512,000), led by the University of York.

 In addition to these successes, we have increased the overall volume of competitive bidding
 activity in the unit. The bids included collaborations with colleagues within the university, for
 example, Leverhulme doctoral scholarships with Languages and Linguistics (Gibson,
 Hamilton, Mirković), Innovate UK Smart Grants with colleagues in Education (Larkin), and
 external collaborations resulting in bids to national and international funding bodies, such as
 Disability Research on Independent Living (DRILL) and ESRC (Hamilton), Facebook Research
 (Bell), Horizon 2020 (Mirković), Open Research Area in Europe (Mirković), and UK Research
 and Innovation Mental Health Networks (Bell). Douglass was part of a multi-disciplinary team
 funded by the Home Office (£8,000) to evaluate Northumbria Police’s Divert project aimed at
 vulnerable young people at risk of engaging with serious and organised crime.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 To facilitate the achievement of its key strategic aim of research with impact, the university
 launched its first dedicated RO in 2018. The RO includes a head (1.0 FTE) and a further 5.15
 FTE staff. Its remit includes supporting grant applications, monitoring research performance,
 overseeing research governance and compliance, coordinating staff research training and
 managing the PGR student experience. The work of the RO is complemented by a
 new Business Development and Knowledge Exchange Office (BDKEO). The BDKEO includes a
 director (1.0 FTE) and a further 13.5 FTE staff. The BDKEO is responsible for supporting staff
 in increasing the range and scope of applied research, business development and knowledge
 exchange.

 During the REF2021 assessment period, the unit has requested and received approximately
 £210,000 in internal funding for specialist equipment and software to support research. These
 investments have ensured the sustainability of our research. Investments are guided by staff and
 PGR student needs and are responsive to changing contexts, such as increasing access to
 online platforms (e.g., Gorilla, Prolific). Notable investments include: £50,000 to establish a 64-
 channel active electrode electroencephalography (EEG) laboratory with an adjacent control
 room to monitor EEG data acquisition; a total of £41,000 for additions to an extensive test library
 including child and adult measures of language ability, intelligence, memory, bullying and mental
 health; and regular upgrades in line with the latest technological advances to virtual reality
 equipment totalling £22,000. Additional specialist equipment available for research purchased
 during the assessment period includes psychophysiological measures (Shimmer, Empatica),
 circulating baths for studies investigating reactions to aversive physical stimuli (i.e. immersion of


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hands in cold water), eye tracking glasses (Pupil Labs), portable recording equipment,
 transcription aids, a bank of laptops and computer peripherals.

 A number of specialist laboratories support research within the unit. Eight small experimental
 rooms support research within the Cognitive Psychology Group. Several of the experimental
 cubicles are specialised to support growth in research using EEG, remote eye-tracking and
 virtual reality. A further three mid-sized laboratories are equipped with wall-mounted cameras,
 microphones and screen capture devices for high-definition recordings of focus groups and child
 studies conducted by colleagues in the social and developmental psychology groups. An
 adjacent video control room is used for storing and analysing video data. One additional
 laboratory is a large and flexible space featuring a total of 48 computer terminals and is suitable
 for group testing as well as for training and skills development. It is used as a key location for
 postgraduate research methods training.

 Researchers in the unit have access to a range of software packages and platforms for data
 collection (E-Prime, Gorilla, Inquisit Lab and Web, Brain Vision Recorder, Qualtrics, Noldus
 MediaRecorder) and data analysis (SPSS, MPlus, Comprehensive Meta-Analysis, MATLAB,
 BeGaze, BrainVision Analyzer, NVivo, Observer XT), many of which are accessible both on and
 off campus. Researchers further benefit from recent investments in systems to streamline
 research administration, including participant recruitment (Sona Systems, Prolific) and laboratory
 and equipment bookings (Connect2).

 Three dedicated psychology technicians (1.8 FTE) are based within one of the laboratory suites
 to be on hand to provide assistance across the full range of research activities undertaken within
 the unit. The technicians support research within the unit by overseeing the day-to-day running
 of the laboratories, by providing advice and training on the use of specialist equipment and
 software, and by securing internal funding for specialist resources. Administrative support is
 provided by a university-wide administrative team, including dedicated administrators for
 Psychology (1.6 FTE), with additional support available to manage peaks in demand.

 During the current REF period, we have introduced a Research Participation Scheme, enabling
 students to volunteer as participants in our ongoing research. The scheme has been designed to
 ensure it has pedagogical value in giving students at all study levels a valuable insight into the
 research process, while simultaneously enhancing the sustainability of our research activity by
 ensuring access to participants.

 As part of our collaborative relationship with the TEWV Foss Park Mental Health Hospital we
 have a memorandum of understanding that includes a focus on sharing of expertise and
 resources, including access to facilities at the hospital. This partnership includes the
 establishment of clinical research fellows, whereby hospital staff complete doctoral research
 within the hospital supervised by our staff and senior clinicians. The overall aim of this
 partnership is to enable staff to undertake research with patients, to increase collaboration
 between researchers and clinicians and to facilitate greater patient-public involvement in
 research activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The vitality of our research is underpinned by research collaborations and partnerships
 supported strategically in several ways. Staff can apply for travel funding to facilitate meetings
 and collaborative research with colleagues at other institutions and in industry. Similarly,
 partners can be funded to visit the university, either on an individual basis or as part of wider
 group meetings. For example, staff are encouraged to invite collaborators to present as part of
 the Psychology Research Seminar series and to arrange research meetings around these visits
 (e.g., 19 external speakers were hosted in this way in the last three years). Staff are supported
 to present their work at national and international conferences (e.g., 21 in the last three years)
 and we have also provided funding for the convening of research meetings (e.g., Cole to host a

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 specialist workshop on spontaneous future thinking with seven international speakers and the
 regional GYMM meeting; Demasi to host the Political Discourse Day workshop, and Humă the
 Resistance in Talk-in-Interaction research seminar series).

 Unit members are actively engaged in research collaborations with colleagues at other
 institutions nationally and internationally. We have well-established research collaborations
 with the Department of Psychology at the University of York, with three members of staff holding
 honorary or visiting positions there (Larkin, Mirković, Savill). Collaborations with York colleagues
 have resulted in co-authored publications with our staff as lead authors (14), in joint grants and
 grant proposals (3) and in joint supervision of PhD students (3). The close relationship with York
 enables staff and PGR students in cognate areas (e.g., cognitive and developmental
 psychology) to regularly attend and present at research group meetings at York, further
 enhancing PGR and staff training opportunities and fostering collaborative research links.

 Two members of the unit (Demasi, Humă) are members of the Discourse and Rhetoric Group
 (DARG) at Loughborough University, ensuring ongoing collaborative work that continues to
 result in jointly authored publications (12, including an edited book and a journal special issue)
 and providing additional opportunities for PhD students using discourse analytic methods to
 benefit from access to DARG meetings. Demasi and Humă are additionally involved in
 collaborative work and joint PhD supervision with Gibson, a former member of staff currently at
 Heriot-Watt University.

 During the REF2021 assessment period, and as evidenced in our published outputs, additional
 collaborative research has been undertaken with colleagues from the following institutions:
 University of Cambridge (Bell), University of Oxford (Hamilton, Mirković), University of
 Manchester (Bell, Cole, Savill), Northeastern University, USA (Humă), University of Pittsburgh,
 USA (Bell), University of Birmingham (Cutting), University of Sussex (Bell), Durham University
 (Davis), Monash University, Australia (Bell), University of Strathclyde (Noret), University of
 Bradford (Cole), City, University of London (Cole), Northumbria University (Savill), Glasgow
 Caledonian University (Douglass), University of Hertfordshire (Cole), University of Huddersfield
 (Davis), Leeds Beckett University (Bell), Leeds Trinity University (Davis) and Teesside University
 (Demasi).

 As described in Section 3 and the impact case studies, members of the unit have developed
 relationships with local, regional and national government organisations, including the City of
 York Council and local schools, the North Yorkshire Police and Crime Commissioner, and
 charities like Mind and Anti-Bullying Alliance. These relationships have facilitated our research
 and its impact in that the research users have been included in the projects from the outset.

 Our developing collaborative relationship with the TEWV NHS Foundation Trust is led by a
 member of staff (Larkin) who holds an honorary clinical psychologist position with the trust. The
 development of research collaborations that involve the unit (including those colleagues who do
 not currently have significant responsibility for research but are involved in counselling doctorate
 supervision) and the trust is overseen by Larkin, who has expertise at the intersection of clinical
 practice and research. Larkin also holds a clinical psychologist role at The Retreat, a York-based
 therapeutic organisation, in which she provides psychological therapy to adults with autism and
 ADHD, and clinical supervision and training to fellow staff members.

 Contributions to the research community and society
 Staff are encouraged to support the broader research community and society by reviewing for
 journals, conferences, publishers and funding bodies, through journal editorships and editorial
 board memberships, by examining research degrees, delivering invited talks and being involved
 in broader public engagement activities.

 Editorial roles
 Our staff have held editorial roles for several journals: Memory & Cognition (Cole is a consulting
 editor), Humanities & Social Sciences Communications (Mirković is an associate editor), SAGE

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open (Hamilton was a handling editor) and BPS Developmental Psychology Forum (Hamilton is
 a co-editor). They have also served on editorial boards: Journal of Youth and Adolescence
 (Bell), Psychology Teaching Review (Coxon). Members of the unit have edited journal special
 issues and books: Humă co-edited a special issue of Qualitative Research in Psychology on
 discursive psychology; Cole co-edited a special issue of Psychological Research on
 spontaneous future cognition; Mirković co-edited the book Speech Perception and Spoken Word
 Recognition (Routledge, 2017).

 Peer reviewing
 Staff regularly undertake peer reviews for academic journals and publishers, and for funding
 bodies. During the current assessment period, staff have reviewed for over 70 journals including
 Applied Psycholinguistics; Body Image; Brain and Language; British Journal of Educational
 Psychology; British Journal of Social Psychology; Cognition; Cognitive Psychology;
 Developmental Psychology; Developmental Science; European Journal of Social Psychology;
 Frontiers in Psychology; Journal of Adolescent Health; Journal of Child Psychology and
 Psychiatry; Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience; Journal of Memory and Language; Journal of
 Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance; Journal of Experimental
 Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition; Memory & Cognition; Personality and Individual
 Differences; PloS One; Psychonomic Bulletin & Review; Quarterly Journal of Experimental
 Psychology; Scientific Studies of Reading; Sex Roles; Virtual Reality, and for a number of
 publishers including McGraw-Hill, Oxford University Press, Palgrave Macmillan and SAGE. Staff
 have also undertaken reviews for funding bodies including ESRC, European Science
 Foundation, National Science Foundation (USA) and the Swiss National Science Foundation,
 and serve as expert reviewers (European Science Foundation College of Expert Reviewers
 [Noret]).

 Invited talks and keynotes
 Members of the unit have delivered invited talks at the following institutions: University of York
 (Bell, Davis, Douglass, Mirković, Savill), University of Oxford (Mirković), University of Bristol
 (Bell), University of Sussex (Hamilton), University of Warwick (Mirković), Tufts University, USA
 (Humă), University of Leeds (Hamilton), University of Liverpool (Mirković), Swansea University
 (Cole), Royal Holloway, University of London (Mirković), University of Hull (Cole),University of
 Bradford (Cole), Canterbury Christ Church University (Hamilton), University of Central
 Lancashire (Bell), University of Hertfordshire (Cole), Leeds Beckett University (Davis), Leeds
 Trinity University (Davis), University of Salford (Bell, Demasi), Solent University (Noret),
 Teesside University (Bell, Demasi). In addition, members of the unit have delivered invited
 keynote addresses at the UK Psychological Trauma Society Annual Conference (Larkin), the
 BPS Northern Ireland Branch Flavour of Psychology (Bell) and the Current Trends in Psychology
 conference in Novi Sad, Serbia (Mirković).

 Research degree examinations
 Members of the unit have examined doctoral theses at the following institutions: Bond University,
 Australia (Bell), Curtin University, Australia (Bell), Lancaster University (Mirković), University of
 Notre Dame, USA (Bell), University of Plymouth (Hamilton), University of Queensland, Australia
 (Cutting), University of Roehampton (Hamilton) and University of Salford (Coxon).

 Conference and symposia organisation
 Conferences and events organised by unit members include the British Human Computer
 Interaction Conference (Bell served as panels chair), the BPS Social Psychology Section Annual
 Conference (Gibson), GYMM (Cole), the BPS North-East of England Branch conferences (Bell
 and Douglass served as conference chairs), the Political Discourse Day (Demasi) and the
 Resistance in Talk-in-Interaction seminar series (Humă). Staff members have served on
 conference organisational committees (Humă for the 5th International Conference on
 Conversation Analysis) and have convened symposia at national international conferences:
 ESCoP (Cole), Psychonomic Society (Mirković) and BPS Social Psychology Section (Demasi).

 Contributions to professional organisations

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff within the unit are encouraged to take on external roles within the disciplinary community
 and in interdisciplinary initiatives. For example, several colleagues have held roles within the
 BPS’s North-East of England Branch, with Bell and Douglass having both served as chairs, and
 Hamilton as honorary secretary. In addition, Bell serves on the society’s Standing Conference
 Committee, and Hamilton is a committee member of the society’s Developmental Psychology
 Section. Cole was a member of the York NHS Trust Research Ethics Committee, and Noret has
 served as a trustee of the Ben Cohen StandUp Foundation anti-bullying charity.

 Public engagement
 Over the course of the current REF cycle, members of the unit have engaged with diverse
 communities and audiences. In addition to popular talks and articles aimed at a general
 audience, we have also sought to engage with those groups and communities to whom our
 research speaks most directly, such as people with autism and their families, and young people
 who may be exposed to pressures concerning body image. For example, colleagues have made
 contributions to the mass media, such as Bell as an on- and off-screen consultant for a
 documentary on body image for the BBC’s The Truth About…Cosmetic Treatments, and
 Douglass’s appearance on The One Show (BBC, March 2018). Colleagues have also
 contributed highly read articles in online outlets, such as The Conversation (Bell, Davis) and the
 Beauty Demands Network blog (Bell, 31,000+ views). The unit’s research has attracted
 coverage in the popular print media, including Bell’s research in Cosmopolitan, The Times, The
 Sunday Times South Africa and Davis’ research in the i newspaper, The Telegraph and the
 Daily Mirror. Examples of events that colleagues have been involved in include talks at popular
 science events such as the Pint of Science festival (Bell, Cutting), the British Science Festival
 (Cole), the BPS’s Psychology in the Pub series (Demasi, Gibson), and at events aimed at
 specific groups such as the York Celebrates Autism event (Hamilton). We have also sought to
 make organisational contributions to initiatives that seek to engage the public with research,
 such as through Hamilton’s and Larkin’s co-facilitator role with the York Autism Community of
 Practice, and Humă’s role in the organisation of the York Pint of Science Festival.




                                                                                            Page 13
