Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: King’s College London

 Unit of Assessment: 5

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Research structure, vision and scope:
Our return in UoA5 comprises 34 current research teams, totalling 120 researchers, populating
The Randall Centre for Cell and Molecular Biophysics (Randall) in the newly established School of
Basic and Medical Biomedical Sciences within the Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine (FoLSM)
as well as two affiliated molecular biology teams in Forensics. The Randall brings together cell and
developmental biologists, structural and molecular biologists, biophysicists and chemists working
collaboratively to elucidate the mechanisms of cell and tissue function using innovative imaging
and biophysical approaches. We adopt an integrated multidisciplinary approach to biomedical
research at molecular, cellular and whole animal levels, and with an active interface with
associated clinical and Industry partners. Our research ethos exemplifies the King’s Strategic
Vision 2029 ambition, enabling the highest quality discovery-driven research, interdisciplinary
working and external partnerships to address key biomedical challenges. We showcase our
research to, and work with, a global audience of academics, commerce, social enterprise and
government, and recruit, develop and retain the best early career and established researchers.

Our 2021 return in UoA5 is smaller than in REF2014 (32.3 vs. 73.8FTE) and this reflects the 2017
change in Faculty structure at King’s resulting in the previously associated Neurobiology teams
joining the Faculty of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience (UoA4). The overall health
sciences strategy at King’s is to develop a translational pathway for our basic biomedical sciences
by linking into our extensive clinical base. The move of basic neurobiology into UoA4 reflects this
strategic vision. Collaborative links with UoA5 and neurobiology continued throughout the
assessment period (>25 co-authored publications and >£2M in shared grants) and close links with
cancer and other clinical disciplines provide the translational pipeline for the basic sciences in
UoA5. It is also notable that there are a number of additional basic biomedical researcher teams
embedded within other FoLSM departments (Immunology, Cancer, Cardiovascular), who are
returned in UoA1 along with their associated clinical colleagues. The restructuring also resulted in
the Randall joining 4 other departments (Genetics, Dermatology, Stem Cells and Human
Physiology) to form the School of Basic and Medical Biosciences. This has enabled new
collaborations across departments resulting in shared grants and PhD students, as well as
enabling implementation of cross-School equipment sharing and training, including the recent
Wellcome trust award for a laser Micro-dissection/tweezers system (PI Gautel; £0.4M) and
BBSRC ALERT19 to build a bespoke lightsheet microscope (PI Cox; £0.35M) facilitating new
research activity across a number of departments.

Our multi-disciplinary strategy and outlook mean much of the research in the Randall crosses UoA
boundaries, thus although its centre of mass lies in UoA5, >20% of the embedded staff have joint
appointments with other Schools and Faculties (Chemistry, Physics, Maths, Cardiovascular
Sciences, Immunology and Cancer/Pharmaceutical Sciences) or the Crick. This design
encourages and facilitates a seamless combination of molecular, cellular, tissue or whole animal
approaches in many labs. The interface between basic biomedical science and experimental
medicine has been further developed through our Academic Health Sciences Centre, King’s Health
Partners, with its Clinical Academic Groups that provide a set of translational and reverse-
translational pipelines linking basic science and clinical medicine and that Randall teams actively
participate in (see “Research Sections and Themes” and “Research Impact” below). New links at
that interface have also been stimulated by our NIHR-funded Comprehensive Biomedical
Research Centres (£64m; 2016-22) and associated translational PhD studentships, of which >40%
of UoA5 returnees have been recipients of, further demonstrating the synergistic interface between
fundamental molecular research and outstanding clinical questions. The interface with physical
sciences, engineering and maths is equally well developed, through different mechanisms. The
Physics/Biology interface has been a research focus for King’s since the 1950’s, following Franklin
and Wilkins contribution to the discovery of the structure of DNA, and this biophysics tradition

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
continues in the Randall. A major growth area has been in computational, structural and image
analysis, with the development of novel optical microscopy platforms and tools for super-resolution,
functional imaging, protein structure interrogation and cryo-electron microscopy. Links to the newly
established (2014) Chemistry department have increased through the research interests at the
chemical biology interface. Links to maths, computer science and informatics have been stimulated
by joint research grants and studentships (see Section 3). We also have strong links with the
Francis Crick Institute (Crick) through secondments, sabbaticals and shared students. The Randall
is housed in ~3000m2 of research space on the 2nd and 3rd floors of New Hunt’s House on the
Guys Campus, shared with some collaborating teams from School of Cancer and Pharmaceutical
Sciences. This space is designed specifically for our research needs and includes specialised
facilities and infrastructure to support the core research themes described below.

                                                                                  Single
Research Structure and Sections:                                                 molecule Lightsheet
Since 2014 we have made strategic investments in new                    NMR
                                                                                                          FRET
tenured staff and in our facilities to enhance our scientific               Molecular         Cellular
reach and enable us to position our research at the cutting     X-ray       biophysics       biophysics      AFM
edge of important new areas in biophysics and cell biology.
In 2018 our Research Sections were consolidated into                                                        Super-
three overarching themes that reflect the vision and scope      CryoEM                                    resolution
                                                                                       Muscle
of research within the Randall. There is significant                      EM         biophysics
collaboration between Sections, as evidenced by >100 co-                                          High content
                                                                                                    imaging
authored outputs and >40 shared grants from individuals                 Lipidomics
within these groups.                                                                 Biosensors

The Randall is Directed by Fraternali and comprises 3 research sections; Cellular Biophysics (led
by Eggert), Muscle Biophysics (led by Ehler) and Molecular Biophysics (led by Sutton). The
Randall Steering committee (comprised of the Director and section heads) meet every 2 months to
discuss funding, recruitment and staff support strategies. This information is then fed back for
discussion at the Randall research faculty meetings (every other month); the Randall PhD and
Research staff reps also join these meetings to ensure open discussion, transparency and clarity
on decision-making across our research base. Fraternali also sits on the School Executive
committee that meets monthly (that is chaired by Gautel, who is Head of School), and this
provides an opportunity to discuss emerging issues, input into School-wide plans and policy and
feedback to Randall staff on Faculty/School-led initiatives.

Molecular Biophysics.
Understanding protein structure is critical to defining function and invaluable in designing
therapeutic agents to alter protein function. The Molecular Biophysics Section, led by Sutton, has
a strong focus on Structural Biology and the determination of protein structures by X-ray
crystallography, cryoEM and NMR. These are supported by other biophysical techniques,
computational biology and bioinformatics. Current research interests span antibody-receptor
interactions in allergy (Beavil, McDonnell, Sutton, Gould); antibiotic resistance (Bergeron,
Sanderson, Fraternali); enzyme structure and mechanism (Conte, Steiner); protein-RNA and
protein-DNA interactions (Conte, Sanderson); anti-viral drug design (Fraternali, Sanderson);
cardiovascular structural biology (Conte, De Nicola, Gautel, Pfuhl (UoA1)); rational drug design
(Conte, De Nicola, Fraternali); muscle protein structure (Pfuhl, Steiner); single molecule force
spectroscopy (Garcia-Manyes (UoA9)); cytoplasmic transport proteins (Atherton, Steiner);
structural bioinformatics and molecular dynamics simulations (Fraternali). Extensive interactions
and collaborations exist between teams within this Section, as well as strong links with other
departments including Immunology (Fraternali, Sutton, McDonnell, Beavil, Gould), Cancer
(Conte, Fraternali), and Cardiovascular (Pfuhl, Fraternali, Steiner), combining techniques in
structural biology, molecular genetics and cell biology. The work of the section is supported by
recent successes in infrastructure funding (£3.6M to establish the new NMR Facility, see Section
3), and the Centre for Biomolecular Spectroscopy (£260K from BBSRC 19ALERT for an isothermal
titration calorimeter). Gautel (Muscle Biophysics) and Steiner are co-Is on the £3M Wellcome
Trust grant that enabled the establishment on the London Consortium of cryo-Electron Microscopy

                                                                                                      Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(LonCEM) equipped with state-of-the-art transmission electron microscope and detector.
Computational work relies on KCL infrastructure supercomputing facilities (‘Rosalind’).

Major achievements in the review period:
A major future focus for this section since 2014 was to extend emerging biophysical techniques to
the development of new therapeutics through increased partnering with clinicians and Industry. We
have achieved this goal in a number of ways: through development of new methods to characterise
enzyme structure, function and inhibition (Conte, De Nicola, Fraternali, Steiner); by performing
atomic-level structural studies to reveal new understanding of allostery and allosteric inhibition
(Beavil, Conte, Fraternali, McDonnell, Sutton);resolving structures of topoisomerase target
enzymes in complex with clinically important anti-microbial and anti-cancer drugs (Sanderson).
We have also investigated macromolecular events and processes to acquire a deeper
understanding of the molecular basis of health and disease states, developed new ways of
monitoring and manipulating them and to help develop new drugs that have the potential to be
translated into the clinic. In this respect, examples of partnerships with industry include the work on
IgE-receptor inhibition in a collaboration of Sutton, McDonnell, Beavil with the pharmaceutical
company UCB Pharma, that has led to a Phase I clinical trial of a small-molecule inhibitor, and
development of an antibody-based inhibitor, to treat allergic disease including asthma. We have
additionally developed prediction tools to identify regions of protein instability and protein-protein
interaction networks in cancer biology (Fraternali). At the fundamental level, we have made major
discoveries in the protein domain interactions involved in muscle assembly and dynamics (Pfuhl,
Steiner), mechanisms of cargo recognition by molecular motors (Steiner) and novel mechanisms
of protein-RNA interactions regulating gene expression (Conte) as well as performing analyses of
B-cell development and antibody class switching (Fraternali, Gould).

Future Plans:
   - With two new appointments in cryoEM (Bergeron, Atherton) we will establish a complete
       pipeline for single-particle structure determination and tomographic analysis, bringing these
       methodologies to bear on several projects: host-pathogen interactions and bacterial cell
       organisation (Bergeron, with Malim and others {UoA1]); kinesin regulator proteins and
       cytoskeletal organisation in neurons and glia (Atherton); muscle protein and microtubule-
       mediated transport processes (Steiner, Pfuhl, Gautel); antibody structure (IgE, IgD and
       IgM), antibody/antigen/receptor and B-cell receptor complexes (Sutton, McDonnell,
       Beavil, Gould, with Spillane, Karagiannis); higher-order DNA gated topoisomerase
       complexes with anti-microbial and anti-cancer drugs (Sanderson); protein/RNA assemblies
       and unconventional RNA-binding proteins in particular (Conte).
   - Defining targets for therapeutic intervention is a focus for much of the work of this Section,
       for example allergic disease (Sutton, McDonnell, Beavil, Gould), viral (Sanderson,
       Fraternali) and bacterial infection (Bergeron, Sanderson), cardiac disease (Steiner,
       Pfuhl, Gautel, Atherton, Fraternali) and cancer (Conte, Atherton, Sanderson,
       Fraternali). We shall also develop a novel, highly transferable low-cost pipeline using in-
       crystal fragment screening to develop protein-protein inhibitors (De Nicola, Fraternali).
   - We will develop and apply novel nanomechanical techniques to explore the conformational
       dynamics under force of proteins involved in cellular mechano-sensing and mechano-
       transduction, spanning the focal adhesion, cytoskeleton and nuclear levels (Garcia-
       Manyes (UoA9), Gautel). This will be further enabled by recent award of a Leverhulme
       Trust PhD programme to Garcia-Manyes (UoA9), entitled “Understanding the Mechanics of
       Life”.
   - Systems Immunology and Biology will be a focus (Fraternali), studying antibody class-
       switch recombination (with Gould), allosteric communication and inhibition (with
       McDonnell, Conte), and the RNA interactome (with Conte). We will expand our single-cell
       transcriptomics analyses to disease trajectories in COVID-19 patients (Fraternali).
       Development of tools to analyse healthy and disease-related variants (Cardiac and Cancer)
       will be directed to build a multi-omics data predictor of protein stability and inferred
       pathogenicity (with Gautel, Karagiannis, Capon, McGrath, Parsons).
   - The Centre for Biomolecular Spectroscopy (led by Conte) will remain the College-wide hub
       for NMR and other biophysical techniques (refer above to upgrade of facilities), as well as

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       for NMR-based proteomics analyses. We shall continue to forge new links with London
       partners including the LCN, The Crick and LonCEM, to further build our collaborative base
       and enable new technologies to be accessed for our research.


Cellular biophysics
Correct division and coordinated migration and adhesion of cells are essential for the
establishment and maintenance of multi-cellular organisms, developmental processes, wound
healing and immune responses, and also contribute to the progression of pathologies including
chronic inflammatory diseases and cancer. The Cellular Biophysics Section, led by Eggert, share
a common interest in studying the role of the cytoskeleton in cell division, adhesion, migration and
intracellular traffic. Teams in this section analyse the signalling networks controlling the
cytoskeleton, ranging from mechano-chemical stimuli to protein-protein interactions, to the roles of
membranes and lipids. We use cultured cells, model organisms and advanced microscopy coupled
with chemical, biochemical, biophysical and molecular biology tools and mathematical modelling to
study the dynamic movement and activation of proteins in cells. Advanced mass spectrometry is
also employed to identify key protein and lipid players in these processes. Many interactions and
collaborations exist between teams within this Section, as well as strong links and joint
appointments with the School of Cancer and Pharmaceutical Sciences (Rosenblatt, Ameer-Beg),
Physics (Spillane, Owen) and Chemistry (Eggert) departments, and with the BHF Centre of
Excellence (Parsons), Cancer Research UK Comprehensive Cancer Imaging Centre (Rosenblatt)
and Crick (Oliferenko).

Major achievements in the REF period:
An overarching ambition for this section from REF14 was to develop and apply new advanced live
imaging approaches to understand architectural changes in response to external cues. We have
achieved this goal at both organismal and multicellular levels, making important discoveries of how
the actin cytoskeleton and the extracellular environment work together to guide cell movement
during development (Stramer), defining how the crosstalk between the cytoskeleton and factors
influence the tumour microenvironment (Sanz-Moreno, until 2019) as well as seminal findings on
the role of mechanics in stretch-activated channel-mediated epithelial homeostasis (Rosenblatt).
At the cellular level, ground-breaking work showed that lipids are key interactors of the
cytoskeleton, with essential roles in the division of different yeast species (Oliferenko) and human
cells (Eggert). Many teams used innovative imaging approaches to discover and characterise the
roles of proteins involved in cellular processes mediated by the cytoskeleton (Ridley, Jones,
Krause, Oliferenko, Eggert, Parsons, Dodding until 2018, Rosenblatt). Molecular mechanisms
were investigated, including those governing the spatial organisation and signalling of membrane
receptors that trigger cytoskeletal assembly in the context of inflammation and cancer (Parsons).
New techniques were developed for super-resolution and biomechanical imaging (Cox, Owen,
Parsons, Spillane), fluorescence lifetime imaging (Ameer-Beg, Suhling (UoA9)), single molecule
imaging (Cox, Ameer-Beg, Padilla-Parra (UoA1)) and multiphoton-based intravital imaging
(Ameer-Beg, Ng (UoA1)) improved by adaptive optics and applied to image pathophysiological
processes in live animals in vivo. We also recently established novel high-content imaging
platforms for cancer cells and tissues for drug/siRNA screens and prognostic disease marker
discovery (Ameer-Beg).

Future plans:
   - A number of groups will focus on the mechano-biological stimulation and regulation of the
       cytoskeleton (Parsons, Cox, Oliferenko, Stramer); Eggert, Rosenblatt and Spillane are
       part of a very recently awarded BBSRC sLola grant to understand how mechanical forces
       regulate cellular monolayers. Within this theme, we will develop new probes to study
       mechanically-driven changes to proteins in live cells and whole organisms and then apply
       these to understand how cells sense mechanical changes in the environment and how this
       leads to fibrotic diseases (Parsons, Stramer). We will also use these probes to measure
       and image forces cross immune cell membranes and define how these contribute to B-cell
       activation (Spillane). This will be further enabled by recent award of a Leverhulme Trust
       PhD programme (“Understanding the Mechanics of Life”) to Garcia-Manyes (UoA9).

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   -   Protein-lipid interactions play a key part in defining cell division and cytoskeletal dynamics,
       and we will develop novel tools to identify and image lipids in live cells, including a new
       class on molecular ’rulers to assess altered lipid packing within live cell membranes
       (Eggert).
   -   We will perform advanced high-content imaging of cancer cells (Parsons) and tissues
       (Ameer-Beg) for prognostic disease marker discovery. Multiscale (whole body and
       nanoscale) imaging of pathophysiological processes, coupled to quantitative analyses
       developed within the Institute for Mathematical and Molecular Biomedicine, and super-
       resolution imaging of protein network organisation, coupled to genomic analyses, of both
       normal and disease states.
   -   Thanks to awards from the BBSRC, Parsons, Cox and Ameer-Beg will collaborate
       together to build two new super-resolution light sheet instruments for analysis of 3D in vitro
       and in vivo model systems to study interactions between different cell types involved in
       inflammatory disease and cancer.


Muscle biophysics
The Muscle Biophysics section, led by Ehler, study all aspects of striated muscle function from the
molecular, via the cellular, to the organismal level. They study the basics of muscle function in its
smallest contractile unit, the sarcomere, and how gene regulatory networks define the fate of a
muscle cell. The maintenance of the complex cytoarchitecture and regulation of protein turnover
and disposal of damaged or mutant proteins is also a key area of interest, along with mechano-
signalling that regulates muscle function. Skeletal muscle and interactions between cells and their
surrounding tissue niche during limb development and establishment of muscle-nerve cell contacts
are other key areas of interest. Section members study the genetic regulation of the development
of the musculoskeletal and cardiac systems (Hughes, Logan, Wardle, Zammit), the pathways
controlling the assembly and turnover of contractile structures (Gautel, Ehler (UoA1)) and the
molecular mechanisms underlying muscle contraction and its regulation (Brunello, Fusi, Irving,
Kampourakis, Pfuhl (UoA1)). These teams use genetic, cell biological, biophysical and structural
approaches to enable analysis of the proteins responsible for signalling, and the structural integrity
of muscle, its renewal from endogenous stem cells, and the impact of mutations that underlie the
pathology of muscle. Some teams (Ehler, Gautel, Irving, Pfuhl) are also members of the School
of Cardiovascular Medicine and Sciences and the British Heart Foundation Centre of Research
Excellence, renewed (£6M) in 2019 for a further 5 years. This section currently supports four
fellows, three BHF funded (Brunello, De Nicola, Kampourakis) and one Wellcome Trust (Fusi),
all of whom progressed from postdoc to independence within the Randall.

Major achievements in the REF period:
We have continued our exploration of muscle function from the basic mechanisms of contraction to
analysis of development and disease. Our recent discoveries include solving the molecular
structure and hence establishment of crucial regulatory mechanisms for the Z-disc protein alpha-
actinin (Gautel) and the discovery of a completely novel fundamental concept for the regulation of
muscle contraction at the thick filament level, which rewrites textbook knowledge (Irving, Fusi and
Brunello for skeletal muscle; Brunello for cardiac muscle). Using mouse and zebrafish models,
the orchestration of muscle bundle formation during development (Logan) as well as mechanisms
that regulate mesoderm and muscle formation were worked out (Wardle, Hughes). Other studies
linked ultrastructural changes with pathological signalling in heart disease (Ehler) and explored
disease mechanisms of FSH Muscular Dystrophy (Zammit).

Future plans:
   - Our future focus is on exploring the basis of heart disease through detailed analysis of
       proteins such as myosin and titin at the structural (Gautel, Pfuhl) and functional (Brunello,
       Irving) level and using this new knowledge on muscle protein function and cardiomyopathy
       signalling to screen for new drugs to treat heart disease (De Nicola, Ehler, Kampourakis).
   - We will also explore novel mechanisms that regulate contraction of skeletal and cardiac
       muscle at the level of the thick filament are analysed using X-ray diffraction (Brunello,
       Fusi, Irving).

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   -   We will develop cutting edge model systems to study heart and skeletal muscle disease
       such as iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes in 2D and 3D culture (Ehler) and iPSC-derived
       skeletal muscle in 3D (Zammit). Studies will explore the role of muscle-connective tissue
       fibroblasts in congenital diseases (Logan) and analyse the role of activity, force and
       regulated translation in muscle growth (Hughes).
   -   Mechanisms of myogenic specification will be determined by identifying transcriptional
       complexes and gene regulatory networks required to drive heart and skeletal muscle
       progenitor cell fate (Wardle, Zammit). Fundamental translational work includes studies to
       understand the molecular basis of FHS Muscular Dystrophy (Zammit) and of the structural
       basis of myopathies caused by sarcomeric, cytoskeletal and autophagy pathway gene
       mutations (Gautel).


Research impact:
Research is the Randall is highly interdisciplinary meaning we are well positioned to contribute to a
broad base of medical and technical challenges that sit outside the boundaries of academia, as
well as extensive public engagement activities (detailed in Section 4). Our research has attracted
>25 new national and international Industry partners and over the last 7 years that have driven
development of innovative tools and new therapies with direct impact on the broader community.
Most of these relationships are through company-led approaches to our PIs, underlining our
international profile in this area. Some examples of these activities are detailed below.
   -   Ameer-Beg and Ng (UoA1) have developed a novel imaging technique for
       visualisation of complex protein-protein interactions called Fluorescence Lifetime
       Imaging Microscopy Förster Resonance Energy Transfer (FLIM-FRET). FLIM-FRET has
       shown in tumour biopsies that certain protein combinations predicted either effectiveness or
       resistance to specific drugs and this technology can help target treatments to the right
       patients, resulting in reduced healthcare costs, reduced morbidity and improved survival.
       Drawn by this revolutionary technology, Pharma companies have funded FLIM-FRET
       projects to develop and evaluate novel cancer drugs and a spin-out company, Nanolinical,
       was created to further develop and commercialise this technique.
   -   Gould and Karagiannis (UoA1) identified an alternative family of antibodies (IgE) to
       treat solid tumours. They developed the antibody from conception, revealing how IgE
       functions, through to translation into a Phase I clinical trial with promising results. This body
       of work has resulted in the creation of a spinout company, IGEM Therapeutics Ltd. This
       company has secured >£7m of investment and a patent covering antibodies of this class in
       three international territories.
   -   Baron developed a new process for recovering human fingerprint evidence on
       poached ivory to combat an estimated $23 billion a year illegal wildlife trade. Until then,
       fingerprints were not used routinely as a source of evidence on ivory or other poached
       animal items due to their high instability. Toolkits developed by Baron and the Metropolitan
       Police were funded by the International Fund for Animal Welfare and provided to law
       enforcement agencies in >40 countries where they are now in use by rangers, border
       officials and police at the front line. The team contributed to Government-sponsored
       technology intervention strategies, Parliamentary debates and provided support leading to
       poacher arrests using fingerprints for the first time. This technology enabled Interpol and
       the City of London Police to establish the first global fingerprint database for wildlife crime.
   -   Fraternali developed bioinformatic tools for analysis of clinical samples.
       BRepertoireTM is an online platform that analyses the antibody profiles and has been used
       to monitor immune responses in autoimmune diseases, allergic responses and tumour-
       immune profiles from patients. In collaboration with Gautel, Fraternali has also developed
       TITINdb, a web-based tool to map mutations in the Titin gene that lead to types of muscular
       dystrophy. The titin gene is one of the largest in the human genome and the majority of
       healthy individuals possess one or more rare missense variants making it previously
       impossible to accurately map and track common pathogenic mutations. This tool has been
       used by clinicians in the UK, EU and US to map titin mutations and is now used for genetic
       prognosis and counselling for affected families as well as to define regions of this giant
       protein for therapeutic targeting.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   -   The ground-breaking structure-function work on IgE by Sutton, Beavil and McDonnell has
       led directly to the development of two novel anti-IgE drugs: a biologic anti-IgE and a
       small-molecule anti-IgE drug (patents granted in 2020). Allergic diseases including asthma,
       urticaria and food allergies affect more than a billion people worldwide. All of these
       disorders utilise the molecule immunoglobulin E (IgE) to trigger pathological allergic
       reactions. These drugs, developed with industrial partner UCB Pharma, utilise novel
       inhibitory mechanisms, and are expected to be more efficacious and treat a larger group of
       potential patients than existing drugs with recruitment into clinical trials commencing in
       early 2021.
   -   Our development and application of advanced imaging has driven industry
       collaboration and investment. Cox has developed a number of advanced super-
       resolution image analysis algorithms and is currently at the late stage of negotiations with
       the global microscope manufacturer Nikon to commercialise this software for use worldwide
       by researchers. Parsons has 3 ongoing collaborations with Biotech companies (Amryt,
       Spinogenix and Paracrine), all of which focus on the application of advanced microscopy to
       define mechanism of action of first-in-class drugs for targeting the cytoskeleton in diverse
       disease processes.
   -   UoA5 researchers pivoted to apply their research skills to aide in the understanding
       of the molecular basis of COVID19 during the 2020 pandemic period. Bergeron applied
       his extensive knowledge of ultrastructural regulation of pathogen entry to analyse a protein
       (Orf10) within the SARS-CoV-2 virus responsible for COVID19. Orf10, is only found in
       SARS-CoV-2, and not in any other coronaviruses and may be responsible for the
       asymptomatic period in infection, a critical factor in the COVID-19 pandemic. Bergeron, in
       collaboration with Steiner and Malim (UoA1) are using cryoEM to identify the molecular
       basis for Orf10 targets. This will reveal new factors that need to be degraded for the virus to
       replicate and could be exploited for the design of antiviral drugs. Sanderson, funded
       through a rapid response ‘King’s Together’ internal pump priming award (£20k), established
       a collaboration with Rosta and Cobb (UoA8) to rationally design and test potential drugs
       targeting the SARS-CoV2 helicase using a structure-function approach. This ongoing work
       will provide means to validate therapeutic mode of action prior to pre-clinical/clinical testing.

Research Integrity:
We are strongly committed to compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data, and King’s
are a signatory on the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment and the Concordat to
support Research Integrity (see REF5a). Our practices in Research Integrity have evolved in the
Randall to ensure we are adopting robust procedures for investigating and resolving allegations of
research misconduct to incorporate the requirement to notify funders at the stage of an informal
investigation should it be deemed necessary. We have clarified the procedure on the
categorisation of allegations that are not upheld fully but have substance, to make it clear whether
research misconduct has been committed or is more reflective of poor practice in research. We
work closely with the Research Integrity team, Centre for Research Staff Development and Centre
for Doctoral Studies to offer training to our research staff in these important areas. These changes
have led to improved online visibility and provision of a generic mailbox for any queries related to
research integrity. King’s have committed extra resources for this, with a new Research Integrity
Manager role dedicated to this area, and Academic Dean for Research Governance, Ethics, and
Integrity. Parsons acts as Faculty Research Integrity Lead to actively promote, educating and
administering our Strategy in this area across all 7 Schools.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People
Staffing Strategy
Currently, the Randall faculty staff is comprised of                          Faculty gender
47% Professors, 14% Readers; 8% Senior
                                                               40
Lecturers; 17% Lecturers and 14% Fellows (35%F,                          Female
                                                                         Male
65%M; see graph). Our recruitment strategy is
                                                               30




                                                         % total faculty
designed to maintain and strengthen existing
areas, nurture talent and to develop new teams to
                                                               20
address emerging questions in our research focus
areas of cryoEM, optical biophysics and
                                                               10
bioinformatics. This is evidenced by the high
number of new fellowship holders in UoA5 in the
                                                                0
current REF period: Cox (Royal Society Senior                      Fellow Lecturer SLecturer Reader Prof
URF), Fusi, Dodding (Henry Dale), Iskratsch,
Brunello, Sun, Kampourakis and de Nicola (BHF) and Sanz-Moreno (CRUK). Of these, Cox,
Brunello and Kampourakis have transitioned to tenured Faculty positions within the Randall and
Sanz-Moreno, Caudron and Iskratsch moved to QMUL in 2018/9 and Dodding to Bristol in 2018
to take up tenured posts. We have additionally recruited 5 new Group Leaders as tenured
academic staff since 2014: Atherton, Bergeron and Fleck to strengthen our research base in
electron microscopy/structural cryoEM; and Rosenblatt and Oliferenko who bring world-leading
expertise in molecular mechanisms underpinning cytoskeletal dynamics. We provide long-term
support to our research fellows with the goal of facilitating transfer to a HEFCE-funded position
when their research group is well established. This includes mentoring and regular progress
reviews, advice on funding applications through workshops and peer-to-peer learning groups, initial
embedding in established host labs where appropriate, and access to shared research
facilities/infrastructure. In addition to the fellowship track, our strategic appointments at senior level
(Rosenblatt, Bergeron, Fleck, Oliferenko) came with an established research group supported
by grants. The appointees at more junior levels who need to build a research group on their arrival
are supported to do so in the same way as described above for Fellows, with reduced teaching
commitments to ensure they have dedicated research time.

Equality and Diversity
Our commitment to EDI is embedded across the Randall governance, operations and culture. In
2014, the Randall secured its own Athena Swan Silver Award and in 2018 it helped to secure a
Faculty-level Athena SWAN Silver Award. We are passionate about the role and importance of
leadership in visibly championing our commitment to EDI principles and to ensuring EDI principles
feed into all decision-making and operations. A Faculty Vice-Dean for Development, Diversity &
Inclusion (DDI) was created in 2017 and they sit on the Faculty Executive and ensure that EDI
principles and priorities inform strategic planning and outcomes. The Vice-Dean works with the
embedded School DDI Teams and chairs the Faculty DDI Committee, represented by Faculty
Academic and professional services DDI Leads. The DDI Team/Committee oversee
implementation of the Faculty Inclusion Action Plan. Logan and Ehler both sit on the School DDI
committee and in this role, they champion and embed talent development, EDI principles and
processes across all the activities we undertake in the Randall.
Awareness of our commitment of EDI is high across our UoA. The 2019 King’s Staff Survey
showed 96% of our staff were aware of our commitment to EDI; 91% agreed we were committed to
an inclusive environment; and 92% agreed we acted fairly, regardless of protected characteristics.
Our recent Staff survey also showed that 95% of staff are aware of Athena SWAN and 89% had
undertaken Diversity Matters training. We have also improved key transition points for all research
and support staff, including introducing comprehensive induction packs, including dedicated time
for career progression and impact generation discussions in our PDR process, as well as
improving awareness and access to flexible working. This has been particularly important during
the COVID19 pandemic era, where many of our research staff (particularly ‘dry lab’ bioinformatics
research teams) have had to adapt to working from home. In recognition of this, we provided funds
to cover costs of establishing an appropriate home working environment (eg: monitor, ergonomic

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                          chair) to all staff who required it. Indeed, our recent staff
             Staff demographics
                                          survey shows an increased proportion (73%) of staff
                                          taking up informal flexible working and we are strongly
                                          committed to supporting individuals who choose to work
                                          from home where possible, and who have caring or
                                          other commitments that require working flexibly during
                                          the pandemic period and beyond. Our research staff
                                          community are highly diverse in terms of origin and
                                          ethnicity with >20 different nationalities represented as
       Female White           UK          shown on the left.
       Female BME             EU
       Male White             non-EU
       Male BME

Research staff training and career progression
All research staff in UoA5 associated teams are provided a welcome induction pack, orientation
guidance and meeting with our professional services teams when they start. They all participate in
our annual performance development review (PDR) process, which focuses on their personal
development. Our latest staff survey showed 83% of new starters agreed their induction was
welcoming; and 84% agreed that career development was discussed effectively at PDR. We
introduced a mentorship programme in which researchers are supported by experienced PIs in
other groups, either within the Randall or other Departments/Schools. A ‘post-doc champion’
represents the researchers at Randall and School level and helps develop bottom-up initiatives,
like the Guy’s Researchers’ Society, which organise seminars/workshops on careers,
entrepreneurship and research. Our PhD students and post-docs are also encouraged to assist
with teaching (tutorials/practicals) for <30h a year, for which they receive accredited training (10
credits of 180-credit level7 Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice). Research fellows
gradually increase teaching to reach the level of a first year academic. All our researchers are
supported in preparing for wider career opportunities (Principles 3-5 of the Concordat) with generic,
science specific, and post-doc specific courses. We also promote EDI through Department-led
participation in KCL-wide activities. We provide a wide range of strategic programmes/networks to
promote equality of opportunity and achievement, e.g. the B-MEntor scheme for Black and Minority
Ethnic group staff, the Career Break Fund for academic staff returning from a career break (e.g.
maternity/paternity, adoption leave), the Women’s Network, and the Springboard Women’s
Development Programme for research staff.

Our approach to EDI in the Randall strongly aligns with the Faculty plans for a commitment to “take
collective responsibility and accountability for development and inclusion of research staff”, and
Faculty Vice-Deans for DDI, Research and Impact & Innovation (Parsons holds the latter role)
have specific responsibility for supporting research staff in these areas. We have reviewed the
appraisal paperwork and guidance in consultation with our research staff, to ensure the process
facilitates constructive discussion around mentoring, training and progression. In 2015, we
established a Faculty Research Staff Network, which connects research staff and provides peer-
mentoring, information about training/progression opportunities and representation on
Faculty/School decision-making committees. We proactively communicate King’s provision for
mentoring and training, offered by the King’s Centre for Research Staff Development, host
workshops on grant and fellowship application writing, provide travel awards and enable local
training/development initiatives across our departments through funding, advice and training via
our Randall DDI Team.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

16 members of our Faculty (>40%) have been promoted in                                            Promotion gender
the current REF period (9F, 7M) and constructive promotion                           30          Female
                                                                                                 Male
discussions take place at annual PDR meetings to provide




                                                                % total promotions
guidance on routes to progress to the next level. Our                                20
promotion process has evolved over the past 7 years to
formally recognise individualised levels of achievement and
                                                                                     10
commitment to education, research and impact to ensure all
activities are properly considered and weighted
appropriately. Our new Faculty members are appointed on                              0
                                                                                          Fellow> Lecturer> SLecturer> Reader>
3-year probation and are guided through this process by                                   Lecturer SLecturer Reader     Prof
their dedicated mentor through regular meetings and                                                   Career stage
evaluation of progression criteria.


Research students
                                                 Of the students who were in their first year in 2014,
         PhD student demographics                2015 or 2016, 100% successfully submitted their
                                                 PhD's within 4 years. We currently have 43 full
                                                 time and 2 part-time PhD students within our labs
                                                 and an additional 15 who are registered in other
                                                 research centres outside of the Randall but
                                                 conduct the majority of their research in the
                                                 Randall. PhD students are all on 3- or 4-year
                                                 funded programmes. 21 students within the return
                                                 period are/were funded by various research
       Female BME                UK
                                                 councils (MRC, BBSRC, EPSRC, STFC) with an
       Male BME                  EU
       Female White              non-EU          additional 6 funded through Industrial CASE
       Male White                                collaboration awards (supported by UCB, Zeiss,
                                                 Tocris, Cairn, Novartis and MedImmune). We
apply the principles of EDI in our PhD student recruitment and throughout the environment in the
Randall. We maintain a continued balance in our PhD student gender ratios, with ~20% of our
students identifying as BME (see graph). Half our PhD students are from the UK, with the
remaining students split equally between EU and non-EU nations (see graph) with 13 nationalities
currently represented in our cohort. Notably, Randall hosts the Darwin Trust of Edinburgh PhD
programme; we have elected to restrict recruitment to this programme to candidates from Africa to
increase our representation of PhD students from this region. To date we have recruited 5 students
from Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa.
All new PhD students in the Randall have a welcome lunch to be introduced to the Head of School,
PGR lead, Education Operations Officer, departmental PGR coordinators and student reps.
Structures of Thesis Committees (TC) and progression are explained, as are roles of PGR
coordinators, lead and departmental/School support for PGR students. We inform students and
supervisors on expectations, the PhD journey, training for teaching, Faculty travel awards,
membership of professional societies, bullying/harassment and the School blog. A Randall-specific
mandatory induction is focussed on health and safety and is signed off by the Technical Manager
before students are start laboratory work. All new Randall PhD students are also assigned a
‘buddy’ from current students to support their arrival and integration into the department.

All academic staff must pass a course on PhD supervision with compulsory refresher online
interactive webinars every 2 years. Selection of students is based on a competitive interview by
committee, using Graduate School guidelines for consistency. Students have 2 supervisors, 35%
are shared with teams outside the Randall within King’s or other London HEI’s/Crick. This offers
opportunities for the students to experience alternative environments and broaden their academic
networks. The Randall has a Postgraduate Advisory Committee chaired by its Postgraduate
Coordinator to oversee student progression. Every student has a TC, comprised of supervisors,
two external experts and a Chair. TCs meet every 6 months, and these provide an important forum
for the student to present their findings, review training and seek input on future plans and

                                                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
additional training/mentorship if required. Progress reports are completed online every six months
(from month3 onwards) by the student, supervisor and TC Chair. At the end of Year1, each student
writes a report that is examined by the TC and gives an oral presentation before upgrading from
MPhil to PhD. All students must attend programmes on scientific management (project design,
data handling, ethics etc), and generic skills (communication, networking, teamworking etc). A
postgraduate coordinator serves on the TC of each Randall PhD student and a Confidential
Advisor support service is provided where students can discuss issues of concern with a member
staff outside their Department. The Faculty also has a PGR Student Welfare academic lead who
provides independent support when required.

The Centre for Doctoral Studies is a King’s-wide centre with responsibility for the postgraduate
research student experience. The mission of this centre is to equip our research students to excel
by setting and enhancing standards, providing support, training, and improving provision for
postgraduate students. Support for researchers includes a programme of >300 free workshops
annually. We offer an online PGR wellbeing toolkit, and a Stress management PGR wellbeing und
from 2019. King’s also offer free premium LinkedIn accounts for PGR students; all Randall
students are strongly encouraged to establish a profile to boost their visibility to external employers
and better develop their global networks. Our efforts have led to 48% of our PGR students during
the REF period undertaking internships /shadowing within non-academic sectors, many of which
have led to future employment in these areas.
Our ethos in the Randall is one of open and collaborative research, with the students taking full
advantage of the communal lab philosophy and open access to shared equipment and core
technical support. In addition to developing a close working relationship within their own group (lab
meetings, journal clubs and presentations), they also have their own PhD seminar/journal club
program and PhD student pizza nights that they operate independently of supervisors. School
student reps organise an annual careers day, inviting PhD graduates working in diverse sectors to
provide advice on future direction. A highlight of the year is our School annual postgraduate
symposium where the final year students give talks and others present posters, judged by a panel
of postdoctoral researchers with feedback given after the event. We also award an annual £250
prize in memory of Jeni Fordham (a PI in the Randall from 1974-2009) to the PhD student who has
made a particular contribution to the lives/ morale of the Randall that year. All students regularly
present at national and international conferences, with designated funds available for this. External
visiting speakers (leaders in their fields) meet the students over lunch to develop networking skills
and build confidence. Notably, in the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, Randall
PhD students reported 89% satisfaction with their overall experience, compared to an overall KCL
score of 79%, underlining the success of our strong focus on inclusivity, support and creating a
nurturing research environment.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Income:
Annual research income for the UoA5 returnees within the current REF period came from a variety
of sources (see below) and was higher annually than for the previous period (2008-13), with an
average annual income of £6.59M per annum compared with £4.8M previously.


                                            UKRI, Royal Society, British Academy
                                            and Royal Society of Edinburgh
                                            UK-based charities
                                            UK central government
                                            UK industry, commerce & public corporations
                                            UK other sources
                                            EU government bodies
                                            EU charities and industry
                                            EU other
                                            Non-EU charities
                                            Non-EU industry/other
           Total=£46.16M

UKRI and UK charities are our major funders. Research Council income increased ~20% to
~£2.7Mp.a. Income from UK-based Charities was also increased ~14% to £2.49Mp.a. Substantial
notable investments in our portfolio include 4 MRC programme grants, 3 Wellcome Investigator
Awards, 3 BBSRC SLoLa awards, 2 ERC Consolidator grants, a CRUK senior fellowship and a
Wellcome Collaborator award. The remainder is accounted for by income from UK government, EU
and industry. These figures do not include major cross-School/Faculty funding initiatives such as
our two NIHR Biomedical research Centres (total £130M) and the BHF Centre for Research
Excellence (£9M in the 2013-19 period, recently renewed for an additional £6m) of which we are
major beneficiaries.

In addition to grant funding, our extensive interactions with Industry have led to ~£0.8M p.a. in-kind
investment from our partners (including AstraZeneca, Zeiss, UCB, MedImmune, Nikon, JEOL,
Olympus and Novartis). These funds have supported activities such as high content drug
screening for cancer and inflammatory disease, new high-resolution microscopy instrument
development and generation of new modified chemical compounds for optogenetic analysis of
signalling. Nine UoA5 returnees also act as consultants for Industry and through this, have
influenced changes in commercial pipeline development and strategy.

Leadership and investment in infrastructure and sustainability:
Our multidisciplinary organization into Research Departments and Centres facilitates a culture of
maximal sharing of infrastructure and facilities, both within and between Departments/Centres, and
more widely across the College through the centralized Core facilities Analytical Platforms Board
that co-ordinates such facilities across King’s (of which Parsons is a member). Within the Randall,
our policy is to use shared facilities to disseminate critical mass in specialist fields and to exploit
synergies that arise from our multidisciplinary approaches. There is a high level of exchange
between labs of technologies, practical expertise, reagents, and ideas, and instruments are
available to all research staff through an online booking system. Infrastructure is available to
support the very wide range of work that we undertake, from detailed studies on molecules to
whole animal models, using a range of biophysical, structural, cell and molecular biology
techniques. Our open-access policy allows early career researchers to access state-of-the-art
instrumentation to obtain preliminary data for grant application submissions. Animal facilities in
close proximity to our labs are available for full phenotypic characterization of Drosophila, zebrafish
and mice and for all of the surgical procedures required for gain and loss of function studies. Mice
have also been moved into individually ventilated cages to secure a much higher level of
biosecurity.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Infrastructure types
Three returnees from the Randall have key leadership roles in the establishment, management
and Scientific direction of 4 of the 8 major core facilities at King’s. These PI’s have also been
heavily involved in securing large-scale investment for these facilities, through external grant
funding and collaborations with key Industrial partners. In recognition of the strategic importance of
remaining at the cutting edge of biophysics and optical technology to support our excellent
research base, Kings have prioritised investing in these technology platforms. Through attracting
significant external funding, the total internal and external investment in these platforms since 2014
has been £23.5M: £11.3M (CUI), £4.1M (NMR), £5.3M (NIC) and £2.8M (MIC). The 4 facilities that
we have oversight of are:
Nikon Imaging Centre (Parsons)
Microscopy Innovation Centre (Parsons)
NMR Facility (Conte)
Centre for Ultrastructural Imaging (CUI) (Fleck)

Our facilities at King’s for optical microscopy are probably unmatched in the UK, and much of this
activity has been led by UoA5 returnees. We have led the development of the Nikon Imaging
Centre (NIC) at King’s, the only such Centre in the UK and one of 9 globally, which provides 12
state-of- the-art instruments currently including N-SIM and N-STORM Super Resolution
microscopes in a partnership agreement (2011-2021; with the 3rd 5-year contract with Nikon signed
in Dec’20) that allows continuous upgrading and replacement as new instruments are developed.
Nikon have thus far invested >£6M in the NIC@King’s and in 2018, designated this facility as a
European Centre of Excellence in Super-resolution microscopy. Our physicists (Ameer-Beg, Cox
and Suhling (UoA9)) and biophysicists (Spillane, Owen) are also working with Industry partners to
develop new applications in super-resolution microscopy with UKRI funding. Many other
microscopes are located within the Randall, including 2 spinning-disc and 5 confocal microscopes.
The Randall continues to pioneer cutting edge developments in optical imaging (e.g. FRET/FLIM,
single molecule, mechano-imaging) and this recognised excellence has attracted numerous
collaborative projects within King’s and other leading research teams across the world.

The Microscopy Innovation Centre (MIC) grew from this extensive microscopy instrument
development activity across King’s. The MIC was established by Parsons, Ameer-Beg and Cox in
April 2018 with £0.6M of investment from King’s to act as a unique hub for innovation and provision
of advanced imaging solutions developed by King’s academics to the research community. Optical
microscopy development is moving faster than commercial pipelines, meaning biomedical
researchers rarely have access to truly cutting-edge imaging technology, restricting the potential
impact of these instruments. Commercially available microscopy platforms are limited in
functionality and do not offer the potential for easy adaptation to suit bespoke experimental set-
ups. The MIC bridges this gap and makes bespoke optical instrumentation accessible to non-
experts to achieve cutting-edge, transformative solutions to biological challenges. 14 associated
industrial partners have donated hardware for development in the MIC totalling over £2.2M, and
additional partnering with 5 SMEs has enabled placement of instruments into the MIC on long-term
loan to enable interactions with a broad range of users and receive essential feedback for future
development. The MIC currently supports users from King’s as well as 4 others HEI’s across the
UK and has secured £0.7M of funding to date through external grants from BBSRC to develop new
instrumentation for delivery to the life sciences community.

The King’s NMR Facility provides research scientists with access to cutting edge nuclear magnetic
resonance spectrometers equipped to address a range of problems of biological interest. The
Facility supports researchers by maintaining a pool of expertise in biomolecular NMR spectroscopy
and providing training and assistance as required. A team of King’s College London academics led
by the NMR Facility Director Conte were awarded a multi-user equipment grant from Wellcome
and the British Heart Foundation to develop a state-of-the-art NMR Facility for high-resolution,
high-throughput applications in structural biology, metabolic profiling and drug discovery. The
£3.31M funding, including a £1.31M investment from King’s, has provided new 800MHz (18.8T)
and 600 MHz (14.1T) NMR spectrometers with automation capabilities and builds on the existing

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
scientific excellence in the Randall, Centre for Biomolecular Spectroscopy and King’s BHF Centre
of Research Excellence.

The CUI underwent a transformative programme of refurbishment and investment since the 2014
REF and following recruitment of Fleck in 2014 as the new CUI Director. King’s centrally provided
£1.5M in 2013-2015 to undertake the refurbishment required to transform the CUI into an
environment suited for high resolution EM with cryo sample preparation. King’s invested a further
£1.7M in new equipment, and thanks to in-kind contributions worth ~£3m from JEOL, Leica and
other Industrial partners, and two Welcome Trust Equipment grants (£1.6M). This investment has
resulted in the state-of-the-art facility in the quantitative ultrastructural analysis of cells and tissues,
transforming a wide range of research of King’s and its Health Partners. Research staff are trained
to work with CUI staff to optimize tissue preparation, image acquisition and quantitative analysis. A
cohort of ‘super user’ research staff trained to be independent in pursuing their projects is
emerging in groups with a long-term commitment to EM analysis. The range of expertise and
equipment available in the CUI now enables novel and transformative analysis of biological
samples. This scientific progress owes much to our collaborations with external academic and
commercial partners, and our partnership in the Rosalind Franklin Institute (RFI), Nikon
Mathematical Research Division (who fund a PDRA to develop 3View and FIB-SEM tomography)
and a new collaboration with Michael Spraling (King’s Informatics, UoA11).

Fleck is also King’s lead for the RFI, funded at £106 million for the first 5 years. King’s is a
principal “spoke” supporting correlative EM in two major work streams: to develop pulsed electron
source TEM; and to develop correlation technologies linking temporal and spatial data across
extended dimensional scales. This major opportunity for King’s provides benefits in early adopter
access to new instruments, influence over instrument development and high impact collaborations
with RFI. King’s collaborations on this initiative also include AI innovation (Informatics), soft matter
research (Physics/Engineering/Chemistry) and multiscale correlation (Life Sciences). Longer term,
our partnership in RFI will allow us to build a stable presence of staff and equipment in the Institute
to develop advanced sub-tomographic imaging, currently available in a handful of institutions
worldwide.

We also partner with other London-based Universities and with the Crick in major investments and
initiatives in research facilities. The London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN) is a UK-based
multidisciplinary enterprise operating at the forefront of science and technology. The LCN began
as a joint venture between University College London and Imperial College London in 2003, and
from 2018 King's joined the collaboration to further extend the capabilities and deliver access to
our state-of-the-art facilities and training to research staff within partner London HEI’s. The Centre
accesses and focusses combined skills of all three universities, has strong relationships with the
broader nanotechnology/commercial communities and is involved in many major collaborations,
nationally and internationally. Within the Randall, Parsons/Fleck both sit on the King’s LCN
Steering Committee, and Parsons on the LCN Executive Strategy Board. Within these roles they
provide leadership in strategic development of the LCN and co-ordination of access and
collaboration across London.

The London Centre for cryo-Electron Microscopy (LonCEM) brings together researchers from
Imperial College London (IC), Institute of Cancer Research (ICR), King’s College London (KCL),
Queen Mary University London (QMUL), the Crick and provides a high-resolution cryo-EM facility
to enable excellent research, collaborations and training. The Centre was established following a
£3M multi-user equipment award led by IC with ICR, KCL and QMUL as partner institutions. All
members contributed matching funds. This allowed the acquisition of a state-of-the-art Titan Krios
transmission electron microscope installed at the FCI. The LonCEM opened in March 2020.
Steiner and Gautel are co-Is on the Wellcome Trust grant and Steiner represents King’s in the
LonCEM Management Committee. Sutton co-ordinates access to the Harwell complex Diamond
beamlines for the entire King’s structural biology community. Fraternali also sits on the selection
board of the EPSRC supercomputing facility in Cambridge, of which King’s is a partner.



                                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
All of our returnees are heavily involved in the peer-review process for leading journals and
national/international grant awarding bodies and regularly attend conferences as invited and
keynote speakers. All are external examiners for BSc courses and PhD theses. Many are on
national and international advisory boards and collaborate extensively with Industry. The above
sections provide evidence for the multidisciplinary and collaborative nature of our research with
both academia and industry. Some examples of our other achievements and responsibilities,
collaborations and reviewing for journals and funding bodies are highlighted below.

Fellowships of national and international learned societies, prizes and awards:
In recognition of our research excellence and standing within the international community, over half
of the UoA5 returnees have received highly competitive personal fellowships or significant
awards/medals from learned societies over the return period. The breadth and diversity of
awarding UK and international bodies further underlines the interdisciplinary nature of our work.
Notable fellowships among the 14 awarded in the REF period include Wellcome Trust Investigator
(Eggert, Oliferenko, Stramer), ERC (Gautel, Stramer, Eggert) Royal Society (Cox) and BHF
(Iskratsch, Sun, Kampourakis, Brunello, deNicola). Additional prestigious awards/honours have
been given to 15 other PIs including FRS (Ridley), FRSB (Fraternali, Ridley, Parsons, Eggert),
FRSC (Eggert, Fraternali), FRCP (Fleck) and FRMS (Parsons).

Funding Bodies and Advisory Board memberships: In recognition of the very strong
international standing in our respective research fields, UoA5 returnees are regularly invited to
participate in major UK and international funding agency boards and scientific advisory panels.
Within these roles, our PIs contribute to final decision-making on funding outcomes, advising on
major investment strategic direction and input into future funding strategy within the UK. 14 PIs are
members of national funding panels, notably including MRC (Parsons; Chair), Ridley), BBSRC
(Parsons, Pfuhl, Ameer-Beg), EPSRC (Bergeron), Wellcome (Gautel, Eggert). 10 PIs sit on 15
international funding panels including ERC (Fraternali, Eggert), Swedish and Finnish Research
Councils (Parsons), DFG (Ridley) and Hong Kong SAR (Jones). 12 PIs sit on UK/International
Advisory Boards including the Francis Crick Institute (Irving), MRC/STFC Strategy Boards
(Parsons), RSC Council (Baron, Eggert) and Leibnitz Intitute Berlin (Eggert).

Research consortia leadership and advisory roles:
In addition to contributing to strategic direction of funding, our returnees are also directly involved
in leading or participating in national and international research collaboration networks, all of which
are cross-disciplinary, inclusive initiatives aimed at strengthening community engagement,
knowledge sharing, training and research excellence. 4 returnees lead National consortia/networks
(Parsons, Fraternali, Steiner, Irving) that drive inter-disciplinary research activity in
computational and bioimaging fields. Baron and Frascione also lead two different international
consortia in forensic science.

Editorial Board memberships:
In recognition of our strengths in research excellence and integrity, over a third of our returnees
have senior editorial positions or are members of editorial boards of leading international journals
where they play an essential role in contributing to decision-making on scientific publishing across
a broad base of fields. 5 of our returnees are Editors-in-Chief (Parsons, Gautel) or Senior Editors
(Fraternali, Ehler, Rosenblatt, Parsons, Gautel) for leading journals in their fields. An additional
15 PI’s are on Editorial Boards of major journals, including Cell, EMBOJ, Journal of Cell Biology,
eLife and ACS Chemical Biology.

Courses and Conference organisation:
As highly active members of the international scientific community, our returnees play important
roles in initiating and organising prestigious conferences and workshops in their respective fields.
12 UoA5 returnees have organised national conferences in the past 7 years, and an additional 12
have organised International conferences, including prestigious Gordon Research Conference
(Gautel), ASCB (Parsons, Oliferenko), FASEB (Sutton) and EMBO (Spillane) meeting series.


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Public Engagement:
Our returnees are dedicated to, and passionate about, engaging with the broader community
outside academia to enthuse, inspire and educate about the research we undertake. A particular
priority of our outreach strategy is to connect with underrepresented minority groups at schools, to
encourage more interest in pursuing careers in interdisciplinary STEM subjects. Our activities in
this area reach individuals from a very broad demographic base and take a range of forms
spanning arts, media, exhibitions and lectures:
- King’s Scientific Training for Aspiring Research Scientists (STARS); lead by Parsons in
    collaboration with the Mayors Fund for London. 20 pupils from inner London schools with poor
    track records of higher education follow-ons come to the Randall for a week of intensive lab-
    based scientific training. The STARS programme has now been running for 6 years and we
    remain in contact with the pupils, 85% of whom have gone onto higher education in Medicine
    or Biological Sciences.
- School visits (Parsons, Gautel) to teach and inspire pupils about biophysics, microscopy and
    cell biology, as well as conducting mock interview for those applying for Medicine programmes.
    Visit to Telanaga Social Welfare Residential School, Hyderbad, India (2018) to speak about
    science careers (Hughes).
- In partnership with the Royal Microscopical Society, Parsons and Cox undertake outreach
    activities including oversight of the Microscopy Activity kits, annual participation in the Big Bang
    evens and the ‘learning Zone’ embedded within the MMC series of microscopy meetings).
- Scientific expert for Three Days of Fat, a series of 'live' art-science experiments by Thought
    Collider (Oliferenko)
- Originator and host of annual Rosalind Franklin Prize visit by 6th form students to encourage
    access to University (Hughes)
- ‘Pint of Science’ talks, 2015-20 (Bergeron, Fraternali, Parsons, Stramer, Logan)
- Maths Summer School and the in2science scheme for underprivileged pupils (Pfuhl)
- Muscular Dystrophy UK Patient information day: Lay talk about muscular dystrophy to patients,
    carers, stakeholders and fund raisers (Zammit)
- Collaboration with Wellcome library to restore and archive historical scientific material and
    presented on Radio 4 (Stramer)
- "Dynamic Symmetry" at the Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition 2016 and "Aperiodic
    Patterns and Forbidden Symmetry" at the Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition 2017
    (Sutton)
- Baron is highly engaged in outreach activity, examples of this include: live BBC radio show
    (2016) as invited guest on ‘In Our Time’ with Melvyn Bragg; live radio interview on ‘Talk Radio
    Europe’ in 2019; feature on BBC ‘One Show’ in 2018 discussing forensics; documentaries
    (Netflix on river water quality in 2020 and Channel 5 on Cocaine Dealers, 2018); 2019 Sky
    News headline feature on cocaine use in London; Interview in Evening Standard, 2019; Invited
    Lecture “Stopping the Ivory Trade”, New Scientist LIVE, London, 2016; Invited Lecture “New
    forensic tools to combat ivory poaching” Patron evening, The Royal Institution of Great Britain,
    2016; UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office Invited Workshop “New forensic tools to combat
    ivory poaching” British Consulate-General, Hong Kong, 2018

Sutton is highly active in promoting public awareness of the history of the structure of DNA with
respect to King’s and Rosalind Franklin. Examples of his outreach work include: Scientific advisor
to the West End production of the play "Photograph 51" (2015); BBC Radio 4 interview for "Last
Words" (2015); BBC Radio 4 interview for "Science Stories", DNA's Third Man (2015); Co-producer
of "DNAted", within the Fabrication Festival: installation, filmed interview, panel discussion at
Somerset House (Oct 2015); Minerva Scientifica "The Franklin Effect" to promote women in
science (2015-16); British Science Week (March 2016); Co-producer of "Spit Crystal" installation
and events, filmed interviews, YouTube video, part of "Mouthy" for Science Gallery London (2016);
Public engagement hands-on event, "Through the Looking Glass: the Science and Art of Mirror
Symmetry" at Bush House Arcade (2018); Contributor to "Viewing the Invisible", BBSRC-funded
public engagement project, portrait and sculptures exhibited at Bush House with event at the
National Portrait Gallery, YouTube video (Sept. 2019).



                                                                                               Page 16
