Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham (UoB)
 Unit of Assessment: UoA9, Physics
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 How Research is Structured across UoA9
 1.1.1   Who we are




                                      Physics West building
 UoA9 (School of Physics & Astronomy) sits in the College of Engineering and Physical Sciences
 and performs world-leading research covering: fundamental physics at large international
 facilities; pure laboratory-based physics and theoretical breakthroughs; and translation to impact,
 in collaboration with academic engineering and medical colleagues, and industry. The portfolio
 divides into three thematic areas:
    Astronomy and Experimental Gravity (18 staff, 18 postdocs/RFs, 30 PhDs)
    Particle and Nuclear Physics (18 staff, 24 postdocs/RFs, 30 PhDs); and
    Quantum Matter (22 staff, 23 postdocs/RFs, 58 PhDs)
 Each theme covers a range of topics and types of activity, requiring diverse leadership expertise;
 hence, there is a further natural sub-division into Research Groups, whose leaders interact
 closely.

 A proactive and responsive approach has seen UoA9 transformed over the past two REF cycles.
 Highlights in the current cycle included:
    External and institutional funding driving the creation of two major new initiatives (Quantum
     Matter), the establishment of a new research institute (Astronomy and Experimental
     Gravity), and new state-of-the-art facilities (Particle and Nuclear Physics).
    CAT-A staff growing by 40% thanks to strategic investment in priority areas; and 36% of
     hires in the last three years being women;
    A strong diversification and growth (68%) of research income, totalling £73M;
    Research awards totalling £100M;
    PhDs awarded growing by 42%;
    UoA9 staff winning 22 major individual research prizes/medals, including eight IoP prizes;
     holding seven ERC grants (with two more awarded) and five Royal Society URFs; and two
     staff elected FRS (Charlton, Elsworth)

 1.1.2   How our Research Strategy is Set
 Our strategy is to sustain a vibrant environment that supports and empowers staff to deliver
 research of world-leading quality, and has the agility to capitalize fully on developments and new

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities. It is set by tensioning a bottom-up approach, which propels our researchers to
 pursue excellence; top-down strategic steering by the Research Steering Group (RSG),
 informed by gap analysis and ongoing horizon scanning for opportunities in new areas,
 especially those not yet exploited in the UK, shaped pragmatically by our knowledge of UKRI
 and other funding possibilities; and Equality and Diversity (E&D) considerations.
 The RSG comprises the Head of School (Gunn), Director of Research (Newman) and Heads of
 Groups. We embed E&D within the process of setting research and impact strategy. It
 informs how we support UoA9 members to realize their potential, respecting individual
 circumstances, ensuring we optimize opportunities around access to research facilities,
 development of leadership and skills, and promotion. E&D is a standing item on meetings of the
 RSG, and on the School Committee, which comprises all members of UoA9. The UoA E&D
 Committee (Section 2.1.1) makes recommendations and provides advice to all parts of UoA9.

 1.2 Research and Impact Objectives during the Assessment Period and Next Five Years
 The UoA9 strategy at REF2014 was distilled into three main goals:
    To develop and grow world-leading research across our portfolio, building on areas of
     strength. We invested in people: numbers of research active (CAT-A) staff grew by over 40%
     (41 to 58) and research income per CAT-A FTE by 19%. Total research income grew by
     68%.
     We targeted hires across the portfolio (Section 2.1) to take advantage of new discoveries, in
     particular the discovery of gravitational waves, upcoming opportunities relating to major
     experiment upgrades, space missions and facilities (Astronomy and Experimental Gravity
     and Particle and Nuclear Physics) and new initiatives (Quantum Matter).
    To construct routes to develop impact via applied science and engineering, growing
     activities to translate pure science, through engineering applications, to impact in
     collaboration with business and industry. We won leadership of one of four UK Quantum
     Technology Hubs, for Sensors and Metrology (Bongs). With investment now worth £160M,
     this is a focus for impact. Building and expanding on the Centre for Nuclear Education and
     Research (BCNER) established in the last REF cycle, we led the creation and development
     of the Birmingham Energy Institute (BEI; Freer). The BCNER and BEI have provided a
     coherent focus for activities involving the UoA9 MC40 Cyclotron accelerator and Positron
     Imaging facilities, and new initiatives, e.g. the award of £8.8M through the National Nuclear
     User Facility Phase 2 Call to develop a new national Accelerator Driven Neutron Irradiation
     Facility.
     We began to re-shape strategically parts of the portfolio in Quantum Matter to provide a
     stronger bridge from pure science to the Quantum Hub. We proactively sought opportunities,
     establishing a cross-disciplinary Centre for Topological Science and Engineering (Dennis),
     with new hires and the award of an associated EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training (£5.4M),
     to refocus theoretical research in Quantum Matter.
    To Renew and develop our physical infrastructure and secure significant institutional
     investment to enable the above goals: In recognition of its aim to strengthen areas of
     excellence, set out in the Strategic Framework 2015 – 2020, the University (hereafter UoB)
     invested £10M in UoA9 over the census period. This included establishing an Institute for
     Gravitational Wave Astronomy (Vecchio) [£6M investment]; and the Birmingham
     Instrumentation Laboratory for Particle physics and Applications (BILPA; Allport) [£1M
     investment]. UoB also contributed £1.9M to establish our new neutron facility (see above).

 Our overarching objectives for the next five years are:
    To sustain excellence in fundamental science, with exciting upcoming opportunities from
     upgrades to LIGO (gravitational waves) and at CERN, and new initiatives in the quantum and
     topological sciences. Targeted recruitment, notably to add outstanding mid-career expertise
     (see Section 2.1), will help underpin advances to our world-class fundamental physics
     profile.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    To utilize as a multiplier the expertise of researchers across UoA9 to open exciting new
     cross-theme opportunities to expand our portfolio. An obvious focus with huge potential is
     the development of quantum sensors and detectors: We will use as a springboard our
     December 2019 application to the STFC/EPSRC Quantum Technologies for Fundamental
     Physics (QTFP) [UoA9 award of £4.5M now announced, and involvement in projects worth
     £14.9M], involving expertise from all themes.
    To prioritise investment in the experimental condensed matter and metamaterials
     domains and build interdisciplinary collaborations with Chemistry (UoA8), Engineering
     (UoA12) and Life Sciences (UoA5) in the area of optics, to provide a second knowledge
     escalator incorporating experience from the Quantum Hub.
    To embed impact in the wider research culture of UoA9, aligning with institutional-level
     objectives in the New Strategic Framework (Section 2.4, REF5a), opening new parts of our
     portfolio to translation to impact. Through in particular the Quantum Hub, and Bongs’
     appointment as College Head of Innovation, we aim to harness new industrial collaborations
     exceeding another £100M. Our strategy is to translate the latest understanding and
     achievements at the fundamental level into better technology; and hence to make better
     instruments for fundamental science.
    We will continue to promote equality and diversity in all aspects of UoA9 research life
     (reflected in working parties for our Athena Swan Action Plan).

 1.3 Thematic Objectives in the REF2014 Period and Next Five Years
 1.3.1 Astronomy and Experimental Gravity [awards £18M, income £11M] comprises two
 Groups, reflecting expertise in studies of high- and low-mass stellar evolution, respectively.
 There is cross-fertilization of experience in stellar evolution, population studies and advanced
 data analysis.

 Gravitational Wave Astronomy (14 staff, 11 postdocs/RFs, 20 PhDs)
 There are strands on instrumentation, analysis and theoretical astrophysics and general
 relativity; and in parallel, with growing synergies, an observational programme on galaxies and
 clusters.

 REF2014 objectives: were to grow activity in anticipation of the first detection of gravitational
 waves, and were met with £6M investment in new staff, laboratory and office space, £11M in
 research awards, and the founding of the Institute for Gravitational Wave Astronomy. We
 developed and built sensors and electronics for LIGO, and took part in commissioning. Led by
 Vecchio, we developed core techniques to characterise astrophysical sources and population
 parameters and played a leading role analysing the first binary black hole mergers, including first
 estimates of merger rates and tests of general relativity (papers in PRL 2016), and the
 characterisation of the first binary neutron star merger and its electromagnetic counterpart
 (papers in ApJ Lett. 2017).

 Objectives for the next five years: are to consolidate our world-leading position in
 instrumentation, analysis and theory. We will complete work on the LIGO A+ upgrade and
 explore participation in other experiments (e.g. LIGO India).

 We will conduct R&D for next-generation instruments [(Einstein Telescope (Europe), Cosmic
 Explorer (US)] and detector applications involving quantum measurements with Quantum
 Matter and Particle and Nuclear Physics, including a dark matter search for axions (Martynov,
 QTFP funds). We will contribute to the ground segment and science preparation of the Laser
 Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA) Mission. We will lead exploitation of gravitational wave
 data, conduct a theoretical astrophysics and general relativity programme on compact objects
 and pursue a new, optical transient astronomy programme using the Vera Rubin observatory.
 Finally, we will continue studies of galaxies and clusters, including quenching of star formation,
 the mass/baryon distribution, and searches for gravitationally lensed gravitational wave events.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Stellar Astrophysics (Asteroseismology and Helioseismology) and Exoplanets (4 staff, 7
 postdocs/RFs, 10 PhDs)
 Our programme on low-mass stars is founded on world-leading expertise in asteroseismology
 and helioseismology, the study of stars, and the Sun, by observation of their oscillations.

 REF2014 objectives: were to capitalize on international leadership in the NASA Kepler and
 TESS Missions (Chaplin). The Group won three ERC awards. Research highlights included
 major catalogues (e.g., ApJ Supp. 2014), a new paradigm for rotation evolution in stars (Nature
 2016), and new constraints on the ancient history of the Milky Way (Nature Astronomy 2020).
 We expanded our exoplanet activities with a new hire (Triaud), and were part of the discovery of
 the TRAPPIST-1 system (Nature 2017).

 Objectives for the next five years: begin with becoming the internationally leading centre for
 asteroseismic studies of stellar populations using machine learning, exploiting data from Kepler
 and TESS. We will use the SPECULOOS telescopes to discover potentially habitable Earth-
 sized exoplanets around ultra-cool stars. We will complete upgrades to our robotic Birmingham
 Solar-Oscillations Network (BiSON), and track the seismic rise of the new solar cycle. Finally, we
 will lead on design, layout and working software for the asteroseismology pipeline of the ESA
 PLATO Mission.




  Top: BiSON telescope, Western Australia; Bottom: Birmingham SPECULOOS telescope
                                  (second left), Chile

 1.3.2 Particle and Nuclear Physics [awards £36M, income £18.5M] is organised across two
 Groups, with synergies from working at CERN and combined activities on future accelerator and
 detector technologies.

 Particle Physics (12 staff, 17 postdocs/RFs, 20 PhDs)
 Led by Newman, our programme builds on a long-standing record of excellence in detector and
 trigger construction, and data analysis.

 REF2014 objectives: were to develop and exploit work in instrumentation and analysis, and to
 grow into strategically carefully chosen new areas. In 2016, UoB invested £1M in major new
 clean room facilities, establishing the Birmingham Instrumentation Laboratory for Particle
 physics and Applications (BILPA), expanding capabilities in semiconductor detector systems for
 large-scale construction, R&D and spin out activities (including a further £0.5M STFC funding in
 equipment).

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 UoA9 staff were Spokespersons for ATLAS (Charlton) and NA62 (Lazzeroni) at CERN. We
 tested the Standard Model at the energy [ATLAS] (e.g., Nature Physics 2017) and precision
 [LHCb and NA62] frontiers (e.g., JHEP2017), including evidence for lepton-flavour symmetry
 violation, a significant (potential) anomaly (PRL 2014). With £8M of core STFC funding, we
 characterised the Higgs boson at ATLAS (e.g., PRL 2015) through a central role in the first
 observation of the dominant decay mode to beauty quarks (Phys. Lett. B 2018). We also entered
 the DUNE long-baseline neutrino collaboration.

 Objectives for the next five years: are to continue to grow strategically, and play leading roles
 in the development of future electron-proton, proton-proton and electron-positron facilities, and
 detectors (with Quantum Matter and Astronomy and Experimental Gravity). We will deliver
 upgrades to the ATLAS tracking detectors and calorimeter trigger (two phases) and contributions
 to the DUNE readout. We will exploit leadership to be at the forefront of “stress testing” the
 Standard Model, using data from ATLAS, LHCb and NA62. Our new activity in DUNE aligns with
 UK and international priorities but needs nurturing to succeed, through construction and towards
 exploitation. We will seek to invest in more staff in this area. We will also play a leading role in
 direct searches for dark matter (Nikolopoulos), building from our initial UK-leading activity in the
 NEWS-G collaboration and exploiting synergies with UoA9’s expertise in detectors and sensors.

 Nuclear Physics (6 staff, 7 Postdocs/RFs, 10 PhDs)
 We have world-leading expertise in studies of clustering and exotic structures in light nuclei, and
 nuclear matter under extreme conditions; and major initiatives in the energy sector (Freer).

                                      REF2014 objectives in the clustering theme were to exploit
                                      opportunities opened by new facilities in Europe and the
                                      US, as well as to develop our own MC40 cyclotron
                                      (Wheldon) incorporating both particle and gamma ray
                                      detection capabilities. We also successfully bid to develop a
                                      new national neutron irradiation facility to replace our old
                                      Dynamitron accelerator (Section 1.2). Research highlights
                                      included the measurement of a new excited state of Carbon,
                                      which affects nucleosynthesis in stars (PRL, 2014).

                                      The objective in nuclear matter was to exploit our leading
                                      position in ALICE at CERN (Evans, Jones). We led design,
                                      construction and commissioning of the electronic trigger,
                                      with leadership in exploitation as members of the
                                      management, technical and editorial Boards. Highlights
                                      included the discovery of strangeness enhancement in
                                      proton-proton and proton-lead collisions (Nature Physics
                                      2017).

         MC40 Cyclotron

 Objectives for the next five years: are in structure studies to exploit the MC40 Cyclotron and
 new neutron facility (Section 3.3) to test nuclear ab initio models. These facilities link to the
 BCNER/BEI initiatives in energy (see Sections 3.2.1, 3.3, 4.2), We will exploit advances in
 gamma-ray beam facilities to make precise measurements of the cluster structure of states in
 light nuclei; and develop a state-of-the-art detection system based on Time Project Chamber
 technology with Texas A&M. In nuclear matter, we will exploit ALICE upgrades to explore the
 behaviour of hot QCD and the quark-gluon plasma, and measure rare probes such as jets and
 hadrons composed of heavy quark flavours. We will complete design, construction and
 commissioning of a new trigger for ALICE, and perform targeted R&D with BILPA toward a
 silicon vertex tracker for a future US electron-ion collider.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.3 Quantum Matter [awards £46M, income £33M] comprises five co-located Groups,
 reflecting the dissolution of boundaries between cold atomic physics, condensed matter physics
 and optics, driven by emerging challenges. Looking forward, there will be vibrant new work on
 detectors with Astronomy and Experimental Gravity & Particle and Nuclear Physics,
 supported by recently announced QTFP funds.

 Cold Atoms (8 staff, 16 postdocs/RFs, 20 PhDs)
 The focus of underpinning research is on control and manipulation of light and atoms through
 investigation of light-matter interactions with lasers and atoms, from ultracold to thermal
 temperatures. Activities cover the spectrum of Technology Readiness Levels, from pure science
 to working quantum sensor prototypes.

                                                     REF2014 objectives: were to focus on
                                                     translation of Quantum science into
                                                     technology. This has been a success, with the
                                                     award of the national Quantum Technology
                                                     Hub in Quantum Sensors and Metrology
                                                     (Bongs). Highlights included using quantum
                                                     Zeno dynamics to generate multi-particle
                                                     entangled states (Science 2015); the first
                                                     direct measurement of the frequency ratio of
                                                     two ytterbium clock transitions (PRL, 2014)
                                                     and the production of a transportable optical
                                                     clock with record sensitivity; and development
                                                     of a gravity imager.

                 Cold Atoms Lab

 Objectives for the next five years: are to capitalize on the £23M already secured for the
 second phase of the Quantum Hub to create market pull (e.g. with BAE, BT and BP) by
 demonstrating the advantages of quantum sensors for real-world challenges, specifically a
 network of next-generation clocks (QTFP funding; Barontoni) with applications in geophysics,
 environmental monitoring, transportation and civil engineering; secure navigation for underwater
 and autonomous vehicles; assessing brain function for dementia; and advanced radar for future
 airspace control with millions of drones and flying taxis (see also Section 1.2).

 We will also develop novel directions in quantum simulation, such as quantum thermodynamics
 and simulations of quantum biological systems.

 Metamaterials (3 staff, 3 postdocs/RFs, 8 PhDs)
 Our Centre for Metamaterials focusses on realising exotic topological photonic states; pushing
 the boundaries of nanophotonics from the classical to the quantum regime; and advancing
 metamaterials-based technology towards practical applications.

 REF2014 objectives: were to capitalize on the investment that established the Centre in the
 preceding REF cycle (Zhang). Driven by two new appointments [Demetriadou (Royal Society
 URF), Navarro-Cia] there has been considerable success, with high-profile work on
 metamaterials, nonlinear optics, topological photonics, and invisibility cloaks operating at optical
 frequencies. Highlights included optical meta-surface holography with record-high efficiencies
 (Nature Nanotechnology 2015), and novel developments in metasurface holography (Nature
 Communications 2016/17); demonstration of ideal Weyl points, a platform for studying new
 physics related to photon transport, scattering, surface state arcs, and the chiral zero mode
 (Science 2018); and realization of single molecule strong coupling at room temperature using
 plasmonic nanocavities (Nature 2016).



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Objectives for the next five years: are to strengthen the international leading position in the
 research areas of topological metamaterials and quantum plasmonics, the former taking
 advantage of recent appointments in Condensed Matter and Optics Theory (see below). We
 will expand into promising new interdisciplinary research areas such as metamaterials for
 medical sensing, and photonic machine learning.

 Nanoscale Physics (3 staff, 1 postdoc/RF, 10 PhDs)
 REF2014 objectives: were to leverage expertise in size-selected metal clusters, scanning probe
 and electron microscopy, to develop new multinational collaborations. Highlights included atomic
 scale tomography opening a window at the single-atom level (Nature Materials 2015); and
 constructing nanoclusters for electro-catalysis, with applications in hydrogen fuel cells for next-
 generation cars (Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys 2015).

 Objectives for the next five years: will focus on a new thread, on metal/porous Silicon hybrid
 nanomaterials with potential for slow drug release, using new investment in instrumentation to
 develop medical applications.

 Experimental Condensed Matter (2 staff, 3 PhDs)
 REF2014 objectives: focussed on studies of materials with unconventional low-temperature
 (quantum) phases, using Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR), neutrons, and muons as probes.
 Highlights included the demonstration of competition between charge density wave order and
 superconductivity in cuprates, and disentangling the domain structure (Nature Communications
 2015/16); and use of NMR to probe superconductivity in strontium ruthenate (Nature 2019).

 Objectives for the next five years: revolve around the UoA9 priority to develop this area, with
 one new mid-career appointment made (Hicks) and another planned, to focus on strain tuning of
 materials through quantum transitions, and studies of strongly correlated materials. We will also
 expand collaboration with inorganic chemists (UoA8) on using quantum magnets to study
 quantum criticality (Jeong).

 Condensed Matter and Optics Theory (6 staff, 3 postdocs/RFs, 15 PhDs)
 This Group helps bind the experimental groups in the Quantum Matter theme.

 REF2014 objectives: focussed on many-body physics, disorder, optics and topology. The
 balance in the Group evolved with the recent appointments of Dennis (to lead the Group), H.
 Price (Royal Society URF) and Von Keyserlingk. Dennis led the successful application for an
 EPSRC CDT in Topological Design, and the attendant creation of the Centre for Topological
 Science and Engineering by UoB, fostering links to areas of experimental physics and
 mathematics, chemistry, computer science, medicine and engineering. The creation of the
 Centre was partly a celebration of the award of the 2016 Nobel Prize to Kosterlitz and Thouless
 for work performed in Birmingham.

 Highlights included observing discrete time-crystalline order in a disordered dipolar many-body
 system (Nature 2017); exploring 4D quantum Hall physics with a 2D topological charge pump
 (Nature, 2018); and understanding polarisation knots in optics (Nature Physics 2018).

 Objectives for the next five years: are to capitalize on leadership of the Centre and CDT to
 establish UoA9 as a world leader in the rapidly growing field of Topology, at the centre of a
 thriving interdisciplinary activity at UoB. We will support new experimental appointments across
 Quantum Matter and widen work in theoretical wave physics, optics and photonics.

 1.4 How UoA9 Enables and Facilitates Impact from its Research
 We identify areas with Impact potential, to develop and grow vibrant and sustainable
 programmes that have significance and reach, through gap analysis and horizon scanning. For


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact involving industrial partners we work to identify the market pull and help co-create new
 opportunities.

 We have well developed programmes that support and enable researchers to deliver impact
 working with industry, arranged around:
    The Quantum Hub (Section 1.2, 1.3.3), which includes the ERDF-funded Centre for
     Innovation in Advanced Measurement in Manufacturing that already provides support for 40
     regional businesses. Collaborative projects with industrial partners have created a
     commercial supply chain with over 25 products (including a Quantum Gravimeter with M
     Squared Lasers, and QT vacuum systems with Teledyne).
    The BCNER and BEI (Section 1.2) with accelerator and imaging facilities – including the
     MC40 Cyclotron, Positron Imaging Centre, and new national neutron irradiation facility
     (Sections 1.3.2, 3.2.1, 3.3) – and the ERDF-funded ATETA programme that promotes
     research and innovation in adoption of zero carbon energy technologies by local SMEs.
    We utilize UoB infrastructure including College business development teams and UoB
     Enterprise (Section 4.1, REF5a), which manages technology transfer and academic
     consultancy: 36 UoA9 researchers used its services, with 13 active projects developed for
     income, 10 having patents filed. We also used EPSRC and STFC impact accelerator funds.

 This expertise and experience will help guide opening further opportunities across the portfolio
 (Section 1.2), informed by E&D considerations for relevant individuals (Section 1.1.2). To
 strengthen bottom-up input to the process, we appointed a Director of Innovation (Holynski) to
 work across UoA9 to identify and develop opportunities.

 UoA9’s Impact Lead (Mayhew) oversees progress of projects at various levels of maturity that
 have developed as UoA9’s selected Case Studies. They reflect the aim to develop, grow and
 sustain programmes with the potential for impact. e.g., cases based on Positron Emission
 Particle Tracking, ionisation mass spectrometry and Boron Neutron Capture Therapy. Another
 case, connected to the Quantum Hub, has realized impact very quickly.

 Our final case builds on extensive UoA9 programmes promoting novel forms of public
 engagement with research focussed on long-term relationships with Schools, raising
 awareness of and interest in physics in disadvantaged and/or underrepresented groups; and
 vibrant collaborations with artists (spanning diverse practices).

 Finally, we enable Impact from influencing and shaping strategy and policy at national
 level (see examples in Section 4.3.3), including help from the UoB Stakeholder Engagement
 Team to establish and build relationships with external stakeholders (e.g., policy professionals,
 local and national politicians).

 UoA9 and UoB scholarly infrastructure (Section 3.4) has supported preparation of individual
 Pathways to Impact statements. Going forward we will provide workshops on embedding Impact
 within applications.

 1.5 UoA9 Approach to Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
 A vibrant environment provides opportunities and support for staff to interact with researchers
 from other disciplines, helped by UoB structures (Section 2.3, REF5a), e.g. the cross-discipline
 exchanges embedded in the nascent Centre for Topological Science and Engineering.

 Horizon scanning flags potential opportunities that can be nurtured and supported by UoA9, e.g.,
 forming new consortia and new applications, the UKRI cross-council Quantum Technologies for
 Fundamental Physics call being a recent example, and to help secure funding to develop ideas,
 e.g., two EPSRC New Horizons proposals submitted in June 2020 on astronomy instrumentation
 (Martynov, Speake) have just been awarded. Our new CDT in Topological Design is catalysing
 opportunities, bringing together UoB researchers from Mathematics, Chemistry, Computer

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Science, Medicine and Engineering, led by UoA9, to research and train PGRs in problems
 requiring a multidisciplinary approach and pipeline of expertise from blue-skies research to
 industry.

 Goals in the interdisciplinary domain have strongly influenced strategic thinking on new staff
 investment in Quantum Matter, to build existing and developing strengths relating to
 opportunities with Engineering, Medical and Life Sciences, e.g. new joint BBSRC funding with
 UoA4 (Psychology); and EPSRC, Innovate UK and industry grants with UoA12 (Chemical
 Engineering, Civil and Electrical Engineering).

 1.6 Progress towards an Open Research Environment
 Our commitment to Open Research facilitates collaboration, removes barriers to knowledge and
 enables impact. We are guided by UoB’s Open Research Board (Section 2.2, REF5a), whose
 commitment to DORA and Plan-S we implement, applying fair and responsible metrics in
 research and staff assessment (e.g. probation and promotion) and active promotion of open
 publication. This has supported the following UoA9 actions:
    Maximizing open access to our research outputs through Green archiving (e.g. arXiv),
     often the conventionally favoured route for our fields; utilizing institutional funds for Gold
     open access, where appropriate; and using the University of Birmingham Institutional
     Research Archive (UBIRA), an open access repository for full text research materials
     produced by UoB researchers. Large international collaborations usually have open data
     management facilitated at collaboration level (e.g., all CERN/LHC collaborations).
    Providing wider community service on open access by encouraging staff to act as
     editors for high-quality open access research journals (Section 4.3.4).
    Encouraging researchers to make analysis codes available on repositories, such as
     GitHub, and to “publish” codes (e.g. astronomical codes for asteroseismology). We provide
     training on open-access repositories, through workshops and research “hack sessions”.

 1.7 How UoA9 Supports a Culture of Research Integrity
 We are strongly committed to the UK National Concordat to Support Research Integrity,
 as enshrined in UoB’s Code of Ethics and Statement on Research Integrity (Section 2.2,
 REF5a). All staff and PGRs receive online Research Integrity training. PGRs also receive
 bespoke training on ethics and plagiarism.

 We also champion Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI). Examples include a full RRI
 programme within the Quantum Hub, and Board representation for an EPSRC-sponsored public
 RRI dialogue; working with Birmingham City Council to ensure risks associated with our new
 national neutron facility are properly managed and communicated; and RRI training in the
 Topology CDT.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 2.1.1 Staff Development Strategy
 Our strategy is to sustain a vibrant, supportive environment, enabling all staff to play to
 their strengths, build confidence in new areas, and develop leadership and management
 skills, guided by the key principles in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and best practice in support of the Vitae Researcher Development Framework.

 We embed Equality & Diversity (E&D) in all processes that shape and develop UoA9 strategy.
 Our E&D Committee – with representation from all levels of UoA9 – is an essential component in
 shaping our culture, and seen as a point of excellence at UoB. We successfully renewed our
 Athena SWAN Silver and IoP Juno Champion status in 2018 (Wilkin is national Juno Chair).

 We aim to ensure a broad range of members across UoA9 own E&D strategy and the
 creation of an Athena Swan and Juno Champion culture, covering staff, postdocs, PGRs
 and research support staff (Section 2.3); and that we are on the path to convert Athena Swan
 Silver to Gold.

 Factoring into strategy on training and recruitment is the need for UoA9 as a whole, and
 individual Themes/Groups, to have access to the range of skills in leadership, people/resource
 management, and project planning required to meet our objectives (guided by Belbin Team
 Roles theory).

 Regarding processes:
  UoB (Sections 3.4.2, 3.4.4, REF5a) and UoA9 offer induction, training and development
    courses, including compulsory and refresher E&D training. We successfully nominated 19
    staff to take accelerated UoB programmes in leadership. Staff have gone on to major
    research leadership roles (e.g. Freer as College Director of Research, and head of the BEI;
    Bongs as College Director of Innovation; Schofield as Head of College, and now Vice
    Chancellor of Lancaster University).
  The annual Performance and Development Review (PDR) (Section 3.4.3, REF5a) supports
    career development for all staff. The Head of School performs professorial PDRs, and new
    staff PDRs as part of probation. Heads of Groups conduct PDRs for academic, research and
    technical staff within their groups.
    Early and mid-career staff are encouraged, with mentoring and coaching by senior UoA9
     colleagues, to occupy positions of responsibility, developing the rounded experience to take
     on major leadership roles, e.g., leading research teams at CERN and in LIGO, or UoA9
     positions such as Director of Innovation.
    We supported female staff to take external leadership roles, e.g., Lazzeroni as spokesperson
     for the NA62 collaboration at CERN. Bespoke support for women includes the Aurora
     Leadership Programme (Section 3.4.4, REF5a) [taken by Tzanka-Wheldon and Wilkin].

 2.1.2 Recruitment Policy
 Our goal is to develop a diverse staff that delivers intellectual diversity across all themes
 and to nurture and sustain an environment that will attract applicants of the highest
 international calibre. This underpins our objective to grow scientific leadership and excellence
 in research and impact, through investment in people.

 Our goals over the current REF period were:
    To focus on attracting high-calibre early-career staff on a trajectory to be future leaders
     in their fields.




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       To follow an ambitious programme growing staff in areas aligned to strategic research
        priorities, to build on existing research strengths and leadership, to capitalize on the
        potential to expand into adjacent research areas, and to grow grant capture.

 They have been successful:
       Since REF2014, CAT-A submitted staff grew from 41 to 58 (FTEs from 39 to 55.2). All but
        three were early-career hires, with net CAT-A increases of six (Astronomy and
 mart
        Experimental Gravity), four (Particle and Nuclear Physics) and seven (Quantum Matter).
       In Astronomy and Experimental Gravity, we focussed on new hires in instrumentation
        (notably Martynov from Caltech), and relativity (Gerosa, Schmidt); and opened new areas:
        transient phenomena (Nicholl) and exoplanets (Triaud).
       Expansion in Particle and Nuclear Physics focussed on the BILPA initiative, including
        professorial (Allport from Liverpool as lead) and early-career (Gonella) hires.
       In Quantum Matter we made a professorial hire (Dennis from Bristol) to lead the Topology
        initiative and refocus theoretical work in the theme; and eight early-career hires across the
        theme, including two institutional Innovation Fellows supporting expansion of the Quantum
        Hub (Section 2.1.4).
       Since 2016, six new hires were women (36%) (Schmidt, Toonen in Gravitational Wave
        Astronomy; Gonella in Particle Physics; and Demetriadou, Guarrera and H. Price in
        Quantum Matter). The number of CAT-A women rose from five (12%) to nine (16%).
       Early-career staff won eleven national and international prizes (Section 4.3.1).
       Ten early-career hires (five women) held prestigious external fellowships (see Section 4.3):
        five Royal Society URFs, EPSRC Innovation Fellowship, two STFC Ernest Rutherford
        Fellowships and two VENI Fellowships from the Netherlands under the Money Follows
        Researcher scheme; four held ERC Starting grants.
       Ten early-career hires held competitive institutional Birmingham Fellow awards across all
        themes (four, two and five respectively), offering five years of protected high-quality research
        time (Section 3.4.1, REF5a).
 Our objective over the next five years is to target staff growth in areas that bridge the pure
 and translational areas of our portfolio, notably in Quantum Matter, to capitalize on the potential
 of the Quantum Hub and the new Centre for Topological Science and Engineering. We aim to
 recruit outstanding mid-career researchers ready to step-up as leaders. (Recent hires have
 refreshed the early-career profile.) This will underpin our goal to address gender imbalance in
 the Senior Management Group, with the aim of adding one to two more female members.

 We will initiate changes, guided by UoB bodies (Section 3.4.5, REF5a), and recommendations
 such as those in American Institute of Physics Team-Up report The Time is Now, to attract and
 hire more BAME staff at all levels (currently five in CAT-A), and maintain 30% of new staff hires
 being women. Our E&D Committee is reviewing advertisement and recruitment processes to
 ensure they attract the full range of potential applicants.

 2.1.3 Support for Early Career Researchers and Postdoctoral (Fixed-Term) Researchers
 New faculty get a relocation package, start-up funds and (if relevant) are helped and financially
 supported through the visa process. We invested £3M to support hires over the current REF
 cycle. Senior professorial staff act as formal Mentor to support new appointees through a
 structured three-year probation, with targets, agreed with the Head of School in consultation with
 the Mentor, focussing on development of research activities. Teaching responsibilities are
 ramped-up slowly, with relief from teaching for those with prestigious fellowships or large grants.
 New hires are prioritised for PGR recruitment, and allocation of travel funds.

 Postdoctoral researchers set objectives in the annual PDR with the relevant project/grant PI or
 Head of Group. Personal fellowship applications are encouraged and actively supported


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Section 3.1.1), with successes including Royal Society URFs, EU Marie Curie, and STFC
 Ernest Rutherford Fellowships.

 Our early career researchers engage more widely across UoB, including College-run Grant
 Writing workshops, and the Postdoctoral/Early Researcher Career Development And Training
 (PERCAT) network (Section 3.3, REF5a), which provides support, events and networking for
 STEM researchers. Three committee members are UoA9 postdoctoral researchers. UoA9 also
 has its own postdoctoral Researchers’ Network to promote networking and help shape UoA9
 policies on early career issues.

 UoA9 also initiated a Cultural Awareness course, tailored for overseas postdoctoral researchers,
 on interactions with undergraduate students in teaching.

 2.1.4. Recognition and Reward for Carrying out Research and Achieving Impact
 We sustain a supportive environment that proactively encourages (at Group and UoA9 level)
 promotion applications, and nominations for awards and prizes (Section 4.3.1).

 Direct support from Group leaders helps develop and review promotion cases, with practice
 interviews for Readership and Professorial applications: Excluding teaching-focussed cases,
 there were 12 promotions to Senior Lecturer (17% women, 8% BAME), nine to Reader (22%
 women, 11% BAME) and seven to Professor (29% women, no BAME). [16% of CAT-A staff are
 women, 10% are BAME.] Promotions were well balanced across the portfolio.

 To provide career progression focussed on impact, we championed within UoB the
 successful introduction of an Innovation Fellows path recognising criteria by which
 outstanding achievements for impact are judged differ from those commonly used. Two
 pioneering Fellows (Holynski, Singh) are leading members of the Quantum Hub.

 We make appropriate reductions to teaching and administration following successes (significant
 grant awards and fellowships), or when taking on research leadership roles (e.g., Bongs,
 College Director of Innovation).

 2.2 Research Students
 2.2.1 Recruitment Strategy
 Our strategy is to have a diverse cohort that makes a significant contribution to
 delivering our research goals, and contributes to sustaining a vibrant research
 environment.

 Our objective at the previous REF was to maintain studentship levels (at least) from
 STFC/EPSRC Doctoral Training Award (DTA) funding, and to build numbers through
 diversification of funding.

 We successfully awarded 188 PhDs. This represents 42% growth, from a yearly average of 19
 over the previous REF to 27 in the current period. In the face of a challenging funding
 environment, this reflects successful new initiatives, including uplift to the EPSRC DTA from
 Quantum Hub funding, and the new EPSRC CDT in Topological Design. It took its first cohort in
 2019 and will provide 50 studentships over 5 years, working on multidisciplinary projects across
 UoB, e.g., topological quantum optics for super-resolved protein imaging (with Biochemistry and
 Medical Sciences) and topological quantum plasmonics (with Metamaterials and Electrical
 Engineering).

 We secured support from iCASE studentships with the National Physical Laboratory (NPL), the
 Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE), and BAE systems; direct funding from Dstl; direct co-
 funding with NPL and AWE; and the Royal Society. We also secured co-funding from
 international partners, including Université Paris-Saclay, Southern University of Science and


                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Technology (SUSTech), China, and Mexico’s Conacyt; and local partners, e.g. UoB Centre for
 Human Brain Health.

 UoA9’s Graduate Studies Committee and an Athena Swan action group, comprising members of
 the UoA9 E&D Committee, monitor recruitment data. The fraction of applications and
 acceptances from women is around 21%. Expansion of an initiative with the charity Generating
 Genius (who work with the CDT) will support our strategy to promote diversity in recruitment,
 and grow this fraction.

 Our objective over the next five years is to work more closely with industry to secure co-
 funding for studentships – in particular extending to large companies such as BP and BT – and
 to build on partnership opportunities such as SUSTech, linking to UoB initiatives (Sections
 2.1.2, 2.1.8, REF5a).

 2.2.2 Support for Skills and Career Development
 Our aim is to develop highly skilled and rounded individuals, ready for careers in
 research, industry or beyond. Examples include faculty positions in the US, China and Hong
 Kong; a staff position at the UK Astronomy Technology Centre; postdocs at CERN, ESA, Max
 Planck (several institutes), Melbourne, and Monash; going to industry at UKAEA and QinetiQ, to
 Facebook, and founding an educational software company.

 Activities to support development are ongoing at several levels, from those to deliver the main
 research goals, through regular support from supervisors to activities/programmes within UoA9,
 and at UoB level and beyond (including activities conceived, organised, and run by our
 students). There is an underpinning process of ongoing skills gap analysis, involving an
 annual Development Needs Analysis, which also identifies relevant courses and opportunities.
    Group/Theme and UoA9 activities include “hack” and PGR-led “code review” sessions to
     develop good scientific programming practice; and sessions to develop critical
     analysis and breadth (e.g. Journal Clubs), and transferrable skills (e.g. presenting, writing
     papers etc.). The UoA9 colloquium and Group/Theme-level seminars help develop breadth
     and awareness of wider research culture, with opportunities to interact with visiting
     speakers via “PGR only” sessions.
    PGRs have sessions on E&D, including Unconscious Bias training, in the weeklong UoA9
     induction.
    PGRs are encouraged to participate in UoA9’s vibrant and diverse public engagement
     programme (Section 4.2), developing skills in communication and engagement.
    We are active members of the Midlands Physics Alliance Graduate School, providing
     coordinated research training across six Universities, with modules and workshops delivered
     remotely and face-to-face by us, and colleagues at the partner institutes, e.g., in
     astronomical data analysis, particle physics techniques, and advanced condensed matter
     theory.
    Our PGRs tap into UoB’s Graduate School courses on transferrable (e.g. project
     management, team-working etc.) and research-specific skills (e.g. “software carpentry”)
     (Section 3.2, REF5a).
    Presentations at conferences and collaborations with researchers at other institutes develop
     communications and team working skills. UoA9 helps fund these activities, particularly
     relevant to PGRs without access to STFC and EPSRC DTA or ERC/EU funds. Top-up funds
     are available to all via the UoA9 Moreton Travel Award bequest.

 UoA9 has a Careers Officer and a UoB-level Careers Network Advisor, who organise and
 run events/fairs for PGRs. UoB’s Graduate School runs related seminars and workshops.
 Supervisors are encouraged to discuss, act as a sounding board for, and provide appropriate
 advice on careers, particularly towards the later stages of the PhD.



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                       Public engagement, Birmingham New Street station


 2.2.3 Monitoring and Support Mechanisms
 There is a comprehensive multi-layered approach, involving supervisors, Groups and UoA9
 processes, laid out in the UoA9 PGR Handbook and overseen by UoA9’s Graduate Studies
 Committee (GSC) under the Director of Graduate Studies (Lerner), underpinned by formal
 training for supervisors (including induction meetings, workshops and refresher courses).

 Research Groups act as natural “homes” for PGRs, providing a stimulating intellectual
 environment with informal mentoring and support from all staff, postdocs and senior PGRs.

 Formal support begins with close oversight by the supervisor. There are monthly and half-yearly
 progress reviews, allowing short- and longer-term reflection on progress, skills (Section 2.2.2)
 and planning; a key progression milestone at the end of the first year, a mini-thesis examined
 with a viva by a member of staff from another Group; and in the final year a review on plans for
 completion of work and thesis. The GSC reviews and monitors progress of all PGRs.

 Where difficulties arise, support mechanisms first seek a solution at Group level. PGRs receive
 clear guidance on who to turn to in case of problems and remedial action can involve the
 Director of Graduate Studies, the Postgraduate Welfare Tutor (Section 2.3.5) and the Head of
 School.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 2.3.1 Study Leave and Staff Exchange
 UoA9 encourages staff (particularly early career) to plan and take leave, e.g., to develop
 collaborations, or for visits tied to new or critically timed obligations as part of international
 collaborations/projects.
    Staff may apply for one semester of leave in every seven. Examples of destinations included:
     the Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics (Santa Barbara, US); the Laurence Berkeley
     National Laboratory (US); Padua (Italy), the National Institute for Standards and Technology,
     Washington (US); Shannxi Normal University, Soochow, Shanghai Jiaotong University, and
     Tsinghua (all China). There were three long-term secondments to CERN: two as experiment
     Spokespersons, and one on a CERN scientific associateship.
    UoA9 maintains a vibrant programme of visiting researchers, and is very successful at
     leveraging financial support from UoB’s Institute of Advanced Studies (Section 2.3, REF5a)

                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Distinguished Visiting Fellowship (DVF) programme to bring world-leading academics to
    Birmingham. High-profile visitors have included Nobel laureate David Gross, former CERN
    Council President Michel Spiro, and former Nobel Committee member and string theory
    pioneer Lars Brink.

 2.3.2 Flexible Working and Support for Those Returning from Periods of Leave
 We have a holistic approach to accommodating flexible working. The Head of School
 considers requests, in consultation with relevant UoA9 stakeholders (grant PIs, Heads of Group,
 Director of Education, Director of Graduate Studies etc.). Planning around leave may vary,
 though always with full consultation across UoA9 and at UoB level as appropriate (e.g., with
 Occupational Health for returners from long-term illness).

 Examples of support for flexible working and returners included staff:
  near retirement, reducing time to between 0.05 and 0.6 FTE to focus on either research or
    teaching;
  returning from parental leave, rebalancing time at work and home;
  suffering severe illness, who needed extended leave and flexible, part-time arrangements
    after returning;
  suffering a close bereavement or illness within the family, who needed to flex their time; and
  preparing for adoption.

 UoA9 provides financial support for returners from breaks to help kick-start new initiatives (over
 £400K in the current cycle). We also used the EPSRC Developing Leaders (EDL) scheme,
 which supports returners to re-establish their research profile. Finally, there is relief from
 teaching on return from maternity or adoption leave.

 Prior to COVID-19, 17% of academic staff had taken advantage of flexible arrangements, and
 four CAT-A staff are part-time (0.2 to 0.8 FTE). Enforced home working during the pandemic
 stressed the need for flexibility – particularly for those with caring responsibilities, underlying
 health concerns or with vulnerable/shielding family – and for UoA9 managers and supervisors to
 be as accommodating and understanding as possible. Staff have had to develop skills in
 managing teams remotely, which can positively influence incorporating flexible working going
 forward.

 Part-time staff have equivalent career pathways to full-time staff: promotions panels
 consider the quantity of outputs and numbers of responsibilities in relation to working hours (e.g.,
 a recent promotion to Senior Lecturer).

 We achieve flexibility through a collegiate culture developed over time. The UoA9 “family”
 support works with UoB support, arranged around its Flexibility and Family-Friendly Working
 scheme.

 2.3.3 Facilitating Travel to Support Research for those Caring Responsibilities, Returners
 etc.
 We work with staff and PGRs on modifying research goals and restructuring schedules, as
 appropriate. Help might involve relief from teaching over a period when personal circumstances
 allow flexibility to travel. UoA9 provides targeted financial support to sustain or pump-prime
 collaborations and activities.

 2.3.4 Support for Those with Protected Characteristics
 Appropriate arrangements and reasonable adjustments to working patterns ensure those with
 one or more protected characteristics can work effectively (guided during the pandemic by the
 Equality and Human Rights Commission guidance on COVID-19-related reasonable
 adjustments for employees).



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoB’s Disability Service (Section 3.4.5, REF5a) helps managers and supervisors understand
 needs of disabled employees; and provides employees with practical support and guidance,
 particularly in relation to workplace adjustments. UoA9 members receive training to understand
 the requirements of the Equality Act, reinforced by communication and messaging by the E&D
 Committee, which reviews and makes recommendations on the need to update UoA9
 procedures.

 UoA9 was first at UoB to address a lack of gender-neutral toilets and baby changing rooms.
 UoA9 members are active in “out in STEM” (oSTEM) and Black Ethnic and Minority Scientists
 (BEaMS) groups for staff and students. In January 2020, oSTEM hosted the 5th LGBT+
 STEMinar, an annual research conference celebrating the work of STEM researchers who
 identify as LGBTQ+. A UoA9 postgraduate was chair of oSTEM, and one of our faculty was its
 academic mentor. We have also had committee members on BEaMS.

 2.3.5 Supporting the Wellbeing of Staff and Research Students
 Staff can seek guidance and help on wellbeing in various ways, ranging from confidential
 discussions with the Head of Group or Head of School, to using comprehensive UoB support
 mechanisms (Section 3.4.5, REF5a).

 UoA9 has well-developed support structures for postgraduate students, embedded at all levels
 from individual supervisors, to Group postgraduate mentors, UoA9-level postgraduate mentors
 (three early-career staff), and a dedicated UoA9 Postgraduate Welfare Tutor. This support links
 closely with UoB Student Support and Counselling.

 As noted in Section 2.3.2, modes of delivering support have evolved during the COVID-19
 pandemic, helped by developing UoB-level guidance and structures. Input from staff and
 students – including a UoA9 online survey that explored challenges around home working and
 the returning to campus – helped guide re-opening UoA9 in Autumn 2020. Individual meetings
 with managers and supervisors assessed risks and agreed, where appropriate, bespoke
 workplace adjustments/arrangements.

 2.3.6   How E&D has Informed Construction of UoA9’s REF Submission
 The UoA9 REF Outputs Panel comprised four senior staff (including one woman and the
 previous and current chairs of UoA9’s E&D Committee). In accordance with UoB’s REF Code of
 Practice, and to ensure the equity, equality and transparency of the process, members took
 compulsory EDI training. Eligibility for special circumstances was advertised to staff, and
 considered carefully by the Panel. The Panel confirmed that the pool of selected outputs was a
 consistent and fair representation of those available for submission, by staff gender, ethnicity,
 career stage, and contract status.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income
 3.1.1 Strategy for Generating Research Income
 Our strategy has been to diversify our income base to drive growth and to build new
 partnerships that open new funding from previously untapped schemes and routes. There is
 constant horizon scanning of funding opportunities, with consolidation of scanning at the
 strategic (Research Strategy Group, Group and Theme leaders) and bottom-up (individual staff)
 level.

 We focus on people, giving the support and contiguous time to prepare strong grant
 applications. We tailor workload allocations to help achieve success, ensuring appropriate
 support across the diversity of our staff e.g., relief from teaching for new staff, or those
 returning from parental leave (see Section 2.3.2). We work hard supporting early-career
 researchers to apply successfully for high-profile fellowships (both internal and external
 candidates; Section 4.3).

 3.1.2 Outcomes of the Strategy and Forward Planning
    There has been a significant increase in research income (REF4b), at the level of 68%
     compared to REF2014 to an average of £10.5M per year, with a 19% increase in income
     per CAT-A FTE. In-kind income (REF4c) totalled £45.5M.
    Sources of income diversified: In REF2014, 85% came from UKRI funding, with just 4%
     from the EU. In this cycle, 60% came from UKRI, 16.5% from the EU, and 23.5% from other
     sources (mainly UK government bodies, charities and industry). Successes beyond core
     STFC and EPSRC funding (where we were also successful) included bespoke calls (e.g., the
     EPSRC National Nuclear User Facility Phase 2 Call); central UKRI (e.g., Fund for
     International Collaboration), government (e.g. Local Growth Fund) and EU calls (e.g.,
     European Regional Development Funds, European Structural and Investment Funds).
    We won high-profile individual fellowships and grants (Section 4.3), including five Royal
     Society URFs and seven ERC grants.


                     UoA9 average annual research income (£M)
             12
             10
               8
               6
               4
               2
               0
                             REF 2014                         REF2021
                       UK Research Council       Other (mainly UK)      EU

 We will target increasing income by diversifying income streams, e.g., crosscutting UKRI and
 central government schemes in areas aligned to our priorities, and build on significant new
 partnerships with industry, prominent examples being e2V, MSquared Lasers, Dstl and NPL
 and the High Value Manufacturing and Energy Systems Catapults.


                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The level of ambition follows UoB’s goal of annual 10% growth in research income (Sections
 2.1.4, 4.1, REF5a):
    We will build on the success of the Quantum Hub and BCNER/BEI as funding multipliers, to
     tap further into funding lines such as the Local Growth Fund and the Strength in Places calls.
     We will open new applications to industry of our MC40 cyclotron and Positron Emission
     Centre, and open a new income stream from the national neutron facility (Sections 3.2.1,
     3.3).
    We will expand applications of our STFC-supported work on detectors in Astronomy and
     Experimental Gravity and Particle and Nuclear Physics, building on newly announced
     awards from the STFC/EPSRC Quantum Technologies for Fundamental Physics call.
     Interdisciplinary projects include medical applications, e.g., using BILPA to develop medical
     imaging and dosimetry systems for proton therapy with the PRaVDA project and the follow-
     on OPTIma, both linked to NPL; and opening new funding lines through, e.g., BBSRC and
     the Wellcome Trust.
    The Centre for Topological Science and Engineering will open new lines of collaboration
     across UoB, and cross-council opportunities in topology, optics and medicine. We are
     developing closer links with the School of Biosciences (UoA5) in optics and quantum
     sensors. We will also explore commercial medical applications of nanoporous silicon.
    We will continue to support staff to sustain success in winning high-profile individual
     fellowships and grants.


 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
 3.2.1 Local Infrastructure and Facilities
 The current REF period has seen over £10M invested by UoB in UoA9 infrastructure and
 facilities.
 Astronomy and Experimental Gravity
 Two optical labs and an electronic workshop support the Gravitational Wave Institute’s
 programme of interferometry and technology development. £6M of UoB investment in the
 Institute funded new lab space for R&D of technologies for future experiments, and for spin-off
 applications (in collaboration with the Quantum Hub).




                         Gravitational Wave lab (left) and BILPA (right)

 Particle and Nuclear Physics
 In 2016, UoB investment of £1M established the Birmingham Instrumentation Laboratory
 for Particle physics and Applications (BILPA) to expand semiconductor detector systems
 R&D and production. The new laboratory has 200m2 of clean rooms, accommodating work such
 as the High-Luminosity upgrade of the LHC at CERN, medical applications, and R&D into
 radiation hard Monolithic Active silicon Pixel Sensors.

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our MC40 cyclotron particle-accelerator facility has a wide-ranging portfolio of commercial
 and research applications. The research programme includes radiation hardness testing for the
 LHC upgrade, as part of the EU Horizon 2020 AIDA detector innovation programme; and
 materials irradiation for nuclear materials research. We discuss the industrial applications in
 Section 3.3.

 The Positron Imaging Centre, operated jointly with UoB’s School of Chemical Engineering
 (UoA12), uses Positron Emission Particle Tracking to study industrial mixing and processing with
 industry (Section 3.3). The cyclotron manufactures its own positron emitters.

 Our new national Accelerator Driven Neutron Irradiation facility (Sections 1.2, 1.3.2, £1.9M
 of UoB investment) will provide the highest intensity accelerator based neutron flux in the UK for
 fundamental nuclear physics, nuclear medicine, and materials for fission and future-generation
 fusion reactors. Partners include Rolls-Royce, China General Nuclear and NPL.

 Quantum Matter
 Major facilities in this theme are associated with the Quantum Hub. We created a £5M state-of-
 the art Technology Transfer Centre (£2M refurbishment, £3M equipment) with 800m2 of
 laboratories and 400 m2 of offices. We won an additional £3M worth of equipment from the
 Local Growth fund.




                                          Quantum Hub

 We will enhance the second phase of the project with a further £2M of equipment, and link
 into UoB facilities such as the £25M Centre for Human Brain Health and the £28M National
 Buried Infrastructure Facility (Section 4.2.3, REF5a).

 UoA9 facilities also include a low-temperature scanning tunnelling microscope size-selected
 cluster beam source and deep plasma etching system; and a 200 KeV spherical-aberration
 corrected scanning transmission electron microscope, with high-angle annular dark-field
 imaging, electron energy-loss spectroscopy and high-energy X-ray dispersive detectors.

 We also invested £0.25M in new facilities to support research on, and generate impact from,
 medical applications of nanoporous silicon.


 3.2.2 External Infrastructure and Facilities
 Astronomy and Experimental Gravity [REF4c in-kind income £0.9M]
 UoA9 operates its own remote international telescope facilities. The robotic Birmingham
 Solar-Oscillations Network (BiSON) comprises six telescopes, five at large international
 observatories. We bought into the SPECULOOS Project, which is searching for exoplanets,

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 using £0.35M of UoB funding to purchase one of its four telescopes (Paranal Observatory,
 Chile).

 We make extensive use of competitively awarded and open-access data from external
 ground-based telescopes and space-based facilities. Competitive ground-based awards
 contributing to REF4c income included the ESO 3.6-m and VLT, Liverpool telescope, the William
 Herschel and Isaac Newton telescopes, and eMerlin. We also won time on the CFHT, GEMINI,
 Magellan, GMRT, eVLA and ATCA, worth £3.2M. Competitive space-based awards included
 time on HST, Spitzer and XMM-Newton, worth £2.7M. We have access to proprietary ground-
 based data as members of LIGO, Virgo and SPECULOOS. Open-access usage of ground-
 based telescopes included large surveys, e.g., APOGEE/SDSS IV, Gaia-ESO and RAVE. Open-
 access usage of space-based facilities includes NASA’s Kepler/K2 and TESS, and ESA’s Gaia.

 Over the next five years, we will also use data from the Rubin Observatory (Smith is UK lead for
 commissioning); ePPESTO+ (and the future ESO NTT SOX) and ENGRAVE; WEAVE on WHT
 (several science teams); MOONS on the VLT (membership of science team); SKA; and JWST.

 Particle and Nuclear Physics [REF4c in-kind income £41.9M]
 Most of our facilities usage continues to be at CERN. As members of ATLAS, LHCb and
 ALICE, we exploit the LHC and associated infrastructure; our NA62 activity relies on beams from
 the SPS accelerator. We routinely use beam facilities at DESY, Hamburg and have also used
 Fermilab (USA), TRIUMF (Canada), GANIL (France) and iThemba (South Africa). Our Dark
 Matter activity is focussed on the NEWS-G experiment at SNOLAB (Canada). Most of our
 analysis uses the Worldwide LHC Computing Grid. Our involvement in DUNE will ramp-up,
 through engagement in detector and readout deployment. Our detector activity is also leading
 towards exploitation of a new facility at Brookhaven, USA.

 Quantum Matter [REF4c in-kind income £2.7M]
 Local facilities are predominant in this theme, reflecting the nature of the work. However, we also
 won time at the ILL international neutron scattering facility; the STFC Diamond Light Source, and
 ISIS Neutron and Muon Source; the XMaS Materials Science Facility at the ESRF; the National
 Centre for Electron Microscopy at Berkeley, and the Swiss Muon Source at PSI.

 3.3 How Infrastructure, Facilities and Expertise are Utilized for Impact
 Local infrastructure and expertise underpin vibrant impact activities that have created an
 extensive and growing network of collaborations with industry.

    The Quantum Hub has worked with 70 companies and organisations (including BAE, BT and
     BP) with more than 50 projects funded jointly with industry and national laboratories,
     including Innovate UK (Section 1.4)
    The MC40 cyclotron produces medical isotopes for NHS hospitals, performs irradiation
     studies for the nuclear industry and automotive sectors (via the Alta Cyclotron Services Ltd
     spin out company), including “wear” testing for Formula 1 engines, and provides training for
     UK PhD students through the UK Nuclear Physics Graduate School.
    The Positron Emission Centre has, thanks to growing industrial understanding of its utility
     (Section 3.2.1), recently launched as a national centre.
    UoA9 hosts the Midlands STFC Science to Industry Hub, to open national facilities (e.g.,
     Diamond and ISIS) to the SME community, in partnership with the Manufacturing
     Technology Centre (MTC). Freer led a £10m smart manufacturing programme, which
     realised £15m investment in a development centre in Liverpool and £20m of industrial
     investment, with partners including GE, Siemens, MTC and Innovate UK.

 In addition to sustaining the vibrant programmes above, our goals for the period 2021 – 2026 are
 to build an income stream from the new national neutron facility, and to realize impact from other


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recent investments including BILPA and the Centre for Topological Science and Engineering
 (Section 3.1.2).

 3.4 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
 26 UoA9 technical staff provide dedicated research support, comprising a Buildings/Facilities
 manager, a Technical Manager, 20 research technicians and 2 IT Research personnel.

 In addition to theme-related infrastructure, the main Workshop in UoA9 provides support across
 the portfolio. It has had £1.1M of funding since 2014 to create a state-of-the art advanced
 machining facility equipped with a range of Computer Numerical Control machining centres.
 There are also computer-controlled waterjet cutting and laser cutting/engraving machines and a
 professional 3-D printer able to print eleven different plastics.




                                         Main Workshop

 Our researchers also make use of the UoB’s high performance computing facilities (Section 4.5,
 REF5a).

 Scholarly infrastructure helps sustain a vibrant research environment. Support is embedded
 within the annual Performance Development Review (PDR) process, and formal mentoring.
    UoB provides an extensive research support ecosystem (Section 4.1, REF5a). Research
     Support teams help prepare grant applications, linking seamlessly into frameworks within
     UoA9 at Group and Theme level (e.g. workshops to help new staff develop applications, and
     practice interviews). UoA9 calls on the expertise of a dedicated Research Support facilitation
     team, and on the College Research Development Manager and her team. For EU/ERC
     schemes, UoB’s EU Research Office pairs researchers with a reviewer who advises on
     schemes and regulations, and comments on drafts from conception to submission.
    UoB has a well-coordinated media and communications team, providing dedicated support to
     maximize impact and reach, through broadcast, social and print media, e.g., our gravitational
     waves research generated over 1,000 pieces of coverage and an audience of 180 million.




                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations
 UoA9 has extensive networks of international and national collaborators. These include large-
 scale consortia and projects, involving formal agreements and structures; smaller collaborations
 with one or a few researchers; and developing relationships with industry.
    The UoA9 environment supports early-career researchers to grow into leadership
     positions within collaborations, and flexibility around teaching and administration allows
     senior academics to take up major leadership and research roles when opportunities arise.
     Conspicuous examples involving women include early-career leadership of a LIGO working
     group on compact binaries (Schmidt), and at senior academic level leadership of the NA62
     consortium at CERN (Lazzeroni).
    UoA9 funding supports travel to help kick-start new collaborations.
    Our impact and translational activities support a growing network of collaborations with
     industry, most notably through the engagement of the Quantum Hub (Sections 3.3, 4.2).

 Large-scale collaborations are a notable feature in Astronomy and Experimental Gravity
 and Particle and Nuclear Physics, and we hold more than 30 prominent leadership and
 steering positions within them. Headline examples include:
    At CERN: Spokesperson for ATLAS (Charlton, 2013 – 2017) and NA62 (Lazzeroni, 2019 –
     2021); membership of the Large Hadron Collider Committee (Newman, 2014 – 2019), ALICE
     Management Board (Evans, 2006 –), Fermilab Long Baseline Neutrino Committee (Charlton)
    Membership of the Council of LIGO Scientific Collaboration (Vecchio, Freise, 2011 –),the
     Consortium Board of LISA (Vecchio, 2018 – ), Einstein Telescope Steering Committee
     (Freise, 2018 – )
    Membership of TESS Asteroseismic Science Consortium Board (Chaplin, 2015 –), Kepler
     Science Council (Chaplin, 2012 – 2015)

 Smaller-scale collaborations flourish with colleagues at top-100 Universities, including
 Cambridge, MIT, Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Sydney, Toronto and Ohio State.

 Within the Quantum Matter theme, it is more natural for collaborations to involve smaller
 networks. Examples of close collaborators include scientists at Cambridge, Imperial, Exeter,
 Heriot-Watt, Heidelberg, Paderborn, Pennsylvania State, Princeton, Harvard, Weizmann
 Institute, National University of Singapore, Australian National University, Southern University of
 Science & Technology China, and Tianjin.

 Collaboration in the Quantum Hub with academics at Glasgow, Nottingham, Southampton,
 Strathclyde and Sussex is building a series of quantum prototype devices, developing the
 market and links between academia and industry.

 4.2 Wider Contributions not Captured by Impact Case Studies
 Sections 3.1.2, 3.2.1 and 3.3 capture achievements and plans around generating impact from
 the Quantum Hub, the MC40 cyclotron and Positron Emission Centre, and new national neutron
 facility and BILPA facilities.

 Further examples of impact include:
    UoA9 developed a strategic partnership between the National Physical Laboratory
     (NPL) and UoB, which has led to two joint appointments with NPL (T. Price, Guarrera). It
     also realized a project, funded through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF),
     to help local SMEs engage with the Quantum Hub.
    UoA9 hosts the Midlands STFC Science to Industry Hub, which we will grow to open
     national facilities to the local SME community (Section 3.3).


                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    The UoA9-led BEI has driven the funding of large-scale translational research activities, e.g.,
     a £180M bid (£60M Innovate-UK, £120M industry) to establish the Energy Research
     Accelerator (ERA, Director Freer) a consortium of eight Midlands universities and BGS,
     which includes a £10M UoB-led project to develop smart (Industry 4.0) manufacturing for 50
     nationally based SMEs, with construction of two factories (Factories in a Box) for down-
     selected SMEs.
    In support of the ERA and BEI, UoB invested £2.7M into Tyseley Energy Park in
     Birmingham (Section 2.1.7, REF5a). In collaboration with Birmingham City Council, it will
     deliver new city solutions for energy, waste and transport. Associated with the development
     of the BEI and BCNER have been major awards from the national robotics call and Faraday
     Challenge, and development of a joint UoB-Fraunhofer research platform with awards of
     over £20M.

 A strong public engagement ethos is embedded within UoA9, with an extensive programme
 running 150 events per year. There is comprehensive engagement with children in schools,
 which forms part of one Impact Case Study (Section 1.4): half the schools are from deprived
 areas, where students are more likely to suffer low science capital. We also have a new
 innovative strand with home-schooled children (supported by an STFC Spark Award).

 Our bespoke events include:
    Astronomy in the City, a series of (free) public evenings comprising talks on recent research
     highlights, a question-and-answer session and observing with telescopes on campus and
     trips to UoA9’s Observatory a few miles from campus.
    Physics Big Quiz for schoolchildren: the 2019 event had 103 teams of Y9 pupils from
     36 regional schools.

 Members of UoA9 give many talks to public audiences, societies and other bodies, including in
 partnership with the likes of Pint of Science (e.g., the 2019 Astronaut Tour). UoA9 also hosts
 and organises the IoP West Midlands lectures programme, which reached thousands of people.


 4.3 Indicators of Wider Influence
 4.3.1 Prizes and Honours
 UoA9 is proactive in nominating its staff, in recognition of their achievements. Staff at early, mid
 and senior career levels received prizes, including six awards to women [Elsworth (2),
 Lazzeroni, Blackburn, Wilkin, H. Price]. Awards included:
    Astronomy and Experimental Gravity: Fellow of the Royal Society in (Elsworth, 2015);
     2020 Royal Astronomical Society (RAS) Gold Medal (Elsworth); Members of the LIGO team
     (Vecchio and Freise) shared in 2016 Special Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics,
     2016 Gruber Foundation Cosmology Prize, 2017 RAS Group Achievement Award, 2017
     Bruno Rossi Prize and 2017 Princes of Asturias Award; 2020 RAS Fowler Award (Triaud)
     finalist, 2020 Blavatnik Awards (Triaud, for Physical Sciences in UK under age 43); 2020
     International Union of Pure and Applied Physics General Relativity and Gravitation Young
     Scientist Prize (Gerosa); 2020 Research Prize of the Italian Culture Ministry and the Lincei
     National Academy (Gerosa); 2020 IoP Fred Hoyle Medal and Prize (Chaplin).
    Particle and Nuclear Physics: Fellow of the Royal Society (Charlton, 2014); 2017 IoP
     Richard Glazebrook Medal and Prize (Charlton); 2019 IoP Lise Meitner Medal and Prize
     (Lazzeroni); 2019 Blavatnik Award (Nikolopoulos); 2014 JINR-Dubna First prize (Goudovski);
     2020 Guido Alatrelli award for outstanding work in QCD (Ilten).
    Quantum Matter: 2014 IoP Henry Moseley Medal and Prize (Blackburn); Fellow of the
     Optical Society of America (2016; Zhang); Highly Cited Researcher by Clarivate Web of
     Science (2018, 2019; Zhang); 2017 IUPAP Young Scientist Prize in Low Temperature
     Physics (Hicks); 2018 IoP Phillips Award (Wilkin); 2019 IoP Dennis Gabor Medal and Prize

                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     (Bongs); IoP James Clerk Maxwell Medal and Prize (H. Price in 2018, von Keyserlingk in
     2020); 2020 Royal Society of Chemistry Spiers Memorial Award (Canham).

 4.3.2 Prestigious Fellowships
    Astronomy and Experimental Gravity: Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship (Freise,
     Vecchio); Royal Society URF (Sesana); ERC Consolidator (Miglio) and Starting grants
     (Davies, Triaud; also Gerosa and Nicholl just awarded for next period); STFC Ernest
     Rutherford Fellowship (Miao, Veitch); Dutch Research Council VENI Fellowship (Schmidt,
     Toonen).
    Particle and Nuclear Physics: Royal Society URF (Goudovski); Royal Society Dorothy
     Hodgkin Fellowship (M. Watson); ERC Starting Grants (Goudovski, Nikolopoulos).
    Quantum Matter: Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (Bongs, Zhang); EPSRC
     Leadership Fellowship (Bongs); Royal Society URF (Beri, Demetriadou, H. Price); ERC
     starting (Beri) and Consolidator (Zhang) grants; EPSRC UKRI Innovation Fellowship
     (Guarrera); one FLF (von Keyserlingk) just awarded for next period.

 4.3.3 Service on Panels and Committees
 We exerted influence to help shape development of the field through leadership delivered by
 chairs and memberships of important committees, panels and bodies. There is strong
 representation across all themes, with early- and mid-career staff already taking up positions of
 influence. These roles are taken into account when allocating workloads.

 We had representation on around 70 committees and panels, including:
    Committees providing top-level strategic advice for large communities, e.g., IoP Vice
     President for Science and Innovation (Freer); STFC Science Board, UK Space Agency
     Science Programme Advisory Committee (Chaplin); Quantum Community Network of the
     European Quantum Technology Flagship (UK representative), European Space Science
     Committee, UK Space Academic Network (Bongs); International Advisory Committee of the
     US Centre for Frontiers in Nuclear Science (Newman)
    Work on government policy commissions and consultations, e.g., Freer led Policy
     Commissions, chaired by Lord Teverson and Sir David King, on Doing Cold Smarter,
     developing West Midlands Combined Authority’s Energy Strategy; Bongs is a member of the
     Future Position, Timing and Navigation Panel, which advises Cabinet Office; and was on the
     European Parliament Science and Technology Options Assessment on Quantum
     Technologies.
    Oversight of projects and programmes, including strategic reviews: Examples of
     chairing included the STFC Nuclear Physics (Freer) and Particle Physics (Newman) Advisory
     Panels, 2016 review of the STFC Particle Physics Department (N. Watson); the
     establishment of an STFC Centre of Doctoral Training programme in Data Intensive Science
     (Vecchio); UK Space Agency programmatic review (Chaplin) and management boards for
     space missions (Vecchio, Chaplin).
    Service on grants, fellowship and awards panels (many examples) included STFC and
     EPSRC schemes and fellowships, ERC grants, EU schemes, NASA fellowships, and Royal
     Society URFs (two staff are FRS).

 Early-career examples included memberships of:
    European Space Agency (ESA) “Voyage 2050” Topical Team, reviewing long-term planning
     of the ESA Science Programme (Gerosa)
    STFC Astronomy Observation (Triaud) and Particle Physics (Goudovski) Grants Panels
    EPSRC College of Referees (Demetriadou, Navarro-Cia)

 And:
  IoP Gravitational Physics Group Committee Secretary (Schmidt);

                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Giving evidence to the Secretary of State for Defence, Defence Innovation Initiative (2016)
     on applications of Quantum Technology based gravity sensing (Holynski).

 4.3.4 Journal Editorships
 UoA9 staff held 22 editorial positions for refereed academic journals, 12 for open access
 journals, including:
    Editor in Chief for EPJ Quantum Technology (Springer);
    Division Associate Editor for Physical Review Letters (APS);
    Editorial Board memberships for Scientific Reports (Nature), Classical and Quantum Gravity
     (IoP), and the Journal of Physics Communications (IoP).

 4.3.5 Conferences: Organisation and Presentations
 Our staff chaired or led the organisation of approximately 50 international conferences and
 workshops; and were members of scientific or programme committees of at least another 70
 meetings. We gave hundreds of talks at conferences, workshops and meetings.

 We hosted 19 conferences in Birmingham, including:
    2016 International Conference on Kaon Physics;
    2017 IoP Nuclear Physics Conference;
    2017 International TESS/Kepler Asteroseismology Conference (TASC3/KASC10);
    2018 ATLAS-UK Meeting;
    25th International Workshop on Deep Inelastic Scattering and Related Topics (DIS '17);
    2019 IoP Conference on Quantum, Atomic and Molecular Physics.

 UoA9 also won the bid to host the 2017 IUPAP International Conference on Women in Physics,
 a triennial event addressing issues around the well-recognised shortage of women studying and
 working in physics. We hosted 250 participants (90% women) from 60 countries, with significant
 sponsorship raised to enable teams from developing countries to attend.




                                           ICWIP 2017

 4.4 Concluding Remarks
 UoA9 promotes a stimulating, collegiate and equitable research environment, supporting and
 developing our staff to:
  perform world-class research at the frontiers of Astronomy and Experimental Gravity,
    Particle and Nuclear Physics and Quantum Matter;
  grasp new interdisciplinary opportunities, between different domains of Physics, and to other
    natural sciences, and engineering;
  deliver significant impact, in collaboration with industry and other academic disciplines; and
  provide leadership internationally, shaping the field for the 21st Century.




                                                                                           Page 25
