Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 6 Agriculture, Veterinary and Food Science

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and Structure
 This statement presents research from three distinct academic units in the College of Science:
 The School of Life Sciences (SLS), the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT) and the
 National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM). Within SLS, activity is focused within two
 research groups, described in (1) and (2) below.
     1. The Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare Research Group (ABCW) focuses on
         clinical animal behaviour, companion animal welfare and cold-blooded care, with a
         growing stream of activity applied to farm animals, including avian and ruminant health.
     2. The Evolution and Ecology Research Group (E&E) has established strengths in
         applied microbiology (especially the emergence of antibiotic resistance in agriculture)
         and ecology (including environmentally friendly control of invasive agricultural pests). It
         has recently developed critical mass in biophysics – studying organisms through the lens
         of physics, engineering and applied mathematics with application to global environmental
         change processes and robotics – and in soil science, developing indicators of soil health.
     3. The Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT), formed 2015 and situated at
         our Riseholme agricultural campus, provides an institutional focus for interdisciplinary
         and collaborative research using emerging technologies (e.g. robotics, digitalisation) to
         support the sustainable intensification of agri-food supply chains.
     4. The National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM), situated at our Holbeach
         campus at the heart of the Lincolnshire food manufacturing industry, undertakes
         collaborative research and innovation across the food manufacturing industry, including
         applications of robotics and machine learning, digitalisation, food analysis, productivity,
         sustainability and product / process development.

 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims for research
 The University has invested in substantial growth in the UoA during the census period, reflecting
 its pivotal alignment with four of the University’s six thematic priority research areas (Rurality,
 Digitalization, Sustainability, Health and Wellbeing – see Institutional Environment Statement),
 and with our guiding ‘local to global’ strategic principal, through its collaborative work with local
 stakeholders in the agri-food industry to address global challenges in food security and
 sustainability. The successful growth strategy is reflected in the increase in FTE (from 14 to
 33.5) and research income (from £2.3m to £14.6m). We have maintained our high-level REF
 2014 aims with some reorientation of objectives, as described below:

 Aim 1. To enable, prioritise and promote agricultural, food and veterinary research
 through:
 1i. Provide a vibrant research environment attracting world-leading scientists
 The strategy detailed below has allowed the UoA to increase submitted FTE from 14 to 33.5.
 Investment in staff has occurred at all levels including professorial, mid- and early-career,
 especially within the priority areas of animal health (Butter, Clegg, Roberts, Dunn), plant
 sciences and ecology (Qie, Stott, Varga, Coutts, Gould, Valluru), agritechnology (Pearson,
 Bochtis, From, Gaju, Gao) and biophysics (Humphries, Sutton).

 1ii. Investment in research infrastructure, including Institutes and Centres
 The creation of LIAT (2015) has transformed UoL into a leading research hub for the agri-food
 technology sector. LIAT’s strategic approach to interdisciplinary collaborative research is
 reflected in joint research awards with more than 50 HEI’s and Research and Technology
 Organisations and government bodies globally, 78 businesses, and research outputs published
 with seven UoL schools (SLS, NCFM, Computer Sciences, Business, Engineering, Geography
 and Chemistry). This has helped to leverage over £64M of collaborative regional and research
 funding (£25M to UoL), including substantive peer reviewed awards from EPSRC, BBSRC,
 Research England, NERC, STFC, Innovate UK and Horizon 2020, and capital grants. Major

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awards include: the £6.9m EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Agri-food robotics, the £6.3m
 Research England “Expanding Excellence in England” Lincoln Agri-Robotics award (which has
 created 24 permanent posts, including 13 ECRs), and a £1.1M EPSRC Network plus award
 (Internet of Food Things). Major elements of LIAT’s interdisciplinary research funding are
 returned in other UoAs, particularly Computer Science.
 Since the 2014 REF assessment the University has also invested £12.7 million in the Joseph
 Banks Laboratories (JBL) and Minster House (animal facility), which opened in 2015, alongside
 the new Lincoln Science and Innovation Park. SLS has consolidated in these facilities, with the
 Riseholme campus redeveloped to support LIAT. These investments have been reinforced
 through strategically-significant external project funding (see Section 3 for further details).
 During the census period the long-established NCFM has been reoriented from a primary focus
 on knowledge exchange with the food industry towards collaborative R&D, including the
 development of its own research capability and stronger interdisciplinary links across the
 University. This is NCFM’s first inclusion in a REF return. During the census period it has helped
 to secure ~£8 million to support research and innovation in SMEs (including over 100 assists in
 the last year). A further ~£3m collaborative research funding has been secured including
 robotics and vision / AI inspection systems (Innovate UK & EPSRC); international food system
 optimisation and sustainability (Newton Bhabha and Research England); food product
 innovation, food safety, quality assurance and waste reduction (Innovate UK & Food Standards
 Agency). It is a partner in ~£12m of University interdisciplinary collaborative research projects
 including H2020, IUK + BBSRC, and the EPSRC CDT. As with LIAT, major elements of this
 funding are returned in other UoAs.

 1iii. Growth from increased external income
 The new research structures and individual support (described in section 3 below), have enabled
 an increase in external research income from £2.3m in REF 2014 to £14.6m in the current
 census period, a growth of 535%. Details of substantial awards are briefly mentioned above and
 in section 3; other major awards that have been the first of their kind for the University include: a
 Research Leadership Award (£1m) from the Leverhulme Trust (Humphries), an ERC
 Consolidator Award (£1.8m) from the European Research Council (Montealegre-Z); an
 international Newton Bhabha award (£1.2m with £250k going to Lincoln, Swainson); NC3rs
 BBSRC award for £390k (Burman).

 1iv. An increase in the research student base
 PhD completions have increased from 11 in REF 2014 to 25 in 2021 (118%), on a growing
 trajectory (22 registrations on the census date, 31/07/2020, compared to 4 on 31/07/2013). The
 census period has also seen the creation of the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training, focused on
 Agri-Robotics, in partnership with the Universities of Cambridge and East Anglia (£6.9M), and
 the EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (£636K) which includes Biophysics Inspired Robotics
 as a priority area.
 Agreements with overseas Education and Innovation Agencies have grown PGR numbers,
 including the ANII Uruguay programme, CAPES Brazil, the Lincoln Africa Scholarship,
 Commonwealth Scholarships, and a joint award agreement with the University of Bern. In
 addition, LIAT jointly supervises 14 agriculturally relevant interdisciplinary PhD students in
 Computer Science and Engineering, through a BBSRC Collaborative Training Partnership on
 Fruit Crop Research (£1.9m).

 Aim 2. To facilitate and promote interdisciplinarity through:
 2i. Specific investment to expand cross-disciplinary strengths
 Investment includes the creation of LIAT with staff appointments focused on cross-disciplinary
 research areas including Agri-Robotics, Ecology/Weed Management, Soil Science and Crop
 Science, which includes seven staff submitted in this UoA and five submitted in other UoAs
 (including Computer Science); and the reorientation of NCFM with two staff submitted in this
 UoA.
 The University has also invested in staff to build interdisciplinary synergies between relevant
 Schools underpinned by our growing academic portfolio, including our programme in Ecology
 and Conservation shared between SLS and the School of Geography. This has been supported

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through internally-funded joint PGRs (Goddard with Magnone & Macklin both UoA14), and SLS
 membership of the steering group of the new Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
 based within the School of Geography.

 2ii. Engagement with international research networks and collaboration at all levels
 Staff at all levels are supported in a range of networking activities. These include high-level
 international visits (e.g. Hong Kong Baptist University, resulting in Goddard becoming an
 external advisor to their Institute of Bioresources and Agriculture), and individual staff driven
 initiatives (e.g. Romero’s search for field sites in Sulawesi, Indonesia, funded through the SLS
 Travel Scholarship Scheme, resulting in an MoU with Hasanuddin University and collaboration
 with Leipzig University on the Macaca Maura Project –
 https://macacamauraproject.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/).
 Staff and research students are also encouraged to join relevant networks; e.g. the BBSRC
 sponsored Animal Welfare Research Network, through which Burman and Mills provide training
 in companion animal welfare (https://awrn.co.uk/event/implementing-new-methods-to-improve-
 companion-animal-welfare-science-caws-in-the-uk/).

 1.3 Achievement of strategic aims to maximise impact
 1. Increased engagement with potential stakeholders
 Over the census period we have invested in people and organisational structures to maximise
 our interactions and co-creation with local, national and global stakeholders. The investment in
 creating LIAT and developing NCFM, to facilitate interactions with the agri-food sector, has been
 particularly critical. Exploiting our location in Lincolnshire (the UK's primary food production
 county), this has enabled us to secure a reputation as a leader in agri-food technologies. We
 have aligned activity with the UK Government’s agenda to advance digitalisation of the agri-food
 industries and supply chains (e.g. contributing to development of the food manufacturing
 element of HMG’s Made Smarter Review 2017). Through a range of interdisciplinary research
 initiatives, supported by Innovate UK & EPSRC, LIAT and NCFM have achieved high impact in
 this digitalisation space, including ground-breaking advancement of robotics in both agricultural
 systems (see Agri-robotics ICS - Pearson, Gould) and food manufacturing processes, the use
 of Machine Learning and sensor networks to optimise energy usage in chilled and frozen food
 storage (supermarkets), and Deep Learning vision systems to improve food safety on food
 manufacturing packing lines (UoA11 Digitalisation ICS - Pearson LIAT, Swainson NCFM).
 We support new appointees in developing impact: for example, Qie received a voucher from the
 Productivity Programme for Greater Lincolnshire scheme to support eight days activity
 transferring her specialist ecological expertise to support carbon footprint accountability in a
 cardboard recycling company.

 2. Valuing impact as an inherent feature of our research culture
 We design impact into our institute and group missions. NCFM and LIAT have explicitly sector-
 facing missions and deep stakeholder engagement; see above. ABCW’s mission is: “to use an
 interdisciplinary approach to translate fundamental research in behaviour and cognition, to
 provide innovative, practical solutions for the benefit of animal health, welfare, and society”. This
 is evidenced through advances in animal training (see electronic training aids ICS) and problem
 behaviour management (see clinical animal behaviour ICS), the co-creation of patents with
 industry (eg US20170295825A1 Burman, Mills), as well as improvements in cold blooded care
 guidelines (Wilkinson’s work with the RSPCA). In addition, many researchers offer consultancy;
 Mills, for example, has addressed both the public and industry through the University’s Animal
 Behaviour Clinic, which also provides clinical research material, and Montealegre-Z has worked
 with leading supermarkets (e.g. ALDI) identifying potential threats in fresh products (vegetables,
 fruits) potentially infested by arthropods.
 The value we place on impact is also evident within our promotions system: within NCFM
 Onarinde (Associate Professor) was promoted in recognition of her key role in developing food
 microbiology and chemistry focused industrial research collaboration and Swainson (Professor
 of Industrial Food Technology) for leading strategic industrial research growth at NCFM in line
 with University strategy.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Research Strategy for the next five years
 Our research strategy is built around the key themes and Sustainable Development Goals
 prioritised by the University, while respecting individual academic freedom to explore new
 avenues of research.
 We anticipate further development in agrifood technology, responding to drivers including: the
 impact of Brexit on labour supply and supply chains, the demand for NetZero agri-food
 production, the transition of agricultural systems towards enhanced natural capital, and
 requirements to increase food system resilience and improve human diets. We will focus on the
 advancement of digitalisation to drive productivity, safety and quality in the food manufacturing
 sector, rapid expansion of our work in soil health, ecology and biodiversity into agrisystems
 (especially in relation to agricultural ecosystem health), and continue growth of our work within
 the One Health – One Welfare agenda, (especially within the area of human-animal
 interactions across a diversity of taxa and settings).
 We also plan expansion and investment in fundamental research in biophysics, including
 applications in robotics, human and animal biomechanics and sensory perception.
 Specifically, we will:
 i. Respond to local priorities and global challenges
 We will use our local environment and strong stakeholder relationships to address globally
 important issues. Close alignment with the Greater Lincolnshire LEP’s priorities will help to build
 strategically important alliances to address sustainable development for the management and
 health of both land and animals, while meeting consumer demand, taking into account the
 challenges posed by climate change and emerging disease threats. “Farming breakfasts,”
 successfully piloted by LIAT, will be extended as an engagement model with other potential end-
 users.
 The Agri-Forwards CDT and Lincoln Agri-Robotics project have transformed our capabilities and
 capacity in digitalisation and robotics. We will seek similar strategic improvement from synergies
 between our research Institutes (LIAT), centres (NCFM) and groups (E&E, ABCW) focusing on
 soil health and sustainable food security. The University has initiated this strategic investment
 with the appointment of two new ECRs (a collaboration between E&E, LIAT and the School of
 Geography) to develop the key priority area relating to the effect of land use change on soil C-
 sequestration, water retention and biodiversity.
 In parallel, we will build on our existing cross-disciplinary expertise in human-animal interactions
 (HAI) to develop research on the interconnected wellbeing of humans and other animals with
 colleagues within the School of Psychology (Kargas, Hogue, Meints), our visiting professor in
 HAI (McCune) and external stakeholders (including practitioners and members of Animal
 Assisted Intervention International) to maximise the physical and psychological benefits from
 being with animals, while minimising the associated risks.
 ii. Strategically develop our infrastructure and researcher base
 NCFM’s new “Centre of Excellence in Agri-food Technologies” (£7 million capital development
 funded by the Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership, ERDF and the University)
 opens in 2021 as the anchor building on the new Holbeach South Lincolnshire Food Enterprise
 Zone (FEZ). The FEZ provides an opportunity for NCFM to intensify research on high-value food
 chains in collaboration with global food companies. The University has also identified facilities
 growth for LIAT at Riseholme as a priority for further regional funding rounds.
 We will build on recent successes and partnerships to apply for further collaborative CDTs. LIAT
 is a partner on the CTP2 application in Fruit Crop Science which builds on the current BBSRC
 CTP programme in Fruit Crop Research (CTP-FCR). This application brings together
 businesses and researchers to provide world-class horticultural and bioscience solutions and
 training to address the scientific challenges faced by commercial fruit production. We will apply
 the successful collaborative model demonstrated by LIAT to develop similar initiatives in the
 other priority research areas described above.
 iii. Provide targeted investment in staff, especially within areas of interdisciplinarity
 This will involve a particular focus on support for collaborative grants aimed at increasing the
 number of ECRs and PGRs within the UoA. This has begun with University investment in Soil
 Science (outlined above) and will be supported through established initiatives such as The Agri
 Forwards CDT and Lincoln Agri Robotics. Within the area of biophysics we anticipate
 developments relating to the translation of our work using animals into technological systems,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 such as sensory and robotic systems. For example, Sutton’s work on elastic energy in jumping
 insects is already being used to develop a prototype jumping robot for the purpose of navigating
 and monitoring fields of crops, with the support of his colleague Sklar (Research Director for
 Lincoln Agri-Robotics). This prototype is designed to carry a camera through fields of leafy
 vegetables to look for discolourations and insect infestations in crops which are otherwise
 difficult to monitor.

 iv. Develop and exploit new funding streams
 Our research income strategy encompasses four key mechanisms:
 1. Strategic investment in priority research areas with strong stakeholder support, as described
 above.
 2. Increasing the quality of funding bids through coaching, peer review and research planning.
 Our formal research mentoring scheme helps colleagues to identify areas most likely to support
 their ambitions, and our peer review process supports the generation of well-crafted bids; see
 section 2.2.
 3. Specific time allocation to prepare bids.
 4. Encouraging collaborative research by supporting extended networking opportunities,
 conference participation and research visits to other institutions/organisations. For example,
 Sutton’s 4-month US travel grant led to a successful NeuroNex grant application ($10M USA,
 ~£750k to Lincoln).

 1.5. Impact strategy for the next five years
 Impact is integral to our vision as a Civic University, and in this context we define it broadly to
 encompass measurable economic and health benefits, developing solutions to real world
 problems, and changing perceptions and understanding among non-academic audiences.

 Our impact strategy has three main strands:

 i. Co-creation to maximise impact
 We will continue to strengthen our successful collaborations with local stakeholders, as outlined
 in 1.4i above, to co-create research that is not only relevant to local and regional communities,
 but also applicable to global issues, especially with regards to Food Security, Ecological
 Sustainability and Human-Animal Interactions.

 ii. Translational and implementation research for impact
 Our developing agri-food research priorities fill critical gaps in national capability, which will have
 major impact on labour characteristics and industrial productivity. Many food manufacturers are
 now looking at new working environments and markets using digital platforms to tackle the
 current trade balance issues facing the industry. We are leading the way in robotics, automation
 and artificial intelligence applications in the agri-food sector, which are in their infancy, but are
 set to have a transformational impact on labour and non-labour productivity. The global demand
 for the technology is compelling: agriculture feeds a population of 7.7bn rising to an anticipated
 10bn by 2050. There is also a need to deliver sustainable products, which is driving innovation.
 The UK research community in this area is small and highly fragmented, but the recent
 investment in Lincoln Agri-Robotics acts as a leading hub for this work and its impact. This
 provides a platform both to sustain our current impact within agriculture and to diversify to
 embrace the further expertise available within E&E (Soil health and ecological sustainability) and
 ABCW (healthy human-animal interactions).
 Much of our ongoing work in agriculture and food science is at relatively high technology
 readiness levels (TRL) from 4 (Component validation in the laboratory) to 7 (System prototype
 demonstration), commensurate with the urgency of industrial demand, and supported by
 government funding aimed at driving immediate industrial productivity. Recent investments
 facilitate a more sustainable and comprehensive research pipeline with greater emphasis on
 lower TRL (2 to 5) basic research. This enables longer-term transformational impact, and
 provide the UK with a unique Agri-food impact capability.
 This approach, which we are already applying successfully in relation to agri-food technology,
 provides an impact model for our other research themes, including the translation of basic

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ecological and microbiological work to ecosystem health and food-safety (Goddard, Gould,
 Varga, Coutts), and applying animal cognition and emotion research for better quality human-
 animal interactions (Mills, Wilkinson, Burman, Romero, Cooper). The work of these groupings
 together with that of individuals (e.g. Humphries on ocean ecosystems) converge on several
 government priority areas and provide opportunities to address broader impact themes.

 iii. Support structures for impact
 University structures to support impact are described in the Institutional environment statement.
 At a local level, dedicated senior impact leads, with extensive industrial research experience
 work closely to mentor colleagues and help them realise the potential impact of their work. All
 staff receive impact training, and the potential for research impact is identified and documented
 annually within Individual Research Plans (IRP) and monitored on an ongoing basis. Local and
 central funding and seminars are available to support impact generation. For example, Cooper
 was supported with a Research Impact Buyout Award by the College of Science which allowed a
 reduction in teaching duties in 2017-18, enabling him to focus on activities including liaison with
 regional, national and international governments and stakeholders interested in developing
 legislation associated with Electronic Training Aids (see related ICS).
 At all three campuses academics and industry share common research spaces relating to this
 UoA. Over the past three years our staff have worked with over 200 local businesses - typically
 providing scientific and technical support - with a number of these looking to relocate their
 businesses closer to University of Lincoln in order to take advantage of our facilities and
 expertise. Phase 1 of the Lincoln Science and Innovation Park, adjacent to JBL (mentioned in
 the REF 2014 submission) is already at capacity; over the next five years both LSIP Phase 2
 and NCFM’s £7m business hub at Holbeach FEZ will come on stream to ensure we sustain the
 growth of our local-business related impacts. This is supported by the recent establishment of a
 Barclays Eagle Lab (2020) on our Riseholme campus to help new agri-food start-up businesses,
 including University spin-outs.

 1.6 Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
 Global changes in the agri-food industry require an interdisciplinary approach to develop
 technologies that address the challenge of maintaining food security. During the census period
 LIAT was developed specifically to meet the demand for interdisciplinary research in Agri-
 technology (agri-robotics, data analytics and digitalisation) and Agri-environment (crop
 physiology, soil health, natural flood management, agroforestry). Recent external awards
 (EPSRC CDT, BBSRC CTP, Research England E3 and Anglian Water funding) have already
 enabled investment in postdoctoral researchers and PhD students in these areas. LIAT
 collaborates extensively across the University, as evidenced by the return of LIAT staff and
 collaborators in Lincoln to other UoAs. This approach is now being extended to capitalise on the
 synergies possible with biological sciences within SLS, especially with regards to soil sciences,
 but also other areas of importance, including food microbiology and antibiotic resistance.
 Similarly, NCFM has progressed interdisciplinary research with the support of awards from
 EPSRC, BBSRC, H2020, FSA, Research England GCRF and Innovate UK. This has focused on
 food manufacturing robotics, optimisation of food supply chains and reduction of food waste
 (with Engineering), AI enabled vision inspection systems and self-optimising fleets for food
 warehouses (with Computer Science), and advancements in food safety using cutting-edge
 microbiological techniques with SLS staff. Building on these synergies is at the heart of our
 strategic plan for growth in the foreseeable future.
 Within E&E there has been a consolidation around three major areas of multidisciplinary
 research: biophysics, biomechanics and sensory biology, with the support of external funding.
 Biophysics and Biomechanics have attracted and recruited research fellows and PhD students in
 sensory biology, physics, chemistry, engineering and mathematics, though major grants e.g.
 ERC-CG, Leverhulme, LRLA, The Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation [GBMF] and NeuroNex.
 ABCW and E&E collaborate extensively with colleagues in the School of Psychology, adding
 strength and depth to our biological and psychological foundations and provide fundamental
 insights which translates to real world impact: e.g. the comparative and applied work of humans
 and dogs (Montealegre-Z, Pike, Soulsbury and Guo [Psychology]), funded by DSTL to support
 improvement in police and military working dog performance.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  1.7. Progress towards open research
 The University is committed to open data as a partner in the JISC-funded Open Research Hub
 project and is a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration On Research Assessment (DORA –
 see institutional level statement). Since May 2018 University policy on research data has been to
 publish data as openly as possible. Both spreadsheet and raw data are accessible in this way,
 when ethically allowable. Examples include hundreds of slide stacks resulting from Micro-CT
 scanning of insect ears, from an ERC project (Montealegre-Z) deposited in dryad, and the
 default Diamond Light Source open access service for nano-CT (Synchrotron) data collected in
 the same project. Video data are also shared in this way, resulting in new collaborations – for
 example, in relation to our work on the expression of emotion in dogs (Mills), we are now
 collaborating with computer scientists at the University of Haifa, to enable the automation of this
 process through deep learning and AI.
 In addition, the University provides an open access store of shareable eprints. Journal Articles
 with ISSN and Conference Proceedings with ISSN must be deposited within 3 months of
 acceptance and must be made open access within the REF stated maximum embargo period.
 This allows green access to all published outputs. The data are curated, accessible and
 reusable, complying with research funder mandates, allowing a standards-based data
 management service.

 1.8. Support for research integrity
 Research integrity is governed by the University’s Code of Practice for Research (see
 Institutional environment statement), Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the
 University’s Research Ethics committee. All staff and PGR students receive training in ethics
 and use of the online ethical approval system (LEAS). All research is subject to ethical review
 and compliance is monitored with formal annual reviews of all approved projects. Both the Chair
 (Burman - ABCW) and deputy Chair (Soulsbury- E&E) of the University Non-human Research
 Ethics Committee are included in this UoA.
 The role of ethics in research integrity, as well as promotion of the 3Rs in animal studies
 (Burman, NC3Rs Panel Member), is communicated throughout all stages of research activity,
 being integrated within undergraduate and post-graduate training, and in staff development (i.e.
 with staff acting as ethics reviewers).


 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy
 There has been significant and sustained investment in growing the academic staff base in
 UoA6. This has seen a 140% increase from 14 FTE in REF 2021 to 33.5 FTE in REF 2021.
 Academic staff have been strategically recruited at all levels with interests complementary to
 existing groups and future research priorities. Senior academic staff are recruited or promoted to
 take on important leadership roles (Pearson – LIAT, Swainson – NCFM) but there is also an
 emphasis within recruitment for developing our own staff and ECRs, who can flourish within our
 research environment and priority areas. For example, in line with the UK Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers and our development of these, two independent post-
 doctoral fellows supported by the University were appointed to permanent posts at Lincoln
 (Varga, Marie Curie; and Sutton, Royal Society) following competitive external appointment
 processes. Our commitment to internal development of staff is evidenced by 7 of the 12 (10.45
 FTE) professors submitted to this UoA having been internally promoted to post in the census
 period.

 2.2. Staff development
 Academic staff are fully supported in line with the provisions of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers beyond the wider mechanisms of the University’s People
 Strategy through our Personal and Professional Development Framework. We reward success,
 and it is notable that 14.45 FTE (~43%) staff submitted in this UoA are employed at a senior
 level (Associate professor or above), with 8 (~24%) receiving internal promotions during the
 census period (including 3 women, 1 BAME). This is the product of the following processes:

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   A research culture which includes formal developmental and mentoring for all staff
        through annual developmental appraisal and IRP. While annual developmental appraisal
        allows colleagues to focus on their overall academic development, the IRP process
        focuses on research progress within the context of individual, School and University
        aspirations. The IRP is a supportive process undertaken with senior staff (or peers in the
        case of the professoriate) and includes reflection on the previous year’s objectives and
        achievements, helping staff to proactively plan for their future and develop pragmatic
        solutions to enable them to achieve their research potential within the wider academic
        context of their appointment.
    •   Support for early career researchers (ECRs) includes appointment of ECR leads, specific
        targeted training, a dedicated mentor, alongside restricted teaching loads for all new staff
        to provide them with more time for research and bids. Staff may extend their dedicated
        research time through successful grants (e.g. Sutton 80% on Royal Society, Gao, Gaju,
        Valluru 80% on Research England E3 and Montealegre-Z 55% FTE on ERC-CG).
        Other outcomes include the production of world leading publications e.g. Qie has
        produced publications in both Nature and Science, and Romero a publication in Nature
        Communications. New staff are also provided with internal funding and/or equipment to
        enable them to maintain their research momentum, whilst they seek external funding.
    •   Internal pump-priming funds are available to facilitate the generation of pilot data with
        grants of up to £25k per successful applicant. For example, an award to Montealegre-Z
        in 2016 to explore the use of 3D insect ear models for numerical analysis was used to
        strengthen the case for his successful ERC grant application.
    •   Promotion of opportunities and external awards (e.g. Innovate) specifically aimed at
        stimulating and facilitating exchanges between academia and business. This has been
        extended by the newly established AgriTech Barclays Eagle Lab at the University’s
        Riseholme Campus.
    •   Promotion of engagement opportunities with external stakeholders. This includes LIAT’s
        successful “Breakfast Briefings” between academics, external speakers, external
        businesses and stakeholders resulting in a number of successful collaborations; this
        model will be rolled out across the UoA. NCFM’s multi-faceted industrial engagement
        agenda includes research, knowledge-exchange, training, further and higher education
        and apprenticeships with the food industry nationally and internationally. Within SLS, the
        Animal Behaviour Clinic supports industry staff development in clinical animal behaviour:
        e.g. technical managers for Behaviour at Ceva Animal Health which resulted in additional
        near market research and consultancy, in addition to the substantial projects described in
        the ICS on clinical animal behaviour.
    •   Staff are further empowered to manage their own professional development through a
        proportion of their income contribution from research grants returned to the PI (e.g. 10%
        of the contribution where a project reaches the minimum qualifying level). The level of
        contribution achieved is reviewed annually at College level.

 2.3. Support for training and development of PGR Students
 The number of PhD completions in this UoA has increased more than two-fold from 11 in the
 previous submission to 25. There were 22 PhD students enrolled on the census date 31/07/2013
 compared to 4 on 31/07/2013. The mechanisms described below have ensured 100% PhD
 completions on time (<4 years FTE) for all students starting during this period. These successes
 are as a result of the following support and development mechanisms:
     • A formal cross-disciplinary research programme (Postgraduate Research Skills for Life
        Scientists): research expertise within this UoA encompasses a wide range of areas
        including animal behaviour, cognition and welfare, evolution and ecology, biophysics,
        food safety and agriculture. Our formal programme emphasises the core principles of
        scientific research that transcend discipline, the importance of an enquiring mind and the
        opportunities provided from awareness of other disciplines, e.g novel statistical methods.
        A bespoke postgraduate training programme covers essential transferable and
        translational skills, including workshops on problem solving, research and presentation
        skills, paper writing and writing grant applications. This builds towards an annual


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         postgraduate symposium which gives students experience of presenting in a conference
         style environment.
     • Expanded opportunities for PGR funding include the award of an EPSRC CDT, focused
         on Agri-food Robotics with the Universities of Cambridge and East Anglia (£6.9M) as well
         as an EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (£636K), which includes Biophysics Inspired
         Robotics. Other sources of studentship funding include UKRI (BBSRC, EPSRC,
         Research England), EU (ERC), Charities (Leverhulme Trust, Feline Friends, The Felix
         Thornley Cobbold Agri Trust, Chadacre Agri Trust, John Templeton Foundation), industry
         (CEVA, Cherry Valley, NIAB) and the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board
         (AHDB). We also regularly offer internally funded studentships and fee waivers. PGR
         students have access to Santander International Scholarships for research travel and
         also international fieldwork opportunities in North, Central and South America, Qatar,
         Russia, Singapore, and United Arab Emirates.
     • An academic support network: All students have at least two supervisors to ensure
         strong support and diversity in the expertise available to reinforce this transdisciplinary
         philosophy. Two PGR mentors (one male, one female) from outside a PGR student’s
         academic discipline are also available within SLS to ensure students have access to
         support outside their doctoral supervisory team and advice on any non-subject specific
         aspect of their degree. Postgraduate research student reps are appointed annually
         through the Students’ Union and have regular meetings with the PGR committee. These
         meetings give students the opportunity to raise awareness of issues and for staff to
         respond to issues in a proactive manner.
     • Internal funding to support conference attendance and publication fees. Awards are
         given in recognition of high-quality work, and for outstanding work e.g. best PhD thesis.
     • Formal training opportunities to enhance teaching skills. PGR students are formally
         supported with training to participate as demonstrators in lab practicals for undergraduate
         and MSc-level courses. This is overseen by academic staff and may develop into more
         formal lecturing opportunities in their research area to support their development towards
         Associate Member status of the HEA. Postgraduate students are fully integrated into
         their school and are also involved with committees at all levels of the organisation,
         including staff appointment panels.
 Our training of PGR students takes into account the diverse range of careers which our
 graduates pursue: Several PhD students have chosen to undertake post-doctoral work within the
 University. Others go to postdoctoral positions at other institutions; or directly into permanent
 academic positions (e.g. Sriphavatsarakom, Mahidol University, Thailand). Some PhD graduates
 have taken up related roles in UK industry (e.g. Cracknell - Defence Science and Technology
 Laboratory; Brady - behaviour services manager, Dogs Trust and Wright - Guide Dogs for the
 Blind); or abroad (Sarria-S - Enterra Feed Corporation, Canada; Kasbaoui - Institut de Reserche
 en Semiochemie and Ethologie Appliquee, France).

 2.4. Equality, diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 For this UoA, policy on LGBTQIA+, International Staff, Disabled Staff, PoC staff, Women in
 STEM and Carers and Parents are all covered by the University’s Joint Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion Partnership. Mental health is covered by HR, the Employee Assistance Programme
 and availability of the ‘Togetherall’ facility.
 This UoA has a collaborative approach to EDI and we actively encourage under-represented
 groups to apply for vacancies. We are proud of an inclusive culture that values diversity as a
 strength; however, we recognise that we have not yet achieved equality targets within our
 community and this acknowledgement underpins our desire to improve these statistics. We are
 actively investigating further mechanisms to address this issue with the assistance of the cross-
 University Eleanor Glanville Centre (EGC) (http://eleanorglanvillecentre.lincoln.ac.uk/) which
 coordinates our institutional engagement with the Equality Challenge Unit’s Athena
 SWAN/Gender & Race Equality Charters, and provides centralised support, and sharing of best
 practice, across all academic schools. For example, this has resulted in blind recruitment for
 students and increased the proportion of female students recruited as a result.
 Of the 33.5 FTE in this UoA, 32.9% are females; 37.2% are non-British. Currently 31% of Senior
 staff (professorial level) identify as female, and distribution of ethnic groups is 76.1% white and

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 23.9% BAME. Staff ages range between 28 and 61, with a strong weighting towards the 30s
 (38%), early/mid 40s (20%), and 50’s (42.4%), and therefore reflects a diverse and balanced
 range of experience and career stages. Moreover, 4 staff are ECRs, (defined as being within 5
 years of their PhD award as of 2020), while 10/35 staff have secured their first permanent
 lectureship positions.
 SLS has held an Athena SWAN Bronze award since 2016, and separate applications are being
 prepared by both LIAT and NCFM. Work on EDI is ongoing and includes:
 • An active monthly EDI committee, which includes student educators, academic and post-
 doctoral researchers, professional services and research students. The committee is engaged in
 a continual self-evaluation process, implementing actions designed to improve equality and
 diversity. Analysis of annual monitoring statistics and the results of regular Staff Culture Surveys
 are carried out to better assess trends and inform the development of targeted initiatives for
 under-represented groups. There are also College and University EDI committees that meet
 monthly for Chairs of School EDI committees.
 • An EDI blog linked from the main SLS website, with links to relevant EDI policies and updates
 from monthly EDI committee meetings.
 • Internal EDI-proofing, to detect and raise awareness of unconscious bias, so we can ensure
 internal processes and procedures deliver a level playing field for all staff. EDI training is
 compulsory for all staff, and a condition of the initial 6-month probation for new staff.
 • Recognising that female researchers can be disproportionately disadvantaged through
 maternity leave and caring responsibilities, our staff engage with the institutional Pipeline
 Mentoring Scheme, open to all staff, which includes ‘maternity mentoring’ and ‘work-life balance’
 support pathways, alongside the more usual career progression support available. Further
 support for female researchers around maternity leave is provided through the EGC’s Academic
 Returners’ Research Fund (AR2F), which enables staff to sustain their research before, during
 and after maternity leave. This scheme has supported Wilkinson in the current period by
 providing funding for a postdoc for six months, to ensure research continuity during her period of
 maternity leave.
 • Equality and Diversity is a standing item on senior leadership team meetings, as well as in
 school meetings, through for example an Athena Swan leader (Dunn) and deputy (Stott,
 Cotter). This permits tracking progress towards targets and commenting on our Silver Award
 application progress.
 • EDI has also been an item in the construction of the REF submission of this UoA. The
 principles of transparency, inclusivity and consistency are at the heart of this process, in
 accordance with REF Code of Practice. The output selection is a confidential process that gives
 staff the chance to score their own outputs during the annual IRP review, followed by a number
 of simultaneous internal and external assessments. Our UoA Panel meets to decide on final
 scores and notifies staff individually with details of the process. This can then be used as a staff
 development opportunity.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research Income
 In the census period this UoA submitted 406 grant bids with a success rate of 43%. Funders
 include UK nonRC (52.5%), UKRI (16.8%), EU (8.2%), International and other funders (3.7%).
 Our research income (secured funds) has increased from £2.3m (in the 2014 REF period) to
 £14.6m (in the current period), representing a growth of 535%. This growth has been due to our
 strategic focus on local, national and global priorities (food security, health and wellbeing, and
 sustainability) together with intensified focus on fundamental research (for example, in
 biophysics). The strategy described in section 1.2, has resulted in expanded collaborative
 networks with, for example, service users and industrial partners, and higher quality applications
 in line with the needs of both funders and applicant expertise, as evidenced by the achievements
 listed below.
      • Major grants (>£750k) awarded in the census period to UoA6 PIs: European
          Research Council (£1.8m The insect cochlear, Montealegre-Z, 2017), EPSRC (~£1.5m,
          Internet of Food Things, Pearson, 2018), The Leverhulme Trust (£1.4m, Form and

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        function in a microbial world, Humphries, 2015), Innovate UK (£1.1m, The development
        of dynamic energy control mechanisms for food retailing refrigeration systems, Pearson,
        2016); Science and Technologies Facilities Council (Synthesis of remote sensing and
        novel ground truth sensors to develop high resolution soil moisture forecasts in China
        and the UK, £1m, Pearson, 2016); Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation ($965,532 US,
        Microscale Viscosity Gradients in the Sea – Humphries, 2017); Research England
        (£6.3m, Lincoln Agri Robotics, Pearson, 2019); MRC (£770k, Modelling General
        Principles of Motion, Sutton 2020).
    •   Awards over £100k awarded in the census period to UoA6 PIs: BBSRC (£500k, A
        whole supply chain hurdle approach to control Campylobacter – Goddard, 2016; £210k,
        Development Of Novel Greenhouse Cladding Materials To Optimise Crop Growth And
        Quality, Pearson, 2015; £150k & £129k, Seeding Catalyst – Pearson, 2017/18); Ceva
        Sante Animale (£465k – advances in semiochemistry, Mills, Pike 2019-21), NC3Rs
        (£429k – automated predictive welfare assessment in fish, Burman), Interreg (£250k –
        SmartGreen Pearson, 2018, 2017); Innovate UK (£391k - Development & Optimisation
        of Fresh Produce Supply Chain, Handling and Storage Systems, Swainson, 2016;
        £329k - Trusted, Decentralised, Digital Supply Chains for the Food Industry, Pearson –
        2020, £319k - Advanced Cooking and Cooling Technology, Swainson, 2015; £221k -
        Digitised Food Supply Chain. Fusing IoT, Blockchain and AI data layers, Pearson¸ 2020;
        £191k - Robotic flexible food manufacturing system, Swainson, 2016). Royal Society
        (£480k - jumping biomechanics and elastic materials – Sutton, 2019); The Leverhulme
        Trust (£300k - evolution of communication in insects Montealegre-Z, 2014); Ceres-
        Agritech (£299k – Forecasting harvest profiles for fruit; £294k- Forecasting harvest
        profiles for broccoli, £258k - Laser boom all Pearson, 2019/20); DSTL (£288k - Extended
        studies on rat and dog odour perception, Wilkinson, Pike, 2015-2018; £270k - Effect of
        light and sound on working dogs, Wilkinson, Soulsbury, Mills, 2019); Science and
        Technologies Facilities Council (£250k - Pest and Disease Emergence Prediction and
        Control for Sustainable Agriculture, Pearson, 2017); Horizon2020 (£195k - Sex-Specific
        Interactions in Arbuscular Mycorrhizas in an Ecological Community Context, John,
        2015); Food Standards Agency (£121k -Developing ‘Data Trusts’ for the Food Supply
        Chain, Pearson, 2019).

 Synergies between LIAT, NCFM and colleagues in Computer Science and Engineering emerged
 rapidly following a strategic review of national priorities and potential capabilities at Lincoln
 following REF 2014. Associated income relevant to the Agri-Food sector appears in multiple
 UoAs. Nonetheless, we believe it is worth indicating the breadth of this research in Agri-Food
 Technology. Over the 5 years, the UoL team in LIAT and NCFM have helped win more than
 £64m of collaborative research and regional development (including capital) funding divided
 across multiple partners and including ‘in-kind’ contributions in Agri-Food technology (25m to
 University of Lincoln). These centres exemplify the critical role that universities can play in
 supporting local economies in addition to their roles as drivers of global innovation.

    •     Named collaborations on other major grants awarded to staff at Lincoln, including
          awards in Agriculture, Veterinary and Food considered in other UoAs
 EPSRC (£6.9m - Doctoral Training in Agri-Food Robotics, Pearson, Swainson, 2018; £178k -
 Automated Robotic Food Manufacturing System, Swainson, 2017); Department for
 Communities and Local Government (£2.7m The Greater Lincolnshire Agri-food Innovation
 Platform, Pearson, 2019); Research England (£1m -Business Incubation Development to
 support Food Enterprise Zones, Swainson, Onarinde, 2019); NERC (£813k - Northwest
 European Seasonal Weather Prediction from Complex Systems Modelling, Pearson 2020);
 Horizon 2020 (£768k - Intra-Logistics with Integrated Automatic Deployment: safe and scalable
 fleets in shared spaces, Swainson, 2016; £404k - MoBile Robotic PlAtforms for ACtive
 InspeCtion and Harvesting in AgricUltural Areas, Pearson, MoBile Robotic PlAtforms for ACtive
 InspeCtion and Harvesting in AgricUltural Areas 2019); Innovate UK (£642k - The world's first
 fleet of multi modal soft fruit robots, Pearson, 2018; £566k – Robot Highways, Pearson, 2020;
 £494k - Autonomous robots to support fruit picking, From, Pearson, 2017; £408k - High speed
 picking soft fruit robots, Pearson, 2018; £297k - KTP - Olympus Automation, Swainson, 2018;

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £274k - Development and field testing of the next generation of vision-guided weeding systems,
 Pearson, 2018; £225k - Robot Tomato Harvester, Pearson, 2017; £187k - Novel active vision
 and picking head to robotically harvest soft fruit, Pearson, 2021; £176k - Robotic Blackgrass
 weeder, Pearson, 2018; £156k - Development of an autonomous mushroom picking robot,
 Pearson, 2017); £100k – Africa KTP (Nigeria) Temophadis International Enterprise & University
 of Lincoln; Swainson, 2020) Interreg (£297k Saline Farming - innovative agriculture to adapt to
 climate change and sea level rise, Pearson, 2017); Ceres (£242k – Ai unleashed, Pearson,
 2021); Berry Gardens Ltd (£192k - In-Field Logistics for Soft-Fruit Production, Pearson, 2020);


 3.2. Infrastructure and Facilities
 Our strategic Investment in sustainable Institutes and Centres during the REF cycle has allowed
 us to repurpose and modernise facilities at LIAT, NCFM, and SLS. LIAT is based in custom-
 developed facilities at Riseholme (the University 200-hectare Farm Campus) and hosts the Agri
 Forwards CDT in agricultural robotics and Lincoln Agri-Robotics. This includes a fully robotic soft
 fruit farm, greenhouses, fully robotic packhouse, food handling facility, food picking robots, and
 auxiliary equipment allowing automated multisensory detection. LIAT also has access to vertical
 farm facilities based in Reading (funded by Reading University), for research on strawberries,
 open to both students and researchers.
 At NCFM successive investment by the University and GLLEP have transformed this rural
 campus into an internationally important innovation hub for the food industry. The campus has
 nationally unique technical facilities including a food factory test facility, where NCFM pilots
 advanced food processing technologies with industry partners, and the use of robotics for both
 small and large scale food manufacturing including a "first in the world" robotic platform to batch-
 process food. Other on-site research facilities include: microbiology and chemistry laboratories
 (with further facilities available in JBL on the main Brayford campus); a new product
 development suite; sensory & organoleptic test centre and food processing pilot plant. These
 have enabled through Innovate UK investment co-development of new steam infusion cooking
 systems and rapid advanced cryogenic cooling technologies, which have been commercialised
 by partner businesses working closely with NCFM.
 The Joseph Banks Laboratories (JBL) and Minster House (MH) on our Brayford Campus provide
 state-of-the-art facilities to support fundamental cutting edge molecular and cellular biological
 research, biomechanics and sensory biology. MH has whole animal facilities, for work on animal
 behaviour, perception, cognition and welfare. These include: fish lab with acclimatised tanks and
 automated tracking systems, developed as part of an NC3R project; Reptile lab, with colonies of
 lizards, tortoises, and snakes; Sensory perception labs especially in vision with our unique i-link
 and canine headset eye tracking systems, olfaction (with unique olfactory discrimination
 apparatus developed in association with Ceva Animal Health) and hearing (bioacoustics
 chamber); controlled climate insectary room with 15 incubators to maintain colonies of tropical
 insects; and a climatised greenhouse for plant research. An ERC-CG (Montealegre-Z)
 extended facilities further to include an imaging lab with micro-CT scanner, plus 3D microscopy
 system for surface roughness measurement; and a fully equipped bioacoustics lab with laser
 scanners, sound-proof room, anti-vibration tables, and a large range of audio and ultrasound
 equipment. This constitutes one of three major facilities for hearing research in animals in the
 UK, an investment of £502k, to which the University contributed £200k. A newly-established
 £65k mechanical-biological engineering lab (Sutton) is equipped with state-of-the-art high-speed
 video capture to measure elastic structures for fast movements in animals. In addition, we have
 a Physical Ecology lab equipped with a state-of-the-art algal growth chamber, optical
 microrheology and bulk rheology measurement equipment, high speed fluorescent microscopy,
 a 92-core server system for computational work, as well as ongoing development of cutting-edge
 microfluidic devices. We anticipate further growth in this facility as our work on soil health
 expands.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Large-scale Collaborations. LIAT and NCFM collaborate in several large-scale networks. The
 £4.8m CCF CERES Agritech programme (with Cambridge, UEA, Reading, Lincoln and Herts
 and three research institutions) is a platform to identify, incubate, invest in and run commercially
 viable development projects – to date, LIAT is collaborating in/leading 11 CERES projects worth
 £2.1m. The €4m ILIAD EU-INTERREG programme promotes the advancement of automation
 and robotics for the food warehousing and food processing sectors (with Cambridge, Cranfield,
 Open, Surrey, Reading, UEA, Liverpool, Hertfordshire, Loughborough, Southampton,
 Manchester, Leeds and Sheffield Hallam). Pearson is PI of the EPSRC Internet of Food Things
 Network + (co-I’s at Southampton, Exeter, UEA and Open) that has 85 active participants across
 UK HEI’s, awarding over £300K of research funding to consortia led by ECRs. Pearson and
 Swainson are CO-Is of the EPSRC AgriForwards CDT with Cambridge and UEA, which
 includes over £3m of support from industry. From and Pearson are engaged in the Norwegian
 Research Council Digifoods initiative. Bochtis leads the H2020 BACCHUS program, a cross EU
 initiative to develop robotic solutions for wine producers. Swainson and Pearson also work
 internationally on the advancement of resilient and sustainable food supply chains in India and
 Kenya (Newton Bhabha and QR GCRF) with industry, academic and government partners to
 develop handling, storage and processing practices. Other key LIAT and NCFM partners include
 leading Research and Technology Organisations including: HVM Catapult, NIAB EMR, NERC
 Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, BBSRC Rothamsted, BBSRC John Innes Centre, Chinese
 Academy of Meteorological Sciences, Egerton University Kenya, Nanjing University, Punjab
 Agricultural University, the Innovate UK Agri-EPI centre.

 Collaborative partnerships are also formed with respect to specific projects. These may be led
 by staff at Lincoln or an external host. For example within the census period Goddard’s
 collaborations have involved: NIAB, FERA, SRUC, ADAS and Natural England (Soil health and
 soil biology partnership - AHDB/BBRO); AHDB and NIAB East Malling Research including
 BBSRC CTP PhD students (projects to understand and control horticultural diseases); Plant
 and Food Research NZ Ltd (The Vineyard Ecosystem Program - New Zealand Winegrowers and
 the New Zealand Ministry for Innovation and Employment; Integrating biodiversity in agricultural
 habitats and the effect of synthetic pesticides - Plant and Food Research NZ Ltd); Oregon State
 University (population genomics of Brettanomyces bruxillensis - New Zealand Winegrowers);
 University of Stellenbosh (harnessing killer yeast for agriculture - Royal Society collaboration
 grant) and amount to more than £3m global external income. Burman’s expertise has
 underpinned academic collaborations led by Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences -
 Swedish Research Council (Missing the big picture: how cognitive processes influence emotions
 in animals) and University of Bern - Swiss National Science Foundation (Lampe PhD
 studentship); and expert consultancy on an NC3Rs Fellowship (MRC Harwell, UK).
 Collaboration has been central to our development of Biophysics at Lincoln and is wide ranging.
 Montealegre-Z’s ERC project adapting the biophysics of insect hearing to design novel acoustic
 sensors (£1.8m) involves collaboration with both UK (UCL, Cambridge and Strathclyde) and
 international collaborators (Austria, Graz; Germany, Giessen; US, Case Western Reserve
 University), and has opened a broad interest in the new generation of genetically engineered
 model organisms for non-invasive hearing research, with collaborators in Japan (Hokkaido
 University). Funded by NSFDEB-NERC (£950K) he and collaborators in USA (Texas A&M
 University), and UK. (St. Andrews) are developing a substantial project that integrates
 phylogenomics, biophysics, and functional genomics to unravel the evolution of acoustic
 communication and proteins involved in hearing in insects. He is also Co-I for a University
 Stirling led project “Buzz pollination: Integrating bee behaviour and floral evolution” (Leverhulme
 Trust, £370k). Sutton is part of a 5-year "MURI" grant from the US Army Research Office
 (USARO) which includes Duke, Harvard, Carnegie Mellon, University of Massachusetts
 Amherst, and the University of California Irvine. A flagship paper from this on the fundamentals
 of generating high-speed movements in biology and engineering (Science, 2018), and led to his
 collaboration in a NeuroNex multi (16) university research grant funded by the UK MRC, US
 NSF, Canadian Science Foundation, and ERC, to derive general principles of limb movements

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 across all phyla. Meanwhile Humphries’ project “Slowing Down at Small Scales: Microscale
 Viscosity Gradients in the Sea” was a collaboration with UC San Diego, Scripps Institution for
 Oceanography (Marine Physical Laboratory) and Hawaii Institute for Marine Biology.
 Visiting academic positions at Lincoln are only made after independent scrutiny and are
 associated with specific action plans. They may come from academia or industry and staff at
 Lincoln are likewise supported to hold visiting positions externally. In ABCW, visiting professor
 Nicol has a long-established track record in animal welfare, while visiting professor McCune was
 the scientific leader in human-animal interactions at Mars Petcare, based at the WALTHAM
 Centre for Pet Nutrition. We also consider the strategic value of visiting Fellowships for staff who
 were previously at Lincoln but are now working in a more applied setting (e.g. Zulch - Dogs
 Trust, Wright -Support Dogs and latterly Guide Dogs for the Blind, Larter -International Cat
 Care). These staff are all involved in actively supporting PGR students and seeking new funding
 opportunities. In addition we host visiting staff on sabbatical, some of whom are financially
 supported by Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies (see institutional environment statement)
 whilst at Lincoln, e.g. Prof. Ludwig Huber, Messerli Institute Vienna. Likewise, Lincoln staff hold
 both longstanding (e.g. Mills- Nottingham Vet School) and transient visiting positions at other
 institutions (e.g. Mills, Wilkinson – both University of Kyoto, Japan and supported by the Japan
 Society for the Promotion of Science. Wilkinson - University of Trento, Italy, Goddard -
 University of Auckland, New Zealand). These, alongside less formal collaborations have enabled
 the extension of our research base into new areas, e.g. Mills’ work on facial expression of pain
 in cats is now being used in Macaques and other species, and widespread post graduate and
 PDR supervision.
 During this census period our researchers assisted in the examination of over 60 PhD theses.

 4.2 Relationships with users, beneficiaries and society
 As described above, LIAT and NCFM, by virtue of their strategic roles provide an interface with
 end-users that extend our networks beyond traditional academic collaboration. The core
 strategic principle of both centres is to co-ordinate collaborative and research links across the
 agri-food sector to address and provide solutions to ‘real-world’ challenges facing the agri-food,
 agri-technology, agri-environment and food manufacturing communities. Both engage with a
 diverse range of external stakeholders including local and national government bodies (GLLEP,
 DEFRA), public bodies (CEH, Anglian Water, Environment Agency), farming communities and
 businesses (via NFU), industry partners and policy influencing networks (FSA, NFU, Food and
 Drink Federation, IoFT). Key project partners in agri-food robotics include APRIL Robotics, Berry
 Gardens, ABB Robotics, Beeswax Dyson, Cranswick plc, G’s Fresh Limited, MTC, NIAB, SAGA
 Robotics, Syngenta and Garford. Other projects are built around food processing to meet
 consumer needs and include research to support the demand for high speed cryogenic cooling
 systems (BOC Linde Group), cooking technologies (OAL Advanced SI Steam Infusion),
 packaging laser sealing (IUK & Commercial), intralogistics & AGVs for food warehousing
 (H2020) and include 4 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships in the census period (total value of
 £640k).
 NCFM have led delivery and promotion of research and innovation to over 150 Agri-food SME
 businesses supported in the Greater Lincolnshire Agri-food Innovation Platform funded by the
 ERDF. LIAT partnered with TESCO to develop the whole TESCO refrigeration store, including
 computing facilities to optimise service in the presence of wider national fluctuations in electrical
 demand. In addition, we have had a significant policy development role supporting technology
 readiness levels for the next technological agricultural revolution. Contributions include the
 provision of support to the EPSRC / UK RAS Network, Home Office Migration Advisory
 Committee, DEFRA and the new Food Sector Council (Pearson is leading the work stream
 reporting to SoS for DEFRA on Agri-food RAAI). Pearson also led the Accelerated Automation
 programme as a UK response to COVID impact on farms that included consultation with 75
 companies and academics. He is on the steering board of Feed UK that seeks to drive
 digitisation across the food industry that included consultation with 700 businesses, policy
 stakeholders and academia. He co-wrote the food chapter of the HMG Made Smarter Review in
 collaboration with the HVM Catapult, Siemens and Accenture.
 Representatives from the NFU and AHDB sit on the CDT industry advisory board and actively
 input into the research direction for these programmes. LIAT is also actively working with

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Barclays to develop strong links across commercial agricultural and venture capital for
 supporting agri-tech in Lincolnshire and beyond.
 The animal behaviour clinic of the University also serves as an interface for researchers, the
 public and industry. Research and consultancy work arising from our clinical services during the
 census period includes substantial projects with multinational veterinary companies (Boehringer
 Ingelheim, Ceva Sante Animale) to smaller projects with private companies (Custom Vet
 Products, PetProtect), and exceeds £1.5m.

 4.3. Wider contributions to research base, economy and society
 All researchers in this unit are expected to contribute more generally to their disciplines through
 engagement with key regional, national and international roles consistent with their career stage.
 Researchers are actively involved in professional bodies and learned societies beyond Higher
 Education either as committee members or through the organisation of related conferences.
 Notable recognition in the census period include Mills – Fellowship of the Royal College of
 Veterinary Surgeons (2016) awarded for his contributions to advancing the scientific basis of
 veterinary behavioural medicine.
 Nearly all staff submitted hold editorial roles in relevant scientific journals (e.g. Proceedings
 Royal Society B, Burman) with the overall ratio of editorial roles to staff in this UoA exceeding
 1:1. During this census period our researchers reviewed manuscripts for over 70 different
 international journals including Nature, Science, PNAS, e-Life, Current Biology and reviewed
 grants for more than 30 national (UKRI, Royal Society) and international (including Australian,
 Austrian, Canadian, Dutch, French, German, Israeli, Japan, Polish, Slovak, South African,
 Swedish, US science foundations or their equivalent as well as EU) awarding bodies.
 Strategic Advisory Panels & Expert Groups: Pearson is a member of the BBSRC Strategic
 Panel for Sustainable Agriculture and Food. Swainson is a member of the IFST Food
 Processing Group and Knowledge Transfer Network Food Industry Advisory Group. Burman is
 NC3Rs Grant Assessment Panel member; Mills is a member of the Morris Animal Foundation’s
 Animal Welfare Advisory Board and Dunn sits on the grant advisory panel and EDI group for the
 British Ornithologists' Union.
 Wider contributions to society include the frequent involvement of staff in both an advisory and
 feature role to national and international media. This includes: BBC’s “The One Show”, “Amazing
 Animals”, CBC’s “Think Like an Animal” (Wilkinson); BBC “Country file,” the Financial Times
 and across the national and international press on Agri-robotics (Pearson); Japan TV NHK
 “Dogs recognition of emotions”, “Cat Empire” a multilingual French Canadian film (Mills), as well
 as front-cover spreads in New Scientist and coverage in National Geographic. Lincoln research
 (Sutton) has been added to the American Association for the Advancement of Science’s high
 school AP Biology curriculum.




                                                                                            Page 15
