Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chester

 Unit of Assessment: 14 Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1. Context and Structure
The submission reflects the research activity of 12 Category A submitted staff within the Department
of Geography and International Development (GID), comprising 1 Professor, 2 Associate Professors
and 9 Senior Lecturers (11.6 FTE). Research and impact activities are concentrated in three GID
research groups (Figure 1). The ‘Global Environmental Change and Hazard Management’ group
conducts research into Hazard Management and Assessment, Earth Surface Processes, and
Environment and Climate Change; the ‘Communities, Culture and Sustainability’ group into Culture,
Identity and Consumption, Sustainable Communities, and Transition and Development; and the
‘Technology Enhanced Learning and Student Partnerships’ group into Fieldwork and Technology,
Student-Staff Partnerships, and Teaching and Learning Ethics.




    Figure 1: The three GID research groups showing Category A submitted staff, with the
    Impact Case Studies produced by the ‘Communities, Culture and Sustainability’ and the
    ‘Technology Enhanced Learning and Student Partnerships’ research groups. Arrows
    illustrate the percentage increase (compared with REF 2014) in original research outputs
    published in peer-reviewed journals collectively (60% increase) and by research group
    (40‒90% increase). Connecting arrows represent the cross-disciplinary collaboration of
    academic staff.

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The GID research groups emerged in the REF 2014 assessment period and are closely aligned to
the four core themes of the University’s Research and Impact strategy. An overarching GID strategy
in the REF 2021 assessment period was to increase research and impact capacity in the areas
represented by the research groups. As a result of strategic investment and expansion, the REF
2021 UOA 14 return is based on 100% of Category A submitted staff drawn from GID
(compared with 60% returned to the UOA in REF 2014). This is reflective of the institution’s
broader REF 2014‒2021 strategy to host an expanding University research environment. GID
research and impact activities are managed and overseen by a research committee comprising the
research co-ordinator and research group leaders. A GID ethics committee (of three academics with
a rotating 12-month membership) meets five times per year to independently scrutinise all research
proposals. The institution operates an open access policy; research outputs are deposited and made
available (in accordance with copyright and licensing agreements) in the University of Chester
Repository ‘ChesterRep’.

GID staff work across discipline boundaries. Cross research group collaboration (represented in
Figure 1) has been cultivated in the assessment period by an increased staff base, a high level of
collegiality, and a strong ethos to innovate. GID-led inter-disciplinary research is held in high regard;
our work into the application of technology in field-based inquiry was described as ‘transformative’ by
Advance HE. Inter-disciplinary collaboration with external institutions and partners features
prominently in our research. GID colleagues collaborate with planners and architects, for example,
to assess flood risk and mitigate flooding impact (Bhattacharya-Mis, Output 10034/621248) and
with communities, industry, and local government to explore rural digital inclusion (Williams, Output
10034/620527, 10034/621616). GID also encourages citizen involvement in research projects, in
striving to achieve carbon neutrality in the village of Ashton Hayes (Cheshire), for example.

1.2. Strategy for research and impact
An overarching strategy in the assessment period was to increase the capacity for research and
impact in the areas represented by each research group, to cultivate a stronger research culture
within GID and to stimulate greater opportunities for inter-disciplinary collaboration. This has been
achieved through targeted investment in staffing (27% increase in the staff base), infrastructure, and
equipment, with strategy successes measured in terms of quality output production, stakeholder
engagement, and wider contributions to the discipline research base. Our strategy for impact is to
provide targeted support for applied research of societal and educational relevance.

A proportion of internal (QR) income is ring‒fenced annually to help the development of underpinning
research, to aid outreach activities, to promote wider engagement with stakeholders, and to monitor and
evidence the resulting impact. This strategy has been successful, and the resulting reach and significance
of our work is exemplified in the impact case studies ‘ Reducing the Rural Digital Divide to Change
Lives’ (Impact Case Study 1) and ‘Opening Up Digital Fieldwork Technology to Staff and Students
in Further and Higher Education’ (Impact Case Study 2). To increase further our capacity for
conducting impactful research, GID played a central role in the formation of the Centre for Research
into Environmental Science and Technology (CREST). With a £1.9 million grant from the European
Regional Development Fund, CREST provides research support, development, and advice to small
and medium business enterprises (SMEs) in the Shropshire, Telford, and Wrekin areas, to foster
innovation and growth. CREST forms part of the University Centre Shrewsbury initiative to transform
an area of low innovation and low investment in R&D into a vibrant research environment. We detail
successes of this collaboration in Section 4.2.

1.3. Achievement of REF 2014 strategic aims for research and impact
(i) Strategic growth. In a period of strategic investment and expansion, GID has cultivated a vibrant
and intellectually rigorous research environment. Investment in staffing, infrastructure, and
equipment have led to improvements in research performance in each research group, a greater
capacity for research and impact, and a maturing and broadening of existing research foci. GID has
collaborated internationally and engaged in research addressing a range of prominent social and
environmental issues, including system responses to past climate change, flooding, slope instability,
coastal change, sustainable consumption, civil conflict, migrant and asylum seeker experiences, and
has produced award-winning pedagogy research. Collectively, we have published 62 research

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
outputs in peer-reviewed journals, representing a 60% increase compared with the REF 2014
assessment period, and have generated over 40 additional outputs (edited book chapters, books,
editorials). The overall increase not only demonstrates an improvement in research activity but a
greater emphasis on developing and publishing original and rigorously peer-reviewed research. We
have delivered over 100 conference papers (20% of which were keynotes) and actively promoted
and facilitated research agendas through national and international conference and session
organisation (39 conferences and/or conference sessions organised and/or convened), through
developing and hosting international workshops (36 in the assessment period), and via activities
including journal editorships and chairing of national research groups (Section 4.2). We have also
provided knowledge exchange and professional service to regional, national, and international
stakeholders, including contributions to Government policy (Section 4.2 and Impact Case Study 1).
These activities and achievements demonstrate the vitality of our research groups and overall
research environment.

(ii) Expanding research expertise. Strategic investment has led to an expansion in the scope and
capacity of research activity, particularly in Environment and Climate Change. Notable achievements
include: the discovery of persistent millennial-scale climate variability in Southern Europe during the
penultimate glacial (Marine Isotope Stage 6, 185–130 ka) (Wilson, Output 10034/623953); new
insights into the tempo and phase relationships of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystem responses at a major
climate transition (Wilson, Output 10034/579231); resolving flooding frequency and severity beyond the
instrumental record (Welsh, Output 10034/622493); further development and refinement of novel
methods to reconstruct Holocene sea-level change (Wilson, Output 10034/620591); quantifying
hydrological and landscape response to recent and ongoing glacier recession (Marren, Output
10034/621348); and resolving Iake and catchment system disturbance and recovery from historical
mining pollution (Welsh, Output 10034/621228). Research activity in the ‘Communities, Culture and
Sustainability’ group has also expanded into new and innovative areas. A notable example is Bos’ work
at the intersection of popular geopolitics and critical military studies to investigate how popular culture
contributes to framings of military violence and action. His use of video games as both research
method and thematic focus has informed innovative exploration of games, gaming, and visual culture
as a mechanism for communicating global issues to the public (Bos, Output 11111/140002,
11111/140001, 10034/623571). A number of these projects are large, collaborative endeavours
(involving colleagues from the Universities of Cambridge, Sussex, St. Andrews, Manchester,
Liverpool, Newcastle, and University College London, for example), and several are GID-led.

(iii) Increased research capacity in key areas
Hazard vulnerability and mitigation: Additional staff appointments, combined with existing research
expertise, have consolidated a REF 2014 commitment to increase our capacity to produce innovative
and societally relevant research in hazard vulnerability and mitigation. Miles has successfully
demonstrated the novel application of LiDAR to monitor coastal change (Miles, Output
10034/622006), and Miller the novel application of high-resolution satellite imagery to map slope
instability in the Caribbean (Miller, Output 10034/601056). Bhattacharya-Mis has engaged in a
range of impactful research, including promoting knowledge-sharing in flood risk advice to the
commercial property sector in the UK, US, Germany, Australia, and China (Bhattacharya-Mis,
Output 10034/621248), investigating property level flood risk measures to reduce insurance costs
(Bhattacharya-Mis, Output 10034/622307), and exploring the concept of social hydrology in a
Brazilian context (Bhattacharya-Mis, Output 10034/623410). GID has engaged with communities
on a range of hazard-related issues and challenges at local, national, and international levels. This
includes work with the National Flood Forum and North Wales stakeholders to identify how best to
support ‘flood disadvantaged’ groups, and work with community planners, policy makers and local
community groups in the Caribbean to help communities become more hazard resilient.

Sustainable community-environment interactions: Strategic investment has led to an expansion in
theoretical and applied community-level sustainability research, notably into material cultures and
infrastructures and rural sustainability, which complements existing expertise in community carbon
reduction. Williams has explored in detail digital exclusion in rural areas and the implications of this
for sustainable rural futures (Williams, Outputs 10034/620527, 10034/621616, 10034/620528), and
has demonstrated the transformative impact of broadband access on rural communities and

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
businesses (Impact Case Study 1). This impactful research involved community-level engagement
and business partnership. GID has a history of nurturing community-level engagement to tackle
issues such as flood vulnerability, carbon reduction, and sustainability, and continues to be
successful in forging industrial and stakeholder partnerships. The initiative to achieve carbon
neutrality in the village of Ashton Hayes (Cheshire) is now in its 15th year and is supported by a range
of government-related (e.g., DEFRA, Energy Saving Trust) and non-government organisations (e.g.,
Oxfam, the Energy Institute), as well as various businesses (e.g., Scottish Power Energy Networks,
Energy Saving Trust, United Utilities, Green Fuels). The success of this project (co-led by
Alexander) is evident from the approximately 200 towns, cities and countries that have sought
advice on implementation, and by prominent media coverage (e.g., New York Times front cover
22/08/2016; BBC TV interview with Alexander 02/05/2019). Collins’ research focuses on the
intersections of youth, consumer and material cultures, and cultures of creativity and craft (Collins,
Outputs 10034/347316, 10034/622514). Her work on how craft and other practices of making can
inform environmental awareness and care has drawn on ethnographic work with amateur makers
and members of maker-spaces, and has fed into the AHRC Stitching Together research network.
Furthermore, her (auto-)ethnographic work has informed growing methodological experimentation
with art and craft practices as tools for cultural understanding of socio-spatial issues. Collins has
also received RGS-IGB funding to examine how teen and young adult material consumption is
shaped by complex social dynamics, information sources and external infrastructures challenging
contradictory stereotyping of youth vis-à-vis sustainability.

Inequality and vulnerability in the Global South: GID is committed to producing important and wide-
ranging research in this area. Evans’ work focuses on the schism and reconstitution of communities
at different scales amid West Africa’s longest-running civil conflict (rooted in the separatist rebellion
in Casamance, southern Senegal), with a focus on human displacement driven by the conflict and
the complex dynamics of return and reconstruction (Evans, Output 10034/600713). Evans has also
explored a range of issues related to paddy rice cultivation in Casamance, specifically the
relationship between agro-ecological dynamics, social change, and development interventions,
allowing insights into the sustainability of rainfed cultivation in the lowland tropics, food security amid
climate change and the usefulness of international aid in supporting agriculture. Healey has explored
refugee exclusion and integration in their host country, analysing the importance of the relationship
between employment, integration, and feelings of gratitude from refugees towards the host
community (Healey, Output 10034/344318). The appointment of Bhattacharya-Mis has further
increased capacity for impactful research in development, inequality, and vulnerability. Her research
interests extend to flood risk vulnerability in the Global South, specifically the evaluation of real-time
big data to inform emergency flood risk management in informal settlements.

(iv) Leadership in pedagogic research. GID has a growing international reputation as a leader in
geography pedagogic research. Several GID staff are recognised leaders in this field (evidenced by
journal editorships, chairing learned society working groups, and fellowship recognition (Section 4)).
A REF 2014 strategic aim was to further explore the use of novel technologies in fieldwork teaching
and learning. Insightful research into the benefits, barriers and challenges for higher education
practitioners and students of ‘Bring Your Own Device’ in fieldwork teaching has been a key
achievement. GID has produced a considerable body of work in this area (12 outputs, including a
2015 SpringerBriefs in Ecology series title ‘Enhancing Fieldwork Learning Using Mobile
Technologies’ (France lead author, with Welsh)). France and Welsh won the prestigious 2018
Advance HE Collaborative Award for their ‘Enhancing Fieldwork Learning’ research, a GID-led
project collaboration with the Universities of Reading and Sheffield. Advance HE commended the
“multi-institutional and multi-disciplinary collaboration which demonstrated a transformational impact
on attitudes towards the use of technology to enhance fieldwork learning”. The interdisciplinary and
impactful nature of this research is illustrated in Impact Case Study 2.

Strategic investment and greater GID research group collaboration has led to an expansion in
pedagogic research, most notably in ‘Student-Staff Partnerships’ (e.g., Healey, Output
10034/344298). The relevance and appeal of GID’s research in this area is illustrated by the 18
invited keynotes delivered by Healey, organisation and delivery of numerous national and
international seminars and workshops on the subject, and an invitation for Healey to co-write an

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
updated guide on ‘Students as Partners’ as part of the Advance HE Framework. Healey is leading
research investigating the experiences of student and staff partnerships in the realm of publishing.
Affording students an opportunity to both write and peer-review selected manuscripts for publication
is one important initiative. Healey has achieved this for the Journal of Geography in Higher Education
by soliciting both student and peer review of manuscripts submitted for publication in the journal’s
‘Directions’ section – a section publishing articles written for a student audience to support their key
academic geographical skills – and actively encouraging students to write or co-write ‘Directions’
articles. GID is further expanding its pedagogic research focus to include ‘Teaching and Learning
Ethics’, and Healey’s work in this area has led to an invited contribution on the subject in the 2019
Handbook of Teaching and Learning in Geography (Edward Elgar Publishing).

1.4. Five-year strategic aims
We have achieved our REF 2014 strategic aims. Measures of success include a significantly
increased capacity for research and impact, the quality of the research conducted (evidenced by
awards, funding support (including UK Research Council), and disseminated in journals with a
significant international reach), and a considerable and varied contribution to the discipline research
base (Section 4). We have exceeded our REF 2014 strategic aims by expanding into new research
areas (notably in Environment and Climate Change, Rural Geographies, and Critical Military
Studies), producing work of international importance in each. Building upon this momentum, our
strategic aims for the next 5 years are:

Aim 1: to exploit our increased capacity to engage in, and produce, fundamental and applied
research of international importance.
We have established a solid research base during the assessment period, principally driven by
strategic staff appointments, targeted funding and support of excellent and impactful research, an
improved research infrastructure, more productive and interdisciplinary internal and external
collaborations, better targeted dissemination of outputs (via peer-reviewed journals), and a greater
national and international presence. Our aim is to capitalise on this growth by further increasing the
proportion of internationally excellent and outstanding research, and the continued execution of
applied research with considerable reach and impact. We plan to achieve this through: careful
management and targeting of resources to support and encourage excellent research; furthering our
long-standing commitment to work with industrial partners and community groups in maximizing
opportunities to understand and develop solutions for issues of societal importance; and seeking
opportunities to collaborate across traditional disciplinary boundaries when tackling issues that
benefit from an interdisciplinary approach. We have recognised growth challenges over the
assessment period and have identified PhD intake and grant capture as two important areas for
development (Section 3.1).

Aim 2: to further develop impactful research of fundamental importance to society.
Continuing our successful approach of developing and supporting impactful research, efforts will
focus on community vulnerability, and resilience to flooding. With our growing expertise and research
capacity in this area, coupled with our experience in developing positive community links, we are
increasingly able to make a sustained and substantial contribution to flood hazard impact research,
particularly in identifying community vulnerability and advising on mitigation and adaption measures.

Aim 3: to pursue cross-disciplinary collaboration to address multi-faceted complex
problems.
Our partnerships with industry and the policy-making community (as part of our rural digital exclusion
work, for example), and collaboration with researchers from a range of academic disciplines (as part
of our flood vulnerability work, for example) have led to significant progress in highlighting, and
helping to solve, difficult issues. Our aim is to build on this experience by promoting inter-disciplinary
approaches in addressing specific issues, particularly in aspects of rural development, community
hazard awareness and preparedness.

 2. People



                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.1. Staffing strategy
Of the 12 Category A submitted staff, seven were appointed in the assessment period
(Bhattacharya-Mis, Bos, Collins, Marren, Miles, Williams, Wilson). Of these, three appointments
replaced outgoing staff, whilst four were new appointments, reflecting an overall investment increase
in GID staffing. The appointments reflect the institution’s wider strategy to recruit staff with strong
research credentials and a keen desire for innovation and knowledge exchange. In GID, there has
also been a strategic emphasis on recruiting early-career colleagues (Bhattacharya-Mis, Bos,
Collins, Miles), who have become independent researchers during the assessment period. This has
allowed GID to achieve a well-balanced staffing profile, with an equal proportion of early and mid-
career staff, as well as some established and experienced colleagues. Such a profile allows for
effective management of research and for succession planning.

2.1.1. Increasing capacity for research
Through strategic staffing investment, we have grown all three of the GID research groups to achieve
an increase in research capacity and productivity:

   •   Global Environmental Change and Hazard Management. The appointments of Bhattacharya-
       Mis, Marren, Miles and Wilson bring to the group additional expertise in: fluvial processes;
       flooding vulnerability and resilience; coastal processes, erosion and management;
       Quaternary environmental change. The group achieved a 40% increase in peer-reviewed
       research outputs in the REF 2021 assessment period compared with REF 2014.

   •   Communities, Culture and Sustainability. Expertise in Sustainability and Development
       geographies has been further developed by the appointments of Bhattacharya-Mis, Bos,
       Collins, and Williams, resulting in greater research capacity, expansion into new
       complementary research areas (rural, digital, military, political and cultural geographies), and
       new cross-disciplinary research collaborations (e.g., GPS technologies in rural landscapes).
       The group achieved a 90% increase in peer-reviewed research outputs in the REF 2021
       assessment period compared with REF 2014.

   •   Technology Enhanced Learning and Student Partnerships. Research group membership has
       increased following new appointments and emerging synergies in staff research interests.
       The group achieved a 72% increase in peer-reviewed research outputs in the REF 2021
       assessment period compared with REF 2014.

2.1.2. Increasing capacity for impact
Strategic staffing investment has also improved our ability and potential to produce impactful
research. The appointment of Williams to the Communities, Culture and Sustainability research
group has brought additional expertise in digital and rural geographies, along with a wealth of
experience in knowledge transfer and community and local business engagement. GID has
supported Williams’ transformative research into rural community and rural business broadband
provision, specifically via priority allocation of QR income. The significance and reach of this research
are detailed in Impact Case Study 1.

Additional strategic appointments (Bhattacharya-Mis, Marren, Miles, Welsh (fractional
appointment)) increase further our capacity to produce impactful research, particularly in hazard
management. Bhattacharya-Mis brings to GID research expertise in flood hazard vulnerability,
Welsh expertise in flood and catchment sediment flux modelling, and Marren and Miles process-
based expertise in flood hazards and coastal change, respectively. As a result of these new
appointments, we are building critical mass in hazard vulnerability and management. This has
allowed GID to develop a continuing professional development course series in Flood Modelling and
Resilience, and to attract £112,682 of HEFCE catalyst funding to develop in 2019 a MSc in Flood
Risk Assessment, Modelling and Engineering (Section 4.2).

Through new collaborative partnerships, coupled with strategic allocation of staff time, GID has
optimised its potential to deliver impact. A notable example is our involvement with the CREST

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
initiative (Section 1.2), where several members of GID staff were seconded on a fractional basis
(Miles, 0.4 FTE; Marren, 0.3 FTE; Williams, 0.3 FTE (February 2018 to March 2020), with
Alexander an advisory group member (until 2019)) to work with SMEs in the Shropshire, Telford,
and Wrekin areas to foster innovation and growth as part of Phase 1 of the project ‘Promoting
research and innovation’. We detail successes of this collaboration in Section 4.2.

2.2. Staff development
Research activity and staff development are monitored annually by line managers via staff Personal
Development Plans. Research activity is one of four areas in which staff can be promoted to
Associate Professor, and subsequently to Professor where research performance expectations are
met. Two Category A submitted staff have been promoted to Associate Professor in the assessment
period. All newly recruited academic staff are allocated a mentor and undergo a 12‒month probation,
successful completion of which is based on satisfactory performance against criteria including
research achievements. New colleagues are supported in their requirement to obtain a PGCert in
HE within two years of appointment, and in securing Higher Education Academy/Advance HE
fellowships. Academic GID staff are invited to apply for competitive internal (QR) funding to support
new or existing research projects, or to generate pilot data in support of external grant applications
(typically several awards are made annually), whilst new colleagues have access to £2,000 of ‘seed-
bed’ internal research funding. A proportion of QR income is ring-fenced to support conference
attendance; additionally, staff can apply for institutional support (up to the value of £500 per annum)
for conference attendance.

2.3. Postgraduate research students
The doctoral degrees awarded, as reported in REF4a, are all PhDs and not research-based
professional doctorates.

The institution ranks 9th out of 103 institutions for overall satisfaction, and for satisfaction with
supervision (2019 Research Experience Survey). GID postgraduate research (PGR) students are
either self-funded or acquire institutional funding as part of a Graduate Teaching Assistant role. GID
PGR students undergo rigorous selection, including interview and scrutiny of research proposals.
Successful applicants are enrolled and become part of the institution’s PGR community. PGR
students are supervised by three members of staff, at least one of whom must have experience of
successful PhD completions. Supervisors are required to complete Supervisor Development
Training at three-year intervals. Each PGR student is required to undergo annual progress
monitoring and to submit an Annual Progress Report. PGR students are permitted to upgrade from
MPhil to PhD at 18 months following assessment by an Independent Panel. The panel comprises
two independent assessors who evaluate progress via an interview with the student, a review of
work, and a consideration of progress as reported by the supervisory team. Reviews at 30 and 42
months consist of a review of an Annual Progress Report and an assessment meeting with an
independent assessor. Completion, upgrade, and progress statistics are collected and monitored
annually at Faculty level.

GID PGR students are fully integrated into the institution’s PGR community; one of our students is
the incumbent Postgraduate Representative for University of Chester Students’ Union, for example.
PGR students can enrol in institutional professional development courses (e.g., academic writing,
critical analysis, data analysis), schedule one-to-one study skills training sessions, and participate in
writing workshops and retreats. Annual PGR conferences are organised at Faculty and institutional
level and all PGR students are required to present their work at each. GID PGR students are
encouraged to integrate into the national and international communities of their respective
disciplines. For example, one of our PGR students organised and hosted the first virtual Quaternary
Research Association’s Postgraduate Symposium (August 2020). GID provides funding for PGR
students to attend relevant external workshops and to present their work at international conferences
(e.g., European Geosciences Union congress).

2.4. Equality and diversity
Category A submitted staff have been identified following implementation of the University of Chester
REF 2021 Code of Practice. This process is inclusive, and within GID captures a diverse age range,
                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ethnicity (17% BAME), career stage (newly independent researchers to Professor), and a gender
balance of 5 females and 7 males. Output selection is via author and, internal and external expert
peer review, thereby achieving an inclusive, yet rigorous, selection approach. Additional fairness
measures include completion by the UOA co-ordinator of ‘Unconscious Bias’ training.

GID staff complete a range of mandatory short courses, including in Equality and Diversity, and
benefit from engagement with a range of institutional networks (e.g., Disabled Staff Support Group,
Women’s Networking Forum, LGBT+ Staff Group, Parent’s Network, Carers Network). The institution
hosts an annual Diversity Festival, providing an opportunity for staff to learn about, and experience,
different cultures and perspectives. GID staff have actively contributed to the Diversity Festival. As
part of the 2019 event, Collins gave a talk entitled ‘Pink, purple, or teal?’, which provided a colourful
critique of neoliberal consumer womanhood in the workplace and was one of several talks related to
the politics of the female body. This coincided with, and was a contribution to, International Women’s
Day. In May 2020, the institution implemented a Race Equality Challenge Group (Miller is a core
member (academic representative)) which seeks to promote, facilitate, and enact positive change in
relation to race equality and diversity across the institution. Mechanisms to achieve this include
ensuring that equality, diversity, and inclusivity are incorporated within corporate core values and
reflected in policies, procedures, and everyday practice.

GID colleagues reflect on, and promote, equality and diversity in the wider research community.
Healey’s work into gender and research activity has informed elements of the University of
Chester REF 2021 Code of Practice (Davies, C., Healey, R.L., Cliffe, A., 2016. Gendered
experiences of academic staff in relation to research activity and the REF 2014. Forum for research
into Equality and Diversity, University of Chester). Healey and Collins wrote an invited review paper
on gender inequality for Geography Review, connecting GID research to A-level students’ learning
on the impact of gender inequalities and how these might be addressed. Wilson and Welsh ensured
a gender and age balance at the 2019 Quaternary Research Association’s Annual Discussion
Meeting programme (hosted by GID at the University of Chester). In a context where women are
under-represented in the natural sciences, they sought established and early-career female
researchers to provide opening keynote and closing solicited talks, respectively. Professor Roe,
attending the meeting in her capacity as Quaternary Research Association Secretary, said we had
“looked carefully at the gender balance issue in terms of the M:F breakdown of speakers and
keynotes…, and had also made great efforts to include ECR[s] in the programme’ (Roe, personal
communication, 11/12/20).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Income
The institution’s Research and Knowledge Transfer Office publishes opportunities for research
collaboration, funding, and specific calls for funding proposals, and offers grant development, project
costing and project management support. Each GID research group has been successful in securing
external funding, with individual applicants afforded the opportunity of internal (GID) peer-review to
ensure quality thresholds are reached and maintained. GID has attracted over £90,000 of external
income from a range of sources to support its research (including from the UK Arts and Humanities
Research Council, Higher Education Academy, local authorities and learned societies (e.g., British
Ecological Society, Royal Geographical Society)). GID has also been successful in securing
competitive income from the institution’s Learning and Teaching Institute, for example to explore the
use of Virtual Reality (VR) to investigate public knowledge of socio-environmental issues, including
the climate crisis.

A proportion of the institution’s QR income is distributed to academic departments. GID’s strategy
was to utilise 75% of its QR allocation to stimulate research activity, principally to support new and
innovative research, to further develop existing areas of expertise, and to broaden the intellectual
research base; the remaining 25% was used to generate impact (development of underpinning
research, supporting outreach activities, promoting wider stakeholder engagement, monitoring and
evidence impact), to provide ‘seed-bed’ research money for new colleagues, and to help sustain GID’s
research culture (e.g. seminar series support, conference attendance, research equipment purchases).

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
GID staff may apply annually for QR research support to develop projects. The competitive
application process, with multi-tiered rigorous peer-review and approval (involving the GID research
committee, Faculty Dean, and the Research and Knowledge Transfer Office) ensures research with
the highest quality potential is identified and supported. Through efficient use of resources and
strategic collaboration, GID has achieved high-quality research (evidenced with outputs appearing
in peer-reviewed journals with an international reach, for example) and impact with its QR allocation.

In Section 1.4 we recognised external grant capture as a growth challenge and identified this as an
important area for future development. As part of a strategy to generate greater external income,
GID is placing more emphasis on utilising a proportion of QR income to strengthen grant applications
by funding pilot data collection. As an early example of the success of this approach, Wilson and
Welsh collaborated with the University of Sussex to secure £29,400 of NERC grant-in-kind funding
(National Environmental Isotope Facility grant number 2242.0320). The grant supports a larger GID-
led project investigating the character and special expression of Holocene millennial-scale climate
variability in the Balkans, a project which began with QR-funded pilot data generation.

An additional strategy to generate external income is to be more proactive in developing collaborative
networks, and for colleagues to increasingly adopt a principal investigator role in collaborative
research ventures. GID has a growing track record of collaborating with colleagues in national and
international institutions. For example, France was a senior researcher and mentor on a £45,000
Newton Fund application (led by University of Hull). This work package included a learning without
borders workshop (in Tha Ton, Thailand), bringing together 40 UK and Thailand academics to share
practice, particularly on the use of affordable mobile technologies for learning in marginalised,
remote non-formal settings. Bhattacharya-Mis was co-investigator on several externally funded
flood risk projects, with funding sources including the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, and
the National Centre for Monitoring and Alerts for Natural Disaster (Brazil). At an institutional level,
the Chester Grant Support Initiative will further support grant capture.

3.2. Infrastructure and facilities

3.2.1. Research infrastructure and facilities
All GID academic staff and PGR student offices are located within the Best Building at Exton Park,
together with analytical and computer laboratory spaces, seminar and lecture rooms and field
equipment storage. Research and impact activities are supported by wider institutional facilities and
infrastructure. The Research and Knowledge Transfer Office has responsibility for the promotion and
development of research, scholarship, and knowledge transfer across the institution, and plays a
central role in facilitating funding applications and grant management (Section 3.1). Staff have full-
text access to 65,000 journal titles and over 750,000 e-book titles, and to research development
opportunities via Faculty-wide training courses.

GID research is facilitated by modern and well-equipped laboratory spaces, access to a range of
field equipment and excellent computing facilities and infrastructure. GID’s physical science
laboratory underwent a £20,000 refurbishment and 30% extension in 2016, including provision of a
new research analytical clean space. The laboratory is run by a dedicated manager educated to PhD
level, and facilitates the research of the ‘Global Environmental Change and Hazard Management’
group. The laboratory is well equipped. Sample processing equipment includes a fume cupboard, a
large-capacity centrifuge, filtration equipment, drying cabinets, ovens, a chamber furnace, sieve
stacks and shakers, hotplates, water baths and refrigerators (including for core storage). Laboratory
analytical kit includes Leica and Nikon research binocular microscopes (up to x1200 magnification
with phase contrast and dark-field, and with high resolution image capture), stereomicroscopes,
visible and infrared spectrophotometers, a MS2 mineral magnetic susceptibility system with core-
scanning sensors, research-grade balances and pH, salinity, TDS, and dissolved oxygen laboratory
sensors.

GID has a range of field equipment for surveying, monitoring, and sample retrieval, which supports
our research in hazard processes, fluvial and coastal monitoring, and environmental change.
Surveying and monitoring equipment includes a Leica GS08 Plus GPS and Leica CS10 field

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
controller (sub-centimetre accuracy), UAVs (DJI SJ100 with Gimbal for Panasonic camera, DJI
Mavic, DJI Phantom 3 and Phantom 4 drones) operational by four trained members of staff, one of
whom has a CAA commercial drone licence, MS2 mineral magnetic susceptibility system with field
loop sensor, field photometers for measuring water and soil quality parameters, and environmental
loggers (Thermosense HDT-GFX-2 Logs air temperature, relative humidity and dew point, and x2
Tempcon Hobo Weather station H21-001). Sample retrieval equipment includes a vertical water
sampler, Russian and gouge corer sets (>12m depth of penetration for peat and wetland sediments),
a gravity corer with core extrusion apparatus for lake sediments and two inflatable rafts.

GID is equally well-equipped with computing infrastructure. A £30,000 refurbishment in 2019 has
increased our computing capacity, with staff benefiting from a dedicated computing laboratory
equipped with data and spatial analysis and mapping software (e.g., ArcGIS, Canvas 11 GIS, Nvivo,
Geopacks, Flood modeller, SPSS). GID also has access to additional specialist software (including
Origin, Tilia, C2, CANOCO, Microdrainage), as well as 18 rugged iPads for field data collection, 7
VR headsets, four 360O and one 4k camera for image capture and simulation. In addition to analytical
and computer laboratory refurbishments, a further £25,000 refurbishment of GID’s photogrammetry
laboratory was completed in summer 2020, demonstrating continuing institutional investment
in GID and its infrastructure.

3.2.2. Infrastructure and facilities for impact
Research detailed in Impact Case Studies 1 and 2 has been facilitated by strategic investment in
facilities and by collaborative use of equipment and infrastructure. GID has invested over £10,000 in
equipment (mainly iPads and Android tablets) to facilitate research into the use of digital technology
to enhance fieldwork teaching and learning. GID also provided Williams with additional support
(priority allocation of QR funding) to progress research into the rural digital divide and facilitate take-
up of broadband infrastructure in rural communities.

GID continues to invest in facilities and to form strategic partnerships to ensure the continuation of
impactful research. For example, GID has utilised a proportion of its QR allocation to: explore the
feasibility of wearable devices, specifically in the context of 'nudge' theory to improve student
motivation in meeting learning goals; evaluate the role of VR and Augmented Reality in teaching and
learning, specifically with regards to student motivation, engagement, and ethics; explore the impact
of sheep on the landscape, in partnership with Wolf Logic (geotechnical support for sheep tracking).
Momentum is building in the production of impactful research in the field of hazard monitoring and
vulnerability (e.g., Miller, Output 10034/601056; Bhattacharya-Mis, Outputs 10034/621248,
10034/623410, 10034/622307). This is a REF 2021 strategic aim (Section 1.4), which we intend to
meet through ongoing investment and strategic collaborations. For example, investment in UAV
technology (and in staff training to pilot them), and in computer infrastructure and software
(Section 3.2.1), has increased our hazard monitoring and surveying capability; the strategic
partnership with CREST (Section 1.2), and the access to additional equipment this brings
(Section 3.2.3), further increases this capability.

3.2.3. Collaborative use of research infrastructure and facilities
Wilson has collaborative use of the National Environmental Isotope Facility though a £29,400 NERC
grant-in-kind (grant number 2242.0320). Through the CREST partnership, GID has access to
additional laboratory, surveying, and monitoring equipment. This includes a Malvern Mastersizer 300
laser particle sizer, a Malvern Epsilon 1 X-Ray Fluorescence analyser, a range of professional UAVs
(DJI M600 Pro (large weight drone), Inspire 2 (medium weight drone) and Mavic Pro Fly (lightweight
drone)) with 4k resolution RGB camera (DJI X7), near infrared (Parrot) and thermal infrared (DJI
Zenmuse XT) capability), a Spectra Precision Focus 35 Total Station with SP60 GNSS receiver
(2mm accuracy), YSI research-grade multi-parameter (salinity, TDS, temperature, dissolved oxygen)
water quality field probes, and Valeport flow meters for water velocity monitoring. Additionally, GID
has access to x-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscope facilities via the Institute’s Faculty
of Science and Engineering, and an institutional high-performance computer facility for flood and
sediment flux modelling.



                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1. Collaboration, networks, and partnerships
GID staff lead and contribute to a range of national and international research groups. Healey
became Chair of the RGS-IBG ‘Higher Education Research Group’ in 2018. Under her leadership
the group formally expanded its remit to become the ‘Geography and Education Research Group’ in
2019. Collins co-founded the MEND*RS research group, has been Secretary and Workshop Officer
of the RGS-IBG Geographies of Children, Youth and Families research group, and is a member of
the AHRC Stitching Together research network. Williams is a committee member of the RGS-IBG
Rural Geography research group. Examples of international research collaboration include: the UK‒
Japan connections (Rural) project (Williams, partner); the Trans‒Atlantic Rural Research Network
(Williams, member); collaboration with Bahia State University, Brazil (Miles) to create a coastal
classification of Bahia state based on satellite data; flood risk in the commercial property sector (UK,
German, Australian, Chinese and US partnerships) (Bhattacharya-Mis, Output 10034/621248);
social hydrology, Brazil (Bhattacharya-Mis Output 10034/622307); staff-student partnerships
(Healey, with Bryn Mawr University (USA) and Universiti Utara Malaysia); collaborative research
workshops in the Philippines, China, Brazil (Bhattacharya-Mis).

4.2. Contribution to the research base, economy, and society
GID makes a significant contribution to the research base via widespread research dissemination
in academic journals and at national and international conferences, promoting and facilitating
research agendas through journal editorships, organising national and international conferences,
convening sessions at major international conferences, organising and hosting international
workshops, and chairing working groups. Disciplinary contributions and achievements include:

Award winning Research ‘Advance HE’ award and ‘Collaborative Award for Teaching Excellence’
for transformative pedagogic research into the use of mobile technologies in fieldwork teaching
(France and Welsh).

Journal editorship: International Journal for Students as Partners (Healey, founding co-editor);
Journal of Geography in Higher Education (France as co-editor, Healey as sub-editor); Higher
Education Pedagogies (France, associate editor); Review of Geographical Education Online
(France, editorial board); Geoscience Communication (Welsh, associated editor); Canadian Journal
of African Studies (Evans, Geography sub-editor and the first British resident to serve as an editor
of this journal); Cuadernos de Geografía (Alexander, advisory board member).

Fellowships: William Evans Visiting Fellowship to University of Otago, New Zealand (France),
National Teaching Fellowships (France and Healey), Fellowship of the International Society for the
Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (ISSOTL, Healey), one of only nine inaugural fellowships
awarded worldwide in 2019. In awarding the ISSOTL Fellowship, the society noted Healey’s
internationally recognised research in pedagogy, and highlighted the International Journal for
Students as Partners (of which Healey is founding co-editor) as one of the most exciting
developments within ISSOTL since its inception.

Invited contributions: 17 invited journal articles, editorials, and edited volumes.

Conference organisation (Full): 14 national and international conferences, including the 2019
Quaternary Research Association’s Annual Discussion Meeting (Wilson and Welsh, host
Institution), the 2018 Place Planning and Raising Flood Awareness public engagement event (Welsh
and Miller, host Institution), and the 2018 and 2019 Disaster Risk Reduction in the Caribbean
conferences (Miller). France and Welsh, in collaboration with colleagues at the Universities of Sheffield
and Reading and at the British Ecological Society, have developed and maintained the annual
Enhancing Fieldwork Learning Showcase event, now in its 10th year (host institution in 2017). In
2019 Healey led a Geography and the student experience two-day event to launch the newly named
RGS-IBG ‘Geography and Education Research Group’. Outputs generated in the writing workshop
led to an Area special issue.


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Conference organisation (Session): organised, convened or chaired 25 sessions at major national
and international conferences, including: the European Geosciences Union General Assembly,
Vienna (Wilson, Session CL1.28 'Quaternary glacial-interglacial transitions: causes and effects,
2017); the 4th largest session at the International Union for Quaternary Research congress, Dublin
(Wilson, Abrupt climate changes: the view from lakes, 2019 (28 talks over 4 sessions); the American
Association of Geographers (Bos, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019; France, 2017; 2019); the Canadian
Association of African Studies conference, Canada (Evans, 2016; 2017); the EcoDesert:
Geoecology and Desertification conference, Spain (Alexander, 2019) and the XXVIII European
Society for Rural Sociology Congress, Norway (Williams, Animalia: partnerships, policies and
understanding of more than human rural futures, 2019). We have convened and chaired numerous
sessions at the RGS-IBG annual conference, including sessions on: ‘Cultural and Creative
Industries’ (Collins, 2016); ‘Crafting Alterity: Creativity, Making, and Hope-Full Geographies’
(Collins, 2019); ‘Pedagogic Partnerships in Higher Education’ (Healey, 2019); ‘What is Rural?
Ensuring a Fair Deal for Rural Communities’ (Williams, 2017); ‘Beyond Mere Signifiers: Centering
Animals in the (Re)production of Rural Landscape’ (Williams, 2018).

Workshop organisation: 36 workshops hosted either by GID, or delivered as part of conference
programmes (e.g. RGS-IBG annual international conference (5 workshops, 2015-2019), the
Association of American Geographers annual conference (6 workshops, 2014-2019), the British
Ecological Society Annual Meeting (2 workshops, 2015, 2019), the International Society for the
Scholarship of Teaching and Learning conference (Norway, 2018), the Centre for Education and
Learning Cross University Meeting (Netherlands, 2017), or by invitation at UK (e.g. University of
Birmingham) and international institutions (e.g. University of Canterbury, New Zealand). Workshops
have been delivered on a range of topics (e.g., Implementing the Sustainable Development
Framework in Nigeria; Cultures of Mending; Rural Places, Rural Challenges; Experimental
Geographies; Digital Mobile Technologies in Fieldwork Teaching; Ethical Development of University
Students; Writing Successfully for Journal Publication; Students as Partners). We have also
disseminated applied research strategies on engaging students as partners in developing academic
curricula, teaching and learning, the scholarship of teaching and learning and in research at several
UK Universities (e.g., York, Surrey, Central Lancashire, Cardiff), and international institutions (e.g.,
Universities of Groningen and Amsterdam (Netherlands), Göttingen (Germany), Limerick (Ireland)
and Indiana (USA). The workshops were typically delivered as part of annual teaching conferences,
or to inform institutional strategic development planning. Taken together, the above research-
informed workshops have potentially influenced the practice of over 1000 academics.

During the assessment period, we have also delivered 19 keynotes and over 75 oral presentations
at national and international conferences (UK, USA, Canada, Brazil, Japan, Poland, Netherlands,
Germany, Switzerland, Spain, Austria, Republic of Ireland, Greece, Norway, Thailand, Caribbean).
Additionally, GID runs a research seminar series featuring the work of academics from national and
international institutions (e.g., Universities of Birmingham, Hull, Manchester, Liverpool John Moores,
Manchester Metropolitan, and the University of the South (Tennessee). All colleagues provide the
wider academic service of journal peer review (numerous titles) and grant peer review (national and
international, e.g., US National Science Foundation, Dutch Research Council).

Beyond academia, examples of our wider contributions to economy and society, include:
Provision of research expertise and expert advice: Through their work with CREST, Miles,
Marren and Williams have provided research support, development, and advice to SMEs to foster
innovation and growth. Notable achievements include the collaboration between Miles and Wolf
Logic, a web application and software development company based in Telford. Miles’ research
expertise in environmental geospatial analysis enabled Wolf Logic to launch ‘Geopoints’, a product
enabling users to search any location (using a postcode or map co-ordinates) to find land and
property details including boundaries, title information, solar suitability, terrain, and other
environmental information. This successful academic-industrial partnership featured as a case study
in the National Centre for Universities and Business ‘State of the Relationship’ report. Glyn Davies
(Wolf Logic) remarked, ‘CREST support has enabled us to accelerate product development and the
advice given by Dr Andrew Miles has been invaluable’ (State of the Relationship 2019 report, p.43).

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
More recently, Miles collaborated with Groundwater Science Ltd (hydrogeologists and code
developers specialising in surface and groundwater modelling) in a novel research project
investigating the potential of deriving evapotranspiration estimates from remotely sensed imagery to
improve the predictive capabilities of groundwater models. Miles also worked with Severn Gorge
Countryside trust in a research project investigating the potential of high-resolution thermal drone
imagery and indicators of vegetation stress derived from near-infrared imagery, for identifying
patterns of groundwater flow to inform flood modelling predictions.

Other examples of research expertise provision and expert advice include: working with community
planners, policy makers, experts, and local community groups in the Caribbean to help communities
become more hazard-resilient via better planning and disaster risk reduction training. As part of this
work, Miller developed the Annual International Disaster Risk Reduction conference, held in
Jamaica and now in its 3rd year. This initiative, and the associated sharing of research, contributes
to capacity building of local agencies in the region (such as the Mines and Geology Division, Kingston
and St Andrew Metropolitan council, Government of Jamaica), by providing training and resources
in innovative risk mapping and community engagement; utilising Government Strategic Priority
funding to work with the National Flood Forum and a range of North Wales stakeholders, including
community groups and council leaders, to identify how best to support groups classed as ‘flood
disadvantaged’ (e.g. a Place, Planning and Raising Flood Awareness 2018 public engagement
event, co-organised with Kinmel Bay Council (North Wales); development of the Rural Services
Network and associated events (e.g. 2018 Rural Places, Rural Challenges event attended by
participants representing policy, local authority, commercial and charitable organisations).

Continuing professional development provision: GID staff engage in knowledge exchange and
use their research expertise to upskill practitioners. GID has developed and delivered continuing
professional development courses in Flood Modelling and Resilience, collectively upskilling over 100
national and international participants, drawn from over 13 councils (county, city and district),
government agencies, trusts and interest groups (e.g. Environment Agency, Natural Resources
Wales, Severn Trent Water, National Flood Forum, Shropshire Wildlife Trust), consultancies (e.g.
Atkins Global, Mott McDonald, WML Consulting, GWP Consultants, RAB consultants, Jacobs) and
universities (e.g. Ghent University (Netherlands), Ilorin University (Nigeria), and the Universities of
Ulster, Southampton, Cambridge, Nottingham, and Exeter). Building on this success, GID secured
£112,682 of HEFCE Catalyst funding to develop in 2019 a MSc in Flood Risk Assessment, Modelling
and Engineering (certified by the Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management).
Co-designed with flood risk practitioners, the MSc enables practitioners working in industries related
to flood management to study while remaining in the workplace, thereby facilitating knowledge
transfer to industry.

Professional service: GID staff have provided a range of professional services. These include:
annual (April-September) airborne pollen monitoring in Chester for the UK Met Office (2012‒
present); provision of evidence and advice to the Rural Communities Policy Unit (Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) and to the Scottish Government’s Digital Directorate
Broadband Policy Team; sharing research on carbon neutral villages with the Indian Climate
Parliament (members of upper and lower house) (London, October 2016); provision of research-
informed advice and expert testimony in relation to asylum claims by Casamançais (UK and US);
analysis and advice to NGOs on the Casamance conflict; invitation and participation in Foreign and
Commonwealth Office briefing events for British diplomats recently appointed to missions in Senegal
and The Gambia, specifically HM Ambassador designate to Dakar (June 2015) and HM Ambassador
designate to Banjul (March 2014); OECD policy briefing contributions (Home-Based Businesses).

Public engagement and outreach: GID have an excellent track record of engagement with
communities on a range of issues and challenges at local, national, and international levels.
Examples include: working with CREST to form the Shropshire Food Poverty Alliance, a consortium
of public, voluntary and faith organisations committed to tackling food poverty; co-leadership of the
Chester Wetland Centre initiative, a collaborative endeavour (with the University of Bangor) involving
public consultation to develop a diverse wetland meadow habitat within the Countess of Chester
Country Park, both for wildlife conservation and educational purposes; contribution of research-led

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
expert advice and opinion to online forums (e.g. invited blog for TechUK’s Insights campaign
#ConnectivityForAll (‘Connecting remote rural communities? Time to be smarter’, March 2020).




                                                                                    Page 14
