Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sunderland

 Unit of Assessment: 32 - Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview:
 1.1 The Unit sits within the Faculty of Art and Creative Industries (FACI) and has a well-
 established record of outwardly-facing practice-led research, based on the principles of
 thinking-through-making. Individual researchers are encouraged to develop and expand their
 research methodology in ways that are sympathetic to their own practice and also reflect our
 belief that the research process (the significance, rigour and originality of research), can
 reside within the artefact or the digital realm as well as the written word.

 1.2 Our research embraces collaborative and cross-disciplinary practice (section 4), as
 demonstrated by staff sharing their ideas and research through workshops and seminars
 (section 2). There are currently three full-time and two P/T 0.2 Professors and two P/T 0.6
 Associate Professors working within this area, alongside academics from across the School of
 Arts and Design. The Unit works in partnership with the Northern Bridge Consortium - an AHRC
 funded CDT, which supports PhD scholarships for research students across seven Northern
 universities (University of Northumbria, Newcastle University, Teesside University, Durham
 University, Belfast University, Queen’s University and University of Sunderland). Staff in the Unit
 undertake research work across two campuses and have access to excellent facilities (section
 3) and technical support.

 1.3 Since REF14, there have been significant changes in both the research landscape within the
 Faculty as well as the research funding structures (section 3).

 1.4 The Faculty values all research irrespective of whether a member of staff has yet been
 submitted to the REF or not. This approach encourages the development of future research in
 the Unit. Staff are encouraged to share their research - with each other, with our student body
 and our local community as well as with our regional, national and international peers.

 1.5 Our REF return of outputs has followed this ethos. We have worked with PhD alumnus
 Dominic Smith to present our UoA32 practice-led outputs in the form of a digital Mural – an
 open-source, ethical digital platform developed by Smith during his PhD studies. It is intended
 that Mural will eventually supplement the currently popular digital platforms favoured by artists -
 Facebook and Instagram. For our Unit, this process has involved each member of staff
 participating in a series of group and individual workshops sharing their research and looking at
 how to best present it on Mural. The decision to present our outputs in this way arose out of our
 successful series of monthly research seminars for staff and students (run by Moschovi) where
 staff in the Unit regularly present their research, demonstrating both the process and the clarity
 of their research aims, as well as giving emphasis to impact and dissemination.

 Strategy:
 1.6 In REF2014, the UoA34 strategic aims were to:
     • achieve real world impact (achieved for example by supporting Collier, WALK – Walking
         Poets: Wordsworth and Basho in Japan; Clayton, Writing: Making your Mark at the BL
         touring to China and USA)
     • enrich our dynamic, attractive curriculum (achieved for example by funding CRUMB and
         Co/Lab);
     • explore innovative practice informed by excellent research and extend its international
         reach (achieved for example by funding researchers to attend international conferences
         and present papers in USA [Ewins, Watkinson, Hutchinson and Rennie]; Korea
         [Livingstone]; China [Graham]); Japan [Collier, Clayton and Ling]; France
         [Hutchinson]; Greece and Indonesia [Moschovi].
     • further develop a sustainable and vibrant environment (achieved through a series of
         regular FACI research seminars and research conferences);

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   support research in the creative industries (achieved by supporting the successful ACE
        bids to establish Creative Fuse, DRAWING and Co/Lab).

 1.7 The Unit’s current Research Strategy emerged from an evaluation of our REF14 return and
 evolved out of discussion in the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee chaired by the
 Dean of FACI (Prof Arabella Plouviez). This committee includes FACI Dean and Heads of
 School; Research Student Managers and UoA32/34 leaders and student reps.

 1.8 As in 2014, the Faculty’s Professoriate oversees the delivery of the Unit’s research strategy
 and meets three times a year to monitor progress. Professor Plouviez led the UoA32 return in
 2014 and subsequently became Dean of FACI in 2016. Her support remains central to FACI’s
 overall research strategy. She says ‘Having led the REF14 submission for Art & Design,
 supporting the strategic development of the research activity and environment has been a core
 part of my subsequent role as Dean of the newly formed Faculty of Arts & Creative Industries.
 The development of our partnership through Sunderland Culture and the embedded research
 opportunities, which have included research-led exhibitions and research students working
 within cultural venues, has further enhanced our real-world impact and informed the curriculum.
 Partnership and collaboration have continued to be key in the development of research across
 Art & Design and the enabling infrastructure supports a shared context for research support.’

 1.9 Unit research aims for 2019-25 are to:

    1. ensure that all academic staff have the opportunity to develop research relevant to their
       subject specialism and their teaching.
    2. support the research environment that enables staff to engage with relevant research
       both on-campus and through conference attendance.
    3. support research students across the faculty to develop opportunities to share their
       research.
    4. support opportunities for the sharing and dissemination of research, ensuring the benefit
       for students at all levels.

 Our current strategy objectives are to support:

    •   Research culture and impact. Developing research as a habit, so that research is a part
        of every academic’s everyday experience.
    •   A shared research environment for all researchers (academics and research students).
        Bring together a programme of on-campus events that operate in different subject areas,
        and which enhance the research environment.
    •   Research student opportunities to meet and share their research. E.g. Regular
        reading/writing groups, workshops, research student conferences and colloquia?
    •   To develop Co/Lab as a mechanism to encourage cross-faculty research collaborations
        and interdisciplinary research.

 1.10 Research Structure: There are two main research themes which run across UoA32:
     • Theme 1 (Art, Design and Society):
 Research in art and design which explores and contributes to, challenges, reflects and shapes
 our communities and the wider world. Included in this theme is work that could be described
 as extending the vocabularies of art and design; researchers who often explore the territory
 between different disciplines, sometimes in a collaborative and participatory way - for example
 artists and designers working with the sciences, film, dance, music, curation, health and
 wellbeing and performance, as well as examining issues around sustainability, climate
 emergency and site-specificity (Collier; Götz; Brög; Hutchinson; O’Hara; Kefala-Kerr;
 Clayton, McKay; Moschovi).

    • Theme 2 (Materials, Materiality and Media):
 Research in art and design which encompasses the exploration of ideas specifically through the
 use of materials (painting, drawing, the photographic image etc) and making; and research in art

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and design which explores new/digital media and the networked image including the impact
 digital media has on the presentation and interpretation of culture in museum collections. This
 may include the interplay between digital and physical materials as well as experimentation with
 print and materials. For example, as a result of COVID-19, cultural audiences must now
 encounter the materiality of physical art, design and craft-based outputs through virtual, often
 networked experiences. (Ewins; Graham; Ling; Livingstone; Petrie; Rennie; Watkinson).

 1.11 In UoA32 there are seven active research groups (also section 4). These Centres have
 developed international networks of researchers across the globe and add to the richness of the
 research environment:

 In theme one (Art, Design and Society):
     • Northern Centre of Photography (NEPN)
     • WALK (Fine Art, Landscape, Walking)
     • space/socialspace (Fine Art)

 In theme two (Materials, Materiality and Media):
     • CRUMB (Curating New Media)
     • National Glass Centre Research (Glass)
     • CARCuos (Ceramics)
     • IIRC (Calligraphy)

 And three research major ‘projects’ support aim 4
    • DRAWING (Art, Design and Society)
    • Creative Fuse (Art, Design and Society)
    • Co/Lab (Art, Design and Society)

 1.12 Each group and research project operate both within the University and externally in
 collaboration with other researchers, curators, and relevant communities regionally, nationally,
 and internationally. Academics may be operating in one or more of the research groups,
 depending on their specialisms.

 Theme one (Art, Design and Society):
    • WALK (Walking, Art, Landskip and Knowledge) was established by Collier and
      Thompson in 2010 to explore the world creatively as we walk through it. Collier has 6
      completed PhD supervisions (5 of which are PhD by Published and Creative Works)
    • NEPN (North East Photography Network) is a research hub run by McKay and
      Moschovi. Established in 2009, NEPN directly benefits the research environment by
      developing contexts for critically engaged photographic practice and debate. McKay has
      1 and Moschovi 2 completed PhDs.
    • space/socialspace was established in 2014 as a collaborative project for artists working
      together in the Fine Art Department (Bainbridge, Brög, Götz and Hutchinson). It provides
      a framework for research that is increasingly focused on issues of space in relation to a
      public audience, and space (types of space) encountered as physical or immaterial
      space.

 Theme two (Materials, Materiality and Media)
    • Graham co-founded CRUMB (Curatorial Resource for Upstart Media Bliss) – a centre
      that aims to help those who 'exhibit' new media art, including curators, technicians and
      artists. Graham has 8 completed PhD supervisions (7 AHRC funded).
    • National Glass Centre Research is run by Rennie and Watkinson, assisted by Petrie.
      Its research sits within the National Glass Centre and explores methods of practice that
      expand traditional approaches to glass. Watkinson has 1, Rennie 2 and Petrie 5
      completed PhD supervisions.
    • Livingstone and Ewins run CARCuos (Ceramics Arts Research University of
      Sunderland) CARCuos is a research centre for the ceramic arts aiming to develop,

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        support and disseminate new knowledge and scholarly activity whilst also providing a
        platform for discussion aligned to the ceramic arts. Livingstone has 9 and Ewins 1
        completed PhD supervisions.
    •   Ling and Clayton run IRCC - International Research Centre for Calligraphy which
        has an international reputation for running research conferences in the UK and abroad.
        Ling has 3 completed PhD supervisions.

 Projects:
 Theme one (Art, Design and Society):
    • DRAWING: between 2014-20, the University of Sunderland initiated and developed a
        national research project called DRAWING – a project supported by ACE through grants
        totalling £75K and developed by former Research Fellow (2015-2019) Esen Kaya
        (Curator at the Aga Khan Centre) and Collier.
    • Creative Fuse North East is a unique partnership between Newcastle, Northumbria,
        Durham, Sunderland and Teesside Universities and is funded by the Arts and
        Humanities Research Council, the European Regional Development Fund, and Arts
        Council England.
    • Co/Lab Sunderland was devised within the context of the University of Sunderland’s
        Research and Innovation Strategy (2017) and run by O’Hara. Co/Lab encourages cross-
        faculty research collaborations and interdisciplinary research. In 2018/2019, FACI
        worked in partnership with colleagues within the Faculty of Health Sciences and
        Wellbeing (FHSW) to develop a pilot project which was supported by a series
        of Experimental Micro Grants which staff applied for. Collier, Hutchinson, Rennie and
        Kefala-Kerr were successful applicants.

 1.13 The Unit’s in-depth programme of external lectures invites distinguished researchers and
 scholars (section 4) to contribute to, and share in, the life of our Research Community. The
 introduction of Co/Lab (O’Hara); REF Preparation and Peer-Review Workshops (Collier); a
 Research Seminar Series (Moschovi); a series of Creative Lives lectures (Watkinson); the
 appointment of dedicated Research Mentors (Collier, Moschovi, Petrie and Livingstone) for
 early career researchers; and the introduction of the University’s Individual Research Plan (IRP)
 process (section 2), all combined to provide strategic support to researchers across the Unit,
 supporting researchers at all levels in the production of high quality research outputs. The
 University provides funding annually to enable staff to disseminate the findings and impact of
 their research at national and international conferences. IRP (section 2) funding to the School
 lends further support to cross-disciplinary and interdisciplinary collaborations through the
 provision of targeted internal funding and through the allocation of additional research time.

 Impact Strategy:
 1.14 Theme One: (Art, Design and Society): The Unit’s staff have focused on impactful
 research between 2014–2020. This can be seen in a number of examples in section 4, our two
 Impact Case Studies but perhaps especially in NEPN’s lead (in collaboration with activists from
 Amnesty International) on a mass public exhibition to campaign for the release of Visiting
 Professor Shahidul Alam, across the UK, Europe and USA. The photojournalist and activist had
 been in police custody since his arrest on August 5, 2018 for discussing issues raised during the
 then-ongoing student protests in Dhaka. Alam was released from prison in November 2018 after
 more than 100 days behind bars.

 1.15 See section 4 for further information on Impact.

 2. People
 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development.
 2.1 Our staff are vital in ensuring that we maintain a vibrant and sustainable research
 environment, capable of supporting the achievement of research excellence and extending our
 research capacity. The primary aim of our research strategy is to ensure that all colleagues can,
 in time, develop leadership in research. All potential candidates for academic posts are required
 to demonstrate previous research success and future research potential. Our Appointment Panel

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Members receive training in fair selection and recruitment. Our workload model is strategic and
 research-enabling, guaranteeing protected research time with additional time for funded
 research and PGR supervision. Our staffing strategy is distinctive in supporting the research
 careers of staff, at all levels and at every stage in their academic careers (e.g. Ewins, O’Hara,
 Watkinson and Kefala-Kerr have achieved PhDs within the past six years), and staff are
 encouraged to produce related publications with the support of School of Art and Design, Faculty
 and University funding (Collier, Moschovi; Graham; Ling; O’Hara; Livingstone; Petrie;
 Ewins; Brög; Götz; Kippin; Clayton).

 2.2 In UoA32, there are currently three full-time (Collier, Graham and Petrie) and two P/T 0.2
 Professors (Livingstone and Clayton); one F/T Associate Professor (Moschovi); one P/T 0.6
 Associate Professor (Götz) alongside six F/T and two P/T academic staff from across the School
 of Arts and Design. Of these research active staff between 2014-20, Collier and Livingstone
 were appointed Professors; Moschovi and Götz Associate Professors. Over this period, three
 Professors have retired and are now Emeritus Professors (Thompson, Bainbridge and
 Kippin); Between 2014-20, 1 F/T Associate Prof and 1 academic member of staff have retired; 3
 staff have moved elsewhere to take up new posts; one member of the Unit is being supported to
 undertake her PhD and Alistair Robinson (Director, NGCA) is now employed by Sunderland
 Culture but remains closely involved in the Unit’s research. These staff have been replaced by a
 number of new, early career staff who are being mentored by Collier, Moschovi, Graham and
 Petrie and we anticipate they will be submitted to REF27. The balance of M/F staff is currently
 11/5, with one staff member from BAME background. The Unit is committed to ensuring staff
 equality and diversity and through our mentoring programme we anticipate that this gender
 balance will be redressed for REF 2027.

 2.3 In selecting research outputs for submission in the REF 2021 portfolio, we have taken steps
 to ensure that the distribution of outputs reflect the Unit’s approach to equality and diversity,
 including research outputs from staff on part-time contracts, staff in phased retirement and staff
 with protected characteristics.

 2.4 Between 2014-17, central University funding was devolved to each faculty and in FACI
 awarded directly to research groups on an annual basis. An institutional evaluation of this
 structure in 2016/7 looked at ways of encouraging cross-faculty collaboration in research as well
 as ensuring that the funding process became more transparent and open to any researcher,
 including new researchers. As a result, a more inclusive internal funding and support
 mechanism, the IRP (Individual Research Plan), was introduced alongside funding routes for
 cross-faculty research groups (Collier and Graham are currently involved in two of these; see
 section 4). In 2018, all staff in the Unit were invited to submit an IRP with, if they wished, a
 request for funding up to £5K per project, as well as formal mentoring or support to study for a
 PhD. Access to internal research funding is now available through the IRP process and through
 the Dean’s Discretionary Research Fund. All staff, including those with protected characteristics
 are supported by a research mentor from the Unit. For UoA32, the IRP process is overseen by
 the Dean of FACI, the Head of Research for the University, the FACI HoS and the UoA32
 Leader. As a result, there has been support for new researchers (O’Hara, Kefala-Kerr; Ewins).
 All staff submitted in UoA32 for REF21 were successful in gaining support for their research via
 the IRP process. Professors and Associate Professors are line-managed by the Dean and have
 an extra allocation of time to dedicate to their research aims and objectives as agreed at their
 Appraisal.

 2.5 Staff in the Unit continue to be supported by the Institution’s policies of flexible and remote
 working, career breaks for staff with caring responsibilities and phased retirement opportunities.
 In accordance with our commitments in the University Research Code of Practice, we support
 the career development of all of our researchers. Contract research staff are able to participate
 in all research related activities including access to conference funding and periods of study
 leave to enable them to develop their research and employability skills and research mentors
 also offer support for bid writing and funding submissions and the preparation of abstracts and
 book proposals.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.6 The University encourages and supports staff to undertake a PhD and since 2014, three staff
 have completed their PhDs (Ewins, O’Hara and Kefela-Kerr) and three more have been funded
 through the IRP process to study for a PhD in our research area (Rennie; Woodhouse; Ryley).
 This offer is helping to build capacity in our Unit and will ensure that staff who have left will be
 replaced in the near future by early career researchers. A number of the Unit’s Professors and
 Associate Professors are P/T (Livingstone, Clayton and Götz) as are some academic staff
 (Brög and O’Hara). This allows these staff time and space to develop their internationally
 established research careers.

 2.7 Leadership in the Unit has become more diverse since 2014: Moschovi now runs a
 successful series of research seminars and deputises for Collier on the REF Working Group;
 O’Hara is assisting Collier in the preparation of the Unit’s Mural digital outputs, along with one
 early career researcher currently not part of the Unit’s submission (Lewis). This is a formal
 attempt to engage staff in academic leadership mentoring, helping them to progress their
 academic careers.

 2.8 Theme one: (Art, Design and Society) Co/Lab Sunderland was devised within the context
 of the University of Sunderland’s Research and Innovation Strategy (2017) and is run by
 O’Hara. Co/Lab is designed as a mechanism to encourage cross-faculty research collaborations
 and interdisciplinary research. In 2018/2019, FACI worked in partnership with colleagues within
 the Faculty of Health Sciences and Wellbeing (FHSW) to develop a pilot project that was
 supported by a series of Experimental Micro Grants which staff applied for. From UoA32,
 Collier, Hutchinson and Kefala-Kerr were successful applicants.

 2.9 Theme one: (Art, Design and Society) Staff are actively encouraged to work
 collaboratively (supported via the IRP process) with other HEI’s: for example Bath Spa
 University (Ling and Collier); Lancaster University (Ling and Collier); Northumbria University
 (Collier); Newcastle University (Collier) Teesside University (Collier); Durham University
 (Collier, Watkinson and Rennie); Oxford University (Watkinson and Rennie); CAFA Central
 Academy of Fine Art, China (Graham), Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (Ling),
 Edinburgh Napier (Moschovi)

 2.10 Theme two (Materials, Materiality and Media) The appointment of three Emeritus
 Professors in UoA32 since 2014 has helped to consolidate and develop already existing
 regional, national and international links through our research centres.
     • Thompson was a founder member of WALK in 2010 and his work has been seen
        through exhibitions, collections and lectures in Europe, Australia, USA and Asia.
     • Bainbridge was a founder member of space/socialspace and was included in “Modern
        British Sculpture” at the Royal Academy, London – the most significant exhibition on
        British Sculpture in recent years.
     • Kippin was a founder member of NEPN. He has been a central figure in the emergence
        of photography as an independent art form in the UK since the 1970s and 1980s.

 Research Support and Staff Development

 2.11 Since 2014, the Research Office (RO) has expanded from three to seven staff and support
 from the RO has enabled the Unit to develop a number of new, high profile research/ impact
 projects (e.g. Creative Fuse). For a relatively small Unit, staff continue to be successful in
 gaining research income and are supported in their applications by two dedicated staff in the
 research office (section 3).

 2.12 Theme one: (Art, Design and Society) By appointing an Impact Officer and by offering
 impact workshops and seminars, the institution has addressed one of its 2014 strategic aims by
 bringing about a sea change in an understanding of impact. This has allowed all research staff
 and students in the Unit to reconsider both the importance of impact in their research as well as
 to embed broader ways of identifying impact beyond just the number of visitors to an exhibition.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For example, this approach has been captured in the Unit’s two Impact Case Studies – Clayton,
 working with the British Library on Writing: Making Your Mark, built an exhibition, a publication
 and events’ programme that conceived writing broadly--as a multi modal, global ecology of
 writing systems, tools, materials and genre; and the Curator of the Wordsworth Trust, Jeff
 Cowton, said of Collier’s research project Wordsworth and Bashō: Walking Poets ‘this exhibition
 brings us closer to the words of these three great writers: we come to them from new directions,
 stimulated by the work of living artists who have each worked closely with the words and
 manuscripts from the past’.
 (section 4)

 2.13 The University introduced a new process for research ethics approval with the epiGenesys
 online system in 2016. The new process has increased transparency, raised awareness of
 policies and procedures, improved the quality of applications and reduced delays. The Research
 Ethics Group (Collier is a member) is responsible for: monitoring the effectiveness of ethics
 review; periodically reviewing and offering guidance on the Research Ethics Policy; actively
 promoting awareness of this policy; and providing advice or dispute resolution regarding any
 research ethics matters referred to it. Much of the work in this Unit is outward facing and
 engages with people (for example Kefela-Kerr; Collier; O’Hara and Brög) and the introduction
 of robust and transparent ethics structure is welcome.

 Research Students
 2.14 Promoting excellent postgraduate research is fundamental to the Unit’s research strategy.
 We use a team-based approach to doctoral supervision in order to maintain regular and
 consistent supervisions with our PGRs, to mentor new supervisors and to expand our
 supervision capacity as rapidly and effectively as possible. Doctoral students are recruited from
 across the UK home nations and internationally. Research students are managed by Moschovi
 who is the Student Research Manager. Over the period 20/414-2019/20 the Unit has had 34
 PhD completions and 5 PhD by Published and Creative Works. Of these 68% are female, 32%
 male and 24% are from BAME groups. The University provides a comprehensive programme of
 skills development for its PGR students which is reviewed regularly at monthly tutorials and at
 Annual Monitoring Review.

 2.15 The University’s Code of Practice for Research is complemented by School-specific
 guidelines to assure the quality of PGR provision. All supervisors complete the University’s
 supervision training programme, accessed online. All supervisory teams have at least one
 experienced supervisor and in UoA32, each PGR student is allocated a Director of Studies with
 a minimum supervision track record of two successful doctoral completions and at least one
 additional supervisor. Regular supervisory training sessions are offered by the University PGR
 support team. The progress of each student is monitored at research proposal stage and
 through annual, face-to-face progress reviews, and in the Post Graduate Research Committee
 (Collier, Petrie, McKay, Watkinson and Moschovi). These are recorded in electronic
 supervision logs, personal development plans and are carefully monitored by the supervisory
 team and staff from PGR support services team. Mock VIVA examinations are held for PGRs
 who have submitted their thesis in preparation for final viva examination. A rigorous two-stage
 ethical procedure is in place for all research.

 2.16 In keeping with the University’s emphasis on collaborative and interdisciplinary research
 practice, supervisors regularly work across faculties, for example since 2018, Collier has
 worked with Prof Maggie Gregson on SUNCETT’s Practitioner Research Programme (PRP)
 sponsored by the Education and training Foundation (ETF), chairing panels, interviews and
 AMRs. This programme enables FE practitioners to develop their research skills at postgraduate
 level.

 2.17 In 2017 and 2018, the Unit successfully applied for six PhDs funded by AHRC with the
 National Productivity Investment Fund (NPIF). Soden, Smithson, Gilchrist and Ure (DoS
 Graham), McDade (DoS Collier) and McGhie (DoS McKay) working with partner organisations
 including Open Data Institute, D6, and Kielder Observatory. McDade and McGhie are both now

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff in UoA32 - two of our new researchers moving forward to REF27. The Unit also
 successfully applied from the same fund for a practice-led Creative Economy Engagement
 Fellowship (Tani mentored by Collier).

 2.18 The quality of our supervision is evidenced by high completion rates, declining withdrawal
 rates, increasing submission rates and PRES rankings: for example, 11th/103 Overall
 Satisfaction, 6th/103 for Supervision (2019); 2nd/63 Overall Satisfaction (2018).

 2.19 Theme one: (Art, Design and Society) Graham and Collier are part of the Cross-Faculty
 Research initiative RaCE (Sunderland Race, Class and Ethnicity Network) and the ‘The
 Decolonising Group’ - formed in order to challenge the worldview that constructs all knowledge
 as white, male and Eurocentric. The Group seeks to decolonise the structures, policies and
 practices of the university and importantly the educational curriculum, recognising that
 decolonisation is an ongoing process.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 3.1 Within the period 2014-2020, the total income for grants awarded within UoA32 is £1.8m (full
 economic cost of £2.8m) and there has been a steady year on year growth in income from
 £185,690 in 2013/4 to £441,936 in 2019/20.

 Headline figures include:

    •   Arts Council England (WALK, 2015; DRAWING, 2015 & NEPN, 2018) = £112,350
    •   AHRC (Block Grant Partnership, 2017, Northern Bridge, 2019 & Creative Fuse 2, 2020) =
        £1.023m
    •   HLF (WALK, 2015) = £86,476
    •   Private sponsorship of a number of Unit32 projects = £35,350

 Over the same period (2014-20) the Unit has secured grants to the sum of £2.992m full
 economic cost, and within this unit the University has committed substantial in-kind/match
 funding for many of our research projects.

 Example 1 Theme two (Materials, Materiality and Media)

 As part of the Northern Bridge Consortium the university has committed £203,000 in-kind. This
 consists of staff time, overheads and cash contribution across the project duration. Northern
 Bridge Consortium is a Doctoral Training Partnership funded by the Arts and Humanities
 Research Council. (see also 1.2)

 Example 2 Theme one: (Art, Design and Society)

 Over the REF period we have been part of the Creative Fuse Project (see also 1.12, Projects).
 Academics work alongside industry, cultural organisations, charities and the public sector to
 explore how creative, digital and IT firms can have a sustainable future in the region adding
 value to the region’s broader employment base. So far, the university has invested £285K (cash,
 staff time and overhead contribution) of its own funding to enable us to be part of this important
 research and innovation collaboration. University support has been essential for leveraging
 external funds.

 Example 3 Theme one: (Art, Design and Society)

 The North East Photography Network (NEPN) has attracted a significant amount of funding from
 the Arts Council England and to enable this activity the university has contributed £110K in cash,
 existing staff time and university overheads towards these projects to develop photographic
 practice in North East England.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Facilities
 3.2 Exceptional facilities are available to research staff and students in the Unit who are
 supported by excellent technicians, all of whom are themselves practicing artists/designers and
 frequently engage directly in the research undertaken by staff. It is worth pointing out that one of
 our technicians has been appointed to the academic team (Winter) and will be contributing to
 the REF27 submission. There are four separate buildings across the two sites in which our
 research takes place. Each building has dedicated space for research students to use daily.
     • There are world-leading facilities at the National Glass Centre enabling staff to operate
         at the cutting edge of research in this area. (Rennie, Livingstone, Ewins and
         Watkinson). There has been considerable investment since 2014 in both equipment and
         space, with a new research hub and research gallery in the studios as well as the
         establishment of a research gallery in the National Glass Centre itself – a space for
         research staff and students to show their work more widely. Staff frequently avail
         themselves of the first-class facilities at NGC when running conferences and events
     • The Northern Centre for Photography (NCP) has industry leading technical
         infrastructure and has continued to see investment in both wet and dry processing as
         well as the establishment of a research hub in the building (McKay and Moschovi). The
         centre is also the fulcrum for NEPN activities and work by research staff and students
         can be seen in a revolving exhibition on the walls of the building. NCP has benefited
         from substantial investment in industry leading equipment over the current REF period.
     • The Media Centre with world leading sound and media facilities houses CRUMB
         (Graham). Here research staff and students have access to TV and radio studios
         complete with green rooms and control rooms. There are over 50 workstations with state-
         of-the-art HD Edit systems, including Final Cut Pro, Avid and Media Composer. We also
         have our own 200-seat cinema with full HD projection and a 7.1 surround sound facility.
     • The biggest change since 2014 has seen the move of Design into the Priestman
         Building to work alongside Fine Art. Here staff have access to 3D modelling,
         photographic and sculpture workshops and sound studios, as well as three dedicated
         Mac suites and a lecture theatre. (Collier, Brög, Götz, Ling and Hutchinson). This
         move was accompanied by a significant upgrade of facilities and a large investment in
         new equipment/technology that replicate real life working studios as well as a new
         research gallery in the centre of the building, which shows staff and student research.

 3.3 In spite of these excellent facilities, the one problem faced by the Unit is that it is split across
 four buildings over two sites. However, the University is embarking on a major programme of
 capital investment and restructure of its Estate which will see all UoA32 staff and students
 working side-by-side in newly upgraded facilities on the St Peter’s Campus. This move has been
 put back by COVID-19 but is scheduled to continue in a series of phased moves from 2021 –
 2023. This will allow the research staff and students to work in a more collaborative research
 environment (see 1.9), making full use of our range of world leading facilities on one campus in a
 more interdisciplinary and collaborative way.

 3.4 Overall, the investment in the Unit’s facilities during this current REF period is:
  Capital Works at the National Glass Centre           £972,184 (2014-20)
  Relocation NGCA                                      £375,000 (05/2016)
  Priestman Development                                £106,045 (2014-20)
  Photography Investment                               £101,515 (06/2020)
  Sub Total                                            £1,554,744

 Phase one of the relocation of the Unit to the St Peters
 Riverside campus:
  Relocation Photography (Goldman Building)        £2,300,000 (12/2020)

 Together, this amounts to a total capital spend during this REF period of £3,854,744.



                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The timescale for the further moves (Fine Art and Design) is currently under consideration as
 part of the overall investment plan. Current estimates are that the moves are likely to take place
 in the 2022 to 2023 timeframe. The exact level of investment is also to be decided but is likely to
 be over £2m.

 University Library Services (ULS):
 3.5 Library and Study Skills support both staff and students with the provision of a high-quality
 learning environment; comprehensive print collections; extensive e–resources; extensive study
 places to enable a range of study options including individual, group, silent and quiet areas;
 individual skills training facilities and study skills support; PCs and iMacs, and a laptop loan
 service.

 3.6 All research staff and students have the full use of the University’s two libraries. The libraries
 are accessible during extensive opening hours, and in core teaching weeks both libraries have
 provision for additional unstaffed access.

 3.7 Selection of appropriate library materials is carried out largely by academic staff. The ULS
 book fund for 2020-21 is £446,000 with an allocation to UoA32 of £23,590. An appropriate
 formula is used to distribute this budget according to student FTE and programme needs. The
 book fund is also used to extend the range of eBooks – something which has been prioritised in
 light of Covid-19.

 3.8 Periodicals and Databases: ULS subscribe to an extensive range of print and electronic titles
 to meet curriculum and research needs, and the requirements of UoA32 are well supported.
 Usage is constantly monitored and the portfolio of titles reviewed.

 3.9 Theme one: (Art, Design and Society) Staff in the Unit (e.g. Collier, Riley and other early
 career researchers) are aware that perhaps the biggest issue facing us is Climate Emergency.
 Collier is leading the university’s green, sustainability strategy having formed the University
 Strategic Environment and Sustainability Group which is chaired by, John Mowbray (Chair
 of the University’s Board of Governors) and facilitated by Chief Operating Officer, Steve Knight.
 It includes a number of research staff, representatives from Sunderland City Council, Student
 Reps and the Student Union as well as, crucially, staff from Estates – a project that is unique in
 involving researchers and Estates working together and sharing research and best practice. This
 group was initiated by Collier and arose directly out his research which focus around
 environmental issues reflected through a process called biognosis – meaning ‘knowledge from
 life’; research and knowledge that encourages people to care more about their environment and
 therefore to effect positive change.

 Further Support Provided:
 3.10 Theme one: (Art, Design and Society) Art Editions North: AEN (Director Collier) is an
 imprint of the University of Sunderland and was established in 1996 with a large Arts Council
 England grant. It has a back catalogue of sixty-seven regional, national and international
 publications. AEN produces artists’ books, monographs and exhibition catalogues, alongside
 volumes of new research about curating and collecting contemporary art, and artists’
 relationships to art’s institutions. The University pays for the contract with Cornerhouse (average
 annual fee of £1000).

 3.11 Digital First: The Unit’s aim is to continue to develop a culture where digital skills can
 improve our research culture and environment. A large proportion of our research students
 (62%) are based elsewhere in the UK and abroad and we have a well-developed way of
 regularly communicating with them via Skype for Business and now Zoom and Teams. The
 Research Lecture Programme (a key focus of the unit’s research environment) has always been
 well attended, but now, in its online format (following Covid-19), regularly attracts audiences
 (staff, researchers, and research students) of over fifty. We are keen to embed the positive
 learning to have come out of the last twelve months of working online and the university has
 embarked on an institution-wide consultation with staff about how to adopt best practice.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.12 Theme one: (Art, Design and Society) Since REF14, the University of Sunderland has
 established Enterprise Place, helping graduates to set up businesses in Sunderland and
 underlining our developing partnership with Sunderland Culture (especially with regards to
 Research and Innovation). For example: Dr Ayako Tani – mentored by Collier and Ling – is
 one of a number of staff and students to benefit from this service, which has recently helped
 Breeze Creatives (led by UoA32 PhD Alumni Zoe Breeze in collaboration with Sunderland
 Culture) to establish the Athenaeum as Sunderland’s new gallery and studio complex.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 In keeping with Sunderland’s status as a socially responsible and civic university, we have
 established a reputation locally, regionally, nationally and internationally for delivering high
 quality research in art and design and for fostering public engagement with that research
 through regular and sustained outreach. The Unit’s high-quality research makes a significant
 contribution to the University’s research base, as well as to the community through publishing,
 conferences and exhibitions.

 4.2 The following examples support this statement around impact and collaborative, cross-
 disciplinary research practice and are embedded within our research centres and research
 projects:

 In theme one (Art, Design and Society) (see 1.10)

    •   WALK has developed a number of national and international projects including
        Wordsworth and Bashō, Walking Poets for the Wordsworth Trust at Dove Cottage (2016)
        and in Itami, near Kyoto in Japan (2017) – an exhibition that was accompanied by an
        international conference at Kobe University. Collier has subsequently been appointed
        Contemporary Art Advisor for the Trust. He recently curated and edited Songs of Place
        and Time: Birdsong and the Dawn Chorus in Natural History and the Arts, published by
        Gaia Project, which includes chapters from thirty-seven poets, artists and scholars from
        the UK and abroad.
    •   NEPN (North East Photography Network) Supported by substantial ACE grants and
        funding from the Local Authority and the Cultural Spring, NEPN has commissioned new
        work from national and international photographers including: Dublin and Berlin-based
        photographer Mark Curran (2015) in partnership with Noorderlicht Photo Festival (The
        Netherlands), to make new work in response to the festival curatorial theme of ‘Data
        Rush’. Moschovi has been working in collaboration with Dr Alexander Supartono, Art
        Historian specializing on Southeast Asian art and photography in Edinburgh Napier
        University to investigate how the online presence of digital archives and the possibilities
        for online interactivity and repurposing of content have opened new channels and
        networks for the critical examination of the (post)colonial archive, its ontology, politics
        and power.
    •   space/socialspace: Götz’s many wall paintings both in the UK and abroad challenge
        our perceptions of interior spaces and exterior architectural sites and their uses have
        been extensively reviewed nationally and internationally. Dance Diagonal (Towner Art
        Gallery) was listed by Wallpaper magazine as one of the defining 15 public artworks
        worldwide in 2019. Brög’s extensive cross-disciplinary and collaborative research
        explores how sound can operate architecturally and as sculpture in an ongoing
        programme of temporary sound works in public spaces and is best represented in three
        public ‘sound corridors’ in the Underground-Station, Heinrich-Heine-Allee, Düsseldorf).
        Hutchinson’s eclectic research is collected and disseminated under the umbrella tile of
        Data Block: Post-Punk Remix. Work in this ongoing series has been represented in What
        Things May Come, Southwestern University Texas; Saga (Tamaran), Gran Canaria
        2015; EggPix at Somerset House, London, 2020; Ecole Centrale Supelec Saclay,
        France, 2019; Filodramattica Gallery Drugomore Rijeka, Croatia 2018;

 In theme two (Materials, Materiality and Media) (see 1.10)


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   CRUMB (Curatorial Resource for Upstart Media Bliss) Graham with O’Hara and PhD
        students has run a ‘Curating New Media Art’ one-week professional development
        course in London annually since 2014, including discussions with curators at
        Tate, V&A, INIVA, and Open Data Institute, and participants from Hong Kong,
        Bahrain, India, USA, and Europe. Her book New Collecting: Exhibiting and Audiences
        after New Media Art (Routledge) was supported by an AHRC Fellowship Grant, and an
        invitation from the South Korean Cultural Department to carry out a research trip in
        Seoul. She has been invited to Vancouver to consult on a new interactive museum
        (2019), and to Casa Wabi, Mexico for a Think Tank on collecting new media art (2016).
        She has been invited to deliver keynotes by museums, art fairs and other organisations
        in Beijing (2017); Istanbul (2015, 2019); Seoul (2018); and Florence (2019).
    •   National Glass Centre Research The research undertaken is frequently cross
        disciplinary and absorbs influences from artists as well as glass makers in helping to
        establish new ways of defining the practice. Research underpins the entire range of the
        Centre’s activities, and the significance of its impact is reflected in both the volume and
        diversity of the cultural opportunities offered at NGC. Rennie and Watkinson have
        developed the Through a Glass Darkly initiative in collaboration with Durham University.
        Both Rennie and Watkinson presented discussion papers about this research project at
        Pembroke College Oxford (2018), which were selected for publication in the peer
        reviewed volume: Robert Grosseteste: Nature, Craft, and Society. Rennie’s work was
        then exhibited at Pembroke College, Oxford and Toyama Glass Prize Japan 2018 as a
        shortlisted work and the work of both artists was presented in talk at the Napa Light
        Festival (California) in 2019.
    •   CARCuos (Ceramics Arts Research University of Sunderland) has established an
        international profile in research. The Ceramics Reader (2017) edited by Livingstone and
        Petrie was the first such text (Reader) in its field. Livingstone has shown his work in the
        9th Cheongju International Craft Competition Hands+Expansion and Coexistence and
        presented a conference paper which was included in conference proceedings for the
        Gyeonggi International Ceramics Biennale Colloquium Korea 2015. Ewins presented a
        paper at the Conference on Historical Analysis and Research in Marketing (CHARM),
        held at Copenhagen Business School, and at the Conference Design Culture: Object,
        discipline and practice held at the University of Southern Denmark, Kolding, September
        2014.
    •   IRCC - International Research Centre for Calligraphy Since REF 2014, Ling has had
        a major solo show with catalogue at the Hong Kong University of Science and
        Technology in 2019 and delivered a keynote speech and paper at King Carlos University,
        Madrid in Spain also in 2019. Clayton was appointed by The British Library as sole
        expert advisor to their major 2019 exhibition Writing: Making Your Mark on the strength
        of his archival research on the history of writing and practice-based calligraphy research.
        This research project was a critical and commercial success; more than 35,000 people
        visited the main exhibition in London, generating revenue of over £270,000, and 678,000
        people visited satellite exhibitions across the UK. Critical response included 4-star
        reviews in The Times, The Telegraph, and Time Out. The Lead Curator says that “In my
        view, the success of ‘Writing: Making Your Mark’ was due in large part to Professor
        Ewan Clayton.”

 In theme one (Art, Design and Society) (see 1.10)

    •   DRAWING: between 2014-20 the University of Sunderland initiated and developed a
        national research project called developed by former Research Fellow (2015-2018),
        Esen Kaya (Curator at the Aga Khan Centre) and Collier. Led by the University of
        Sunderland, DRAWING brought together five of the region’s universities (Durham,
        Newcastle, Sunderland, Teesside and Northumbria) - each institution playing a key role
        in steering the project, and presented an active programme of events and exhibitions
        from June 2015 through to January 2020. DRAWING involved artists and researchers
        from across the UK as well as from the US, France, Scandinavia, Japan and India. It


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        created 144 new commissions, opened exhibitions for 1250 days and ran 42 sessions for
        education, training or participation (ACE report 2019).
    •   Creative Fuse North East is a unique partnership between Newcastle, Northumbria,
        Durham, Sunderland and Teesside Universities and is funded by the Arts and
        Humanities Research Council, the European Regional Development Fund, and Arts
        Council England. O’Hara is the Faculty’s lead on this major project which offers a variety
        of business innovation support opportunities, insights into the regional creative economy.
    •   Co/Lab: In 2020, O’Hara secured £149k to deliver a 24-month programme of practice-led
        research with Seascapes, the first marine ecology project to be funded in the UK by
        Heritage Lottery Fund.

 Sunderland Culture:
 4.3 Theme one (Art, Design and Society) (see 1.10) The University is closely allied to
 Sunderland Culture which was formed in April 2016 as a partnership set up by Sunderland City
 Council, the University of Sunderland and the business-led Sunderland MAC (Music, Arts and
 Culture) Trust. Its brief is to manage cultural venues across Sunderland and develop city-wide
 cultural projects. Sunderland Culture’s activities are managed by a board comprising directors
 from each of the three partner organisations along with five independent members. There are six
 Directors, three of whom are from the University.

 4.4 Research staff from the Unit have close links to many projects run by, or linked to,
 Sunderland Culture. The National Glass Centre (run by Sunderland Culture) forms one of the
 Unit’s two Impact Case Studies. Research staff have a close relationship with Northern Gallery
 for Contemporary Art (NGCA based at NGC) with McKay and Kippin having written for and
 shown at the gallery. Collier is Director of Studies (DoS) for PhD student Katie Mitchell from
 Sunderland Culture, whose research explores the impact on the well-being of residents from
 those UK cities who have applied to become UK Cities of Culture (Sunderland applied in 2016).

 4.5 Theme one (Art, Design and Society) (see 1.10) Staff in the Faculty also have a strong
 track record of publishing monographs and catalogues, often with academic publishers. For
 example, Livingstone and Petrie with Bloomsbury; McKay with Kerber Verlag; Moschovi with
 Leuven University Press; Collier with Routledge, the Wordsworth Trust and Gaia; O’Hara with
 CRC Press; Ewins with Bloomsbury Academic; Graham with Ashgate (now Routledge) and
 Clayton with British Library Publishing.

 4.6 Theme one (Art, Design and Society) A further example of the importance the Unit places
 on research in the public domain can be seen in our support for Practice-led PhDs by Published
 and Creative Works. Since 2014, Collier has supervised five such PhDs to successful
 completion: One from South Africa, and four from the UK. The most recent PhD by Published
 and Creative works was supported through the University’s IRP process (Kefala-Kerr). Kefala-
 Kerr’s practice-led research, ‘Composing the Quotidian’ examined six musical compositions
 conceived and realised in unique proximity to key sites of social utility, commemoration and
 action – including The National Railway Museum, York, The Grainger Market, Newcastle and a
 series of NHS centres in ‘Blood Choir’. (see 1.10)

 4.7 Theme one (Art, Design and Society) Staff in the Unit have developed extensive networks
 and are able to bring in high profile external speakers to talk to the Unit’s post graduate
 students. For example: Andrew Byrom, typographic designer from Los Angeles; from INiVA,
 Simina Neagu, Programme & Operations Coordinator; from Wellcome Trust, James Peto,
 Head of Public Programmes, Wellcome Collection; Douglas Dodds, Senior Curator in the V&A's
 Word & Image Department; Jon Uriate, Curator of the Photographers Gallery; Kay Watson,
 Digital Curator of the Serpentine gallery; Jadesola Fadojutimi from the RCA, who is
 represented by Pippy Holdsworth Gallery; Shy Bairns Artists Collective, Manchester; Katie
 Schwab, British Art Show 9; Janina Sabaliauskaite, Lithuanian contemporary artist; Vidar
 Hjardeng MBE,Diversity Consultant for ITV News; Glass artist Keiko Mukaide; Izumi
 Shiratani, Calligraphic artist based in Tokyo; Esen Kaya, Curator at the Aga Khan Centre,
 London. (see 1.10)

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.8 Theme one (Art, Design and Society): Staff in the Unit represent the University on many
 external panels, advisory boards etc (see 1.10), including:

 Ewins:
 Member of the Editorial Board of Journal of Business and Economic Development (JBED). ISSN
 Print 2637-3866: Online 2637-3874
 Livingstone:
 Member of the AIC/IAC International Academy of Ceramics UNESCO
 O’Hara:
 Board member of Cap-a-Pie Theatre Company
 Fellow of Royal Society of the Arts
 Project Curator UK Public Engagement for Human Cell Atlas, funded by Wellcome Trust
 Moschovi:
 Peer Reviewer (National Teaching Fellow Scheme), Higher Education Academy
 Scientific member, Advisory Committee, Thessaloniki Photography Museum, Greece
 Remote reviewer, European Research Council, EU
 Academic member (Digital Transformations), AHRC Peer Review College, UK
 Petrie:
 Member of AHRC Peer Review College
 Clayton:
 Member of the Academic Board, Royal Drawing School, London
 Trustee of the Irene Wellington Educational Trust
 Selection panel member (Calligraphy) of the Akademie der Künste, Berlin
 Visiting Lecturer to the type design programmes at The Cooper Union Art School, New York City
 Graham:
 Funding application reviewer, Swiss National Science Foundation Research
 Jury member, International Centre for Photography: Infinity Awards, New York
 Project Advisory Board, European Union project PERICLES (FP7), Tate
 Collier:
 Contemporary Art Advisor to the Wordsworth Trust
 Board Member, NECVAN (NE Contemporary Visual Art Network) at the Baltic
 Director of Cobalt Studios
 Hutchinson:
 Member of Ars Mathematica Paris




                                                                                       Page 14
